Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the book of First Kings and chapter nineteen. I can often and often do tell you when we last considered a particular passage And I didn't even bother to look at that with this passage, frankly, because I know I have preached from 1 Kings 17, 18 and 19 frequently. But these are unadva unexhaustible truths. You cannot wear them out. And it is impossible for any pastor to preach the whole council of God in a lifetime or a hundred lifetimes. But this is a passage that I come back to frequently, a passage which has been of great personal comfort to me in times of difficulty and in times of trial. A passage which has been a great encouragement to me in times of utter failure. In times when I say to God, Lord, I blew it. I have I have failed. And so may God bless us through his word today. I'll be reading chapter 19, verses 1 through 8. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as one of the lives of them by to morrow about this time. And when he saw that, he arose and went for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's. And as he lay and slept under the juniper tree, behold, an angel touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake, bacon on the coals, and a cruise of water at his head, and he did eat and drink, and laid him down again. And the angel of the Lord came the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb, the mountain of God. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now bless thy truth to our hearts, encourage us, rebuke us. Father, we pray that you would reveal to us our failings. We pray that you would reveal to us your might in spite of our failings. We are weak, but thou art strong. Bless thy truth to the hearts of your people this day. And we pray this in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Keep your place there in First Kings. Stick a marker there or your finger there because we'll be referring back to that passage throughout our message. But the text I would like us to consider this morning is actually in the New Testament, in the book of James. And there James chapter 5 verses 17 and 18. James chapter 5 verses 17 and 18. 17 of James 5, Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain. And it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. Elias. Elias is the Greek name. Elijah is the Hebrew name But the same man, uh the New Testament obviously written in Greek, and so we have the Greek form of the name, Elias. And I will be saying Elias a lot today. Precious little one-year-old, soon to be one-year-old, will look at me every time. And that's a great joy to our congregation. But this is the same man. And we find here in James chapter 5 that he was a man of like passions, as we are. What does that word like passions mean? Well, it's actually a compound Greek word. The two words mean like or similar, and the second word means to suffer. Or to be vexed or to have feelings The word is is, and I never can pronounce my Greek words very very well, but it is homo. I'm gonna mess it up. Let's just leave that alone. It's two Greek words. The one means like or similar, and the one second one means to feel. And that second word to have feeling we find often in Christ for in Matthew 17, 12. Christ says, but I say unto you that Elias is come already. He was referring to John the Baptist, coming in the form in the spirit of Elias, is come already And they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed, likewise shall also the Son of Man suffer of them. And that suffer is that same word that we find like passions such as we are. In the book of Hebrews, for in that he himself suffered being tempted, he had the same passions, like passions as we are. And again in Hebrews 13, uh that we go to him who suffers without the gate, referring to Christ. And the woman who had the issue of blood That she had suffered many things of physicians. And Paul himself, Christ said of Paul, For I will show him how great things he must suffer on my behalf. And there's one time, only one other place where we find the compound, and that is when Christ, when Paul and Barnabas were on at Lystra and they were preaching, and Paul heals a lame man And the crowd says, oh, this is Jupiter and this is Mercury, and they start calling Paul and Barnabas as gods. And in chapter in verse 15 of Acts 14 Paul runs out saying, Sirs, do not these things. We are also men of like passions. We're like you are. And so we find here that Elias, Elijah, was a man of like passions as we are. He suffered the same things. That we suffer. We all love Bible characters, and we look to them as great men of faith. David was a man after God's own heart. David was also a murderous adulterer. Peter was with the Lord. Peter also denied the Lord. And so we find that these great men in Scripture were men of clay. They were men just as we are. And they had the same passions, the same sufferings that we have. And yet in spite of their humanity In spite of the quirks of their personalities, in spite of their pet peeves, God mightily used them for the furtherance of the kingdom of God. And so, let us consider some of the things that we learn about Elijah from Scripture. If you look back there to 1 Kings 19 and verse 3, in verse 2, Jezebel threatens Elijah, and she threatens him by her gods, and that's always tickled me. Uh so that the gods do to me and more also, if I make not my life like one of them by this time this evening. But the gods she's talking about are the gods that have just failed two hours ago on the mountain. And the gods whose prophets Elijah has just slain. But she curses Elijah by her gods. But in verse 3 And when he, that's Elijah, saw that, he rose and went for his life. This greatly used prophet. This man of God was subject to fear. He had the passion, the suffering of fear God doesn't expect us to always be bold as lions. He does expect us to rely on him when we're afraid. And if we look at Scripture, David feared greatly. In Psalm 55, verse 5, he says, Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me. The horror has overwhelmed me. And again I sought the Lord and He heard me and delivered me from all my fears. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Are you afraid? Are you fearful? That should not stop us. You see, we find that the disciples were frequently afraid. Paul spoke of his fear. He said, For when we came to Macedonia our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side. Without were fightings, and within were fears. He was afraid. And yet on the other hand, here are the scriptures. Fear not, Abraham, I am thy shield and exceeding reward. Hagar, fear not, for God hath heard thy voice. Jacob, I am the God of Abraham, thy father, fear not, for I am with you. The Lord said unto Joshua, Fear not, neither be dismayed. David said to Solomon, his son, Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord thy God, even my God, will be with thee. I say unto thee that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not, behold, your God will come with vengeance. For the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. Fear not, thou worm, Jacob, ye men of Israel. Fear not, Daniel. Fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice. And that's just the Old Testament. We come to the New Testament. Fear not, I am fear not them which kill the body, but them which are able to kill the soul. But every time but e but er even the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, therefore. Fear not, little flock, it is your father's good courage to give you the kingdom. Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar. Fear not. I'm the first and the last. This great and godly man, Elijah, was just like you and me. He was subject to like passions. He was subject to fear. And yet he prayed, and it didn't rain for three years. And he prayed again, and the rain came. But not only was Elijah subject to fear, Elijah was subject to despair. Look at verse 4 of 1 Kings 19. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under the juniper a juniper tree And he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's Folks, I won't ask you to raise your hand if you've ever despaired. Or if you've ever even despaired of your life Lord, I can't take anymore. Lord, nothing has worked out the way I planned. Nothing has worked out the way that I think it should have. It's all wrong. Lord, just take away my life. I can't take this any more. We find the prophet Jeremiah in the same situation. Jeremiah 20, verse 14. Jeremiah said, Cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed. In other words, I hate my birthday. Because he slew me not from the womb. or that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to always be be great with me. Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labor and s sorrow that my days should be consumed with sh Shame. There's a godly man in utter despair. And yet that same godly man would write these glorious words in Lamentation 3. This I recall to mind. Therefore I have hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, and my soul therefore shall help and hope in him. Lord, why was I born? Take away my life, for I'm not better than my father's, Elijah. It is of the Lord's mercy, said it doesn't happen. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. They're new every morning. Yesterday was a mess. But his compassion I couldn't sleep all night. The problems just kept me awake and I tossed and turned. And as I prayed through the night, the ceiling was brass, and I didn't feel like God was hearing my prayers. And I hated my birthday. Why wasn't my mother's belly in my grave? But his faithfulness is great. And his mercy So, folks, just because you find yourself in despair doesn't mean you're unique. For he was a man of like sufferings, like passions as we are. And he prayed, and it didn't rain. In fact, in Lamentation 3, the latter part, Jeremiah even blames God for his sufferings. He says, Behold, thou hast caused grief. Yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies, for he doth not afflict us willingly, nor grieve the children of men. But he says, thou hast caused me grief. See, all things do work together for good to them who love God, them who are called according to his purpose. And in Hebrews we read that we had our fathers who who they let me write. Furthermore, we have our fathers of the flesh which corrected us and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? For they verily for a few days chastised us after their own pleasure. But He that is God for our profit, that we might be partakers of His holiness. You see, when God chastises us, when God puts us through hard times, it's for our profit. that we might be partakers of his holiness. All things do work together for good. And so this great prophet Elijah Was a man subject to fear, and he was a man subject to despair. But also we find that Elijah was subject to physical weakness. He wasn't a superman. And neither are you. And neither am I. Look again back to 1 Kings 19. And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, the angel of the Lord touched him and said, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake, bacon on the coals, and a cruise of water by his head. And he did eat and drink. And laid down again. He had a sleep and a meal And then he needs another sleep. And oh meal. This man is tired. This man is worn out. This man has physically taken everything he can have. His body can't go another step. He's just gotta sleep. He's just gotta sleep You see, these great men of faith were subject to the same physical weaknesses and the same physical trials that we are. But we find in verse 7, and the angel of the Lord came again the second time. and touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. Isn't that glorious? Lord, I don't have the strength to do this. God says, you're right, you don't have the strength to do this. But he didn't eat and drink and went into the strength of that meat 40 days and 40 nights. God says to him, Elijah, you're right, you don't have the strength. But then God gives him the strength he needed. He didn't eat again for 40 days and 40 nights because he went in the strength of the Lord. Are you physically weak? Are you physically tired? Do your knees hurt? And everything else hurt. Elijah was subject to the same physical weakness that we are, and yet God was sufficient for his weakness. Weakness. Remember Paul with a thorn in the flesh, in the flesh, something physical, not a spiritual ail ailment, but a physical ailment A thorn in the flesh. He prayed three times that God would remove it. And God's answer was, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in me. Elijah was a man subject to weakness. Elijah was a man subject to spiritual highs and spiritual Spiritual lows, spiritual ups and downs. He went from the victory on Carmel to defeat in the wilderness. He went from the slaying of the prophets of Baal to running for his life. He went from Carmel to Koreb, the mountain. of God. Look at verse 9 of 1 Kings 19. We did not read this verse in our scripture reading, but the ninth verse And he came thither to a cave and lodged there. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him and said unto him, What dost thou hear, Elijah? God never told Elijah to run from Jezebel. Think about that? In 17 verses 2 and 3, the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence and turn eastward and hide thyself by the brook Shireth that is before Jordan. In 17 verse 8 and 9, and the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which is beyond Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded the widow, woman, there to sustain thee. 18 verses 1 and 2. And it came to pass after many days the word of the Lord came unto Elijah the third year, saying, Go show thyself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. And so God told him go to the brook Sherith. God told him go to the widow of Zarepath. God told him to go back to Jezebel and Ahab. Jezebel's Ahab's wife. Jezebel wears the pants. She's the king, he's the queen. Well, I shouldn't I shouldn't put it that way because of all the mess in our world today. Everybody say, Well that's good. But wicked Jezebel was the one running the country. You see, God was telling Elijah, go over here, I'll feed you with ravens. Go over here, I'll feed you from a widow. Go to Ahab. And it's not said, but I'll protect you. I've been with you all. You see, he is in the wilderness praying for himself to die, and God says, What are you doing here in the first place? I didn't tell you to come here. That was your business. You ran on your own. You know, as we say to kids sometimes, you know, we kids won't listen to us. You're gonna fall off that chair. You're gonna fall off that chair, get down, you're gonna fall, kook, and you gotta be tough when you're dumb. You know, if you're gonna go your own way, you're gonna pay the consequences your own way. What dost thou hear, Elijah? Now think about this. Elijah has just had one of the greatest spiritual triumphs you could ever imagine The prophets of Baal have cut themselves, they danced on their altar, they cried for their God, and Elijah's mocked them. Cry louder, maybe your God's asleep. Maybe your God is on vacation. Maybe he's chasing rabbits. And then Elijah has dumped twelve barrels of water on the altar twice. And he prays, and fire comes down from heaven. And it doesn't just burn the wood. It doesn't just burn the sacrifice. It burns the stones and it licks up the water around. A great victory. He is on the spiritual mountain. Twenty-four to forty-eight hours later, he's praying to die. Have you ever gone from great spiritual joy, great spiritual triumph Rejoicing in the Lord and seeing prayers answered and rejoicing in the might and power of your God to despair the next day. Satan loves to send you there. Every Christian has times of great spiritual joy and times nights of weeping. You find it in the life of David over and over again. So many of the Psalms begin in great despair and end in great rejoicing. You find the disciples rejoicing with Christ and then hiding in fear. You find Peter walking on the water. He walked on water. And right in the middle of walking on water, his faith fails him. And he begins to sink. Folks, every Christian goes through spiritual triumphs and spiritual defeats. Satan went knows how and when to attack. But even though Elijah had been told to go to the brook, told to go to the widow, told to go to Ahab And then disobeyed and fled to the wilderness. God was with him. God was there in his lowest valley. Just as much as God was there on the mountain. God was in both places. And so we have a man who is subject to spiritual ups and downs. Elijah was subject to discouragement. Ever discouraged? Don't raise your hand. Ever discouraged? Look at verse 10 of 1 Kings 19. And he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant. thrown down thine altars, slain thy prophets with a sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Let me read it again I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant. They have thrown down thine altars. And they have slain thy prophets with a sword, and I, even I only, am left, and they seek my life to take it away. That's a guy that's Discouraged. God, Lord, they've taken the Ten Commandments out of our courthouses. They want to do away with verses of our national anthem because it says, and this be our motto, and God be our trust. They want to remove prayer and Bible reading from our schools. Lord, they're coming after everything we believe and everything we hold dear Lord, it's dark. Lord, I have been very jealous. I have tried to stand for truth. I have tried to stand for righteousness. And Lord, it just doesn't Lord, it just I don't know what else to do, Lord. It's all falling apart around me. Lord, I'm so discouraged. How can I go on? How can I continue? You see, this great godly man was subject to discouragement just like we are. He was subject to loneliness. I, even I only am left If they seek my life to take it away, I know, I know some of you have been rejected by family members because of your faith in Christ. I know. Most of us have had friends who just quite aren't our friends anymore. They don't want to be around us. They don't want to eat with us because they know we're going to pray before we eat They don't want to be around us because they they know our testimony for Christ. They've got to watch their language when we're around because something will slip out. We don't want to go to the places they want to go anymore. We don't want to do the things until my friends are all gone, Lord. I even I. And I can't make new friends because I don't know many Christians. And I I meet people on the street and I meet people at work that that we have some things in common and we some but they're an unbeliever and It'll very quickly become an unequal yoke. Sort of lonely. I even I only am left alone. They they seek my life to take it away He was subject to loneliness. He was subject to a lack of faith. Look at verses 10. And verses chapter chapter 19, verse 10, verse 14, and verse 18. Verse 10 of 1 Kings 19, they have slain the prophets with a sword, and I, even I, only am left. Verse 14 is the same thing. They have slain the prophets with a sword, and I, even I am only I only am left. But look at verse eighteen God says, Yet have I left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed. him. He was subject to spiritual misunderstanding. He looked at it and said, God, it's all gone wrong. God looked at it and said, no, it's just what I planned. He looked at it and said, God, why did I lose this job? And God looked at it and said, that job wasn't good for you. He looked at it and said, God, I really like this person, and now they don't like me anymore. And God said that person wasn't good for you. They needed to be out of your life. They were going to be a spiritual drawback to you. We look at it and say, Lord, this was such a great opportunity. And God says, no, it would lead you away from me. One of us we don't understand what God's doing. And it doesn't seem right to us, but it is right to God. Elijah says, Lord, they've killed everybody. I'm the only one left. God said, no, you aren't. You don't know what I'm doing. You don't understand my plan. I've got this. As our brother often says, God's got this I said, no, no. I still have 7,000 that are faithful unto me. He was subject to spiritual misunderstanding. He misunderstood the working of God. And so we've seen all these weaknesses fear, despair, loneliness, lack of faith, misunderstanding. But look back at our text again in James 5, 17 and 18. Elias was a man subject to like passions, like sufferings, as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not reign. In spite of all his failings, in spite of all his disappointments He was a man of prayer. He was a man of prayer. He prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not by the space of three years. Years and six months. You see, this man who suffered all these things never stopped praying. My father used to say this little poem that has stuck with me all my life, Satan trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees. Isn't that true? Satan trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees And you know what? I would say to you that sometimes Elijah was the strong saint, and other times he was the weak saint. And it's the same with every one of us. Don't stop praying. Even when it seems like God isn't hearing. Isn't even when we're saying, Lord, I can't take anymore. You see, his prayers were effective in the natural world. Brought rain. And look at the context of this verse. Still in James 5, but look up to verse 14 and following. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Remember when the widow of Nain's son had died, and Elijah prayed? Brought back from the You see, this is a man of great prayer. It's the man who had effectual prayers in the natural world. He brought rain He had effectual prayers in the in the spiritual realm world. He brought down fire from heaven, and he brought back a young boy to life. But look at verse 16. Confess your faults one to another, and pray for one another that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. You see, in spite of all Elijah's problems, he was a righteous man. And in spite of all my failings And the sinfulness of my fallen nature, I am still a righteous man. Not by my righteousness, but by the righteousness Of a God I serve. And so this man, Elijah, was a man. He was a man subject to like passions as we are. But he was also a man of faith. He was a man of earnest prayer, and God heard his prayers. And so what are the lessons that we learn from Elijah? How can we make application now to that which we've seen in his life? First of all. The power of the prayer was not in the man who prayed, but in the God who heard. The power of the prayer was not in the man who prayed, but in the God who heard. Remember Mount Carmel? The gods of the heathen could not hear, but Jehovah heard the simple prayer on the mountain. And fire fell from heaven. The power of the prayer was not in the man who prayed, but in the God who heard. Number two, the man was full of weakness, but God was full of power. Elijah was filled with weakness. We've seen his weakness. But God was never weak. The man was filled with weakness, but his God was filled with power. You see, it was his God that withheld the rain and sent the rain. It was his God that raised the son of the widow of Nain from the dead It was his God that sent the ravens. It was God who put meal and oil in the barrel. It was his God who dropped fire from heaven. The man was filled with weakness, but God was full of power. Number three, man has ups and downs, but God never changes. Man has ups and downs. We have spiritual triumphs and spiritual defeats. We have spiritual mountains and spiritual valleys, but God never changes. I am God, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. The man had ups and downs, but God never changes. And number four, the effectual fervent of prayer of a righteous man does avail much. It does. It may seem that our prayers are unheard. It may seem that our prayers are unanswered. But the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man does. avail much. Be not discouraged, my friends. Hate to tell you this, but you're not unique. Your trials are not new or exclusive, but our God is unique. Who is like unto thee, O Lord? The gods of Baal? No. The gods by which Jezebel cursed Elijah? No. Our God is unique. Let us trust in the Lord on the mountain. And let us trust in the Lord in the valley. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you that likewise the Spirit also help with our infirmities, for we know not what to ask for as we ought. Father, we thank you that Christ we have not a high priest which should not be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted us like as we are, yet without sin. Father, we thank you for the encouragement and blessing of your word. We thank you, Lord, that you have given us these true accounts of these saints of old And we can see in them the same difficulties and trials that we face, and yet, Lord, we see that you brought them through it all. Lord, if you had answered the prayer of Elijah to die in the wilderness There would never have been a chair to fire. But Lord, you had something better for him than his own will. And so, Lord, teach us to rest in thee. Teach us to trust thee at all times Bless us that we might be faithful servants of the Lord in Jesus' name. Amen