Well, before we look into the Word this morning, let's look to the Lord once again in prayer. Our Father, great God of wonders. All thy ways are matchless, godlike and divine. Who is a pardoning God like thee? And who has grace so rich and free? And Father, as we read in your word this morning, we have your promise that you will guide us with your counsel. And receive us to glory. We thank you that that is true and that is unchangeable, that we are more than conquerors through Him that loved us. As we open your word this morning, we pray that those truths might be driven home to us. That we might be built up in the most holy faith, Father. And if there are any here this morning or any within the sound of our voices this morning who do not know Christ. Oh Father, we pray that this might be the day of salvation. We pray for the work of your spirit in regeneration. And bringing one who could not receive the things of the Spirit of God, could not understand them, open eyes Bring light so that there might be understanding, that there might be saving faith. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the passage I'd like to call our attention to this morning is found in the book of Colossians. In chapter 3, beginning at verse 1, the first four verses, God the Holy Spirit, through the Apostle Paul, writes this to us, and note that it is a commandment. This isn't merely an exhortation. It is actually a commandment of God. Verse 1, if ye then be risen with Christ, or Since then ye be risen with Christ. Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection, your mind. On things above, not on things on earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Well, as we begin our consideration of these verses this morning, I want to ask you a question. And the question is this. If you knew That the Christians in a certain city were about to experience a catastrophe, a disaster. And let's forget the internet Let's forget text messaging. Let's forget Twitter. Let's forget email. Let's even forget the telephone. If the only thing that you could do was write a letter to them. Christians in another city who were about to experience a catastrophe, what would you write to them? What would you say? If you knew perhaps a year or two in advance that massive destruction was about to come on the city of Dallas or Chicago or even Baltimore or Washington What in your mind would be the most important things that you believe that you would need to say to Christians in that city? And the reason I ask that question is because that's exactly the situation that we have before us in the book of Colossians this morning. Exactly. And I appreciate the material. I only had a chance to skim through it, but I appreciate the material that's in the bulletin this morning about Colossi, the history of Colossi. As we look very carefully at the chronology of the New Testament, we find that this letter that we're reading this morning was written to the church at Colossae about the year 57 A. D. And just about three years after this letter was written, the city of Colossae was destroyed by a massive earthquake. Buildings and homes were leveled. Many structures were destroyed by the fires that spread as a result of the earthquake. Most of the inhabitants of Colossae lost their lives. Or lost their homes or their livelihoods. Many of the inhabitants of Colosi No doubt the Christians of the city were just as severely affected by all of this as the rest of the population And in fact, the earthquake problem in that area was so severe that the city of Colossae was eventually abandoned. And the exact location of Colossi was not rediscovered by archaeologists until the 1830s. And today the site of the city of Colossi is a large open field, a large open plain. There's nothing there. It's near a city called Honaz in the present-day nation of Turkey. Now, of course, the Apostle Paul didn't know that this calamity was about to come. He didn't know that this was coming just a short time after he would write this letter, but this gives us a striking example of why it is important to understand the ultimate authorship of Scripture. 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells us that all scripture consists of the breathed out words of God. God used human instruments to communicate his words. But 2 Peter 1 tells us that the nature of Scripture is that holy men of God spoke or wrote as they were moved or driven by the Holy Spirit. And Peter also tells us that on many occasions those who wrote, and Peter was mainly speaking of Old Testament prophets Often they wrote without really fully understanding the significance of what they were writing. Because it was for a future time. In some cases, as in the prophecies of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, that time was far distant, far in the future, and in many respects is still in the future. But in the case of the words that we find in the book of Colossians right here, there was a significance and an importance and a purpose that was very soon to be realized. This is a letter written by God the Holy Spirit to Christians who are about to lose everything in terms of this material world. In some cases, no doubt, they were even about to lose their earthly lives. Or they were going to lose loved ones. Great calamity was about to come upon them. But what do we find in the book of Colossians? What do we find in these verses? Does God the Holy Spirit tell these people through the Apostle Paul, leave your city because it's going to be destroyed? No. Does God the Holy Spirit tell them, save up and buy a year's worth of food and accumulate enough money to last for a year so that you can by some means more comfortably survive this catastrophe that's coming. No? Does the Holy Spirit tell them go down if we were to put this in today's terms, go down to Costco or Sam's club? And buy that emergency food kit that they sell that'll feed a family of four for a year for three thousand dollars. Does God the Holy Spirit tell the Church of Kalosi what foreign investments they should make with their assets? In order to make sure that those assets are well protected somewhere else against the calamity. Is any of this what we find in Colossians? No, we don't find any of that. Nothing like it What we find in the book of Colossians is a book about the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you want to remember the outline of the book of Colossians, it's very easy. All you have to do is remember three words, and they all begin with the letter D. In Colossians chapter 1, we find the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that's the overall theme of the book, the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ. We find Christ's preeminence declared, the first D word. And in Colossians chapter 2, we find the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ defended. And then in Colossians chapters 3 and 4, we find the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated. We find exhortations and commands to the church and to the individual believer to demonstrate the preeminence of the Lord Jesus in our lives and in our ministry under every circumstance and every situation. Now we might very well ask the question, why write a letter packed with nothing but theology to Christians who were about to lose their homes, their livelihoods, their worldly possessions, and in many cases their lives? Why write detailed instructions on Christian living to people who are soon going to be struggling for their very survival? And on the face of it, understanding what happened to the church at Colossi just a few years after this letter was written to them, this seems utterly impractical. And in our time of social justice preaching, there are many preachers today who would say that such an attitude is sinful. Given this kind of a circumstance, given this kind of a situation where we knew that Christians were about to suffer the loss of everything, I think it's accurate to say that Much of the evangelical church today are I've I've begun using the term the post-evangelical church. Many pastors, many Christian leaders would tell people what they needed to do to protect themselves in earthly terms. But in fact, in the eyes of God, that would be the tragedy. That would be the tragedy. God, the Holy Spirit, through the Apostle Paul, did not instruct the Colossian believers in physical survival. He did not counsel them on how to protect their finances and their worldly possessions. He didn't tell them to evacuate their city. No. What did he say? Chapter 3 verse 1, seek those things which are above where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on earth. Why? Because you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. No message was more relevant for the Colossian Church. This is what God and His wisdom placed before them as the most important thing. No message could be more relevant to Christians in our time, I believe. You know, it's interesting. I this week I was at a, among other things. I was at a conference in Greenville, South Carolina, Association of Ministers of the Reformed Faith. Brother Keith's been there many times. Brother Joe, uh we have wonderful fellowship there and the men who were there bring their greetings. But Dr. David Weir, who regularly speaks at those conferences, Dr. Weir is a historian, Christian historian. And his his talk this time was about John Wycliffe, but he began by saying, you know, uh lately I've been focusing a lot of my attention and thinking on uh how civilizations come to an end. And he said with a smile, Now why in the world would I be doing that right now? But he said he said what happens and he said whether we're talking the Bible-based civilization of the Western world of the last several centuries. Or whether we're talking about any other civilization through time, what happens, the common thing that happens is there is a loss of the foundation. There's a loss of those things in terms of morality, ethics, and so on, and a common culture that binds people And he said, that's what's happening in the Western world now. That's disintegrating. And in particular, it's disintegrating in terms of Scripture in terms of the Western world's attitude toward the Word of God. I think what we have here before us this morning in Colossians 1 is the most important thing we could consider as Christians in a time such as this. We go to the religious bookstores, we go to the websites, they're filled with books and videos that tell us how to have peace, quote unquote, by accumulating and protecting the wealth of this world. Uh a uh Financial Advice Radio program that's hosted by a man who claims to be a believer is the number two talk show in America today. Number two. Number two behind Hannity. Now God's Word says there's nothing wrong with making a living. There's nothing wrong with planning for the future. There's nothing wrong with saving. There's nothing wrong with providing for your family. God commands us to do these things. The man who doesn't do that, he's worse than an infidel. That's right. But that's not the point. The point is that God repeatedly warns us in the pages of Scripture that these things are not the source of true peace. Jesus said, Peace I leave with you, John 14, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives do I give to you. And therefore let not your heart be troubled. Neither be afraid. What is that peace? Well, we only need to look back one verse. In John chapter 14, we find this. Jesus said, the Comforter, the Holy Spirit. Whom the Father will send in my name, he is going to teach you all things. He's going to bring to your remembrance everything that I've said to you. God's true peace is found in salvation through Jesus Christ and through the comfort that is thereby brought to us through the indwelling of the Spirit. were taught how to live and think by his inspired word. And the Apostle Paul's fervent, continual, and spirit-inspired prayer for the Colossian believers, people who are about to experience the calamity of a lifetime. His prayer for them is this. We find it in chapter 1. If we go back to chapter 1, verse 9, Paul says this This, he said, is what Timothy and I are praying for for you, that ye might be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might according to his glorious power. unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us to be meet or qualified. to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son, in whom we have redemption through his blood. Even the forgiveness of sins. That's where peace is. That's where preparation is for every circumstance of life, whatever it may be. Paul talks about the fact in the original language there in Colossians chapter 1, he's talking about, as he puts it at one point, in the original, growing into the knowledge of God in Christ. And and the picture there is and parents you'll relate to this. You never buy the kids clothes the size that they are right now. Oh, that's a little too big. Well, he's only six months old. He's gonna grow into it. And In public school days, uh, every September, you know, every August, late, late August, September, mom and dad go and buy clothes for the kids. Johnny's pants are way down. The sleeves are down to here. But by March, they're up here He's talking about the same thing in in the Greek in terms of our growth in our knowledge of Christ. It's something that we have to continually grow into and we're never gonna fill out that garment. Never. Never. It's bigger than anything we can possibly imagine. We continue to grow in his knowledge. You know, there's also another way of remembering the outline of the book of Colossians, and that's to remember John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And what we have in Colossians chapter 1 is Jesus Christ set forth as the way to eternal life. the source of the all-sufficient supply for the experiences of everyday life. And there in Colossians chapter 1 we have the most power-packed and information-packed statement. on the person and work of Christ that we find in all of Scripture. Right there in Colossians chapter one, in the middle of the chapter. Colossians chapter 2, Paul sets forth Jesus Christ as the truth. The truth in contrast and in opposition to all worldly philosophy, all legalism, all man-made doctrines. And God the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul says in Colossians 2 verse 18, I'm paraphrasing a bit now, he says, don't let anyone cheat you of your reward. You know by entangling you in those kinds of falsehoods. And then in Colossians chapters three and four, Paul sets forth Jesus Christ as the life, the life, both eternal life, but also life in the present and the life to come. Christ is the one who is to be preeminent in our character, in our conduct, in the home. and in the workplace and in our witness to the world and in our service within the body of Christ and in everything and in every circumstance. And in chapters three and four The Apostle Paul leads the Colossian believers through all of those things, all of those areas in which Christ must be preeminent, where he must be held forth as the life. He holds forth Jesus Christ as the one who is the complete contradiction of everything about this world system. Everything. He holds up the witness of Christ as the total opposite of the way the world thinks. He holds up the life that we have in Christ as the total opposite of the condemnation that the world is under. And he holds up the life that we're to live in Christ as the total opposite of the way this world lives and thinks. All of this written to people Who are about to lose everything that the world values. In many cases, quite probably their lives. This in the mind of God was the most vital knowledge. That the believers could have as they prepared as God was preparing them for what was ahead The all-knowing Holy Spirit of God exhorts them in this way, if we go to chapter 3, beginning at verse 15. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body. Be ye and be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord And whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father and the Father by Him. More literally, chapter 3 verse 15 would read like this: decide with determination. That the peace of God shall be the judge of all your thoughts and actions Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. Decide with the determination that the peace of God shall be the judge of all your thoughts and actions. Decide with determination that his peace shall be the arbiter, the umpire, the referee of all of your thoughts and actions. In every situation, whether in calm or in catastrophe, how's that accomplished? Well, we have it in the next verse. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And again Let me give you a bit more literal rendering of the original language there. It would be like this. Decide with determination that the word of Christ shall be at home within you in abundance. At home within you in abundance. No part of the house of your life, of your mind, of your heart, where God is not welcome. No compartmentalization. The Lord can have all this, but he can't have this I want to hang on to this now. In everything. In everything. May the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom. That's entirely counter to the world's way of thinking. It's entirely counter to much of the church's way of thinking today. But it is the way of safety. Even in the face of loss of possessions, even in the face of loss of physical life itself, your life, God says, is hidden with Christ in God. That's the ultimate place of safety. It's the ultimate place of safety now. It's the ultimate place of safety for eternity. You know, our problem is not what some people and even many in the church want to tell us it is. I've been told this, and you probably have too That we're in danger of becoming so heavenly minded that will be no earthly good? Yeah, we've heard that. That's not our problem. Our problem is we're in constantly we're constantly in danger of becoming so earthly minded. That we'll forget about our great Savior, that we'll forget about His Word, that we'll forget about His sovereignty That we will forget that Christ is on the throne and that all power and authority has been given to him in heaven and in earth. And that he must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet, and he will Our constant danger is that we will forget that we are the temples of the living God. But the Holy Spirit lives within us. Oh, that's so easy to forget. Our constant danger is that we will forget that we can grieve the spirit, Scripture tells us, that we can quench the spirit, Scripture tells us. by thinking and living in a way that is focused on the things of this world and not on the tremendous fact of the world to come. If then you're raised with Christ, since then you're raised with Christ, seek those things which are above. Well, what are those things? They're the things that are where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. In fact, they are the things that are in Christ Himself. And you know, as as as the the questions and answers were going back and forth in the in the Sunday school hour. And talking about the love of God. I was thinking about this and thinking about the fact that in order to really understand the love of God In order to really understand a verse like John 3. 16, you have to understand that word love. There are different words for love in Scripture. But the word there is the root word agapao, agape, love. What kind of love is that? It is love that is motivated by an appreciation for the value of the object of that love. A love that is motivated by an appreciation for the value of the object of that love. God the Father loves his Son. We are hidden with Christ in God. Therefore, God loves us with an everlasting love. That is a love That is ours because we have been in Christ since before the foundation of the world, Ephesians tells us. That's what it's all about. The things that are integral to the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, what are they? His eternality. is seated at the right hand of God. The one we're to seek is the one who had no beginning. He had no ending. He's the one who is our high priest forever before the heavenly altar. His holiness is seated there. The one we're to seek is the one who is above, is the holy God, the one who says, be holy, for I am holy. We're to seek that holiness. Hebrews tells us we're to pursue that holiness. We're to seek to be more and more conformed to the image of Christ and to seek the work of the Spirit to accomplish that. We're not to be conformed to this world, Romans 12. 1. Be transformed by the renewing of your minds literally by the renovation of your minds. The conformity of our minds to the mind of Christ who is seated at the right hand of God In order that our thinking may be in conformity to the will of God in every circumstance of life, no matter what happens, knowing that all the things that take us by surprise never take God by surprise. Christ's eternality is seated at the throne of God. His unchangeableness is seated there. Not only his holiness, but his immutability, his unchangeability. The Christ we're to seek is Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's not moved or affected by the events of the world. He's the Lord of all the events of the world. He's in charge of them. And I must admit that there are times when I see what's going on in the world today and I see the absolute insanity. On so many fronts. And I see that insanity even within the church. And I think has the Lord taken his hand off the throttle? No, he has not. No, he has not. Southern Baptist Convention this week elected a president. whose church's website, not to go into detail, but his church's website has a doctrinal statement that effectively denies the doctrine of the Trinity. And I read that in a secular paper. The secular news service was looking at that and saying This is different. But he was elected president of the Southern Baptist Convention. Uh the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, they will have their uh General Assembly, I think, next month. The liberals are taking charge. And there's an open letter that's been written by the liberals, those who are in favor uh who those who want to deny that homosexuality is a sin, those who want the church to be much more open and tolerant, as they would put it. They wrote a letter For any of you who are familiar with the church history, there was a letter that was written in 1924, nearly a hundred years ago, called the Albert Affirmation. Old and mainline Presbyterian Church. And this is a letter that's written in similar flowery language, but in essence says the same thing. And what it says is this Any conservatives who are left in our denomination need to sit down and shut up and let the liberals drive the bus. That's really what it's all about. Is the Lord out of control of that? No. And I would say, I would affirm that again this is the iniquity piling up. This is the iniquity p the in the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. That's what's happening. The omnipotence of Christ is seated in the heavenlies in his person. He possesses all power in heaven and in earth He sustains the entire universe by his power. Who can we seek on earth who can exercise that kind of power? No one Who can we seek on this earth who is omniscient? We're to seek the one who's not only all-powerful but all-knowing. He knows our future perfectly. And we're on this sin-cursed earth Can we find anyone like that? Where in the philosophies of this age can we find such knowledge? And further yet, infinite wisdom is seated in the heavenlies in Christ. The one were to seek not only possesses all power, he possesses all knowledge. He also possesses all wisdom to employ that power and that knowledge for his glory and thus for our eternal good. In ways that we couldn't even begin to imagine. I will often say And I'm um quoting a line from the Wizard of Oz. If I were king of the forest, this is what I would do. This is what I would do to Congress. This is what I would do with the Supreme Court. Well, praise God, I'm not king of the forest. The king is on the throne. Amen. And this is all under his control. And furthermore As we seek the Christ who is above, seated at the right hand of God, we find infinite love and we find infinite grace. The one who knows our future perfectly, knows our past perfectly, and at the throne in heaven, we find that grace to save to the uttermost, the deepest of sinners. We find the love that compelled our Lord to come into this world, to take on the form of a servant, to die the death of the cross in our place. You know, my wife and I were talking about something this week that I don't know if either of us had really thought about before, even after Jesus has risen and he's still with the disciples. He's still serving them. He prepares a meal for them, prepares a fish fry for them. He's still the servant. Even though he has won the right to be king. And further yet, the Christ above whom we're to seek is the head of the church. Colossians 1. 18 declares to us that Jesus Christ, seated in the heavenlies, is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Well dear friends, this world is passing away. We don't know when or how long But Christ's Church is eternal. We, his people, are eternal. And so Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that he's now at work sanctifying us by the cleansing power of his word that he might present us to himself On that great day when the world passes away and the new heavens and new earth commence, that he might present us to himself a glorious church. Having not spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but holy and without blemish for eternity. And where on earth can we find this? We can't find it anywhere on this earth Therefore, we must seek those things which are above where Christ is. We must lay hold above the very attributes of our Lord God. They're the only resources for our life in this short time on earth. They're our resources for the life to come. And dear friend, even if you're about to lose everything that this world values, you would be losing nothing. And I I just want to take a moment to say something as a as a personal matter. A few years ago, uh I had surgery. Uh my spine is attached to my skull, which is why I only move like this. I don't move my head independently. It was because there were some uh benign growths at the base of the brain that had to be dealt with. Well, day after the surgery, uh I had a massive brain hemorrhage, went into a coma Uh woke up many days later and realized I'm in a different hospital in a different city. And the the the verdict was, well, he's he's probably gonna spend about six months in rehab in order in order to be able to walk and talk straight. Uh I left the hospital walking on a walker two weeks later and never had to go to any kind of a rehab, but Six weeks after all that happened, the repairs broke. And you know, I go to the doctor and I know something's wrong and they take s X-ray scans. And the doctor, my neurosurgeon, he'd just had a wisdom tooth pulled this morning. That morning. He was kind of suffering. When he looked at the x-rays he was suffering more. And he said, We've got to do this all over again. I drove to the hospital that morning. I drove the car to the hospital that morning. Uh with my father-in-law and my wife, and we actually we we were actually dropping my car off at a body shop because In between that time I had just gotten back to driving and just about a mile from our house a a deer came out and did two thousand dollars worth of damage to the front end of the car, so it's in the shop. I'm driving my father in law's car. But we're on the way to the hospital, hours drive. And I'm thinking, really seriously, I'm thinking. I'm not gonna come home again. They're gonna do this again, and this time the Lord's gonna take me. And I cannot tell you what a settled peace there was about that I've never had that kind of an experience before or since. I think you know in a time like that the Lord just gives you something special when you when you really need it. And we've experienced it, I'm sure many of us could testify to that. And my focus that morning by his grace was on things above. And It's interesting, the one of the neurosurgeons who had initially saved my life when the thing first happened He he said about two minutes later you would have been gone. They actually did brain surgery in a coronary care unit bed. They didn't even have time to take me to an operating room. But anyway. Jewish doctor, Dr. Solomon. Before the surgery, he came to me. And he, this Jewish doctor, said, don't worry God has big ears, it's gonna be alright. Well, two weeks after that surgery I was driving a car The Lord brought me through it, but He He prepared me for the eventuality that this was the time to go, that this was the last time I would hug my wife. That he would take care of her, that he would do what he wanted to do with the ministry, all of that, that that's the way it would be. Well dear friends, what's this all about that we're talking about this morning? How does this apply to us here and now today? Let me just take a moment to talk about that. And I want to talk about it in terms briefly of what we see in the verses after the verses that we've been talking about this morning. Colossians chapter 3 beginning at verse 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, that is, evil appetites, evil desires, and covetousness, which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience, in the which ye also walked sometimes when he lived in them But now also put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not to one another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds and have put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. The word that's translated mortify in verse 5 literally means put to death. Put to death And notice that it's put to death therefore. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Put them to death. Why? Because of the facts that we've been talking about this morning. Chapter 3, verses 1 through 4. You died, Paul declares. You died. You're positionally dead in Christ to this present world. You're positionally dead in Christ to sin. You're positionally kept safe with Christ in God. And that's something that was guaranteed in the plan of God from before the foundation of the world. You're a citizen not merely of this present world, but much more vitally, you're a citizen of the world to come. You know, I look around at us this morning and we come from a lot of different cultural backgrounds. And if we were to look back at our ancestries, we'd find even more. And The thing I believe that we need to keep in mind as believers is that Christianity is not the culture of this present evil world. It is the culture of the world to come. When we come together as believers in Christ, no matter what we may have humanly speaking, we have a common culture together as believers. Right. Because we are one in Christ. Citizens of the world to come. And we need to start living like that. We need to live like that here and now. How are we to do that? Mortify. Put to death therefore your members which are on earth. And here's something exceedingly significant. What does Paul then name as our members which are upon earth? He doesn't name parts of the body. Mortify your members. Members? Fornication? Uncleanness? Lustful passions? Evil desires? Covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. These things are so closely identified with our fallen selves that Paul calls them our members. Just as though they're flesh and blood members of the body, like a hand or an arm or an eye, these things are still part of us while we're in the flesh. Let us never deny that we have problems with fornication, uncleanness, lustful passions, evil cravings, covetousness, which is idolatry. All these things. Both in a physical and material sense and in a spiritual sense as well. These things must be put to death. And that putting to death of those things within us must be by the power of the Word, the power of the Spirit of God. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification. Philippians 2. 12, work out your own salvation, boy. That's a misinterpreted verse, isn't it? What's it saying there more literally? Be producing the fitting result of your salvation. With fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Mortify your members which are on earth, put them to death. And how do we do something like that? How do you put something to death? How do you put sin to death in your life? How do you mortify your members? These living things, these sins, these propensities that plague us. Well, if you want something to die, you stop feeding it. That's usually how cancer is treated in essence. Doctors deprive it of the ability to thrive. That's how they deal with it. You treat it as the you treat sin as the malignant thing that it is. And you deprive it of that which gives it life within your soul. We can only do that by the power of the Word and the Spirit. We can't do that in our flesh Well, and at the same time we need to feed and nourish those things that please the one who is seated at the right hand of God. Starve sin feed sanctification. Sounds simple, doesn't it? But it's a struggle every day between the flesh and the spirit, that warfare. And so we come to this crucial question. What are you feeding your soul? What are you feeding your soul? What are you accumulating in your life? What are you seeking? Are you seeking those things that will prepare you for the life to come? What are you investing your time in? What are you investing your mind in? What are you feeding to your spirit? What are you exposing your spouse and your children to? What are you watching? What are you reading? What are you listening to? What are you spending your time on? Are you focusing on the things of this earth? Is that where your affections are? Is that where your mind is? Well in the philosophies of this world, the thinking of those who are bound for hell? Or are you seeking those things which are above where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God? Do you desire him, his person, his holiness above all? And the preacher's not just preaching to the congregation, he's preaching to himself, let me tell you. The truly blood-bought, spirit-indwelled believer in the Lord Jesus Christ must utterly reject the things of earth. We must. We must despise these things in a proper way. Because we're the temples of the living God on earth. And these things that are out there can only defile the temple of the living God. They can only pull us down. They may seem to bring pleasure or success or a lot of other things, but In reality, they only bring misery. Misery because they come between us and Christ. Because they're under the curse, they're dying, and they can do nothing for us except to confuse us and defeat us. There's confusion and defeat in the things of this world. We certainly see that right now. You want ten different opinions about the virus? Just stand still for about five minutes and listen, and you'll get at least that many. Probably all of them wrong. These things bring confusion. And it's not just a matter of physical confusion, there's a spiritual confusion in it as well. And then in a lot of that there's a spiritual confusion because so much of it is based in evolutionary thinking. But there's perfect clarity and victory in Jesus Christ. Dear friends, it is Jesus Christ who has done and will do everything for us. He's bought us with his own blood. He owns us. He's the one person in all the universe who has the wisdom and the holiness to consistently and without fail have our best interests at heart. And he demands and he truly deserves our undivided loyalty. We're not our own, we're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirits, which are God's Flee to the preeminent Christ. Flee to the heavenly altar. Flee to the heavenly throne of grace. Rest in the one who knows your future perfectly and who will control your future perfectly and submit to his mind, his will, his lordship, his sovereignty. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your affection, set your mind on things above Above, not on things on the earth, because you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, we also shall appear with him in glory, more than conquerors. Let's pray. Our Father How can we begin to thank you for what you have done for us in Christ? How can we begin to know enough? Of our Savior. How can we begin to exalt Him enough? How can we begin to give Him the preeminence as we should only, Father, by the work of your Spirit within us? We pray for that work. We pray that you would indeed, Father. Cause us to set our affections, our minds on things above. Father, that we might truly be the useful instruments that you desire for us to be in this world here and now and to him who is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God our Saviour. Be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. Amen.