Bibles with me please this morning to the book of Hebrews and to the tenth chapter. Hebrews chapter ten. You remember that last week we were uh looking at the eighth and ninth chapters of the book of Hebrews. And today we're going to focus our attention On verses 19 through 25 of Hebrews chapter 10. If you have your places, Hebrews 10, and I'll start reading in verse number 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us through the veil. That is to say, his flesh. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith, without wavering, for faithful is He that promised. And let us consider one another, to provoke one another to love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Let's vow for prayer. As we look into God's Word. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you that the book that we have before us this morning is like no other book. It is the very inspired Word of God. It does not simply contain the Word of God, but it is indeed the Word of God. Father, we thank you that holy men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So, Father, this morning I pray that you would turn our hearts and our minds, our attention. Away from all the chaos of the world around us and all the situations that each of us face day by day, our joys and our heartaches alight. And Father, in this time, may you show us Christ in the Word. May we glory in our great Savior. May we be brought to greater devotion to Him, greater awareness of our own unworthiness. Greater sensitivity to our daily sin, and greater commitment to live so as to please our great high priest. Bless our time in the Word this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The first eighteen verses of this chapter, which most of which we read last week and various bits and pieces, show us the Demise, if you want to put it that way, of the old worship. The priests, year by year, day by day, offer the sacrifice. And once a year the high priest would go into that holy of holies. He went in with the blood of the sacrifice in confession of his own sin to make atonement for his sin and for the sins of the people. But we've seen that Christ has become our high priest. That was the primary focus last week, and that He is a great high priest, and that He has entered into the Holy of Holies on our behalf. But Scripture doesn't leave it just there. Not only has Christ entered in on our behalf, but Christ has opened the way of entrance to us. And we know that when Christ died on the cross, that veil of the temple was rent from top to bottom. And I'm sure most of you have heard the studies on how strong the veil was and how impossible it was for it to tear. But it tore not from side to side or from the bottom to the top or diagonal. Scripture is very clear that it was rent from the top to the bottom. That way into the Holy of Holies was made open. And why is that important? Because within the Holy of Holies was the mercy seat. And what was the mercy seat? It was the place where atonement was made. And it was the place where God spoke to his people, where God had fellowship with his people And so Christ has opened up for us as we read there in the 20th verse by a new and living way. And so this morning I want us to consider this new and living way that has been opened for the believers and what it means to us and the blessings it carries with us. And the first thing we would notice from this passage is that the way is indeed opened. Because in Exodus 26, when God was giving to Moses the instructions for building the tabernacle in the wilderness. God was very clear that the only one to see that ark was the high priest. And then only once a year. And when it was moved, it was first covered. And the men who bore it on their shoulders, they were not seeing it because it was hidden. There was a barrier between man and that fellowship of God. That place where God dwelt between the cherubims. But now it's opened. Now we can go to the very throne room of God. When we pray, we are not praying through an earthly priest, but rather we are a priesthood in Christ, and the way is open for us to communicate with God. But not only is the way open, but we find in Scripture that it is open at all times. In I had a sticky page, first time that's happened. In Leviticus sixteen and verse two. When God was giving these instructions, God said, And the Lord spake unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times. in the holy place within the veil before the mercy seat which is upon the ark, that he die not, for I will appear in a cloud upon the mercy seat. God met with his people, and he met with his people there at the mercy seat. There was a veil that kept everyone out but the high priest, and even the high priest could only go once a year. But consider the blessing we have today. When we pray, we pray at the very throne of grace We pray before the very mercy seat for Christ has become that mercy seat, and you don't have to wait a year to speak with him And that's why in the New Testament we find the command: pray without ceasing. Be constant in that prayer. Yes, the Old Testament prophets prayed, and we find Daniel praying three times a day when he was forbidden to do so. But now a glorious way is opened up into the Holy of Holies. And so it is apt that we read there in verse 19, having boldness, brethren. And we need to pause on that word, brethren. Who is it that has this access? We hear about national prayer breakfasts and they'll have Men or women of all different religions come and they'll read their little pious prayer that they have prepared. Does God hear that prayer? No, God hears the prayers of the saints. But we as brethren have continual access into the Holy of Holies. But not only do we have access, we read there in verse 19, we have boldness to enter. And think about the priests of the Old Testament who were entering into the presence of God. They entered with fear and trembling. The priest had bells around the bottom of his garments, so as he walked, I mean many of us have had bells in our children's shoes and that little Pitter-patter sound of a child running with bells. It's a joyful and a glorious sound, and we love to hear it. But the priest had bells on the bottom of his garment. And they were bells that God would hear, we find in the Old Testament as he went in. But one of the purposes of those bells was that in going into the holy place, God might strike him dead. He may go in and not come out. Now, Jewish tradition, and I want to be very clear on that, Jewish tradition says that the priest had a scarlet rope around his waist. In case he died in the Holy of Holies, they could pull him out. Scripture never tells us that. Maybe it's true. However, I would doubt it because God gave Moses very specific instructions as to the dress of the high priest. The mitre on his head, his robe, his breastplate with the twelve stones, and the bells are on the bottom. And I would tend to think that the Jews may have added that at some point But it wasn't in God's command. But the point is this: that priest, when he went into the Holy of Holies, he went in knowing he may not come out. If there were sin, even unknown sin within him, he could not come into the holy presence of God and he would die. But brethren, when I go to the throne of grace, I go filled with sin. I go confessing those sin. Oh, what a great blessing it is we have, because we have boldness to come in. And I think every one of us at some time or another in our childhood Did something and we dreaded daddy coming home because we knew we were gonna get it. And yet we can go before God and say, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. I come Boldly into the very throne room of God, not claiming my own righteousness Not saying, God, look how good I am, but rather saying, My Heavenly Father, Jesus Christ, shed his blood for me. And I come before you to confess my sins. Because I am a sinner, and if we say that we have no sin, we make him a liar, and the truth is not in us. But I come boldly to the throne of grace because Jesus rent the veil. Because Jesus has opened the way. And in verse 22, we read, let us draw near. With a full true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with the new will with it with living with pure water. But then also we find that the way is opened, that we enter boldly, but we enter through a new and living way. Verse 20 by a new and living way which he has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. We enter by a new way. Now that can be somewhat confusing. That can be somewhat disconcerting. Were the believers in the Old Testament saved by a different way than we are? No. The working of God has been the same from the creation of the world until today. And yet, those priests that entered in through the veil of the Old Testament entered in through a death religion We have no idea how many lambs, doves, goats, oxen, or s We find days of sacrifice when there would be thousands on one day. The Old Testament worship Was a worship, and I don't mean to be disrespectful in putting it this way, but in reality, it was a worship of blood and gore. If you've ever butchered a deer, which I know of as some, there is an odor there. It was a bloody religion. It was a way of death. But we don't come in through the way of death. We come in through the new and living way. Because Jesus Christ was the final sacrifice. He has died for us. And so we come in not in the gore and odor of blood But we come rather through the glorious blood of Christ, shed on our behalf. It's a new and living way. It's the same religion, it is the same faith. But Christ has opened a new and living way. But not only is it new in its format, in its manner, it is alive! It is no longer a faith of death. It is a faith of life. Because Jesus Christ rose from the dead. The sacrifice was made, but the sacrifice is no longer dead. And so we enter through living faith in our crucified Messiah. It is a new and living way. If you look at verse 28, so Christ, I'm sorry, chapter 9, across the page from you, verse 28. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. And to them that look unto him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. And then continuing in chapter ten and verse twenty-one, we have a great high priest. And we won't spend much time here this morning because that was the focus of our consideration last week. But we are able to enter in because we have a high priest. We're not without a priest. He stands in the priesthood for us. And so we've seen there are four four great blessings. The way is open. We have boldness. It's a new way, and we have a high priest. But then, secondly, from this chapter and these few verses, I would have used to see that there are four marks, there are four characteristics of those who would enter by the new and living way. Remember, in the Old Testament, it was only the priests that went into the holies, and only the high priests that went into the Holy of Holies. And in the Old Testament tabernacle, there was a gate, and there was a court of the Gentiles in the temple. But only the Jews went in beyond the court of the Gentiles. So, what are the people, what is the characteristics of those who would enter in through this new and living way? Well the first is found in verse 22. Chapter 10, verse 22. Let us draw near with a true heart. A true heart. The double-minded man is unstable in all his ways No man can serve two masters. He will love one and he will hate the other, or he will hold the one and despise the other. He cannot serve God and mammon. Throughout Scripture, God makes this dichotomy between the wheat and the tares. Between the sheep and the goats, between those who cry, Lord, Lord, and those who truly have faith in Jesus Christ. And the first characteristic, the first requirement or quality that we find of those who enter into the Holy of Holies by this new and living way They draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Jeremiah told us that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who should can know it? But John told us in 1 John 3 and verse 21, Beloved, if our heart condemn us. Then have we confidence toward God. If our heart says, you're a sinner, yeah, we have confidence towards God because He's overcome our heart. And in this same chapter, if you look back up previously, in verses 16 through 18 of Hebrews 10, this is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my law in their hearts. And in their minds will I write them, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Now where there is remission of these, there is no more offering for sin. And so we enter with a true heart. Not that I somehow have a beating organ in my chest that's better than another man, but rather Christ has given me a new heart. Christ has transformed me. And I can enter in because I am a child of God indeed. We enter through the heart of a true heart. But we enter also with full assurance. And this is an area that I think most of us at some time in our Christian life have struggled with. And many of you may struggle with it even today. We enter in with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. I spent many years as a teenager doubting my salvation, and I believe many of you did, did and do as well. How do we have this full assurance of faith? What is the nature of this full assurance of faith? Well, I believe the the passages around us tell us a lot about it. Look over to chapter 9, verse 13 through 14. Should be just across the page or back a page. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of heifers sprinkle the un sprinkle the unclean, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ Through the eternal spirit, offer himself, who through the eternal spirit offer himself without spot to God, purge your conscience From dead works to serve the living God. Now look at the elements that are laid out before us. The blood of Christ will purge our conscience. Why do we have doubts? Because we know we're sinners. Because we know we're unworthy Because we know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing, for to will is present with me, but how to perform I find not. The good that I would, that I do not And the evil that I would not that I do, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Our conscience Our conscience is constantly there to say, no, you're not a believer. Look what you did. No Christian would ever do what you just did. No believer would say what you said. Ah, how the conscience seats at us. But the sprinkling of the blood of Christ Just as the sprinkling of the ashes of the heifers, we'll see a little bit later in the Old Testament cleanse the flesh. The blood of Christ cleanses the conscience. From dead works. And that's the second part we need to look at. You see, all of our efforts to be a Christian, and all of our efforts to soothe our conscience. They're dead works. But the blood of Christ cleanses the conscience from dead works And so Paul said in Romans 8, verses 14 through 16: As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. That's the dead works. Bondage again to fear. But ye receive the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry out, O Father The Spirit itself, bearing witness with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. You see that blood of Christ, which cleanses the conscience from old works to serve the living God. It takes away the guilt. And replaces it with that Abba Father, with that Spirit in our own heart. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now, brethren, friends, I cannot convince you that you're a child of God. I cannot bring out a magic Idea that will soothe the yearning of your conscience for that full assurance. But I can tell you that the word of God will soothe your conscience I can tell you that the assurance of salvation is here, that God desires us to have full assurance of faith. And if some man convinces you that you're saved, that's just a man. But to know we're saved, that full assurance comes by Faith in that blood of Christ which cleanses the conscience from dead works to serve the living God. But I would say this, if it is encouraging to you, I do not believe a reprobate would ever have those thoughts. I do not believe that one who has no concern for his soul and no care for God would ever say, Am I a believer or am I not? I do not believe the reprobate would do something and say, Well God, why did I do that? I don't believe that the that the unbeliever who is non-elect would ever have any interest in Christ at all. And I say that on the basis of this scripture. No man can come unto me except the Spirit of God draw him. And so, my friend, if you're struggling with this full assurance of faith, rejoice that you're struggling! Because the very fact that you are struggling with these things is an indication that God is working in your heart. Looking under Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, the blood of Christ can cleanse our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And so those that enter enter with a true heart. They enter in before the throne of God with full assurance. And then verse 22 continues that they enter with a heart sprinkled from an evil conscience. Look back to chapter 9 again. Chapter nine and verse thirteen. For if the blood of bulls and goats And ashes of heifer of an heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctify it to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. What's he talking about? Ashes of a heifer? What is this that's being spoken about in Hebrews chapter 13? Well the answer is found in Numbers chapter 10. And we're not going to turn to it. I'm going to read one verse there from you. But if you're curious on this, I would encourage you to jot it down sometime. Go to Numbers chapter 10, the first 10 verses. In Numbers chapter 10, Moses gives very specific instructions to the priests as they are to wash their robes. They are to bathe themselves, and they are to take a heifer. And there's instructions as to how the heifer is to be sacrificed, and then the heifer is to be burnt entirely into ash. That ash is gathered up. The ash is mixed with water. And that water is to be set up as a water of cleansing for the people. Now, I hope I haven't lost you. Remember, Hebrews is written to Jewish believers. They're familiar with this. And so when the author of Hebrews says that the ashes of a heifer could cleanse, how much more so the blood of Christ? Ah yeah, the light came on. They saw that. That water which contained the ashes of the heifer mixed in was sprinkled on the people, and it cleansed the flesh If they had become in contact with a dead body, they couldn't come into the tabernacle because they were defiled, but that water could cleanse them. If someone had leprosy, they were defiled, they couldn't enter in, but it cleansed them And so here the author of Hebrews is saying: if those ashes of a dead heifer could cleanse the flesh, how much more can the blood of Christ cleanse that conscience? Give you that assurance. How much more shall the blood of Christ sprinkle from an evil conscience? Let me read one verse to you. I said Numbers 10 and I actually meant Numbers 19. Let me read one verse to you from there. Numbers 19 and verse 9. And a man that is clean shall gather the ashes of a heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place And it shall be kept for the congregation, for the children of Israel, for a water of separation. It is purification from sin. And so those ashes of the heifers, if they could purify from sin in picture in the Old Testament, how much more the blood of Christ? Are you struggling with that assurance? You have a new and a living way. You have a better sacrifice Chapter 2 of Romans and verse 28 and 29 says, For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly. Neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and the circumcision of the heart in the Spirit, not in the letter Whose praise is not of men, but of God. Who are truly the Jews? Who are truly the elect of God? It's not those that are Jews of the flesh, but those that are Jews of the But then the last element there in these four marks of those that enter in through the New and Living Way is the body washed with pure water. And again there in Numbers 19 we have the order of how the priests were to purify themselves before they came in with the sacrifice. Today we don't purify our sin with water, do we? We're purified by the blood of Christ. And yet there is a foreshadowing here of what we call today believers' baptism or Christian baptism. We practice it here. The washing of the body. What does baptism do for the soul? Nothing. Not a thing. It is just a testimony. It is an identification that we are a part of Christ. And it's a foreshadowing from the Old Testament to the New. Ephesians 5, verse 26, that he might sanctify and cleanse it, referring to the church with a washing of water by the word. Those that enter in through the veil by this new and living way, they are identified with Christ. They are his people. They are a part of his visible church. They've made that distinction. And so we've seen the four blessings of those that would enter in, the four requirements or the four marks of those that enter in. The final thing I would have us to see from these verses is there are four duties. For responsibilities that are laid on those that enter in through a new and living way. We're not saved just to sit around, folks. We're not saved to be idols. To be not idols. To be idle. Well, that's a bad slip of the tongue, isn't it? We're not saved to be idle. We're saved to be active. And so what is it that we're to do? Well, look at verse 22. First of all, let us draw near. You know, a lot of times the reason we don't have that assurance that that uh fullness of assurance of faith is because we're just not spending enough time with God. Because we're not spending enough time in His Word. We're allowing our minds to be open and Satan comes along and says, you're not really a believer, when if we were in the word, the Spirit would be bearing witness with our spirit, that the opposite is true, that we're the children of God. First of all, it is incumbent on those who have entered into the Holy of Holies by this new and living way to draw nigh, draw nigh into God. And he will draw nigh to you. We're to be devoted. We're to be constant in our devotion to God. If you look back to chapter 7 of Hebrews and verse 19, it says, For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by which we draw nigh to God. And the verse I quoted earlier, drawing light to God, that he will draw night to you, is in James chapter 4 and verse 8. Those that are far off, draw nigh. Those that are in doubt, draw nigh. If you're heavy-hearted, draw nigh. Children of God, draw nigh. But then there's another requirement that's put on us, and this is found there in verse 23. Let us hold fast our profession. Let us hold fast our profession of faith without wavering, for faithful is he that promised. Hold on, folks. Hold on. Were you ever as a child in a crowd and people were jostling and it was busy and you were you were just afraid of getting lost? And your mother or your father took your hand and said, hold on. Hold on. This world is a wicked place. We are buffeted. We are tempted. We are tried. We begin to doubt. We fear that we're lost. We fear that we're wandering. We fear that we're strength. Hold on. Hold on. Hold fast to Christ. Hold on to Him without wavering. And look back to chapter 4 and verse 14 of Hebrews. We're still in the same book, but flipping back a couple pages there. Chapter 4 and verse 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. Because Christ is at the right hand of the throne of God, because we have a high priest, let us hold fast. Hold on. And then chapter six of Hebrews and verse 19, which hope? That hope is faith, the hope there is an italics you'll notice, but it's it's the faith we have, which hope we have as an anchor to the soul. What do we need when we're in these doubts when we're not sure? We need an anchor. Which hope is an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. But look at the last phrase of 6 and 19, and which entereth in within the veil. See the connection there? You see the unity of the Word of God? It's all one message. That anchor of my soul is entered in within the veil. And there's my assurance And so we're to draw nigh, we're to hold fast our profession, and we can go down to the last part of the chapter. Let's do that briefly. We've got time. Chapter 10 of Hebrews, and go down to verse 26. We didn't read this verse earlier. For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin, but a certain fearful looking for judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. And those verses used to trouble me greatly, because I'm sure all of us have known there are times when we did something wrong and we did it and knew it was wrong, and then well have I sinned willfully and there's no more sacrifice. Well you understand what's being said there. Again, the author here is speaking to Hebrew believers. And he's telling them, if you are going to depart from Christ your Messiah, there's not another sacrifice. All the sacrifice would continue to 70 A. D. and it's done. And there's no need or cause for another sacrifice. Another sacrifice today would be nothing but idolatry. In other words, if you will not find your security and your salvation in Christ, there's no other sacrifice for sin. He's the only one. And so if we sin willfully, in other words, if we say, Don't want Christ, I'm going on my own. There's no more sacrifice for sin. Ah. But rather than doing that, let us draw near and let us hold fast our profession. But then two more responsibilities, and we'll be done. Verse 24 and the last part of verse 25: let us consider one another to provoke one another to love and to good works. Verse 25, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but let us exhort one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching Iron sharpeneth iron. It is the responsibility of those who enter in through the veil to provoke one another to good works. To encourage one another along. Not to be tearing one another down, but building one another up. Not to be putting a stumbling block before our brother, but in other words, other words, encouraging him on. Strengthening the brethren, encouraging one another. Isaiah said in Isaiah 35 and verse 4 and 5: Strengthen your weak hands, confirm the feeble knees. Say unto them that are fearful, be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense. He will come and save you. Encourage one another to good works. And then finally, verse 25, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another and so much. Brethren, we have a glorious way opened up to us. We enter in boldly through the veil. And there's so much more we can say about that because the veil spoken of there it says the veil of his flesh. The old veil of the tabernacle has been taken away, and part of that new and living way is that it is through Christ. It is through that body that God had prepared for him. But we have a glorious way. Do we meet the qualifications? Examine ourselves. Do we have a true heart and full assurance of faith? And then if we do, ah, let us be busy about the Lord's work. Let us draw nigh with that true heart. Let us encourage one another. Let us strengthen the body of Christ. A glorious chapter here. I hope you will take time this afternoon and this week to study it more and to dig deeper into the Word of God. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word today. We thank you, Lord, that Christ has opened for us that new and living way. We thank you that you desire for us to have that full assurance of faith. Father, I pray that you would bless your word to us today. We thank you that it's all about Jesus Christ. It's all about Him. From Genesis to Revelation. Lord, may we love and adore our Christ. May we draw nigh unto you, and may we walk in that assurance with thee day by day. Bless us, your people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.