Today is a plan for a bride. A plan for a bride. It's in Genesis chapter 24, so I'm going to read the first nine verses which we're going to cover today I'll give a synopsis of the rest of the chapter, which we'll cover in the study next week. This was originally started as a single study, but I was At three pages, and I knew that this would be too long, so I had to cut it in half. Uh Genesis 24, verse 1. Hear now the word of the Lord. And Abraham was old and well-stricken in age, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house That ruled over all that he had, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth. That thou shalt not take a wife unto my son, that would be Isaac, of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. But thou shalt go into my country, into my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac. And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me into this land. Must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? And Abraham said unto him, Beware that thou bring not my son thither again. The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that swear unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land. He shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son, from thence. And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath, only bring not my son thither again. Then the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swear to him concerning that matter. Well that's the part we're going to look at in a bit of detail today, but I do want to kind of cover the rest of the story. There's actually sixty-one verses here. Sixty-one sixty-seven verses in Genesis twenty four. It's a rather long section of scripture. Uh and it's helpful to kind of know all of that context, but I'm not going to take up our time today to read the rest of it. So I'll give it to you in full summary. sections. The next verses 10 to 28 then talks about how the servant makes this journey and he has this encounter with whom we will learn is Rebecca. We see Laban enter into the picture, her brother. He's introduced into the biblical narrative. And then in verses 32 to 49, the servant then goes into the house of Laban and uh Rebecca and Bethuel and and the whole family of Nahor, and he gives his report. And it's a repeat of much of what you've read here, nearly word for word. And then in verses uh fifty to sixty we see the servant's success. At this whole endeavor and Rebecca's return, and then the last part of the chapter closes out with her uh union with Isaac Now, it's an interesting account, and I find it particularly interesting that there are 67 verses of Scripture devoted to this business of finding a bride for Isaac. That is an awful lot of biblical real estate, if you will. There are certain passages that are far shorter than this that have very deep theological significance. So a lot of prophecies concerning Christ often come in just phrases Sometimes a sentence, they're not voluminous as you find here. And I'm also persuaded that there's nothing incidental or accidental when it comes to the things of Scripture. God doesn't just put superfluous words in there. They're all there on purpose and for meaning. So if all we see is some strange account of Jewish history, we have marked, missed the mark completely. We really have. Romans 15, 4, one of my favorite passages, says this, for whatsoever things were written before time, were written for our learning. that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. This was written, as it were, for you and I to read today and for subsequent generations after us and of course many before us. Hebrews says, Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me to do thy will, O God. Both Hebrews and the Psalms, that's Hebrews 10:7, as well as Psalm chapter 40 and verse 7, indicate that Christ is in that volume of the book. He's that Alpha and the Omega. He is that word incarnate. And so there is a gospel concept that's going on here. And rather than drag it out to the very end, so you're trying to figure out where I'm going I'm going to do the best rule of speech that you'll ever hear. You tell them what you're going to tell them, you tell them, and then you tell them what you told them. And it sticks a little better. Basically, in this account, Abraham's servant is seeking a bride for Isaac, who is the heir according to God's promise. That's the framework. And if we dissect that a bit and look for gospel truths from it, then that would be Abraham as a picture of who in the Godhead? Who would he be a picture of? He'd be God the Father, wouldn't he? He's the Father. And then that would make Isaac his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't think that's a stretch. We saw that on Mount Moriah. That wasn't hard to see Now, the unnamed servant is interesting. You'll notice in this entire account, and you can look on your own, the servant's not named. He's unnamed. He just quietly does his job. He doesn't draw attention to himself. That really sounds a lot like a picture of God the Holy Spirit, the one who goes before, the one who works, and he doesn't draw attention to himself. And he would be the Holy Spirit, perhaps working through gospel ministers. There's a multitude of people who uh bring forth this word. And Rebecca would be a picture, I believe, of every true believer. We are that bride of Christ. We are the one being brought to him. So that I believe is the Spiritual framework, and I'm going to endeavor to prove that to you as we go through the passage. Alright? Starting with verses 1 through 4 We see in these verses here, Abraham's old, he's concerned, God blessed him, he's old, he's wealthy, and he doesn't have a bride for his son. This isn't a good proposition. So he is going to purpose a bride for this heir of his. He's intentional about it. He's not accidental about it. He's intentional. My son shall have a bride. And so there are some big gospel truths standing out here. Are there any that might come to your mind, just from what I've described? I think the whole thing is kind of emphasizing that we're supposed to marry within our religious area. Yes, yeah, absolutely. Interesting. Yes, yes. He said uh uh go uh go back to the to to the country don't not the Canaanites And of course we read in Corinthians that says, Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. You know, and boy, I've recently seen a movie about that where one person becomes saved in the family and the other one is not, and it it quickly You know, the the man was claiming I want my my wife back because she was now a follower of Christ and he wasn't. You certainly see that in the Muslim world, right? It can be very catastrophic if somebody comes to Christ Uh they're explosively yeah they you know what's amazing is they'll do honor killings even here in Virginia. I'm sure. I've heard of it and I've seen it in the newspaper reports that some b uh w a woman converted and um a an uncle from overseas who came over uh killed the woman and even though it was uh registered in the uh in the court and and so forth and they caught the guy that was the reason for it. So it happens here even still Uh yes, there is a specific uh people. I found a few things here to share with you. First of all, is that Jesus is in fact the heir. We think of him as the son But there is a purpose to this because there is a promise of God on the books, as it were. Something has got to come through. And you'll notice he said the uh uh I'm looking here at uh verse uh 7, where Abraham recounts what God told him. He says, Unto thy seed will I give this land And he knows that that seed would be as numerous as the stars of heaven. He didn't need to repeat that. He fully understood that. As the sand of the seashore. He he understood that there would be a multitude, and yet he's old. Sarah at this point I believe is dead. And so uh I I mean uh yeah, his wife I believe I'd have to go back and check. Um is that really the case we have to write because this is a chapter of twenty-three nineteen she buried her. Yeah, twenty-three nineteen she's buried, that's correct And um and of course Isaac was comforted with Rebecca because of the death of his mother, and uh Rebecca filled that void for him. So he knows no more is coming from From Sarah and he's been down the path of Hagar before. That didn't work. God intended uh a specific lineage. Therefore it had to be with Isaac, therefore Isaac had to have a bride. And so he's going to take action. Jesus Christ is that heir. He is in these last days spoken unto us by his sons, this is speaking to God, speaking through his sons, whom he has appointed heir of all things. We are joint heirs with Christ. Whatever Christ inherits, we are partakers of that. This is something I find interesting. If you have a Bible, you can turn there to Ephesians chapter three and verse eleven But basically what we have here is a discussion in Abraham's temple. And it's a family discussion. Abraham, his servant that has rule over all, he's a steward in his house. He's a steward. And it's concerning the bride for the son. This is what the theologians have identified, and I believe they're absolutely correct, is that the father is covenanting. There's a covenant in the Godhead To secure a specific bride by specific means without the bride's input. Isn't that interesting? The bride isn't in on this council Uh and we would look at this and say, boy, that's a really strange historical behavior. You're not saying that's a model of how you're gonna get uh uh bride for your son and and uh you know some have tried to take passages of scripture like that and use it as uh uh is proscriptive. This is a prescription for what you shall do. Really it's more of a description, it's illustrative, and it's illustrating a greater truth, a spiritual truth And that is, that's how God the Father purposed to save the people for himself. In the Council of the Godhead, uh there was a plan. That plan came together long before you and I even knew about it. And it was purpose. It says in Ephesians 3. 11, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. Christ's purpose was an everlasting and eternal purpose to save his people, to redeem a people for himself, as it were to call out that bride. And that was before the foundation of the world. That was before the he was referred to as our surety. 2 Timothy 1. 9 says this. Speaking of God who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. I've heard it put this way that God is a celestial chess player and he's playing chess against the devil. The devil makes one move and God makes another move and the devil makes another move and God just happens to be a better chess player than the devil. Uh well it's not exactly how the scripture presents it. Uh certainly there is a warfare between the people of God and the and the people of the devil, but the devil is God's Devil. He is created by God and God has him on a chain. His demons know who he is when Christ appeared. uh to the demoniac they cried out, We know who thou art, the Holy One of Israel. Art thou come to torment us before the time? I mean they had no question in their mind who Jesus was. unbelieving, blinded world around them was still struggling to figure that out. They had no problems with knowing exactly who he is. No God Almighty purposes what he does, he does on purpose. It's not accidental, it's not it's well planned, well designed, well carried out. He doesn't need to go back and fix anything There's a rule in engineering, there's never enough time to do it right the first time, but there's always enough time and money to fix it later. And unfortunately, a lot of unscrupulous contractors take advantage of that. Um no, God's not like that. What he does, he does on purpose, and he purposed a counsel. And he purposed a specific way to do this Another truth I find is that the Father is calling and sending his servants into the world to find this bride. If you see this picture of God calling a servant, and that servant a picture of the Holy Spirit, but it could be a picture of God the Holy Spirit working through His gospel ministers to go out and seek and to search and find that bride. This is the language the Apostle Paul uses in 2 Corinthians 11 and verse 2. He says, I am jealous over you with godly jealousy. For I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. Notice that language he wants to present us to Christ. You can almost hear as if it were the language of the servant coming, saying, I'm I'm here for you because I want to bring you back to my master's son Isaac and and you will be a chaste virgin to him. You will be uh beautiful and wonderful uh choice select bride for my son. So the language the apostle Paul uses speaking to the church at Corinth and of course to us as well So those are the first four purposes I see that are very interesting is that God is purposing a bride for the heir Next, the servant in verse 5 has a question. And it's a curious question. Let me read the verse again and see if you can see something that's interesting about that. He says in verse 5: The servant said unto him, Peradventure, the woman will not be willing to follow me into this land. You know, boss, what if she didn't want to? It's a very real concern. Must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence you came? And of course Abraham says don't do that. Now, what strikes you as interesting about that question, or unusual, or normal? Oh, it's uh uh the will. Free will. Yeah. Certainly it's a question of her free will. What if she don't want to? Yeah. That's right. That's legitimate. What if you don't want to? If she doesn't want to come, do I go and get Isaac and take him back there and we'd take her hog tire and bring him back anyway, like they brought back the grapes from the land of Canaan, you know, Oh, here she is That would be the Muslim version of the scripture school room. Um back, right? Yeah, that's what the Muslims would do. Well, it's interesting because he uh has a legitimate question, what if she doesn't want to? Which implies she has to want to. He's assuming she has to want to, and he's wondering, uh, is this on a path to failure? I mean, gee, I I I I'm I've got this task. What what what do you think? Um And also I'm curious about that phrase bringing my son back again. Let's talk about this question of the will first. Now, again, I've been making a point that this is a spiritual picture of how God the Father is bringing in his bride, a body. called the church into fellowship and union with them. Our salvation is so grand that no one picture can really capture it Uh you ladies, some of you ladies, have diamond rings on your finger, or your mother, maybe you inherited a beautiful diamond ring from your mother. Think about diamonds that are really fascinating. If you clean them off real good and put them under a microscope with the right kind of light, very, very bright light, and turn it It really does glisten. It really is. Angela has a gorgeous ring, a lover ring. When it's cleaned up, it just it's a little sparkler. It is just a little sparkling. jewel. So it is with the gospel. There's many facets to it. It has many facets and many planes. And as we look at the scripture from different perspectives, you'll see different gospel truths jump out. And our salvation is so glorious that no one picture really portrays the whole package. We're just looking at the issue of the bride. You say, well, a bride is one person. Christ is marrying one person, and that's where the analogy breaks down. There's another illustration. Christ is not marrying one individual, he's marrying a collective known as the church, and that church is immediately called his body. And then he's likened to the head. And then now we've got a different picture. Head and a body. But that's so much more chemical. That's kind of mechanical. It it kind of fits together. We can understand that there's all different parts. But the issue of a bride And a bridegroom, that ties together what themes? What's coming together there? What's different than if we were to say a head and a body? Well I think it's interesting there's always one man and one woman. Right. There's a singularity there. That's right. Right? Singleness of heart He could have just brought four or five back. Could have brought four or five back. He had plenty of servants. Right. Right. But there's an element of love. There's an element of affection There's an element of intimacy that is unique and specific and that is not um if I say to every woman out there, I love you the same way I say to my wife, well I'm not gonna have a wife and we like or return my own friend the interesting mark of a frying pan on the back of my head. Um but this this matter of espousing uh a a a bride to the sun is a very intimate there's a closeness there's a love there's a warmth that's there there's concept of family there's a bright hope in a future body is It's a different picture, it's a different aspect to it. And so I just want you to appreciate the different elements that we have coming out of this story. But one of the things that he's now specifically asking about is this business of her will. And I remember wrestling with this question of the will when it comes to the matter of salvation. And I found a passage in the book of the Psalms. It's Psalm 110 and verse 3. And if you have a Bible, you might want to flip today. I might even want to highlight it. It's Psalm 110, verse 3, and it goes like this. It says, Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. And that is, when God Almighty, when God the Holy Spirit comes upon an individual, when he moves in that heart, and we don't see all of that here. We don't see this here. It's implied when Abraham says, My God shall send his angel before thee So there is the angel of God, that spirit being of God that goes before, and he's trusting in this because God has a promise. This angel will go before, and he's going to work, and he's going to structure and superintend the events, the encounters. He's trusting in this, Abraham is. He says, My God will send his angel before me. And then he says, and if she's not willing in his mind, God's not directing you to her. She's not the right one. Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. Yes, you do choose Jesus. Yes, you do. Say, yes, Jesus I'll come. But it's because, as Philippians says, it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And I don't feel that. I don't I don't feel I don't want to go to Christ. Well why am I being, you know, you don't uh perceive that. It just all of a sudden uh as the parable in Luke sixteen of the prodigal son, when he came to his senses as it were, all he knows is something clicks in his head and he goes, you know Man, I've been getting this wrong. I I I need to I need there this is something I gotta do. That's how he perceives it. My people shall be willing. Romans 8. 14 says this, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Now that word led in the Greek is very interesting. It literally means brought Brought. Pastor Mahon calls it fetching grace. Go fetch him. Go fetch him. That's how God calls his people through his word, Spirit of God working. It all ties together. Well, Abraham responds to this servant's question about her will in verses 6-9. And Abraham says, Don't bring my son back hither again. Don't do that. Whatever you do, do not do that. It's almost like he doesn't want the bride to be part of the enticement. I mean the bridegroom, Isaac, to be part of the enticement. He just wants there to be A message given, some message, a desire, come, and then she's willing, and she comes, and then she sees The bridegroom. Very interesting. Well the servant is foreseeing a problem. Maybe she won't come as he's supposed to go and retrieve the son and to use his presence to convince her Now that would seem reasonable. One of my historian major children will refresh my memory. It was a British king who married a German princess uh and was enamored with her based on a picture that he saw of her Henry VIII saw a picture of this German woman. Uh do you remember her name, Laura, by chance? I forget her name. Seymour. No, no, that's somebody else. Wasn't Seymour? No. So Henry VIII was uh you know one of politicians' earliest womanizers. And um he uh got uh tired of the wife that he had and And so this uh German princess, who was, shall we say, um uh a rather s uh portly woman, uh had somebody make a picture of her that Well, let's just say it was Annacles was her name. Let's just say the picture was uh uh extraordinarily kind to her. And uh made her much easier on the eyes. And so Henry VIII sees this picture. Good morning, Freddy. We're in Genesis 24. And uh Henry VIII sees this picture, falls madly in love, and says, Yes, send her here. And when The real Anacles arrives. Um he was not too amor with it. And so with her rather That's how history records it. I haven't seen the woman. I uh she was a very from everything history records about her, she was quite a uh a noble lady and would have indeed served as a fine queen to him. Uh and uh if only Henry had been uh not so vain in his pursuits. Well here the servant is basically asking, don't you want me to go get your son? I mean maybe she'll be willing if she sees the sun. Aren't we like that sometimes? You remember Mary, whose brother Lazarus had died. Lord, if you had been here, you wouldn't have died. Isn't there times where we feel like I just need help in the flesh? If Jesus were here in the flesh with me, I would surely get what I need. And so this is in essence the thrust of the servant's concern. I'm trying to call this woman To marry a man she's never seen, and I'm just gonna recount a story, and she's supposed to come. Wouldn't it be better if I brought the son? Abraham says absolutely not. You cannot bring my son back again. Don't do that. So as it were, he's he's he he doesn't want that to be the attraction He wants the message of the servant to be sufficient. You get where I'm going with this? 2 Corinthians 5. 18 tells us that the word alone, through the servant alone, must suffice unto salvation. It's not for miracles. Let's face it, God could have spelled out Jesus' saves in the stars above in every imaginable language there is. He could have done that. God Almighty could have sent angels to appear out of heaven, poof, appear magically, so to speak, from our perspective seems magically, just materialize, because apparently they can do that And scare the wits out of people with a message, repent or die. And I would think that'd be pretty effective. It's not how God intends to do it. The scripture says that through the foolishness of preaching, God will save them that believe. It's a declaration of a message. And that's what's going to convince this woman. For instance, Well, think about this. Think of the similarities to Christian evangelism that we have. You know, Jesus' physical presence really isn't needed to convince. Turn to Matthew 8 for just a moment, if you will, and look at this account Where uh the Lord Jesus encounters a fellow who had tremendous faith and he understood that. And notice what Jesus states about this man in Matthew 8. It's a centurion who comes. His daughter is grievously vexed and tormented. She needs Christ's healing touch. Christ is there. He's willing and able. But the centurion answers and says, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof, but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. Matthew chapter 8, verse 7. Then you go to verse 10. He gets it. Speak the word only. The powers in the Word of God. You see. What is significant about that? Why emphasize the word rather than the physical presence Of course that's where the power is in the word. The power is in the word. You won't see him. One day he'll be physically gone, correct. So there has to be an emphasis on something. Uh what does that say about our walk? By faith. Yeah, and not by sight. And not by sight. Yeah. Yeah. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not same. You see, this is a walk of faith. What this woman, this unnamed bride at the time, in this divine plan of the Godhead, prior to the servant being sent out The plan hinges entirely on the servant's message and the willingness of the bride to come. And he says, I'll send my angel before thee. Isn't that interesting? The bride will hear the voice of her beloved through the servant. The bride will hear the voice of her beloved through the servant. For instance, in John 10, you know these passages, Jesus talking about the sheep John 10, 4, it says, the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Verse 16, Other sheep I have, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd. Old Testament, New Testament, Jews. Jews, Gentiles, spiritually, one body, one bride. Remember that multiple facets of the diamond I was talking about? Verse 26, he said to these unbelieving Jews, He says, But ye believe not because ye are not of my sheep. God the Holy Spirit hadn't worked in their heart God had not intended to save these individuals. There's no reason for the Holy Spirit to, as it were, waste his time To call those whom God the Father has not redeemed or purposed to save. They were not elect. He says, you can't hear my voice. Why? Because you're not of my sheep. That's a statement from Jesus. And it slaps the face of us perhaps thinking that, oh, I thought I had a little part of this. There's a part of it, all right, you have, and you can thank the Lord you have that part of it, because all the glory goes to Him. Verse 27, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them. And they might? They could? No, they follow me. They do. They follow because they hear his voice. You see, and that's what is implicit in this transaction, this discussion. And of course we read and uh that the bride in fact will come. Notice that all the similarities to Christian evangelism that are happening in this passage. The bride will come, John 6. 37. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me And of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. They will come, there will be success. Christ did not shed one ounce of his blood on Calvary's tree in vain. Not one drop was shed in vain. Well didn't he die for everybody? All people without distinction, not all men without exception. Because if he died for everybody, then Judas is safe. All of his sins are paid for. In fact, either Christ paid for all of his sins, or he didn't If he didn't pay for all their spins, then we're in a world of hurt. At the end of the day, man's still the kingmaker. So that doesn't work. Well now we're going to look at the since I've got a little spare time here and we're able to get through quickly because I have a quiet audience up here. I didn't have my usual dose of uh questions here. Let's look at the Let's look at Genesis. 10 and let's now go Genesis 24, I'm sorry, 24, and verse 10. And we're going to read about the servant's task, and we'll get as far as we can with this. Genesis chapter 24. And verses ten through twenty-eight. And this is really a fascinating assessment. This will probably close us up right here. Alright, so this this divine Remember there's an oath. The servant swore with an oath. Putting his hand under the thigh um is uh is a sick uh is a signification uh that um that Abraham trusts this man to do that which is right. You know, the thigh would be the source of the seed for men, and so there's some implication there about yes, there will be a promise to come uh it will be fulfilled and and I will I will uh uh uh uh do you right by this thing. But it's an oath, it's a covenant. Now, verse 10 So now you're the servant. Put yourself in the servant's shoes for a moment as I read this account. And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master and departed For all the goods of his master were in his hand. And he arose and went to Mesopotamia unto the city of Nahor. Nahor is Abraham's brother. We're going to find out later. And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water. That word kneel is literally to bless. So blessing, kneeling, is kind of a synonym there. Without or outside the city by a well of water at the time of the evening. Even the time that women go out to draw water And he said, Hold the forward God of my master Abraham, I pray thee. Send me good speed this day and show kindness unto my master Abraham So this servant, the steward in his house, is a God fearing man, and he prays. Verse thirteen of Genesis twenty four. Behold I stand here by the wells of water, by the well of water. And the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. In other words, here they are. You know, the servant doesn't come to go to some abandoned oasis somewhere, just gonna wait here and see what happens. You know, he woes to a place where there's gonna be women, right? He might as well go to where they're gonna be at, a legitimate place. He doesn't go to the the the house of ill repute and go look up the red light district in some place and we'll buy one out of here and send her back. No, he goes to a legitimate place. And he says, uh, uh I stand here, verse verse uh fourteen, and let it come to pass. That the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down my pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink. And she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also. That's a big deal. Let the same be she That thou hast appointed, notice that phrase, that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac, and thereby shall I know that thou hast showed kindness unto my master. And it came to pass before we had done speaking that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, the son of Milko, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother. With her pitcher on her shoulder. A damsel was very fair to look upon. A virgin, neither had any man known her. And she went down to the well and filled her pitcher and came up. The servant ran to meet her and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher. And she said, Drink, my lord, my lord. And she hastened and led down her pitcher upon her hand and gave him drink. But when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also until they have done drinking. And she hasten, emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again into the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels And the man wondering at her held his peace to wit, meaning to know whether the Lord had made his journey prosperous or not And it came to pass as the camels had done drinking that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold, and said, Whose daughter art thou? Tell me, I pray thee Is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in? And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milka, which she bare unto Nahor. She said, moreover, unto him, we have both straw and provender enough and room to lodge in. The man bowed down his head and worshiped the Lord. Put yourself in the place of the servant for a moment And you haven't read anything or know anything past verse 13. If you were this servant, what kind of a task does this seem like to you? Impossible. I want you to go back, find a bride for Isaac from among my people. She's got to be willing. Can't bring the son Don't bring my son there. And she's willing, she'll come. Right, boss. I'm just on a grocery store trip, right? We want to go by uh Trader Joseph's and pick up a gallon of milk and a bright riser. Got it. No problem, boss. I'd walk outside the tent and go, All right, well I guess I'm gonna be fired. Let's see, where can I go? Where where am I I gotta figure out plan B for My my job. That's an impossible task. Are you kidding me? Right. Are you kidding me? That seems extraordinarily hard. Now, given what you've then read, how well do you think the servant did the task? He did it through prayer, but how well did he do the test? Very well. He did it very well. Glory be to God. But then he had help on the head also. He had help, and he relied on that help So what did he do to ensure success in all of this? Somebody said a little earlier. Prayer, and he asked for a sign. You know, there are times in life when people are struggling, what is the will of God? And the first place I would direct you to is the scriptures to make sure that you're not asking the Lord for something that really is in direct violation of what the Word of God would have you to want. Phrase I've used is careful what you ask for, you may get it. But you can also pray, Lord, make it clear and obvious to me. Make this thing painfully obvious. When the Lord opens up a door, he opens a door and it's big and it's wide open and it's amazing how well things go through And if it's not an open door, you'd be surprised how hard, well you won't be surprised, but you will be shocked at how hard, closed, fast, shut that door is. My dad, when he came out of college, um had planned as a business major. He was going to do international uh produce. He was going to import fruits and ve uh fruits mostly from Cuba. And the year he graduated is the year the Castro took over Cuba Hadn't been released since then. That was a shut door. Nearly a chance he was going to do that. That was just completely slammed shut and it still sh it was shut. It was cemented over with fifteen feet of cement. There was no way he was going to do that And maybe you've seen God do that in your life, where he slams doors hard and shut, and you can't open it, and there's no area of chance, and you break your pick, your axe, and your toe kicking against that door to try to open it So you can pray, Lord, kick open a door, make it big, fat, and obvious for me to walk through. You know, this sermon has a difficult task because the only tool he's got in his bag To ensure success is a message. That's it. He's just gonna go and he's gonna give a message. He's just got to talk to this woman. That's all he's got. Corinthians says this, the apostle preaching, he says, the preaching of the cross is to them that perish. Foolishness. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And I'm going to close with this final point here as I'm wrapping it up because I'm at the limit of my time here. But um On what does the servant rely? Try to use as much of the biblical language as you can. On what does the servant rely? What is he deserve trusting in? Thomas Yes, promise. But the biblical word in verse 14 is appointed. Look at that again in verse 14. He's asking the Lord, and he says this little sign about letting down the pitcher and that he can drink and the camels, which by the way is a big deal, because a camel, according to one uh theologian, a camel drinks 18 to 20 gallons. And if you've been traveling along, they can drink that much. I mean they got a big gas tank. They can fill right up. And if he's got camoles plural, uh and a gallon of water is eight and a third pounds per gallon This is a busy woman. She is volunteering to serve this man in a very great way. You know, the servant isn't going to drink no 18 to 20, the servant is doing good to get a quart of water in him But that that's a very big deal. That's a very, very, very big deal for her to also water the camels. Well he has the trappings of wealth also with him, which is He didn't. He does she doesn't necessarily see it right off the bat, certainly camels. Fair number of camels, yep. But she only sees a small portion of it. Doesn't she see all of them? All of the camels? She saw all the camels, but she didn't see all of Abraham's camels. She only saw ten of them. Sure. Abraham has a whole lot more camels than them He's got a whole lot more servants than that. And that's a really good point because God gives to us the earnest Of his spirit. Earnest money is down payment. It's just a down payment. It's just a small amount. And that's what God gives to us, and that's what he shows to us, just a small portion. The rich blessings he gives us, some of health, some of wealth, some of opportunities and success, different little gifts of God come to the people of God, but they're just a token. They're just the bracelets They're just a little tiny portion. Oh, my Father in heaven is rich. Beyond imagination. Well, we'll have to close it up there and we'll think more about uh this uh tomorrow, uh excuse me, next Sunday, Lord willing, as we uh continue out this story. Next week will be a bride for the heir. This week was a plan for the bride, so come back next week and uh we'll cover that Let me close this in prayer. Father in heaven, we uh thank you for this account, this most interesting account you've recorded for us, Lord. You're seeking a bride for your son, Lord God. Oh Father, uh could it be that uh we might uh consider the task, this impossible task that you've laid upon your people, your servants. Lord God, we rely upon your divine appointment, that indeed is we speak the word only. That person will be willing and she'll come. She'll come to the bridegroom, the Lord Jesus Christ. Strengthen us to that task. Help us to believe this, Father, and not rely on our strength or wisdom. In Jesus' name. Amen.