With me this morning in your Bibles please to the 144th Psalm. Psalm 144. I'm going to read all 15 verses in our hearing this morning. And then our text will actually be the 12th verse of the Psalm. But we're going to do a brief review of the other verses before we begin our study of the 12th verse. Psalm 144, and I begin our reading with the first verse. Blessed be the Lord my strength Which teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight, my goodness and my fortress. My high tower and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I trust, who subdueth my people under me Lord, what is man that thou takest knowledge of him? Or the Son of Man that thou makest account of him? Man is life to vanity. His days are as a shadow that passeth away. Vow thy heavens, O Lord, and come down. Touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. Cast forth lightning and scatter them. Shoot out thine arrows and destroy them. Send thy hand from above, rid me and deliver me out of great waters. From the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is the right hand of falsehood. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God, upon the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. I will sing praise unto thee. It is he that giveth salvation unto kings, who delivereth David, his servant, from the hurtful sword. Rid me and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouths speak vanity, and their right hand is the right hand of falsehood. That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth, that our daughters may be as cornerstones polished after the similitude of the palace. That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store, that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets. That our oxen may be strong to labor, that there be no breaking in nor going out, that there be no complaining in our streets. Happy is that people that is in such a case. Yea, happy is the people whose God is the Lord. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we approach thy holy, precious, inspired word, may your Holy Spirit be our guide and our teacher. Father, may our souls be edified, may our understanding be increased, and may our God be glorified. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is that twelfth verse, that our sons may be plants grown up in their youth. that our daughters may be as cornerstones polished after the similitude of the palace But before we get there, I want to take a quick introductory view of the preceding verses. Folks, we are engaged in warfare. And if you look at that first verse, David says, Blessed be the Lord my strength, which teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight. Verse 2, my goodness and my fortress, my high tower and my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I trust who subdueth my people under me. David, of course, is speaking of the kingdom of Israel. And yet, folks, I believe we have a glimpse of what is happening in the family today Because the family is the heart of any society. If you destroy the family, you destroy the society. And if you do not believe that fathers are in warfare with their f for their family today, you have no understanding of the culture or what we're facing. And here David the king says, it is God who teaches me how to fight. It is God who instructs my fingers in the fight. And it's interesting there in the second verse that he refers to the nation as my people. As my people. He subdues my people under me. Men, you will never have godly spiritual authority in your family without God It is God that makes a godly husband and father what a godly husband and father is to be. Because we are in a spiritual warfare and we're not wrestling with flesh and blood, but we wrestle against principalities, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And also in this idea of a spiritual battle that we're involved in for our families, look down to verses 7 and 8. Send thine hand from above, rid me, and deliver me out of great waters from the hand of strange children. Whose mouths speak vanity, and their right hand is the right hand of falsehood, and then drop down to verse 10. It is he that giveth salvation unto kings who delivereth David, his servant from the hurtful sword, rid me and deliver me out of the hand of strange children. whose mouth speak vanity, and their right hand is the right hand of falsehood. Two times in these fifteen verses we find this same theme. Now the Hebrew word for rid me in verse 7 is a word that's only found 15 times entire in entirety in the Hebrew Bible But three of those 15 are right here. You find it in verse 7, rid me from the hand of strange children. Verse 10. It is God who delivereth, is that same word rid me. And then again in verse 11, rid me. And folks, that word rid me and delivereth here is the same word used of um Uh when the earth opened up and swallowed Dayton and Abia uh uh uh getting the word the names right, Dayton Dathan and a biram. There we go. When the earth opened up and swallowed them, that word open up is the same word rid and deliver. Okay, it's a rare word, but that is what David is praying for. Lord, open the earth and deliver me from strange children. And he wasn't talking about his own sons. The strange children spoken of here in this psalm are the wicked. It is the non-elect. It is the unbelievers and folks. The family today is under assault from strange children. Don't let your kids play with strange children. Right. Don't let your kids go to school with strange children. Don't let your kids be educated by strange children. And don't let strange children be the entertainment of your family. But rather here David is praying, Lord, I'm in a battle. I'm in a fight here You're the one that teaches my hands to war. You're the one that gives strength to my families. God, deliver me, open up the earth, and swallow away from my family these strange children Because these strange children will be the destruction of my family. David calls Israel my people. It is God that subdues my people under me. Folks, it is God that makes a man the godly husband and the godly father of his family that he should be. And they are my people, they are my children, because they are a gift from God, for children are the heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. So the first thing we need to notice as we come to verse 12 is folks, we're in a battle here. It's a battle in which we're engaged. Christ called the the tares children of the wicked one. The tares were strange children. Christ said to the Pharisees, you are your father, the devil. They were strange children. But then if you look down to verse number four, or verse number three, excuse me, Lord, what is man that thou takest knowledge of him? Or the son of men, that thou makest account of him, or we could say that you throw him into account, that you make man responsible, makest account of him. Man is like vanity. His days are as a shadow that passeth away. Parents, you are in a battle for your children, and you've only got a micro enough micro enough time. You don't have much time to get this right. There are no doovers or mulligans with your mulligans with your children. Folks, you've got a little bit of time. Life is like vanity. It rushes by faster than you can imagine. You're in a battle and you better be fighting the battle every single day. Because the time is short. The years. are marching on. Oh, that God would bow down thy heavens in verse five, that the Lord would come down and touch the mountains that they shall smoke. Cast forth thy lightnings and scatter them. Shoot thine arrows and destroy them. We need God to come down. We need his help. And so with that foundation of the passage, let us go to this glorious twelfth verse. And there we read, that our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth. That our daughters may be as cornerstones, polished after the similitude of a palace. Folks, for a plant to be grown up, it must first be planted in good soil. I've talked a lot about my apple trees and some of you have joked about me cutting down my apple trees. The big mistake I made was I just planted them in the soil ad. I didn't really amend the soil before I planted them. Folks, for a tree to prosper, it's got to be planted in good soil. If the soil is not good, it will not grow well. In Psalm 92, verse 12 and through 12 through 14 we read these words. The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree. He shall grow up like a cedar in Lebanon. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. They shall be fat and flourishing. And folks, that is really about what what Infant baptism, baby baptism is about. We plant our children in the household of faith. We plant them in the house of the Lord. We cannot save them and we cannot do anything that will save them. We cannot forgive their sins. But we bring them into the visible church. calling upon God to bring them into the true church, to bring them to repentance. But by bringing them up in the household of faith, By bringing them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, we give them the best possible spiritual soil to grow. We plant them in a place where they can put down spiritual roots and where their souls can prosper in truth. Pray for the salvation of our children. Pray that the word of the Lord may be sown upon good ground and pray that God will break up the fallow ground of their hearts. And the parable of the sow we find that some so seed fell by the wayside and the birds of the air ate it up. Parents, you've got to be running away birds constantly. We find that some fell on stony ground. You gotta dig the rocks out of your garden if your garden is going to prosper. You have to dig the rocks out of your children's soil. We find that some fell among thorns. My wife is the great weed puller in our family. I plant flowers, but she pulls weeds. Folks, you've got to pull weeds in your family constantly And pray that God will put the seed of the Word on good ground. The psalmist said in Psalm 52 and verse 8, But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. May our children be as green olive trees in the house of God. But secondly, for a plant to grow up requires attention in this youth. Brother Vince was showing me last Sunday his apple trees and peach trees. And every one of them has stakes around them. And cords from the stake to the stalk of the tree. It's not to be pretty. It's to keep the tree growing straight. And you can't wait till the tree is grown and crooked to try to straighten the tree. You've got to straighten the tree when the stalk is very flexible. When the stalk is very malleable And so it is with our children. You can't wait till they're grown and then try to correct the errors. David says that our sons may be his plants grown up in their youth. In the young age, when the corrections can be made with ease. Well, maybe not with ease, but you understand When a child is correctable, that is the time to make the corrections because if you wait till the child is no longer malleable, it is too late to make those corrections. Proverbs 22, verse 6, train up a child in the way that he should go. And when he's old he will not depart from it. And that word train up is an interesting word. The Arabic form of that word, we have some Arabic speakers here, so I hope I'm not speaking nonsense. But the the Arabic form of that word is a word which means to rub the palate. And they they say that the midwives would rub the palate of an infant because a newborn infant has to learn to suck. Those of you that have had newborn infants, those of you who have had newborn grandchildren know that a newborn infant doesn't naturally suck very well. It has to learn the motion to properly suck, and so the midwife would rub the palate of the infant. to get it to latch onto the thumb and and learn to suck properly. Folks, that's the idea of training up a child. It doesn't begin when they're three or four. It doesn't begin when they start talking. It begins when they're born. Read scripture to an infant Sing hymns to an infant. Carry an infant to church. We've said many times before. We don't mind babies crying in church. We would rather have them crying here than anywhere else. Right? And of course, you know, our parents are reasonable. If a kid's screaming bloody murder, they take them to a quieter room. But still they're hearing the word of God, and that's the idea of training up a child. It begins the moment they're born, and even before, I believe, a child can hear many things in the womb. It requires attention in his youth. And of course, remember Timothy. Timothy's father was an unbeliever. Timothy's father was a Greek. So we read of Timothy, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, and has been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. Timothy became a great preacher, a great assistant to the Apostle Paul, and the first pastor of the Church of Ephesus. From an unbelieving family, but with a godly mother and grandmother who from a child taught him the Holy Scriptures. Chasten thy son while there is hope, let not thy soul spare for his crying. Number three. For a tree or a plant to grow, it requires light Plants do not grow in darkness. Oh, you might pick up something that's been lying in your yard and there might be some yellow stringy thing that's tried to reach the light but it's failing, it's dying Plants require light to grow. Your children will never grow without light. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. Folks, expose your children to the light. Flood your children with light. Place your children in a place where there's light. I love plants, I got that for my mom and when we were in Jamaica We had a 50-foot-long veranda and it was packed with plants all the time from all over the way I found an interesting beautiful plant. We didn't have any noxious plants, nothing poisonous fortunately. But I love plants But you have to orient your plants towards the light. You have to move them sometimes throughout the day to place them in the light. Orient your children to the light. Flood your children with a light. Don't put your children in a corner of darkness For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 4. And verse 6. Expose your children constantly to the light. In John 1, verses 4 and 5, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not. The darkness doesn't comprehend the light The darkness is not affected by the light. And that word comprehend is the same word that Paul used when he said apprehend. He said, I am apprehended of Christ. We apprehend the light when we comprehend the light. You see, when we are exposed to light, our skin absorbs that light. We get vitamins from the light of the sun. And so it's a two-ray street. We see the light, but the light has an effect on us. Ever watch your cat or your dog? They don't lie in the shadow. They go out and lay in the sun. They want the light. Folks, if we don't have light, we perish. Orient your children to the light. Number four. For a plant or a tree to grow up, it must be protected from insects and parasites and fungus. Folks, what's a greenhouse for? Well, it's a sterile place. It's a place where you keep the insects out. It's a place where you don't let the weeds grow. It's a place where you don't let fungus invade. Your family should be a greenhouse. If your children are to grow up, they must be protected. And we've already read there in the passage about David praying that God would rid him from strange children. I've you know, we can make some jokes about strange children and uh my my brothers and I w w w would tease each other and accuse us of having a strange child. But The strange children there are children of the wicked one. Protect your children from that which will infect them Psalm 101, verse 3, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the works of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave unto me. Psalm 145, the next Psalm in order from where we are today, in verse 20, The Lord preserveth them that love him, but all the wicked will he destroy. Psalm 127, verse 1, except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city. The watchman waketh, but in vain. Further, for a plant or a tree to grow, it produces pruning to produce good fruit. It requires pruning. There are things which must be cut away from the tree if it's going to be a fruitful tree. And folks, so it is with our young people. And uh a tree never says, Hey, come prune me. And sometimes when you prune a branch from a tree, you actually need to protect where it was pruned because it leaves a scar, it leaves a sore, but the tree will be better for the pruning. Folks are young people may not like the things that we cut away from their lives. Oh, but Dad, that's fun. Oh, but I want to see that. Oh, but that interests me. Oh, but this looks so enticing. But folks, there are things you have to cut out of the lives of your children, entertainment-wise, speech-wise, attitudes-wise, behavior-wise. For a tree to prosper, it must be pruned. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto, according to thy word. Proverbs 22 verse 15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. And folks, we're not talking about child abuse. Uh again, when we were in Jamaica, there are times when I had to talk to parents about the way they discipline their children because you pick up a two before and smash the kid over the head with it. And that's not discipline, that's child abuse. But the Bible is very clear that the rod of correction will drive foolishness from the heart of a child. Children are to be disciplined in love. Children are to be disciplined in a calm spirit and with wisdom. But they are to be disciplined, and there are times when corporal punishment, not capital punishment, corporal punishment Is needful is needful with the spiritual edification of the child But folks, a well-planted, well-tended, well-lighted, well-protected, and well-pruned tree will be well-pleasing. And that is the next one. Folks, a child that has been trained well will be a delightful tree. Proverbs 29, verse 17, Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest. Yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. Proverbs 10 verse 1, a wise son maketh glad a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. Proverbs 27, 11, My son, be wise and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that reproacheth me. Psalm 1, verse 3, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit, and his season his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Psalm 104, 16 and 17. The trees of the Lord are full of sap, the cedars of Lebanon which he hath planted where the birds may make their nest as the stork and the fir tree are is her house. I pray that God would make my children sappy. The trees of the Lord are full of sap. The sap is the life and the health of the tree. And so the sap of spirit is the life and the health of the child, and it's the life and health of the family, it's the white life and health of the church, and it's the life and he Mm-hmm. The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering. But the spirit of truth, fruit of the spirit, only grows on the right spiritual tree. But folks, that's not the end of the verse, for if you look at the latter portion of the verse, it says that our sons may be planted uh be as plants grown up in their youth. that our daughters may be as cornerstones, polished after the similitude of a palace. And it's it's somewhat unusual here that David would choose to call the sons plants and the girls cornerstones. Because we typically think of it the other way around, don't we? We think of the wives, the girls being the fruitful ones, and the men being the cornerstone, the the head of the corner. And yet David, under divine inspiration, uses a little bit different viewpoint than we might have naturally assumed. The cornerstone is foundational. The cornerstone is foundational. If the cornerstone is not right, the building is not right. A godly home relies on a godly wife and mother. Yes, it is the Father who is praying, Lord, subdue my family, my people under me, bring them under spiritual headship, and yet a family requires a godly wife as well. to be that cornerstone, to be that direction for the home. Guys, if you're wise, you'll you'll take the advice of your wife, at least occasionally. And if you're really smart, we won't even get into that. But here the prayer is that our daughters may be as cornerstones. We should pray that God will give our sons godly wives, and we should pray that our daughters will be the godly wives. That are needful for the health of the church. In Proverbs 31, of course, we find who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies. Sounds like a polished cornerstone, doesn't it? Mm-hmm. It's far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. And so the cornerstone is foundational, but the cornerstone is also functional. Our cornerstones today, if you go to a courthouse, you'll find a cornerstone. Typically you'll have the date that the building was built inscribed in it, and it's frankly worthless. Uh in fact a lot of our cornerstones today are especially in courthouses are actually hollow and there's actually like a time capsule thing inside there. When they built the building in 1900 they put some and stuff in there and then in 2000 they forgot it was there and nobody opened it up. But uh our cornerstones today are largely ornamental. But in the Oriental mindset, in the time that David was reading, the cornerstone was very functional. The entire building was squared off of the cornerstone. Sort of like today in construction we set up batter boards before the foundation is poured to to know where the building is to lie. The cornerstone was functional. The orientation of the building was upon the cornerstone. The cornerstone was neat was needful. Remember the words of the Apostle Paul again when he talked about the mother and grandmother of Timothy. The faith was in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I'm persuaded in thee also. Folks, Lois and Eunice were cornerstones to Timothy. He did not have a godly father He did not have that male leadership which is so needful and helpful, but at least he had two women that were cornerstones. They helped to lay a good foundation for a young man's life, and God used him in spite of his father And so the cornerstone is functional and the cornerstone is foundational. But the cornerstone also is a focal point. The whole building points back to the cornerstone. And so is a godly daughter raised up well. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he shall be praised. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou exceedest them all. Favor is deceitful. And beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. May God help us to bring up daughters that are beautiful in spirit and beautiful in heart. Beautiful in body, yes. But if the spirit and the heart are not there first, the beauty of the body is vain. It's worthless. It's an empty shell. And so may God help us to raise beautiful daughters. But notice what it says also, polished, as a cornerstone. Polished as the cool cornerstone. Folks, polishing a stone takes a lot of work. When I was a kid I got one of those rock tumblers. Remember those? They were the big science floor when I was a kid. I got a rock tumbler and I put my stones in there and went back about an hour later and it was sorely disappointed. And then I read the instructions And found out that to polish stones in a rock tumbler takes about two months. And you have to keep changing the grit and this this the other Uh my my rock tumbler ran for about a day and that was it. I gave up on it. Yeah. Folks, a polished cornerstone takes a lot of work And a river may wear a stone smooth over many, many years, but a river never polishes the stone. It's unnatural. Polishing requires work and diligence, and folks, the stone resists the polishing. The stone does not want to be polished. And to polish that cornerstone requires removing the rough surfaces off of it. It requires removing just as the tree is prune, so the polystone has to have the surface scraped away, rubbed away, and removed. And folks, raising our daughters can be just as hard or harder than raising our sons. But may God make them as polished cornerstones Like the fruitful tree, so the polished stone is the lights on. When the work is done And you see your reflection in the stone. It is glorious and beautiful. Now, verse 12 is not the end of the chapter. For there are three verses that follow it. And then we find that our garners may be full, according all manner of store, that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our street That our oxen may be strong to labor, that there be no breaking in or going out, that there be no complaining in our streets. Post David was speaking on a national level And folks, when the sons are true are grown upright and the dolly the daughters are polished cornerstones, the whole society falls into place. And when our children are raised well, the church of God is strong for the next generation. And so indeed, when it is done properly, happy is the people. That is in such a case. Happy is the church that has the foundation of well-raised children. Happy is the nation that has the foundation of properly educated children. Happy is the people whose God is the Lord. Folks, we're in a battle Our lives are short. The work is great and long and hard. May God give us grace to be the parents we should be. That our children may be the children God would have them to be. Let us pray together. Gracious Father, we thank you this morning for your word and your truth. We thank you, Lord, that these often somewhat obscure verses can teach us so many practical Lessons, so much uh instruction and teaching is found in thy word. Father, bless thy word to us. May it ring heavily in our ears May our children and our grandchildren be raised to know, love, and serve you. Father, we thank you indeed that children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. And Lord, now we pursue into the glorious privilege of baptizing an infant. And Lord, we recognize that we cannot save this child. We cannot atone for the sins of this child. But we call upon the God who has come to seek and to save that which is lost. We call upon the God who sent his own Son. to be the propitiation, the payment, the atonement for our sins to save this dear precious child. We call upon you to give this family wisdom. Godly intervention among them, that they may raise their children to know you. And Father, we pray that each and every one of our children and grandchildren may indeed be saved. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.