Trust that it'll bless you as well. I don't know when I'll do John. I want to get back to the book of Mark, but let's just uh look at these verses again in Psalm 23 as I uh read them. for you. The Lord is my shepherd. I hope everybody here can say that, that the Lord revealed Is your shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leaveth me beside. He restored my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake, not for For our own glory. And yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me, and thy rod and thy staff may comfort me. Thou preparest the table before me. The presence of my enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over And surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell. in the house of the Lord forever. By the time you reach my age, you have a lot of titles. Poppy. Sparky when I was electrician. Jarhead. I think my favorites were My favorites Yeah, because Father, Livy's husband, and just Being a shepherd. Talk to us this morning from Psalm 23. Psalm 23, what I share with you this morning is not coming from Matthew Henry or John Kelvin. The commentators, it's coming from my life as a shepherd boy on a farm. I learn more as I reflect back on being a shepherd boy. That all the commentators could ever share with me. In fact, most of the commentators they weren't shepherds and they really get it all wrong. And so from a shepherd's view this morning, not from Danica's daddy or Libby's husband, but from Shepherds you this morning. The Lord is my shepherd, and I shall not want. And some of you hear he's not your shepherd. And I fear for you. I weep for you. I often should have from this pulpit Because the Lord isn't your shepherd. You've got nothing He says, I shall not want. And that's because the shepherd, my shepherd's a good shepherd. He gives me what I need. He's laid down his life for me. Laid down his life for the sheep. John 10 and verse 11. A sheep has a lot of needs. We need a good shepherd, a great shepherd. We have a lot of needs, not just wants, but but some real needs. I need a clean X up here, I think, from one of these times again where I'm having bought a handkerchief. You see, a sheep gets himself in a lot of trouble. He's probably the most timid animal on the farm. Some of you know that if you've ever been chased by a hen trying to take her eggs or a rooster You know they've ever had an old sow take off after you. The sheep is timid. You are not going to be attacked by a sheep It's about the only thing in the farm that's not going to go after you. The buck will, but the sheep will not. The sheep are so timid And he gets himself in more fixes than any other animal on the farm. They have this long, thick wool. You know the cow doesn't have long wool, the horse doesn't, the pig doesn't But the lamb, the sheep's got this thick wall, it's constantly getting snagged in the barbed wire, in the fences, on the nail, on a post somewhere, and he he's stuck there and he can't get off of it They get snagged up in the briar patches, they can't get out of that. And that long, thick wool, unlike the hide of a horse or a cow, it it provides a home for parasites and worms and mites and just all kinds of infestation. The sheep needs a lot of attention They need a shepherd to protect them. A sheep can can contact and get infected over 150 diseases. Most of them are similar to us. We don't get everything a cow gets or a horse gets, but we can get pretty much everything a sheep can get. Sheep get pink eye. They can get anthrax. They can get pneumonia. They can get muscular dystrophy. They can get Lyme tick disease. They have mites. They have lice. 150 diseases And we as sheep, we have about a hundred and fifty sins as well that can afflict us. Christ calling us his sheep was a really, really good analogy. Among the sheep, like the chicken who have a pecking order, the sheep have a budding order. They try to maintain certain grazing areas and bedding areas or favorite spots to lay down in the pasture. And uh there'll be some budding going on sometimes Uh Ezekiel talks about them thrusting to the side and to the shoulder and and pushing with their head or their horns. But for the most part, among the sheep, there's not a whole lot of budding. Even for that favorite little bedding place, there's not a lot of budding, or bickering, we might say, especially when the shepherd arrives. Yeah, as a shepherd doesn't put up with a bickering and budding. You spot sometimes out there in the flock a baaa Humbug. That's not a sheep. That's not the sound of a sheep. And a shepherd doesn't allow it. He steps in Then he separates them. In verse 2, he says, He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside still waters. The shepherd is looking for clean waters. It might be an oasis somewhere, but it's clean waters. It keeps the sheep away from the muddy waters, the mud puddles, because the sheep will drink. When he's thirsty, he'll drink from anywhere. From the mud puddles, the muddy waters. And we as sheep will often drink from the writings of the pagans and the cults and the pseudoscientists. We'll drink from uh the pagans literature sometimes. We'll we'll drink from literature we shouldn't be reading, music we shouldn't be listening to, movies we shouldn't be watching And the reason for all that is because sheep are satisfied by the mud puddles. And so the shepherd's job is to let them to drive them away, so he has that rod for to drive them away from the mud puddles. And so forth, from the pagan writings, to drive them away from people, from some of the sheep who are just seeking some academic challenge out there, but it's not Christian, reading the literary arts and so forth that aren't Christian, dabbling in the mud puddles. The shepherd's job is to keep them from these things. These mud puddles, by the way, they temporarily satisfy the sheep. In fact, they can become very habit forming for the sheep. Those mud puddles contain parasites, liver flukes. And we don't see the full impact of the sheep, our children, or even young Christians, drinking from the muddy waters. That impact is a bad choice when they drink from the muddy waters. The impact it will have its impact eventually because the the liver flukes will eventually give that sheep anemia, something we can get as well. Hemorrhaging, blindness, and death. You young folks, when your parents don't want you to read certain books and look at certain movies, They're they're being a good shepherd. They are keeping you from the liver flukes, the things that will destroy destroy your soul. I know the x-ray machine at the hospital never shows you your soul. But that's what the muddy waters destroy. That's the impact of bad choices. And so I would address it not just to young people but to everybody here this morning. Are you drinking from the shepherd's waters? This is the living waters, the Word of God. We need to drink from the living waters. Are you drinking from the shepherd's waters, the living waters this morning Or do you find the muddy waters pretty satisfying? If any man thirst, Christ would let him come unto me and drink. The sheep need the still waters. And we say, what are the still waters? As a shepherd boy, I know what the stillwaters are It's the little droplets of water that lie still on the leaves in the pasture fields early in the morning. A lot of you, if you're into photography, you love taking pictures of the sun glistening off those drops of dew on the grass or the leaves of a flower somewhere. And that's where the sheep gets most of his moisture. He rises early and he he eats the grass of the field covered in dew, the still waters. Not the muddy waters. They benefit by early morning grazing, and you will benefit much by early morning. Grazie in the living word, in God's Word, in the still waters. Well, we call them the living waters. Christ called them the living waters, because those still waters will give you life. Those that seek me early shall find me, Proverbs 8 and 17. And so we as we rise up early in the morning, the first thing we ought to do is look at Looking into God's Word, looking to God's Word, seeking God on her knees, praying to Him. That's what a sheep should be doing. And parents, your job is to awaken your lambs early and introduce them to the words of Christ. And if someone sitting this morning said, My parents never did that, they weren't good shepherds If your parents don't introduce you to the Word of God and get you into the habit of the Word of God, if your parents allow you to dabble in the mud puddles around your neighborhood They haven't done their job. They ought to be putting you in the Bible early in your life. They ought to be putting you in the church for instruction early in your life. So that you do become instant in season and out of season when trials come before you. If you do not introduce your children to the Word of God, to the living waters, your children will eventually die. And it may not say it on the death certificate. But those standing at that funeral surrounding your coffin, young people and old alike, if you've not been introduced to living waters, if it's not a part of your daily grazing habit Then you might as well write on the death certificate under whatever you died from. Spiritual dehydration. And dehydration will kill you. Being early in the milk of the word is so important. Some of you might know the word colostum. Kolostan is the first milk that the ew lets down after the little lamb is born. And we as shepherds on the farm we knew when the the lambs were about to be born and it was a great excitement for us not only to see them born but if they wouldn't get up on their feet to try to get them up. and bring them next to the mother and get that little lamb to drinking the first milk. The coloscum You see, in the first milk there is more nutrients, more protein, and antibiotics than that mother sheep will ever have the rest of her life. those antibiotics and those nutrients and proteins, they're only in that sheep for about two hours. It sets the immune system and that little lamb a rolling. It sets the digestive system on the course it belongs on. And if that lamb isn't on its feet and drinking within two hours He's probably going to die. You need to introduce your children early to the milk of the word. I know sometimes when the mothers watch their children and they They know they're going off in the wrong direction, and some mothers, because they're going off in the wrong direction, they bury their children, their lambs at a young age, and it kills the mother. Child has turned out. Some of you think you can live the way you want to live. What's that matters to my life? I can do it myself and my body, what I want to do. What you do will kill your mother or your grandmother You see something I didn't tell you about the little lamb. We're just not trying to save the lamb's life by giving him the early milk Two-hour window. For cows, it's about a six hour window. But it's a two-hour window. You've got to get the lamb up and he's got to start absorbing the milk from the the mother's Utter. And she stands or willing and able and wants to, but until the lamb begins to draw the milk out and he he's hungry And you've seen them the pictures and photographs and films that are the little lamb, he's button the mother he wants more There is a hormone in the female sheep, in the U. This hormone is called oxytocin. And when he butts her, the hormone, and tell the little lamb, butts the mother, the hormone is not released. And until the hormone is released, the milk doesn't come down. The two of them work together. If the lamb doesn't drink, the lamb dies. And if The lamb doesn't drink, the ewe doesn't let down the milk, and the placenta and other parts are left inside. Her uterus stay there. The oxytocin that hormone causes her to eject the rest of the uh uh uh the placenta and other things are inside the uterus and if the lamb doesn't butter and start drinking she dies too. And we're not just trying to save the lamb But we're trying to save the ew sheep as well. I wonder where evolution comes into all of this. You know? I mean, who told the lamb, you got two hours, your mom's gonna die, you know Well who told the you got two hours a lamb's gonna die. Well I can have another lamb. No you can't, you're gonna die too. Where is evolution in that? Evolution is so pathetic. In verse 3 it says, He restoreth my soul. I like in Psalm forty-two and eleven it talks about and there's so many stories in the Bible about sheep and shepherds, and Christ says our good shepherd and a good shepherd. great shepherd, but why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou cast down? Do you know sheep get cast down? There are especially as they get older and and they start having this large thick wool and and they go back that little depression on the ground that they like so much at nights where they like to bed down and And the land that depression kind of rolled on her side. And as her wool is getting thicker and thicker, and heavier and heavier because it's got Well sheep lie pretty much anywhere throughout the day, but it gets filled up with sheep droppings and cow manure and mud and it gets to be a pretty heavy wool coat they've got on and there comes a point where sheep will lie down in that little depression. They can't get up. It's like a turtle upside down on its shell. And the shepherd says we got one out there cast down. How do you know? Well the flocks moving on and they're there and you see the legs kind of waving in the air. They can't get up. They're in a depression. Wow. They're in a depression. Sheep can get into depression. Did you know that? I mean sheep can get to they can get into depression where they just can't get out of bed. We're so much like sheep, Christ named this correctly. Why art thou cast down? Describes a sheep rolled over its back, unable to get up, just like a turtle And oftentimes the pregnant you can't get up either. She wasn't pregnant last month or two months ago, and she lies down in her little depression, and she's pregnant, and she can't get up Shepherds gotta really keep an eye on the sheep. And we got a savior that that tuss I don't think there's a person here to be alive right now. If the Lord Jesus Christ, our good shepherd, wasn't taking care of us. We're gonna get to heaven someday. And you say, Well, I had a pretty good life. Well there was a car accident. Uh you saved me from that one time. Okay, Lord, I owe you one. You mean one? Let's roll the film back for a second. When you sneezed and you sneezed out a bacteria or virus that would have killed you in three days. Or you're walking down an aisleway where someone else in the grocery store they're sneezing and they've got something that's going to kill them. And as you're walking down the aisle, you don't hear them sneezing in the aisle. By the way, that stuff floats around the aisle for sometimes five or ten minutes. Sticks on the cans you pick up and you don't walk through that vapor because if you're walking down, oh I missed that item, and you deter and go back to a different aisle. I mean the Lord's gonna be able to show us they probably have saved us a billion times from certain death. He keeps a good eye on us. Especially when we're laying in depression and can't get up Do you ever get in depression? Sheep do Wolves look for the cast down. As the flock moves on and leaves that one back in the depression, all the Wolves and the wild dogs love that. We had a flock, I think of totally 50, maybe 70 when all the lambs were born. We had a herd of wild dogs come out of the town about four miles away and they started chipping away at the flock, killing, just out of joy. They weren't eating our sheep. They were just having fun. And so we went out there a couple of nights in a row with our rifles to shoot these dogs. And they were, you know, collies and German shepherds and whatever. They they didn't look like wolves, but a dog is a dog and the dog is a wolf. wolf and and it was sport. They were just killing for sport. Satan goeth about like a roaring lion and he'll kill you and destroy your soul and to him it's just a sport. We're out there going through this life where we think, well, there's maybe a devil and maybe say you know, Satan. He's after the preacher, the Sunday school teacher, but he's not gonna be after me. He'll go after anyone's any soul. It's just a sport to him. Him and those those city slicker dogs were smarter than we were. They come out and they walk all the way around the field. We're inside that field near the sheep. And They would smell us and they wouldn't attack the sheep. And the first night we wouldn't show up, they'd be in killing them again. wasn't a very good shepherd. And we lost them all. I sometimes wonder how many that we've lost here over the years. Because I wasn't a good enough shepherd. I do weep for the souls of these people. For some of you say It's amazing what a a seven-year-old man knows, right, Bill? Bill just turned seven. How sweet. The young people think we're a bunch of old fogies. We don't know nothing. We're not up we're not hip. We're not you know, we got flip phones instead of iPhones and uh you know, we're really out of it. We've done pretty good. We came up when there weren't any phones in the homes, you know It wasn't a TV, there wasn't a radio. We've seen a lot. You don't listen to mom and dad, listen to grandma and grandpa We're not as dumb as you think. Nobody could be, could they? The wolves look for the cast down for the sheep that are struck in the depression. And often those that are in the depression are the healthiest and the fattest sheep, the thickest wool. But the best of the sheep can get down in the depression. That's why we shear the sheep every summer. Once you shear the sheep. They don't like it. You're shearing the sheep, they get nicked, they get cut, they're bleeding a bit. They don't like it, they're complaining about it. But you know what they find out? Wow, it's cooler. I just dropped 25 pounds in two minutes. Thought how long it takes to shear one. And they they they're jumping and leaping and they just feel unburdened of all this filth in their life. And the sheep should feel great when he's unburdened himself from all the filth in his life. And they can lay anywhere they want now in the depression, they're not gonna get stuck anymore We've done them some good and they they're licking their bleeding cuts from the quick shearing job, but they soon appreciate very much. And you know what happens after your shear sheep? See, when you get the sheep together and they see that shear going and cutting the wall, oh man, who's the next guy to go? Look at the haircut Larry got. I don't like that at all, you know. I mean they look at this and they're like, oh no. And we're not are they gonna do it to all of us? Well the older sheep go, yeah, they're gonna do it to all of us. I mean they don't they don't like it. But I'll tell you something, after you're sheared Or after the shepherd prunes you, so to speak. And then sometimes we need pruning, don't we? Sometimes we need a We need a little buzz here, a little clip there. God has a way of chiseling the rough spots in our life. And when he's done that, and we go, wow, I'll learn something from this. Thank you, Lord. Once a sheep is sheared, now he walks around the shepherd, not afraid of him anymore. They're not afraid of you because you've already sheared them. You know, the ones that still got their wool on all they can do that to me too. You know, they try to run from you. But once they're sheared, once they've been clipped by the shepherd, they're so brave. They're not afraid of us after that I mean what else could happen? And sometimes the Lord takes us out in the woodshed and he clips us and he prunes us and we if we love the Lord, we feel good about it afterwards that He's cleaned us up. He's cleaned up our ath. He's gotten rid of some sin nature. He's gotten rid of some sin habits. And we'll feel good about it. When he cuts the wool off the sheep, it's like he restoreth my soul. Psalm twenty-three and three. I've ever thought about this, but in Leviticus 16, 4 it says that the priest, the high priest, was not to wear wool. So as you went about the business of being a shepherd and entering the work of the Lord, they wear linen. Linen's made out of flax. I mean, how do you think it would look if a shepherd was out there wearing a w you know Y you you can shear the sheep and you ever see people that have these they look like sheep wool coats. I I forget what they call 'em, but there's these wool coats. It look like you're wearing wearing the height of a sheep. They were very popular some years ago They're not popular, the sheep. You're wearing a wool coat and they look, oh my goodness. So the priest wasn't allowed to wear wool when he entered the tabernacle to do the wool work of the Lord. He wasn't supposed to be wearing, you know, a dead sheep. He wore linen, told us not to frighten the sheep as he entered the work of the Lord. The shepherd certainly does heart go out for those who are cast down, for those who are in depression. He's not angry with us. He loves us. He only seeks to restore us. us. And sometimes when we're in a depression or we're doing something we shouldn't, here comes a shepherd and you go, oh boy, what's he gonna do to me. Is he going to shear me? Maybe. But he's going to do what's good for you. It's to restore your soul. He'll pick you up sometimes and lay you on his shoulders. We've seen paintings and pictures of We read about that. The good shepherd looks for the one that's lost, lays them on his shoulders. Some of the sheep weigh 150, 200 pounds. Anybody here want to try to pick up a two hundred pound person and throw it over their shoulders and walk a hundred yards uphill, take them back to the Flock, the shepherd is no wimp. The Lord Jesus Christ was no wimp. They're strong. And they're They're fearless against lions and wolves that come after the flock, bears. That's what the shepherds does. He lifts the sheep up and he restores them. Has Christ ever lifted you up, pilgrim? Has he ever lifted you out of a depression? Has his words, the words of Christ, ever uplifted you or lifted you? That's what a shepherd does. He lifts up the sheep. And then we can can say he restoreth my soul. David could write that. If you're truly saved, you can say that that God is restored Restored your soul from some horrible things you've had to walk through. And talk about walking through things verse four. And though I walk through the valley, the shadow of death, thy rod, and thy staff, they comfort me Why would you want to walk through the valley of the shadow of death? Well, first of all, Christ is walking through there with you. Christ never takes you where he hasn't been. Is that a comfort? Christ never takes you where He hasn't been. If someone's uh you're following somebody that you say I've never driven to Buffalo, New York before, well get in the caravan or in the convoy or just get behind me. I'll take you through the tollboats, I'll take you through the The shortcuts or the highway, the traffic is lighter. Just follow me. And you say, okay, great. Instead of me reading the roadmap and go into myself, we don't use roadmaps anymore, do we uh smartphones or whatever. But isn't it nice to have someone who's been there before who can sit in the car beside you and and remind you of Uh you know, it's coming up next to this uh this hamburger joint. You're gonna see about a mile up ahead. It's nice to have someone who's been there before and Christ says Or Brother David's right, yea, thou walk the valley of the shadow of death. He knows that Christ has been there before. Christ never takes you where he hasn't been And that should be a comfort to us. And he says his rod and his staff comfort him. You know, Moses had a staff. He could turn it into a serpent and bring it back. uh again into a rod or whatever. It was quite a staff he had, but the one the Lord Jesus Christ has is absolutely phenomenal. The power of the rod of the Good Shepherd just A touch will bring water out of the rock, raise the dead, defeat our foes and our enemies And I think something else we don't often see when we read through that passage, either I walked through the valley of the shadow of death and we conjure up all kinds I want you to know this, that the valley we're gonna walk through it. The valley of the shadow of death is not a dead end. We are going to walk through the valley of the shadow of death. It is not a dead end. And thou preparest a table before me. Thou anointest my head with oil. The table or the mesa, some people use Mesa era. Arizona, a Mesa is a hill with a lying a flat lying area up top, and the shepherd would take the sheep up to the the top of the hill where it's nice a nice flat area the sheep could lay down for the night protect the hill, defend the hill was easier. So you take them to the Mesa. It's an area that the shepherd had spent many an hour. cleaning out the poisonous and noxious weeds so that the milk doesn't taste bad to the lamb because if if the hue i the ew is eating some bad weeds, not only can it kill her, but the milk tastes bad and the lamb won't drink it. And so the shepherds up there cleaning out the Mesa. The word Mesa is the table. He prepares a mesa or a table before me in the presence of my enemies, and he anoints my head. He prepares the table, the mesa, getting rid of the bad weeds, the poisonous weeds, so that the sheep don't bloat And die. Not not quite like a goat they'll eat anything, but they'll eat they'll eat just about anything. And and the prettier the weeds, they eat Canadian thistles. I mean My goodness, you know what a Canadian thistle is. They're pretty, but you wouldn't want to eat 'em, but they'll eat 'em. They're stuff out too. In fact, you can you can clear out an area and then the pasture's great for the sheep But the grass is always greener on the other side and they'll stick their head to the fence and they'll eat the grass on the other side. And then they can't get their head back yet. I mean they'll butt their way through that little square frame of the the mesh fence we have around the pasture. I mean they they see the grass they want so bad and they'll filter head this way and they'll finally get their head through and they eat the grass And then they can't get their head out. The grass is always greener on the other side, and so the sheep, they often will go beyond the pasture where the shepherd tells them it's And some of you will wander outside the pasture And it's not safe. It's not safe. Nothing bothered me more as a shepherd. We're supposed to walk the fence line every day and check the sheep every day and And there were days when we didn't check the field. And we'd come back and we'd find a young sheep or lamb with his head stuck in the Neck broken from trying to get the head back inside. Oh, you sheep, you lambs. You're thinking about wandering, or maybe you already have. They can kill you. The lifestyles we choose, the things we eat. or drink. Our parents shepherding our child's heart. There's a great book called Shepping a Child's Heart by uh Pastor Tripp. Parents, you remove you remove them from and keep them from the things that will destroy their souls. You you get rid of the books that they're reading and the TV shows they're watching and the movies. It'll destroy their souls. Some of you who have had your head in that bench And the shepherd came by when you weren't looking for the shepherd, you didn't have an interest in the shepherd. You're just out there enjoying what you were eating, enjoying what you were abiding in. And yet you enjoyed all the things you were consuming in life. Life was great. You only go around once in life, get all the dust that you can, and you got stuck in the fence, and only by the grace of God and his mercy that he pull your head back to the fence in your life here today to talk about it. And we try to tell our children, don't go there with your life And most of us have no idea how much work the shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ, has done for us. Laying down his life for us. We approached the table this morning. The Mesa that Christ has prepared for us, the sacrifice, the shedding of his blood for us He didn't just die for us. You can go into combat, you can go into the military and say, Well, I might give my life for my country, and most of the things I might, but most of us are not going to die It's a very small percentage that died in combat, like 1%. But with the Lord Jesus Christ, it was a hundred percent that he was going to die, and he enlisted anyway, and volunteered anyway, and died a horrible death. And that's just the physical aspect. We have no comprehension of the spiritual warfare in the Garden of Gethsemane that he went through, where he sweat like drops of blood. We have no idea on the cross the horrible torment that he went through, satanic torment, spiritual torment, sacrifice for us. So he prepares a table before us. A lot of sacrifice for what Christ has prepared before us this morning on this communion table. He anointeth my head with oil. Sheep, because of the wool and just because of the nature of the animal and where they eat and the grass and so forth, they tend to attract a lot of nasal flies. They got big nasal, big nostrils, and they attack a lot of flies and the flies lay eggs on their their nostrils and the eggs hatch out and they crawl up inside And the sheep go blind and it destroys their brain cells and they die. Sheep require a lot of attention And so we would go out with the sheep and we had something you might be familiar with, it was called olive oil. And we mixed it sometimes a little bit of a Atari substance. And sulfur, and we would we'd get the sheep when we were on the same day we were shearing them in the summertime when the nasal flies were coming out, and we'd smear it across their face and their forehead and their head. We would anoint their head with oil, olive oil. And the flies don't like it, and the larvae and the eggs don't survive in it, and they die, and the sheep live And sometimes when it was really bad, we saw we already had problems with the sheep. We had to give them medication and then we had to spray them or we'd have to sprinkle them with these these uh uh poisons that would cover their whole body So that in case there were flies of larvae eggs laid in the wool would crawl up the neck and into the we had to do all of that. And sometimes that wasn't sufficient. We had uh some years it was so bad there wasn't enough to just sprinkle or to spray the sheep We had to dip the sheep. It's called sheep dip. And boy, trying to get a sheep to go under, that's not easy. But we take that whole sheep, we all pick them up, and have the the sheep it'd be something about as big as this communion table, and it'd be full of this green yucky stuff It didn't smell bad, but it looked horrible. You picked that sheep up, you'd grab his mouth and his nose, you hold him, and you'd take him under to cleanse him And to save his life. Boy, they didn't like it. And you'd drive by our farm later on that day and you'd see all these green sheep out in the field. But we'd anoint their head. We would dip them when we had to. It was to cleanse them and to save them. Now we are I'm not saying baptism saves, don't get me wrong, but just some of the analogies there. So are you ever bugged by something like the sheep are? Are you ever bugged by something? Something that uh is irritating and frustrating you and driving you up the wall? Your head needs a regular anointing of Living waters, Christ's word, to take care of the things that are bugging you in life, irritating you in life. It needs you need a regular anointing Because we're bugged by the coveting of our hearts, we're bugged by the lusting that's in our hearts, we're bugged by a hundred different sins in our life And we need the anointing, the sprinkling, the pouring, the dipping of God's word. We need to be saturated with God's word. And then surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, he says in verse six Mercy. God is good and God is merciful and we ought to be good and we ought to be merciful to others as well. You see out there the budding that's going on in the pasture, uh the budding and the and the thrusting and uh the uh But you know, e even among sheep during the rutting season, they'll they will butt and they'll fight over the ewes and who's gonna be the the top buck in the group. You'll see some butting and head bunting and and and rutting they call it the rutting season. But it's for a season. When you look out and you see people budding and rutting and beating and banging heads against one another in a congregation, those aren't all sheep Because it's only for a season when there are people constantly uh showing a lack of mercy, constantly uh showing a lack of goodness and charitables towards one another. Get suspicious that you've got some goats there They butt all the time. The sheep don't. The hallmark of a sheep, the hallmark of Christianity is basically contentment. Basically, it's contentment. Boy, I've seen two people going at it in a church sometime. Whoa, I don't know if I want to step into this or not. I think I'll go up and see what's going on. You're not pre-trib? You don't immerse whoa. I mean the things are fighting over, you know Look at the length of your hair. You're supposed to be a Christian woman and have hair down your back of your knees. It's not the big doctrines we're fighting over. We're just fighting over stuff that's there's no one we can be kept out of heaven for the length of their hair. Or whether pre-trib, mid-trib, post-trib, law mill post pre- The reason we fight about all this stuff is just it's There's so many verses in the scriptures that lend itself heavily to to all those different positions that we just we are you know, the Lord will lead you one way and another pe minute Christian the other way. It's just you know, iron sharpens iron to make us better Christian. But it's not going to make us all agree on everything. Not the little stuff. So are you charitable, merciful, and good to others? That's that's a sign of a Christian God was merciful to us, good to us, not because we deserved it. That's just the attribute of God He's merciful. He's good, and we should be too. Though he slay me, yet shall I trust him, says Job. Though he slay me, yet shall I trust him. Are we merciful? Are we good And if you are, we invite you to the table this morning. I asked if Elder Tim would come up here this morning to help with the uh giving out of the communion Um and the Mike and