Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Book of Acts and chapter nine. The ninth chapter of Acts. We would almost want to say the Gospel of Acts, but the book of Acts is not actually a gospel, though it is full of good news. The book of Acts, rather, is a book of history. It is the Acts, the behaviors, the methods, the workings of the Apostle. And in this ninth chapter of Acts, beginning in verse 1, we find these words. And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughters against the disciples of the Lord. Went unto the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues That if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man. Saul arose from the earth. And when his eyes were opened, he saw no man, but they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And he was there without sight, neither there and he was three days without sight, neither did he eat nor drink. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the street, which is called straight, and inquire in the house of one Judas for one called Saul of Tarshus, for behold, he prayeth, and has seen a vision of a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hands on him that he might receive his sight. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard of this man How much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call upon thy name. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And Aeneas went his way and entered into the house, and putting his hands on him, said, Brother Saul the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales, and he received sight forthwith, and arose and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed them that called on this name in the called on this name in Jerusalem And came hither for that intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priest. But Saul increased the more in strength And confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we open thy word, we pray for the direction of thy Holy Spirit that we might rightly divide the word of truth, for indeed thy truth is found here. Here. Blessed to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. We find in this ninth chapter of Acts, the historical account. This is very true. It is all true. And it is presented to us here in Acts 9 exactly as it happened. This is not a story made up by men years later. This is the truth. But we find here the account of the conversion of Saul of Tarshus. And it would be very easy for me to get off my notes straight out and preach a different message than I've prepared. I've got eight pages, and I've warned you before that six pages is enough. There's so much in this chapter. There is so much packed in to this historical account that we could well spend A dozen messages or more and not exhaust what is here. So I'm going to try to go through the familiar areas of it quickly and then get to what I believe is the heart. for what I would like us to learn and gain from this passage this morning. This chapter begins with a very righteous, wicked man. A very righteous, wicked man. And I think most of us are familiar with very righteous wicked men because a lot of us have been very righteous wicked men. We find here in the first verse that Saul yet breathing out threatenings. And I deliberately chose Psalm 27 as our responsive reading this morning, realizing that we probably have read that psalm for a responsive reading within the last few months. But I was reading John Gill, an old commentator, and he pointed out something that just kind of, you know, as brother Vincent and I say, one of those duh moments had never occurred to me Saul yet breathing out threatenings. I never thought about that phrase breathing out. But actually it it's at what they call a Hebrewism. It's a Hebrew expression. And it comes from Psalm 27, verse 12, where the psalmist praised, Deliver me from the will of evil of mine enemies, for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as, breathe out cruelty. And that's where this expression for what Saul was doing comes from. He was breathing out cruelty. He was breathing out threatenings. It was coming almost like the inspiration of Scripture comes, which is breathed out, but it certainly wasn't coming from God. You see, Satan inspires men to do things. And say things just as certainly as God does. And so here we find a very righteous, wicked man who is breathing out threatenings. He's breathing out cruelty against the people of God. And what a marvelous thing it is. That this very righteous, wicked man who was breathing out threatenings against the disciples, would someday breathe out most of our New Testament Isn't God amazing? Isn't he marvelous? Doesn't he turn things around? Paul gave us testimony in Philippians 3, verse 4, and following. You know the verses, you could probably quote them, but let me read Philippians 3 verses 4 through 7. Paul says, Though I might have confidence in the flesh. If any man think that he have whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew and Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee concerning zeal, persecuting the church. as touching the law, that which is other law, blameless. According to the testimony of Paul He was a very righteous, wicked man. He said, if anybody could have confidence in the flesh, by the more. According to the works of the law, Paul, Saul, was a very righteous, wicked man, circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel. And Hebrew of the Hebrews. That's touching the law, verse 6 blameless. According to his own works, Paul was a very righteous, wicked man, concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Stamp it out. You know what happens when you stamp on the campfire? The sparks go everywhere. That's exactly what happen when Paul tried to stamp out the gospel of Christ. The sparks went everywhere and started fires all over. According to the testimony of other righteous wicked men, Paul was a very righteous wicked man. You see, Paul, and I forgive me when I say Paul frequently instead of Saul. It is Saul in chapter 9. He will be Paul later on. We know the end of the story. story. But when Saul became a Pharisee, he did not get that office without being a very righteous, wicked man. You see, you did not become a Pharisee unless you were very righteous in the eyes of the other Pharisees. And when Saul went to the chief priest to get these letters to Damascus. He was not given them for any reason other than he was a very righteous, wicked man. He had a lot of zeal for that which he was about. And when righteous Stephen was stoned, they laid their coats at the feet of a very righteous, wicked man. And you see, laying their coats at Saul's feet does not mean that he was simply a bystander and had nothing else to do. He was the hitman. He was the leader of the mob. And there's only thing, one only one thing that's worse in this world than a righteous wicked man. And that is a whole group of righteous wicked men. And that's exactly what we find next. Not only is Saul a very righteous, wicked man But he goes to a group of very righteous, wicked men, and they plot together. In Psalm 37 and verse 12, we read these words. The wicked plotteth against the just and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. And verse 32 of Psalm 37, the wicked watcheth the righteous and seeketh to slay him. And our world is filled with congregations of very righteous, wicked men. I made reference earlier to the national prayer breakfast Oh, what a group of very righteous wicked men. And you will find a lot of presbyteries that are filled with very righteous wicked men. And you will find a lot of synods and a lot of church gatherings that are very righteous And just as Saul was certain that he was doing the will of God, they are very certain that they've got it all right, and you better listen to them. And yet in reality, they are nothing more than groups of very righteous, wicked men. And so we find that Saul goes the high priest and seeks from him authority. And Saul asked for letters to the synagogues. He asked for letters to the synagogues. Looks at verse 2 of our text in Acts 9. And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues. that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. We have to understand the first century synagogue. Today, when we think of a Jewish synagogue, we think of it as a quote-unquote house of worship. But in the first century, the synagogue was far more than a house of worship. Actually, the house of worship aspect of the first century synagogue was secondary to the political nature. nature of the synagogue. The synagogues of that day were the courts of the Jews. Remember Christ warned the disciples, they'll drag you to the synagogue. You will be beaten in the synagogues. And then in John, I think it's 12, you'll be cast out of the synagogues. The synagogue was the court of the Jews. It was the school if you wanted an education. You got it at the synagogue. When Paul sat at the seat of Gamalia, Saul sat at the feet of Gamalia, it was in the synagogue. The synagogue was the place of public discourse The synagogue was the source of propaganda. Stamp out these Christians, they're bad. And if you disagree with us, you're out of the synagogue. They'll cast you out. And so Saul is gathering together with a whole multitude of other very righteous wicked men for the purpose. of stamping out all that call upon this way. And so we sign, first of all, in this chapter a very righteous man And secondly, we find a whole group of very righteous men. But folks, now we get to the beauty of this account. Because the third thing we find here is the amazing grace of God on a very righteous, wicked man. And my friend, I said in their introduction that many of us can look at our lives and call ourselves very righteous, wicked men. Man goes about to establish his own righteousness. Cain was a very righteous, wicked man in his own estimation. He brought his offering to God, and he worked very hard to bring his offering to God, but his offering was not acceptable to God. He was a very righteous, wicked man. And so turning back to our text there in Acts 9. And looking at verse 3, as he journeyed, he came near to Damascus and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. The distance from Jerusalem to Damascus is approximately 135 miles. We don't know exactly how straight the road was. It probably wound and turned. But I don't think Saul would have walked 135 miles in a day. So that would indicate to us that in order to carry out this plan, he's probably had to overnight at least twice. And very likely more than that. And those of you that have hiked through the woods or walked a long distance know that you can always go further walking alone than you can go walking in a company. Because where there's a group, the group tends to slow down the overall progress. So these men have probably been in this journey for four to five days, three to four nights, to travel approximately 134 out of the 135 miles. We don't know exactly where Saul was, but he drew near to the city, probably within that last mile that he's traveling. Why didn't God let him keep going? It's almost there. Why did God not allow him to keep going? God stopped it God stopped it. And think about this. Do you remember when Pharaoh and his armies were pursuing after Israel? Israel. And God opened the Red Sea, and the children of Israel walked through the Red Sea on dry ground. And Pharaoh and his armies, following close behind, tried to go through the same Red Sea, and the Lord brought the waters back. And they drowned them. And the Israelites danced on the shore. And Miriam took up her timbrel and she sang the horse. and the rider he hath cast into the sea. And it was a great victory. And they rejoiced because Pharaoh and his armies were destroyed. Could not have God done the same thing to Saul on the road to Damascus And wouldn't the believers in Damascus have rejoiced? He has slain our enemy. He has killed Saul, our persecutor. And if God had done that, we would have read this chapter and we would have rejoiced that here Saul was coming to kill the Christians, and God killed Saul on the road to Damascus. Hallelujah! What a victory God has wrought! But we wouldn't have Romans First, second Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, first seconds, first and second Timothy. Titus The marvelous grace of God on a very righteous wicked Man. As for God, his way is perfect. God could have killed Saul right then and there, and today, not knowing what else could have happened. We would rejoice. Hallelujah. This is just as great as God bringing Peter out of the prison. Hallelujah. God killed Saul, our enemy, on the road to Damascus. But God knew better than we did. is a chosen vessel unto me. Folks, don't ask my wife about this because she'll tell you the truth. I get very frustrated when things don't go my way. And I have great ideas as to how God should do things. And why God shouldn't have done them the way he did. But God's way is perfect. Our will would have been for God to smite him dead right then, there on the spot. Be done with him. We'd never want to hear of Saul again. But God had in mind a Paul. God's way is perfect. But there's more than that Because we find there that God says to him in verse four And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? God knew his name. But I guess God didn't know the names of the other men with him. Of course, God knew the names of the other men with him. God knew the name of every one of them But he doesn't speak their names. He doesn't call, hey, Hercamirk. He doesn't call, hey, Billy Boy. Saul Saul, why persecutest thou me? And notice he doesn't say, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It's doubled. Doubled. And I'm not a Hebrew scholar. I have not had the privilege of studying Hebrew. But they tell us that that doubling is not just a simple But rather, this doubling is a very tender, loving call. Simon. Simon Simon. I won't ask you to raise your hand on this one. Have you ever been persecuted? I think most of us have had some problems at some time or another. Do you think of that person in a kind way? Would you call to them with a gentle voice? Why persecutest thou me? See the love of Christ here. I can tell you from experience, praying for your enemies is hard. It ain't easy. Saul, Saul, you wicked righteous man. No. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Because I have loved you with an everlasting love. Why persecutest thou me because I died for your sins? Why persecutest thou me because I am come to seek and to save you? So, so it's hard for thee to kick against the pricks Because Saul has been under conviction when Stephen died seeing a vision of Christ on his throne. Saul was pricked in his conscience. The scriptures tell us that in Acts 7 and verse 54. This is in the testimony of Stephen. When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart. And Saul was there. He was in the crowd. He was keeping the coats. Saul was cut to the heart. Saul, Saul, why persecute us? Thou me. I have loved you with a love that you can never imagine. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks Saul witnessed Stephen dying with the stones in the air. But as Stephen died, he saw the risen Christ upon his throne. And now Saul, on the road to Damascus, to find the Christians, sees that same risen Christ on his road. throne. Because we know it to be true. We read later in the chapter when Ananias comes to him, he says, Jesus that appeared to you on the road hath appeared to me. Saul saw what Stephen saw. Saul did not spare Stephen's life. But Jesus spared Saul's. Saul could have called off the mob that they not stoned Stephen. The coats were at his feet. He was in charge. God the Father was angry with Saul The wrath of God is revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men that hold the truth and unrighteousness. But Jesus Christ, with his own blood, caught off the wrath of God. On Saul. Throughout the Old Testament, we find people who saw God and instantly feared for their lives. Saul deserved to die because he saw Christ on his throne. But he was Spared by the blood. And so we find later that Saul will be in the presence of a certain jailer of Philippi. And that jailer will speak these words to Saul, to Paul, pardon me, what must I do to be saved? You know what? Saul states it a little bit differently in our passage, but Saul's words are, Lord, what would you have me to do? There it is. That's the same thing the Philippine jailer said. What must I do? What must I do? And so Saul is sent to Damascus. And so we see the a very righteous, wicked man. A group of very righteous wicked men, the grace of God on a very righteous wicked man. But finally, we find the amazing things that God can do. Do with very righteous wicked men. The amazing things that God can do with a righteous wicked man. Verse 9. And Saul, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what will thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto them, Arise, go into the city, and there it shall be told thee what thou must do. What is incumbent upon thee? And there was a certain disciple, this is verse 9, at Damascus, named Ananias. And to him the Lord said in the Ananias in a vision, Ananias, let me read that verse right, sorry. Acts 9, verse 10. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I'm here, Lord. That's amazing. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. What must I do to be saved? Lord, what would you have me to do? You see the transforming grace of God. Saul, though he is still Saul. Saul, though he is on his knees on the road to Damascus, has been transformed already. He's still blind. He spends three days in prayer. And though the scripture doesn't say he was prayer and fasting, explicitly it does tell us that, because he was three days without his sight, and he did neither eat nor drink, and he was praying He spent three days in prayer and fasting. And folks, I don't think he was praying to get his sight back. I think he was just talking to God, suddenly having do you remember when you met your wife? Guys, did you know right away? Yep, I want this one. This one's different. Yeah. This one's different. Didn't matter that her boyfriend introduced her to me. There's something about this one. I've never met one like this before Saul has suddenly come into a relationship with the risen Lord. And I don't believe he's concerned about his sight. He already sees. And on that road, I emphasize their scripture reading one verse that says that those traveling with him heard a voice but saw no man. And I don't know if the voice they heard was Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Or if they heard Saul's voice, Lord, what were you happy to do? It may have been Saul's voice they heard, but they saw no man. They were very righteous religious men too. But they never saw him. But now the blind saw He sees him. And we see the amazing things that God can do when his amazing grace gets hold of a very wicked, righteous man. Look at verses 19 and following. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus, and straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues. He was supposed to be bringing Christians in to be beaten. Now he's preaching Christ. And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which called on the na this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for the intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests? But Saul increased more in strength and confounded the Jews which dealt at Jerusalem at Damascus, proving Proving that this is very Christ How did Saul prove that this is very Christ? Now the word Christ means Messiah. The anointed. This is the anointed one. How did he prove it? Did he get out his calculator and do some mathematical equation that proved it? Well, I saw him. Does that prove it? Saul Was the most qualified lawyer of his day. Let me say it again. Saul was the most qualified lawyer of his day. He studied At the feet of Gabelia. Matthew was a tax collector, and he had been in the synagogue, but he was not a doctor of the law. Peter was a fisherman, very earnest and sincere. But he was not a doctor of the law. John, very wise, but he was not a Saul was uniquely qualified to take the Old Testament and prove from the Old Testament that Jesus is the Messiah. There was no one else alive who could better explain the Old Testament to the Jews. Jews and confound them. And that's the word in our text. Confounding the Jews and proving there's no doubt left, folks. You crucified the Messiah. You crucified the just one. You killed the one who was promised in Isaiah. He proved it. There was no argument left because they were thoroughly confounded. God said, He is a chosen vessel unto me to preach unto kings. And to priests and to the Jews. He proved it The amazing grace of God saved a very righteous wicked man. And God showed the amazing things he can do with the very righteous. Now, what application can we make from this testimony? of Paul. Paul, who had been Saul, gave an admonition to his young protege, his son Timothy. And this is found in 1 Timothy chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. I exhort therefore That first of all, supplication, prayer, intercession, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge. Saul, now Paul, who had been the persecutor. has a message for the young man who will continue on in the gospel after Saul's head is removed for preaching the gospel. And Saul tells Timothy, pray for all men, pray for kings, pray for all that are in authority, that we may live quiet and peaceful lives in godliness. and honesty, for God will have all men to be saved. And that word all men doesn't mean he wants every individual ever born and living or dead to be saved But it means all types of men, men in all classes of society. For here was Saul, the chief persecutor, the hitman of the mob, the one they would send to Damascus to kill Christians He has been saved, the doctor of the law, the one most qualified in the Old Testament scriptures to confound the Jews and to prove that Jesus was the Son of God. God wanted me saved, Timothy. Now, we look at those that have rule over us And authority over us. And our president claims to be a Catholic. And we could say he is a very righteous, wicked man. We look at the leaders of the House and the Senate, and we look at those in our Supreme Court, and we have to conclude they're very righteous, wicked men. And I would love to pray God smite 'em. I would love to pray God strike 'em down. But you see, remember the illustration I gave of God that could have struck down Saul on the road to the Damascus but God saved him, and how much better that was And so, folks, we're living in a turmoil time, and we're wondering when the day will come when we'll be forbidden to preach against the gays and forbidden to preach against abortion and are forgiven to preach against sin and will do it anyway, whether it forbid us or not. But we wonder when the day of persecution is coming But if we want to live quiet and peaceful lives, God saves a lot of them. And so, though I would love to pray judgment, may God give me grace to pray for their salvation. To pray that God will make of them Saul's deposits. For then indeed we can live quiet and peaceful lives in godliness and in honesty. See, God does all things well. There would never have been a soul, the persecutor, if God hadn't ordained for the reason O Saul the persecutor. But God is able to save Saul the persecutor and give us half the New Testament as a result. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that your word is indeed a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. Father, we we tend to go off in our flesh so easily. But Lord, may we be led by the Spirit, and may we follow the dictates and instructions of thy word. For Father, indeed, as for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. Father, we thank you that you do all things well. We thank you that your way is best, even when our way seems good. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.