Open your Bibles with me this morning to Genesis chapter 28, the 28th chapter of Genesis. I have nothing inspired to say today. I love to begin a message by making that very clear. I will make comments on the Word of God, but nothing that I say is expired, is inspired. Yes, what I say needs to expire. But the only time I speak with inspiration is when I read the Word of God. And so the reading of our scripture is the most important part of our worship. And so I'm going to read the 28th chapter of Genesis, and oh, what a glorious chapter this is. And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. Arise, go to Paden Aram, to the house of Bethuel, thy mother's father, and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. And God Almighty bless thee and make thee fruitful and multiply thee that thou mayest be a multitude of people. And give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave to unto Abraham. And Isaac sent away Jacob, and he went to Paden Aram unto Laban, the son of Bethuel, the Syrian. the brother of Rebekah, Jacob and Esau's mother. When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padan Aram to take a wife from thence. And that he blessed him, he gave him charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. And Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Pada and Aram. And Esau, seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac, his father. Then he went to Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and tucking to him and took unto the wives which he had. May Haloth, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, and the sister of Nabajoth to be his wife And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night. because the sun was set, and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up upon the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God ascending and descending upon it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac, the land whereupon thou liest, to thee will I give it and to thy seed. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the east And to the south, and to the north, and to the north, and to the south. And in thee, and in thy seed, shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest. And will bring thee again into this land. For I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely The Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place? This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stones that he had put for his pillows. and set it upon up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. And he called the name of the place Bethel But the name of that city was called Luz at the first. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on. So that I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me, I surely will surely give the tenth. Unto the Let us bow for prayer. O Lord, most high, Jehovah God, we thank you now for your word. Lord, these feeble stumbling, twisted lips of man will now try to expound thy word. But Father, there is no profit in that to your people. And so, Father, we pray that your Holy Spirit would take the failing words of men and apply them mightily to the hearts of your people. For you have chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And Lord, the power of saving is in the word that is preached and not in the preacher that preaches it. And so, Father, may the power of God rest upon your people through your word this day. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the first few verses of this chapter, we find That Isaac is blessing his son Jacob as he departs. And Isaac charges his son there in the first verse. that he's not to take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. In the last verse of the preceding chapter, we find that the daughters of Heath were a burden to his mother. She was wearied of them. God did not choose, nor elect, nor bless the Canaanites. And so Jacob, who is the son of promise, Jacob who receives the birthright, Jacob who through who will come the Messiah. is warned, do not polite pollute the holy seed among the Canaanites. And in verse three of the blessing. Jacob says, and God Almighty bless thee and make thee fruitful and multiply thee that thou mayest be a multitude of people. And that word multitude is an abundantly important word. That word multitude is found 123 times in our Old Testament. Of those 123 times, 86 times, it's translated as congregation. 17 as assembly, 17 as company, and then three as multitude, and then a few other individual ways it's translated. The reason that this word multitude is so important is because it corresponds to the ecclesia of the New Testament. It is the company of God's people. It is the assembling of God's people. And here, when the blessing on Jacob is God, make you a multitude. The New Testament corresponding thought is God make you a congregation. God make you the church. And so in this blessing, we see very clearly the elect, the called-out ones. the assembly of God's people, the congregation of God's people, the company of those who are marching to Zion. And that is the blessing that is placed by Isaac on Jacob as he departs. And then in verse 4, And give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham. Isaac confers upon his younger son Jacob the Abrahamic covenant. The blessings of Abraham beyond the, and later on we find the covenant of the coming Messiah through the line of Abraham. And so Isaac, because you are separated, because or Jacob, because you are separated. Because you are special. Because you are the one that receives the blessing of Jehovah. Do not pollute that blessing. With the daughters of Canaan, but rather go to your mother's brother, go to the son of your mother's father. And there find an acceptable bride. For the Canaanites are polluted. The Canaanites are non-elect. The Canaanites are not. To be joined in with. And of course, the background that precedes this chapter is that of Esau, the older brother. Who sold his birthright for some pottage? He sold his birthright for a pot of stew. And also prior to this we have Jacob, whose name means the surplanter, coming to his father with Esau's clothes. and fur upon his hand that he might receive the blessing. And we call him the supplanter And yet we see that it was all God's choosing and all in God's plan. It's interesting as well, by way of background. To go down to verse six, where when Esau sees that Isaac has blessed Jacob and sent him away to Pay Dan Aaron, to take him a wife of thence. Down to verse seven, Jacob obeyed his father, and verse eight, and Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father Then went Esau unto Ishmael and took unto the wives which he had, Behalatha, the daughter of Ishmael. Remember the book of Hebrews when it talks about Esau, and it says, when Esau would have received the blessing, he did not receive it, though he sought it with tears. Esau had disrespected his blessing. Esau had disrespected his birthright. Esau cared not for the things of God, but he cared for the things of the world. And now, when the blessing has passed, now he seeks the favor of his father. And so now he's trying to find a bride among Ishmael to add to his two Canaanite brides. And oh, what a perfect picture of the man who tries to work salvation for himself rather than trusting in Jehovah God. Who tries to find a way to atone for his own sin? I have forsaken my birthright. I have married the Canaanites. Ah, but now I'll marry a daughter of Ishmael, and that will take care of it. But the daughters of Ishmael are to become Edom, who God will curse. So what an amazing background we have to this story. We talk about this chapter and we refer to it as Jacob's Ladder. But there's a lot more in the chapter than just Jacob's ladder. We find in verse 10 that Jacob went out from Beersheba and went towards Haram. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. Jacob has now traveled about 48 miles roughly from Beersheba. And we believe the place where he is has spent the night is about ten miles north of where Jerusalem would someday stand. There's two important words there. He lighted upon a certain place. To light upon a place is a word of circumstance. It's a word that that has a a light meaning. But the word certain is different. To light upon a place is just to arrive there. But he didn't just arrive, but rather he comes to a certain place. And throughout the chapter, you find this emphasized. In verse 4, you'll inherit the land. In verse 11, a certain place is twice. Uh in verse 13, the land we're on the lius. Verse 14, the dust of the earth. Verse 15, this land. Verse 16, surely the Lord is in this place. Verse 17, this place. The specifics of the place are very clearly pointed out. It wasn't just that he thought, huh, this is a good place to sleep. But rather, we find Jacob exactly in the spot that God wants him to be. And Brother Vince very clearly illustrated that for us this morning in Sunday school from the story of Ruth, that she didn't come to Boaz's field by a chance. And Boaz says, stay here. Stay here. Excuse me. Don't go to another field. Listen to me, Glean, right here. Ruth was in God's appointed place. And Jacob is exactly where God wants him to be. And so let us now consider this glorious account of the teaching that Jacob receives. We find, first of all, that Jacob has left his family. Jacob was the favored of the mother. Esau the favored of the father. Jacob will never see his mother on earth again. Rebekah will die before Jacob returns. He has left his family. In verse 10, he went out from Beersheba. But notice what God promises him in verse 14. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. And thou shalt spread abroad to the east, or to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. And in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Jacob has left his family behind. And God says, I'm going to give you seed like the dust of the earth. Now God had told Abraham, your seed will be as the stars of the heaven. You can't number the stars of the heavens And your sea will be as the sand by the seashore. You can't number the sand of the seashore. But what is different about dust? Now the stars don't wander, they stay where they are. When you see a shooting star, you're not seeing a star at all. You're seeing a meteor coming through the sky. And though the sand may move and shift to some degree, God has set the bounds of the ocean, and the sand, for the most part, stays put. But what about is different about dust? It goes everywhere. Try to stop it. Try to keep it out I'm currently reading a book on the Great Depression and the the Dust Bowl in northern Texas and in Kansas and in Oklahoma. And I've been reading about how the dust was permeating the houses and the ceilings of houses were collapsing because so much dust had gotten into the attics on top the ceiling and they couldn't support it And they would sweep the house, one woman swept her house twelve times a day, and there was always dust, and they taped the windows, and they had what it was called dust pneumonia. Dust goes everywhere. The North, the South, the East, the West. Here God has taken the promise that was given To Abraham of the stars and the sand, and God has further expanded it. It's mobile, it's dust, it spreads And that promise is tied directly to the promise of the Messiah. In thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the world be blessed. And my friend, the dust is spread to us, and we are become dust, for we die in Christ, to dust we return, and we are made alive in Christ. Christ. Oh hallelujah, we are the dust of Israel. Hallelujah. We are brought into that family Jacob, right here, and you've left your family, and no one forsakes mother and father and sister and brother. Without my blessing them, without my restoring them, Jacob, you've left your family, but I'll give you a family like dust. Secondly, Jacob has left his land. In verse 15, I will bring thee again into this land. Jacob has left his land. You see, in the birthright, the eldest son received the land. The younger received an inheritance, the elder received a double portion of everything, and he received the land But the younger received an inheritance that was a mobile inheritance. And a good illustration of that is the parable of the prodigal son, where the elder son, the farm was his, the younger son received portable wealth, received a living. But the elder son, he received the land. The land was his. But now Jacob is fleeing from the land that is his by the birthright. He's running from it. He has been driven out from that which is his own But God says, I will bring you again into this land. It is yours. And I will bring you again into the land. We find also that Jacob thirdly lies down on the cold ground to sleep. Now they didn't have houses as we think of houses. They lived in tent-like houses. But don't think camping tent. How many of you ever slept in a tent? I say a lot of hands. I enjoy sleeping in a tent for about half the night. Right. And I I see smiles from my family because I bought a a new tent recently and have big plans to use it in the spring. When when I was in Kenya, we were out on safari and on a safari and we slept in tents. But these tents were luxurious tents. They had tile floors and bathrooms in tents and showers and actually hot water. Uh in in on safari. That's what Jacob is used to. Yes, he's lived in a tent, but it's don't think Coleman. He has lived in very nice surroundings, and I'm sure he has slept on a very comfortable bed. But now we find him lying down on the cold ground. But if you look at verse 13 The land whereupon thou liest, this place, the land whereupon thou liest, I will give to thee and thy seed. This place. You're lying down on the ground, but it's yours. It's yours. It belongs to you. What a great blessing. Jacob is in darkness. If you look down the verse 11, and he tarried there all night because the sun was set. I mentioned a few weeks ago that some of us have been in very dark places. And we talked about not being able to see your hand in front of your face. There were no street lights around. The sun has set. It is dark. But God gives him light. His vision is that of angels ascending and descending. Remember the shepherds in the field? When the glory of the Lord shone round about them, I guarantee you there was more light around Jacob in his vision than there was around the shepherds. Because around the shepherds there was a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and singing, but here the multitude's going up and down the ladder, and Jehovah's at the top. The wilderness shown, folks. He is running from his family. He's running from his land. He's left his comforts behind. He's lying down on the cold ground and it's dark. But oh, this is a certain place. And God gives him light Jacob believes that there is no one to help him. He is in the wilderness all alone. But in verse 12, God gives him ministering spirits. Behold, the angel of God ascending and descending upon it. In Hebrews 1 verse 14, are not they all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be the heirs of salvation? And what have we said about Jacob? He was the elect. He was the chosen one. Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. The Lord is my helper. Psalm 30 and verse 10, hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me. Lord, be thou my helper. Jacob believes that he is without help, and yet God is there as helper. Jacob is in danger. He's in the wilderness. But God says, I will keep thee in all places where thou goest. Verse 15. Jacob thought he was all alone. He has come to a certain place, and Jacob believes he is in this place all alone. But look at verse 15 and verse 16. And behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest. And will bring thee again into this land. For I will not leave thee until I have done all that which I have spoken to thee of. And Jacob awaked out of his sleep and said, Surely, Jehovah Surely the Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. God was there before Jacob arrived. Surely God is in this place. The issue was not the absence of God's presence. But rather the issue was Jacob's unawareness of God's presence. And oh my friend, how we are separated from family. Separated from those we love, separated from our homeland Separated from our comforts, feeling that we are in darkness. There is none to help us and no one who cares. We're all alone. But God says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I will not leave you until I've done everything I've promised to do. I'll bring you to my heaven. And God doesn't leave us in either. And so we consider how often In Scripture, we find God's people in deep distress, and God was right there to help them, and they didn't even know it. God's people are in bondage in Egypt. Moses is walking through the backside of the wilderness. He has fled from his family and fled from his people just as Jacob. And Moses sees a bush on fire and he says, hmm, look at that. I'm going to go see what this is happening here. And Moses walks up to this bush, tramping along on holy ground with his shoes on, and he has no idea. Until God speaks to him out of the bush and says, Take off your shoes, the place where you stand is holy ground. This place, I'm here. And Moses didn't know it. Again, God's people are in great distress. They're about to face their first major battle. Oh, they fought a few skirmishes and they've won. But now they're not facing some enemy out in the field. They're facing the mighty walls of Jericho. And Joshua is walking around, and I can imagine he's probably looking at these great big walls, saying, this is impossible. How will we ever get through these walls? And suddenly Joshua is startled because there's a soldier he doesn't recognize. And he says to this soldier, Are you with us? Are you with our enemies? And Christ says to him all, no, I'm not a soldier here, I'm the captain. As the captain of the Lord's host am I come? God was there when God's people were in distress. But Joshua didn't know it. And then again we find God's people in distress. The Philistines are taking all the grain. The Philistines are oppressing them. And Manoah and his wife encounter an angel, and they cry out for the distress they're in. And suddenly they realize that this is not an angel, this is God Himself. And they say, we surely die because we've seen God. God was there. And they didn't know it. Coming to the New Testament, Mary Magdalene is in the garden. She's in deep distress. Christ is there. And she didn't know it. Two disciples are on the road to Emmaus. All their hopes and dreams have been spoiled. Christ was there, and they didn't know it. And then just one more, the disciples have gone back to their nets. Christ was there, and they didn't know it. Jacob has fled from his family. He has left his comforts. He is out in the wilderness. Everything he has known is gone and he's all alone. God was there. My friend, how often we find ourselves in distress and we think, where is God in all my troubles? God is there. And just to consider a few texts, let me read through these for you very quickly. In Deuteronomy 36 and verse 6, be strong and of good courage, fear not, be not afraid. For the Lord thy God, he it is that does go with thee. He will not fail thee nor forsake thee. As I was with Moses, God uh says to j to Joshua, so will I be with thee. Excuse me. In 1 Chronicles, for the Lord thy God, even my God, he shall be with thee and not fail thee. In 1 Samuel, for the Lord will not forsake his people In Psalm 46, the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. In Isaiah 41, fear not, for I am with thee. New Testament, I am there in the midst. John 14, 18. I will not leave thee comfortless. I will come to thee. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. And lo, I am with thee always. God is always with his people. But then there's one more thing that we find about Jacob here in this wilderness. And if you notice in the bullets, in the title of our message today, is A Stone Becomes a Temple. We find there in verse 11, and he took the stones of that place and put them up for his pillows. And in verse 16 and 17, and Jacob awaked out of sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the house of God. This is the gate of heaven. You see, Jacob's place of great trial was the best place in the world. The place where Jacob finds great distress is the place of God's divine appointment. He says, how dreadful is this place? And actually, that word dreadful is found twice in this verse: the word afraid and the word dreadful. And he was afraid and said how dreadful. It is the same word used twice. And when we think of the word dreadful, we think of something that is is terrible. But this word dreadful is a word that really we don't have an English equivalent for it that's good. It means a place of great awe. This is a dreadful place. The first time we find this word translated dreadful in Scripture is found in Genesis 3, and he, that is Adam, heard the voice in the garden and was afraid. Adam has sinned, and he hears the voice of God in the garden. And it's dreadful. It's dreadful. For he has sinned against God. But the second time we find this verse in Scripture is in Genesis 15 and verse 1. And the word of the Lord came unto Abraham in a vision, saying, Fear not. Fear not. Abraham, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. Adam, fear Because you've sinned against God. Abraham, fear not. I am with you. Jacob, oh, how fearful is this place because God is here. And I believe that it was in this place, it was in this Bethel that the soul of Jacob was saved. He has been raised knowing the law of God. He has been raised beholding and participating in the sacrifices. But it was at Bethel, his testimonies in the last few verses. It was at Bethel that he came face to face with God, and he said, This is the dreadful place. Fear is upon me because God is here and I didn't know it. And oh my friend, have you been to Bethel? Have you come face to face with your sin and face to face with God and suddenly come to the realization God is in this place and I knew it not? Ah my friend, I came to that realization as an ordained minister in Jamaica. Raised in a Christian home, raised in Christian school, fully conformed to religion. Just as Jacob. Until God brought me to Bethel. When he revealed himself to me in saving power. This was a certain place that he lighted upon. But to bring him to Bethel, he had to get rid of his family. He had to get rid of his possessions. He had to get rid of his comfort. He had to get rid of any false lights, any candles, anything that would give him light He had to be brought to nothing, lying on the cold ground. And God said, I'll give you it all. For there this is the gate of heaven. This is the place where men are saved. You see, a gate This is the gate of heaven. A gate is a place of entry. This is the house of God. Before it's been called Luz, the place of almonds. But now it has become the house of God, the gate of heaven, the way to get in. This is how you get there, folks. Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go therein. But narrow is the gate, narrow is the way. Again, as Brother Vince pointed out in Sunday school a few weeks ago, this ladder from earth to heaven is a glorious picture of Christ himself. In John 1 and verse 15. And he said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see. Heaven opened, isn't that what? Jacob is seeing. He's seeing heaven opened. He sees Jehovah at the head of the ladder. He shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the sun. of man. Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven. He is the only ladder. Some try to climb up another way, but he is the only way. Jesus Christ was set up upon the earth He was the one appointed by God the Father to be the way. In Psalm 2, the Father declares, Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill. Of Zion. I've set my king on a hill in Zion. Christ was crucified on a hill in earthly Zion. I've set my king upon my holy hill. Christ said, if I be lifted up, I'll draw him into me. Jesus Christ is the only one through whom we have access to the Father. A tower of Babel will never succeed. Men have tried many ways to build a ladder to God, to build a tower to God. Men have created many religions and denominations and theologies. But Jesus Christ is the only way. And so Here we find Jacob taken out of death and placed in light. There is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And so in verses 18 through 22, the balance of the chapter, we find that a stone becomes the temple of God. And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put for his pillow. And he set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. This stone that has been his pillow, I doubt it was comfortable. I doubt it was a pleasant place to lay his head. To him, it was just a rock he chose. But oh, rather, it was a rock appointed by God. Upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And the rock of which Christ spoke was himself. And he called the name of the place Bethel. And Bethel means the house of God. But the name of the city before was Luz. It was just a place of almonds before. But now it's become the house of God. And here is Jacob's testimony. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, And will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on. I've never seen the righteous forsaken or the seed baking bread. So that I come again into my father's house. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. My father's house in peace, then shall Jehovah, then shall the Lord be my God, not the gods of the Canaanites Not the gods of the Ishmaelites, not the gods of the Moabites, or the Edomites, or the Philistines, or anyone else who dwelt in the land or may someday dwell in the land. Jehovah will be my God. And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house. This will be God's house. This will be the place of worship. A stone becomes the house of God. And of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give a tenth unto thee. My friend, have you been to Bethel? You may have spent all of your life with your head laying on a stone. But is God calling you away from the from resting on this earth? Do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Do you know the ladder that stretches from earth to heaven? Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the way in which you lead your people to Christ. The way in which you send us through trials and tribulations and things that are uncomfortable. You lead us through the wilderness to bring us to Christ. Father, what mercy and what grace it is. Lord, indeed, may we worship the true God. May we know Christ, the only way to heaven And Father, may you make of our stony hearts the temple of the Most High God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.