Turn to your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Exodus and to the thirteenth chapter. We'll be looking at passages primarily from the 12th and 13th chapter of Exodus. But I'm also going to have us to turn to 1 Corinthians in a few moments for our scripture reading Exodus chapter thirteen to begin this morning While you're turning, one thing we should have I should have mentioned earlier, um one of our missionaries, Ken Olson, is leaving for Cameroon a week from Wednesday. So pray for him as he's going to be teaching in the Bible Institute there. I saw Brother Ken at the board meeting this week be in prayer for him. Exodus chapter 13, and I'll start reading with the first verse. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Sanctify unto me all the firstborn. Whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast, it is mine. And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day in the which ye came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage. For by the strength of the hand of the Lord brought you out forth to the uh from this place, there shall no leaven bread be eaten. This day came he out in the month Abib And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hebites, and the Jebusites. which he swear unto thy fathers to give thee a land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt keep this service in this month. Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh shall be a feast unto the Lord. Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days. And there shall no leaven bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen with thee in thy quarters. And thou shalt show thy son in that day, saying, This is done because the Lord because that which the Lord did unto me when I came forth out of Egypt. And it shall come to shall be a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for a memorial between thine eyes, that the Lord's law may be in thy mouth. For with strong hand hath the Lord brought thee out of Egypt. Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year to year. And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee unto the land of the Canaanites, as he swear unto thee, and to thy fathers, and shall give it unto thee. That thou shalt set apart unto the Lord all that openeth the matrix, and every fursling that come of the beast which thou hast, the Lord shall make the males shall be the Lord's And every every firstling of an ass shalt thou redeem with a lamb. And if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck. And all the firstborn of man among the children shalt thou redeem. And it shall be when thy sons ask thee in time to come, saying, What is this? That thou shalt say unto him, By strength of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage. And it shall come to pass when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, and it came to pass when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt. Both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beast. Therefore I sacrifice to the Lord all that openeth the matrix being males, but all the firstborn of my children I redeem. And it shall be a token upon thine hand, and for front lips between thine eyes. For by strength of hand the Lord brought us forth out of Egypt. And then turn with me to the New Testament, please, to 1 Corinthians and chapter 11. The 11th chapter of 1 Corinthians. And we'll start our New Testament reading there at verse number 23. 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 23. Paul says, For I received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks he broke it, and said, Take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach your word, we pray that your blessed Holy Spirit might be the preacher. Lord, that your Spirit would take your word and apply it to the hearts of your people, not in words after man's wisdom, not in that which the preacher might have to say, or the comments of man upon the word But Father, may the word itself be blessed by your gracious spirit to our hearts this day. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We come this morning as we do four times a year, and we will celebrate the Lord's table, the Lord's Supper. This is not a Mass. This is not a recrucifying of Christ. But rather, this is a remembrance. And Christ said, as oft as you do this, you do it in remembrance of me. Do this in remembrance of me. And we have that uh on engraved in our communion table this due in remembrance of me. It's a memorial. I'd like us to consider this morning some of the things that this is a memorial to, and that's where we're going back to Exodus 12 and Exodus 13. And now it happens to see from Exodus 13 that first of all, this Lord's table, which has its origins in the Passover, is a memorial of sonship. We read there in Exodus 13 and in verse 2, Sanctify unto me all the firstborn, whatsoever cometh openeth the womb among the children of Israel, both man and of beast, it is mine. God here very clearly declares that he owns the firstborn. They are his own. This is a memorial of sonship. And if you look down to verses 12 and 13, when a donkey is born, when an ass is born, you're to redeem it with a lamb, and if you will not redeem it, you're to break its neck. You're not to hold on to it. If you will not redeem it with a lamb, break its neck. It is not yours. It is not your own. Pharaoh, let my people go that they may worship me. In Hosea, God says, I called my son out of Egypt. Israel is my own. Pharaoh, let my people go. And if you will not let my son go to worship me, I will take your son. For he does not belong to you. The firstborn belong to me. And of course Pharaoh rebelled against the command of God. And throughout the land of Egypt there was a great wailing. There was a great cry that rose in the night because the death angel passed through the land. And upon the children of Israel, there was the blood upon the door. The blood stood between the children of Israel and the angel of death. The sacrifice stood as a testimony of their faith in Jehovah. But in the Egyptian houses there was no blood, and there was a Wailing. There was a crying. From the house of Pharaoh, even to the lowest servant in the dungeon, the firstborn died. Why? Because God God owns the first door. And as we come and we celebrate the Lord's table today, We come to celebrate and remember the sacrifice of the one who gave himself, why? That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. And God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And that term only begotten doesn't mean he was the only one that was born to him. But rather it was his firstborn. It was his own son. And we celebrate this sacrifice of sonship because the Son of God gave his life For his people, and because the Son gave his life, now are we the sons of God. You see, this sacrifice was the entrance into the covenant This is before the circumcision. Or no, I'm sorry, it's not before the circumcision. But this was to the children of Israel when they were in bondage, when they were not practicing the covenant, but now they are called out to be God's own people. The firstborn was to be sacrificed. And so when Mary and Joseph brought the infant Jesus, she brought forth her firstborn son and lady of a man. They brought him to the temple, and why did they bring him to the temple there in Luke 2? To do for him according to the law. They were coming to redeem the firstborn. And so this sacrifice is a remembrance of the firstborn. So it's a more moral sonship. But also we find That this institution of the Passover is a memorial of a sonship because it is a teaching moment Because of the time for us to teach our children. When the Jews observe their Passover, even the day, or their Seder. There are a series of questions that are to be asked by the son. Actually, in Jewish tradition, many times it's the youngest son today that asks the questions. But the question begins this way Why is this night different from all other nights? On all other nights, we eat either unleavened or leavened bread, but tonight we eat only leavened bread. On our own nights, we may eat all kinds of vegetables, but tonight we eat only bitter herbs. And it goes on. Where does that come from? Well look back to Exodus twelve. In Exodus twelve and verse twenty-six. And it shall come to pass when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by these services? That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, who passed over the house of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians and delivered our houses, and the people bowed the head and worshipped. And then look to chapter 13 and verse 9. And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thy hand, and for a memorial between thine eyes, that the Lord's law may be in thy mouth With a strong hand the Lord brought thee out of Egypt. And look to verse 14 of Exodus 13 And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What is this? That thou shalt say unto him, By the strength of the hand of the Lord brought us out by strength of hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt from the house of bondage And we read in Deuteronomy 6 for our responsive reading. Look at verse 20 of Deuteronomy 6, if you still have that passage close by. Deuteronomy 6 and verse 20. And when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What mean these testimonies and these and the judgments which the Lord our God hath commanded you? Then thou shalt say unto them, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out by mighty hand. Go down to verse twenty-three. He brought us out from thence that he might bring us into the land. This Lord's table is a memorial of sonship that is to be taught to our children. You see, the young Jewish boy growing up would see that his father's ass had just had a colt, just had a foal, and it was beautiful, and it was frisky But that the father would not redeem it, that son saw the broken neck. And it would come to the Passover, and the sons were to ask, What does this mean? What is it we're doing? And it was to be a constant reminder that by a mighty hand, that phrase, a mighty hand, is repeated over and over again, by a mighty hand, God brought us out of Egypt. The lamb was slain, the blood was shed, and God smote the Egyptians, but he spared us because we were under the blood. We have a lot of children with us. And I love the fact that we have our children here with us in church. And may they see what we're doing. And may some child say, Daddy, Mom, why do we do this four times a year? What is it that's different about this this Sunday? What is it we're doing? This is a time for us to teach our children that the Son of God, Jesus Christ Himself said, prepare a body for me, thou hast prepared me a body. He came to this earth in that body, and he lived in sinless Perfection. He lived a life that none of us could ever live. And just like the sacrifice of the Old Testament must be the spotless Lamb, the perfect Lamb, Jesus Christ. came as the Lamb of God. He shed his blood. And the night of his crucifixion, he took the Passover, which we didn't really understand until that night. And he showed us perfectly what this Passover was. And Jesus Christ, who died for your sin and died for my sin, he told us to do this. Ah, what a glorious time to teach our sons and our daughters the truth of God. What a glorious memorial of sonship. But then this is also a memorial sonship because God claimed Israel as his own elect. He claimed them as his own people. Look at Exodus chapter 4. And I know I've got your thumbs busy turning this morning. But look with me in Exodus chapter 4 and verses 22 and 23. Exodus four and verse twenty-two, and thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord, Israel's my son. I claim them. Israel is mine own. Israel is my son, even my firstborn. And I say unto thee, let my son go, that he may serve me. And if thou refuse to let him go, I will slay thy son, even thy brother. Oh, it's a memorial of sonship because through the sacrifice of Christ, we are claimed as his own. We enter into that fellowship. Now are we the sons of God? And in 1 John 3, you don't need to turn there, but let me read it to you. 1 John 3, verses 1 and 2. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not, beloved. Now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. God gave his son. But not only is the Passover and now the Lord's Supper a memorial of sonship, it's also a memorial of sinlessness. You didn't take the lamb with a crooked ear. You didn't take the lamb whose coat was kind of molted. It had to be It had to be the spotless lamb. The sacrifice had to be sinless. And if you look there in Exodus 12 and verse 5, your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year, he shall take it from out of the sheep or out of the goats. And immediately we think of Christ. For Peter said, For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. as a lamb without spot and without blemish. And that brings us to the unleavened bread. And you'll notice there in chapters 12 and 13, we find over and over again this concept of leavened. The unleavened bread is itself a picture of Jesus Christ. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and they are dead. You see, there was a bread that they ate in the wilderness, the manna. It came from God, and yet it was not the bread of life But Jesus said, I am the bread of life. Jesus Christ could not be the bread of life if he were a sinner. You see, the bread of sin is not the bread of life. And so the children of Israel were very cautiously very directly and very firmly instructed that the bread of the Passover was to be unleavened bread. And so the partakers of this sacrifice had themselves to be sinless. And yet, how can we be sinless to partake of this sacrifice? Ah, there must be repentance if we are to be a part of that covenant. There must be repentance from all sin. This morning, if you know there is sin in your heart, I am very glad you're here. This is where you should be if you know there's sin in your heart. But no one here will look askance at you if you let the cup pass, and the bread pass. For this sacrifice, this Lord's table, this remembrance of that fellowship and covenant is for believers whose sins are confessed. And Scripture tells us that if you have aught against your brother, leave your gift at the altar, be reconciled first to your brother. And I know of dear brethren, men who I would say are far godlier than I And yet I have been told by them there have been times when they have not taken the Lord's table in the fellowship because they knew they needed to get on their knees first. They knew there was something to settle. And brethren, if you feel that you cannot partake of this table in fellowship with us this morning, no one will look at you askance, but rather we will rejoice Because that is evidence that the Spirit of God is actively at work in your heart. And there is within you that conviction of sin, and that hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness. If you look at verses 14 and 15 there in Exodus 12. Exodus twelve, verses fourteen and fifteen, this and this day shall be unto you for a memorial. And ye shall keep it a feast unto the Lord throughout all your generations. Ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread. Even the first day shall ye put away leaven out of your houses. For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day unto the seventh That soul shall be cut off from Israel. You see, there was a personal preparation that the children of Israel went through leading up to the Passover. That's why we announce in our bulletin that Lord's Table is two weeks away. Because we don't approach it lightly For seven days there was to be no leaven in their household. You find that again in Exodus 12, verse 19. Seven days there shall no leaven be found in your house. Again in chapter thirteen, verse six, seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread. And in Exodus thirty-four, I won't have you turn there, but in Exodus thirty-four and verse twenty-five Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven, neither shalt thou sacrifice the feast of the Passover be left unto the morning. Don't eat the sacrifice with leaven. Now what's wrong with leaven? I'm sure most of our ladies at some time or another have baked a cake or baked a pie or some bread or something, and it didn't rise. The leaven failed. We use leaven. What is wrong with leaven? Well, leaven itself is basically permanent bread. It is an active yeast. And there is nothing inherently evil or wrong in leaven itself. We use it in our breads. But throughout Scripture, leaven is a picture of sin. Leaven is used in Scripture as a type of evil or iniquity or of false doctrine. In Matthew 16 and verse 6, Jesus said unto them, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. In other words, be careful of them. Their doctrine is false, their practice is false, they are white in sepulchres, they are full of dead man's bones. Stay away from it. It's evil And by God telling Israel, put the leaven out of your house for seven days, not just don't eat it, don't even have it in your quarters, don't have it in your dwelling. He was showing them as you approach This sacrifice, the Lamb must be sinless, and so must you. Purify yourselves, sweep out the corners of your mind. Cleanse the dark places of your heart. Seek ye the Lord, while he may be found. And so the sacrifice was to be perfect. In 1 Corinthians 5, verses 6 through 9. Go ahead and turn now. Let's look at these passages. 1 Corinthians 5 and verse 6. First Corinthians five, verse six Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye might be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover, is sanctified for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness But with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump Christ is our Passover, and our Passover was perfect. Our Passover was sinless. Therefore, as we come to this memorial, we remember that this is a memorial of sinlessness This is the time for us to examine ourselves in the light of Scripture. And if we examine ourselves in that light, oh, how dark we find ourselves to be. And yet, what a good spiritual exercise. To come to this table. We celebrate the Lord's table four times a year. Some churches celebrate it more or less But it's a time for us to come as a memorial to our sinless Lamb and to search our own hearts to be sure that we are in the faith. And yes, I checked my clock onto the pulpit. You probably know when I do that. I want to take a little sidetrack for just a minute because uh I I told you all that we're at the camp out that my father used to say the difference between teaching and preaching is preaching's louder Let me do a little bit of teaching for a moment. Leaven in Scripture is always sin. Now, there's some dear brethren that would debate that with me. Some would say that, well, what about the parable of the leaven that was hid in four measures of bread? And it grew and sprung out. And they would say, well, there Levin is talking about the gospel and how the gospel is going to go all over the world. But Christ said, when I return, will there be faith found in the earth? He said there would be a great falling away first. What is meant by that leaven? Why is that leaven not Good leaven. Well, let me read the verse to you. In Matthew 13 and verse 33, another parable spake he unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven. which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leaven This leaven that's spoken of there, which is in the kingdom of heaven, rather than being a good thing which causes to grow, it is false doctrine that is being spoken of there. You see, a little bit of false doctrine within the church grows and permeates, and we see Why we're here today as Bible Presbyterians as opposed to any other kind. Because we see iniquity and false doctrine in the church. Consider what is said there. In Matthew 13, 33, another parable he said a woman took leaven and hid it in the church till the whole was leavened. First of all, it's hidden. But we're to let the gospel shine. We're not to hide if we hide our gospel in our bushel. No, we put it on a candlestick. But this leaven was hidden in the church. Further, it was hidden there by a woman. Now, God has given the spiritual leadership and the discernment of doctrine to man. Many of the reformers looked at this woman as Rome, as the Great Whore. But then we consider the context of the parable. The first parable there in Matthew 13 is of the sower, where the birds of the air came and stole away the seed. The second parable in this same context of Matthew 13 is the terrors which were planted by an enemy. Then we have the parable of the mustard seed. The mustard seed is planted and it grows into a great tree, but what is in the top of the tree? Birds. And what have we just learned about birds? Do they plant seed or do they steal away the seed? And then we have this parable The other context where the same parable is given is in Luke 13 and verse 21. And the context of Luke 13, you have the parable of the barren fig tree. It didn't bear fruit. Then one of the rulers of the synagogue rebukes Christ. Then you have the parable of the mustard seed again, remember the birds, and then the parable of the leaven. And so throughout Scripture, this idea of leaven, it is false doctrine. It is wickedness. It's not to be in our houses. For seven days, don't eat leaven, don't even have in your house. And so this Lord's table is a memorial to sinlessness. But then we notice the condemnation of those who would violate this principle of sinlessness. In verse 15 of chapter 12, I know I've had you turn it flip back and forth, but back to Exodus 12 and verse 15. Seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. Even the first day shall ye put away leaven out of your houses. For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day unto the seventh That soul shall be cut off from Israel. And then you go to verse 19 of chapter 12. Starting part way through the verse, for whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel. Those who refuse To obey this command. They weren't part of Israel. They were cut off. They were excommunicated. They were removed from the fellowship. Now What's wrong with leaven? I like leaven in my bread. This is just a symbol. It's just a picture. God's just trying to show us that leaven is sin. It's just a little thing. I'm gonna have a little bit of leaven on Thursday. No, God said for a week, put away leaven. It's a matter of Simple obedience. You see, the commands of God don't always have to make sense to our human sensibility. The commands of God are yea and amen. And we've considered when we've been looking at 1 John that it's not that we're cleansed to cleanse ourselves from most sin or from some sin, that the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. And God says, be holy, for I am the Lord your God. Be holy, for I am holy. And this sacrifice is a remembrance to us that those who rebel against the truth of God, those who rebel and kick against his sacrifice, they're cut off. They're excommunicated. This term that we find cut off there in the Old Testament is the same term, same concept, but not the same term, that Paul uses when he talks about Israel, and he said, I could wish for myself to be accursed for my brethren. Israel. I could wish that I could be cut off, but there was some way I could be cut off, and they go in. That was the love he had for them. But it's a very serious matter. And we read earlier in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and I stopped at verse 23, but let me read to you on from there. In verse 27 of 1 Corinthians 11, wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat bread and drink the cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the body of the Lord. And so we must approach this Lord's Supper carefully. And so the Lord's Supper is a memorial of sonship. It is a memorial of sinlessness. But then we find also as the memorial of sacrifice. When did Christ take the Jewish Passover, which they had been observing for over a thousand years or so? Give or take? When did he take that sacrifice and show them what it really meant? On the night of his arrest. Just hours before he went to the cross, this is my body, which is broken for you Take, eat. This is the New Testament or the New Covenant, literally, in my blood. Drink ye all of it, for as often as ye eat this bread. And drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Ah. When we get together with our family for a meal, it's a joyous time. We love family picnics. I remember as a child, my mother's family got together five times a year at the family farm, and it was such a wonderful time of fellowship, and we enjoyed it. It was fun. We looked forward to it. But this is not a meal that we come to for celebration or for personal pleasure. But rather, we come to this meal joyfully. Because we're redeemed, and solemnly, because we count the cost. What did this meal cost? We're not redeemed with corruptible things, but the precious blood of Christ. This Lord's table is a memorial of sacrifice. In Exodus 12 and verse 13, and the blood shall be for you a token upon your houses where you are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over to you. The Lord's Supper is a memorial of separation. On that night, God separated the Israelites from the Egyptians. They were separated. On that night, they were taken out of Egypt. And again, Egypt in biblical typology, Egypt is always a picture of the world. They were taken out of Egypt and began their march to the Promised Land. There was separation. God will divide the sheep from the goats. There is the right hand and the left hand. There is the wheat and the tares. In this Lord's table we remember that it is the blood of Jesus Christ that is the Separated me from all men. What is the difference between me and the vilest sinner of this world? It is the blood. What stands between me and judgment, it is the blood. It's a memorial of separation. And then finally, this memorial is a memorial of salvation itself. Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing flood? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? We're going to partake of the Lord's table. We have open communion in our congregation. That means So you don't have to be a member here to partake of the body of Christ. Our communion is open to our children at the discretion of the parents. If you believe your child has an understanding of what we are doing, and that your child is a redeemed child of God, they're welcome to take as well. If you are here today as an unbeliever, we are so glad you're here, and we rejoice at your presence. But we would ask you not to partake of this table for the sake of your presence. If you're here today as a child of God, and yet you look into yourself honestly and say, you know, my walk with the Lord is not right, I need to get a few things straighten out, we're going to bow our heads, and no one will look askance at you for not partaking of this table with us. I'm going to ask Tim Everett, our elder, and Pastor Keith Bird, if you would come and assist with the distribution of the elements.