Good morning. I just had cataract surgery. Things aren't healed, so I need these cheaters to see my notes. So hopefully, the Lord willing we'll do all right here. Uh After I prepared the message for this morning, uh I was looking at your website. as I do from time to time and and something struck me that I'm not sure I had taken notice of before, at least not as carefully as I did this week. You have a section that's titled Emphatic Beliefs. And in the light of the message that I prepared for today, I was especially struck by number seven on that list of emphatic beliefs. Which says this, any teaching aiming to destroy the role of the law of God is incorrect. Any teaching aiming to destroy the role of the law of God is incorrect. It's rare for a church to have such a statement, such a sound statement about the law of God today. There's a great deal of false teaching about the law of God, and most of it falls into one of two categories. There are those who teach, on the one hand, that Christians can ignore God's law. You can live any way you please. And God will still accept you. They don't teach that obedience to the law of God is the evidence of saving faith. And that if that evidence is not there, saving faith is to be doubted. But on the other hand, and and and what does the Apostle Paul say about that? Let us sin that grace may abound. God forbid. God forbid. False teaching. But on the other hand, there are those who want to make God's law something that we must keep in order to be saved. That kind of legalism. But once again, what do we hear through the Apostle Paul by the Holy Spirit? By the works of the law shall no flesh be justified That's not how we're justified in the sight of God. Well, I'm sure that nothing I'm going to say this morning is going to be new to this congregation. But I hope that the verses we're going to be looking at this morning, the Lord willing, will help to even further establish and encourage us in the truth of that statement on your website, because it is the truth of the Word of God. Any teaching that aims to destroy the role of the law of God, that is the biblical role of the law of God, is incorrect. Is in fact heresy. And the passage that I want to call to our attention this morning is found in the book of Romans, chapter 3, beginning at verse 19. Familiar words, I'm sure, just two verses, verses 19 and 20. Romans chapter three. This is the word of God. Now we know That what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his that is in God's sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. And I want to focus our attention in particular this morning on the meaning and the implications of the last phrase of verse 20. By the law is the knowledge of sin. I don't think any of us could possibly disagree this morning when I say that we live in a time of lawlessness. A time of intense lawlessness I've lived long enough to think about this that I never thought in my life that I would see what we're seeing now. Lawlessness such as I don't think any of us have ever seen before. Most obviously we live in a time of lawlessness in the government of our society at large where Living in a time when God's moral law is suppressed and even scoffed at by our legislatures and our courts and by the executive branches of government, we live in a time when God's moral law is not merely Ignored by sinful men, but sinful men have the audacity to try to outlaw God's moral law. Man tries to outlaw God's moral law against murder By making abortion and euthanasia legal. Man tries to outlaw God's moral laws against fornication and adultery Governments try to overturn God's law mandating marriage between one man and one woman. Man tries to outlaw God's moral law that mandates the biblical family. By making it legal, quote unquote, for same-sex couples to adopt children and even artificially conceive children. And so now on on passports, I had to apply for a new passport recently, and uh on passports Now, instead of for a minor child who has a passport, instead of the parents being listed as father and mother, It's listed as parent one and parent two. Maybe parent three, I don't know. But That's where we are. That's where we are. For the first time in the history of this country, the majority of children are growing up in a home environment that's completely foreign to God's law. Broken homes, unbiblical marriages, all of it. So much going on. And the concept of individual responsibility for sin has become foreign, hasn't it? We see that whenever look at the news, whenever there's a mass murder of some kind. The news media are quick to tell us that the individual who committed the crime is not the one responsible. The news media try to tell us that society's responsible. Talk radio is responsible. Certain politicians or political elements are responsible. They even will try to tell us that the Bible-believing church is somehow responsible. Because we've offended people. But God's word says all that's a lie. The individual who devises an evil scheme and pulls the trigger or thrusts the knife or drives a car into a crowd or sets off a bomb, that person is responsible before God. We not only live in a time of lawlessness in society at large in the secular realm, we're also living in a time of lawlessness in church government. In many, many cases. Even in the ministry of the church, many churches are abandoning God's law by not dealing decisively with heresy. in the church. Not dealing decisively with those who were told in the end of Romans we should mark and avoid because they cause divisions among the people of God. And in fact, many churches are encouraging moral lawlessness among the membership by tolerating sin within the body, by refusing to preach against sin, and even Even affirming people in their sinful lifestyles. Telling people in the church that they don't need to change their sinful ways, that God accepts them as they are. Now, there's truth in that. God says come as you are. But He doesn't say stay as you are. That's the point. But we live in a time of lawlessness in the lives of many individuals who profess Christ today. The average evangelical church, I fear, has made it far too easy for the individual who professes to be a Christian to say, I'm not responsible. And in fact, much of contemporary preaching encourages that. You don't hear the word sin used. I do bad things. I make bad choices because of my upbringing. Or it's because of my spouse that I don't get along with. Or it's because my parents are too hard on me. They don't make it their first priority to inflate my self-esteem. Nothing's my responsibility. And and the church, sadly, in many, many cases, is encouraging and nurturing that kind of thinking. Many churches today have support groups of various kinds. And as you look at that, what you really find is that in many, many cases, those support groups are nothing but ways of helping to affirm people in their sin. Supporting the false so that people are not individually responsible for their sins before God It's far too easy for the individual who professes to be a Christian these days to call sin something else. To not call it what God calls it. To not call it an offense against the lawgiver, against the righteous judge. We live in an environment where this thing called postmodernism has infiltrated and invaded many evangelical churches. Postmodernism says there's no such thing as objective truth I heard a conference speaker last year say it was a homeschool conference and he said he said I fear that in the evangelical church we've gone past the time when the major question was what is the truth The question now, especially among our young people, is, is there even such a thing as the truth? That's where we are. And a wrong view of the law of God is behind so much of that. According to reliable surveys, over half of professing Christians, evangelical Christians, do not believe that Jesus Christ is a sinless Savior. Incredible. What's the result of this state of lawlessness? Well, we live in an environment in which many professing Christians do not really understand the gospel. They've not truly believed the gospel. Many professing Christians who are sitting in evangelical churches today have experienced some kind of psychological conversion, some kind of moral conversion. I'm not doing all the bad things that I used to do, but they've not experienced genuine conversion. Regeneration by the Spirit. It's a very different matter and it has a very different starting point. Yep. And I praise God that as we gather together today we're in a congregation where the one true God is the one true gospel and the one true God are preached faithfully and fully. Fully. This church does not preach a halfway gospel. And in a few moments I'm going to explain what I mean by that But we need to understand that what we have, and this is not to pat ourselves on the back, it's the grace of God But what we have here, what you have here is rare in the evangelical church of our time. We need to understand that there's much of the postmodern evangelical church that has descended into lawlessness. Much of the church has become as much of a mission field. as any remote tribe on the Amazon River as much as any city in the Muslim world. The question I want to put before us this morning is this. What is the cure for this lawlessness? Whether it's in government or in the church? Lawlessness in the lives of individuals, especially in the lives of professing Christians. What's the cure? We find the cure in the passage that's before us this morning. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in God's sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Let's look at this. Now we know, Paul says There are two different words for knowledge in these verses. And we have the first one here in verse 19. Paul says, Now we know that the following things are true. Now we know. And those three words in English are actually one word in the original Greek. And the original Greek means now we know absolutely. We know this without question. We know it without any possibility of contradiction. We know that the following things are true. Paul, this logical presenter of the gospel by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Bible's not a postmodernist book. It's not the opinions of men. It's a book of revealed truth. Revealed truth. The evangelical church must purge itself of a mindset that's characterized by Satan's words to Eve. Has God indeed said. The evangelical church must come back to thus, saith the Lord. The evangelical church must bow the knee before the God of the Bible, who is the God of absolutes. Now we know, Paul says. We know absolutely without question that certain things are true because God says them. What things? Well, the first thing that Paul declares here is that everyone, Jew or Gentile, is subject to God's moral law. That's what he means when he says those who are under the law. If you read the two and a half chapters that precede these verses, you'll realize that Paul's not speaking of other elements of what is spoken of in Scripture as the law. He's not speaking here of the Jewish ceremonial law. He's not speaking here of the Jewish civil law. He's speaking here of the transcendent moral law of God. God's standard of righteousness for man, both in man's relationship to God and man's relationship to his fellow man. Everyone is under that law. And where do we find it capsulized for us, the Ten Commandments? So that's first. God's moral law, we're all under it. Second, Paul is declaring to us that under the moral law, we have nothing to say to God. That every mouth may be stopped, Paul says, and all the world may become guilty before God. Everyone who is under the law, and that means everyone. The idea of being under the law here in the original language means literally to be fenced in by God's law. The idea is that the evidence of God's law that is set forth against us is so overwhelming, it is so unanswerable, that we have absolutely nothing to say in our own defense. Nothing. The only thing that mankind under the law of God can say to God is this, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And thirdly, Paul continues this chain of logic. Therefore, he says, because God declares that the foregoing things are true, therefore, by the deeds of the law, by the keeping of the law, No flesh will be justified in his sight. Now we might say, how can that be? If I kept God's moral law perfectly, wouldn't that be enough? And of course the answer is in the preceding two and a half chapters here in Romans. Paul's gone to great lengths to prove one thing, and that is that we're not sinners because we sin. We sin because we're sinners. We sin because that's a nature. The child who comes into this world, the child who has as yet done no conscious right or wrong, is a sinner by nature, and it doesn't take long. For them to give evidence of that fact. I have a cute little grand niece. who will soon be a year old and and in in in God's providence uh when she's eleven months old she's gonna have a little sister. But uh she's as sweet as she can be, but that sin nature is there. You see it, even though she's only about ten months old What does David say in Psalm 51? I was conceived in sin. My parents were sinners, so I'm a sinner. And so it goes all the way back through all of human heredity, all the way back to Adam. We've all inherited that sin nature from Adam. In Adam, Paul declares, we all died. Death passed upon all men because all have sinned. But when Paul says that, he's not speaking initially of our own personal acts of sin. He's speaking initially of the fact that we share Adam's sin. Because he's the federal head of the entire human race. Our condemnation does not begin when we commit our first act of sin. We come into this world, as we heard earlier this morning, we come into this world already condemned. Therefore, Paul says, by the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in God's sight. It's a moral and spiritual impossibility with a holy God. And why is that? Well, this brings us to Paul's fourth point in these verses. Again, he's continuing a chain of logic. Notice what he says at the end of verse 20, for the by the law. is the knowledge of sin. By the law is the knowledge of sin. You cannot have a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ unless you have a saving knowledge of sin. So mo so often that's missing from gospel preaching today, what's called gospel preaching. What's the purpose of the law? The purpose of God's moral law is not to save anyone. The purpose of God's moral law is to expose us for what we are, to show us his standard of holiness. And I believe the Ten Commandments give us only the slightest glimpse of the holiness of our great God. The fact that we cannot obey God's moral law, none of us, that fact exposes what we are in Adam. It confirms the condemnation we deserve. It confirms our hopelessness apart from Christ. And that's why the doctrine that we call double imputation is so important. Double imputation, what does that mean? Well, let me Explain what it is by first explaining what it is not, because a lot of preachers today teach only that our sins were imputed to Christ at the cross. End of it. True. They teach that Christ took our sins on himself on the cross in order to pay for them. And that's true, but that's only half the picture. If it were only true that our sins are imputed to Christ, we would be left in a horrible state of uncertainty. We would be left in the state of uncertainty that Roman Catholicism declares that man is in. We would be left in a position where we would be, as it were, only half saved. Only half saved. Christ has done this much, we've got to do the rest. And there's so much teaching today that's like that. There's a teaching among evangelicals today. Among evangelicals today. That says, I'm justified by faith, but I gain entry to heaven by works. No, no. If that were true, we'd be of all men most miserable. And to be half saved is not to be saved at all. But God didn't do a halfway job. Jesus Christ kept the law perfectly on our behalf before he went to the cross. He went to the cross. As both the perfect sacrifice for sins and the perfect high priest to offer that sacrifice, fully qualified on both counts. And so his law-keeping righteousness, his perfect law-keeping is imputed to us by faith. We wear the robe of his righteousness We don't try to assemble some robe of our own righteousness. Now I know that the things that I've just said are things that we all know well. You've heard these things from this pulpit many times. And I praise God for that. I trust you praise God for that too. I've said all this to bring us to a very vital point, and that point has to do with the very last words of Romans chapter 3, verse 20. What do we read there? For by the law is the knowledge of sin, the knowledge of sin. Now I mentioned earlier that in these two verses there are two different Greek words for knowledge. One we saw in verse nineteen, the beginning of verse nineteen means we know absolutely, with unassailable certainty. But then we come to a second and different word for knowledge here at the end of verse 20. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. The knowledge of sin. It's a very significant word. There were several words for knowledge in Greek, and there are two words that appear here. The word that we find there they're both based on the same root word, gnosis. It it means knowledge in a general sense. It's the the Greek word from which we get our English words like diagnosis and prognosis in the medical field. But there's a different form of gnosis, a superlative form here at the end of verse 20. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. The Greek word here is not merely gnosis, but it has a prefix on it, epinosis. And the word epinosis means full knowledge, accurate knowledge, correct knowledge, deep knowledge. Deep knowledge. And not only that, the word gnosis, general knowledge, that speaks of intellectual knowledge. intellectual knowledge. It is knowledge of the mind, but it's not necessarily knowledge that affects or influences the character. We can know a lot of things to be true. Intellectually, mentally, we can know a lot of things to be true without that knowledge having any real effect on us. But epinosis, the kind of knowledge that Paul's speaking of here at the end of verse 20, that's knowledge that has an impact. This is the purpose of the law, Paul's telling us. The purpose of the law is to give us an ever-deepening understanding of the sinfulness of our sin. And the chief end of that knowledge is to bring sinners to Christ. What does Paul tell us in Galatians? What is the law? It's a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. to tutor to bring us to Christ, to show us our need, to show us our sinfulness, to show us our hopelessness. So that we will flee to Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. A few moments ago I said that this church doesn't preach a halfway gospel. And I talked about the fact that We speak so often of a saving knowledge of Christ, and that is true. That's a valid way of describing the fact that someone has become a Christian. But what has to happen in order for that saving knowledge of Christ to come about? There has to be a saving knowledge of sin. God be merciful to me, a sinner. The knowledge of sin that comes through a proper understanding of God's law. And that kind of knowledge is a knowledge that causes us to understand the full weight of our sin problem. It's the kind of knowledge that causes us to understand that we have no righteousness of our own. To understand that we can never hope to have a righteousness of our own. The knowledge of sin that comes through a proper understanding of God's law is the kind of knowledge that brings you to the point where you understand What Augustus Toplady said in that great hymn, Rock of Ages, he called it the double cure. The double cure. Save from wrath and make me pure. Yes, I need my sins forgiven through the blood of Christ. I need for my own sins, my own sinfulness in Adam, all to be placed on Christ. And I believe that my sins and my very sin nature were dealt with at the cross. That's saving faith. But I need the double cure. What does the hymn writer go on to say? Not the labors of my hands can fulfill thy law's demands. Could my zeal no respite no? Could my tears forever flow? All for sin could not atone. Thou must save, and thou alone. I need the law keeping righteousness of Christ because that's the only law keeping righteousness that exists. The only righteousness it can save, the only righteousness in which we can stand at the day of judgment Which calls to mind also the hymn written originally in German by a German count named Zinzendorf. Later translated into English by Charles Wesley. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness. My beauty are my glorious dress. Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed, with joy shall I lift up my head. Bold shall I stand in that great day For who aught to my charge shall lay? Fully absolved from these I am, from sin and fear, from guilt and shame. And yet there's more. There's more, as glorious as all of that is, the knowledge of sin, that deepening acquaintance with the sinfulness of sin, that deepening awareness of the pervasiveness of sin, that Eponosis knowledge of sin shows us our need of sanctification as believers. It shows us that we need to be made more like Christ. We see this in the experience of the Apostle Paul himself. What does he say later on in Romans 7? He says, I wouldn't have known sin except through the law. He says As a believer, this is my experience. What I'm doing, I don't understand. What I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate, that I do For I know that in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing, for to will to do good is present with me. But how to perform what is good in my flesh, that I do not find. For the good that I will to do, I do not do. But the evil that I will not do, that I practice. And so he cries out, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And then he goes on in the next chapter, Romans 8, to speak of the great privilege that's ours because of Christ. We have the Spirit of God living within us. It's the work of the Spirit to conform us to the image of Christ so that we will walk in the Spirit and not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. A deepening knowledge of the sinfulness of sin. not only should but must characterize the life of every believer because it is only as we grow in our knowledge of the surpassing sinfulness of sin. that we can grow in our understanding of the surpassing righteousness of Christ. And what it means therefore to walk in the Spirit and to bear the fruits of the Spirit and not to fulfill the lusts of the flesh. Now all of this being said, I want to bring us back to the point that I stressed in our in our introduction. I said that we're living in a time of lawlessness unquestionably, in government, in society at large, and even in the government and ministry of the church. Even in the presentation of the gospel. So much of what's presented today as the gospel is a lawless gospel. What's the answer? What's the solution? It's the same in every case. We heard it in pastor's prayer this morning. The answer, the solution for government, for society, for the church, for the individual is to recognize and understand and submit to the purpose of God's law. A knowledge of the law that results in a knowledge of sin, a true knowledge of sin. Not just an intellectual knowledge, not just a plaque on the courtroom wall knowledge. Not just a monument in the public square knowledge of God's law. It's easy for people to erect those things. A lot of unbelievers have put up those plaques and erected those monuments But they don't really understand, they don't really have the knowledge of the sin that the law confronts us with. What's needed is the kind of knowledge of God's law that produces what Romans chapter 3 verse 20 calls the knowledge of sin, the deep knowledge, the saving knowledge. The kind of knowledge that leads to repentance and faith in Christ and a walk in the Spirit. In other words, the only cure for lawlessness is the gospel. And we need to understand something about the gospel. The exposition and explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ does not begin with the cross. The expedition exposition and explanation of the gospel does not even begin with Jesus. Now you may think that's a strange thing to say. But let me explain. You can't truly preach the gospel by preaching the gospel only from the middle onwards. You can't truly understand the gospel by only understanding it from the middle onwards. God has a wonderful plan for your life and wants to be your friend. That's so much of what is presented as the gospel today it's hardly even it it hardly even deserves being called a halfway gospel You can't truly believe the gospel if your belief in the gospel starts from the middle and not at the beginning. And the beginning of the gospel is the genuine knowledge of the sinfulness of our sin, that by the law is the knowledge of sin. To understand that sin Is an act against the holy God of the universe. That the gospel begins with a holy God. The beginning of the gospel is to understand that there was no need for Jesus Christ to come into this world as he did 2,000 years ago, except for sin. Believing the gospel from the beginning means that you have to understand that there was no need for God to take on human flesh to live the perfect life we couldn't live. There was no need for God in human flesh to die the death that we deserve to die. Except for the fact that we could not live that perfect life, and as a result, we deserved to die that horrible death. And what is it that tells us those things are true? The knowledge of the law It's through the law that we have the knowledge of these facts. By the law is the knowledge of sin. The law revealed by the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. And we must always place that with it. It's not merely enough to intellectually know the law of God. There must be a convicting work of the Spirit, the one who Jesus said would come into the world to convict the world of sin and of righteousness. and of judgment, and that is what he does. By the law is the knowledge of our hopelessness apart from Christ as individuals. By the law is the knowledge of the total Ineffectualness of the church when it forgets God's law and stops preaching God's law By the law is the knowledge of the total inability of civil government to deal with our nation's problems. You know, there's something else that I noticed on your website, and I'm gonna I'm not gonna get this exactly right, but the essence of it was this. And I I I'll put it in the form of a question. Or no, let me just state it. There's a lot of end-time speculation today. Yeah. And there are a lot of people who aren't believers necessarily who talk about the second coming and they want the second coming because they think that the second coming is going to solve what they see as the problem. Which is whatever, you know, fill in the blank, whatever that may be. But on your website, the essence of what was said there was this. We need to be concerned not merely about The second coming of Christ, we need to be concerned about the Christ who is coming. That's a very different thing. A very different thing. By the law, through the convicting work of the Holy Spirit, is the knowledge of sin that leads to true repentance and faith. By the law is the knowledge of sin that makes the difference between a psychological conversion or a moral conversion and a genuine spirit-wrought regenerated conversion. I fear that many people today are placing their faith in a halfway gospel. I fear that many evangelical pastors indeed have much blood on their hands. Much for which they must answer to God because they're preaching only a halfway gospel. They're not preaching about the knowledge of sin that leads to true repentance and saving faith. Let me just end by saying this. May we never, dear friends, may we never proclaim a halfway gospel. May we never fear to proclaim the whole gospel. May we never fear to tell anyone that by God's law comes the true knowledge of sin. You know, at times I think Our our hesitation, and I will confess that I have it more than I would wish to say. Hesitation to share the gospel at times. There can be a hesitation to share the gospel because there's a hesitation to tell someone he or she is a sinner. I was with Mark Lefford, who I think some of you may know. Uh he's now pastoring a church in Upper Derby, Pennsylvania. Upper Derby is actually, you might as well say inner city, Philadelphia. Uh he's he's in an area where uh his church which was just recently formed within the last couple of years uh they minister in an area where within a twenty I think it's within a twenty block radius there are nearly a hundred languages. spoken. It is a it is a mass of immigrants, first generation immigrants. Well and they go out and they preach on the streets. This is a reformed congregation, but they go out and preach on the streets. Yeah, reformed people do that. They can. And And he'll he'll ask people straight out. I've seen him do it. He'll ask people straight out, Do you know that you're a sinner? Do you know what it means to be a sinner? It starts some interesting conversations. But isn't that where we need to begin in much of the case? Isn't that where we need to begin? Let us never feel to tell the world, fear, to tell the world that it's only by true knowledge of sin. That God confronts us with the knowledge of our true need of the Savior. And that it is through His perfect obedience to the law That he's our perfect substitute, that he did what we can't do. The law giver is the law obeyer as well. And he alone, by his blood, by his righteousness, can provide full and final deliverance from the curse of the law. He alone can give true newness of life Our father We are grateful that your word tells us that our sins have separated us from you. But you have separated us from our sins. Oh Father, you've said that you have placed them in the depths of the deepest sea. You have removed them as far as the east is from the west. Our sins and iniquities you will remember no more. You have been merciful to us as sinners. We thank you for your grace. We thank you for Choosing us, Lord, we know not why. But we thank you that you did. Undeserving as we are. Father, may we not fear to proclaim this message too A world of undeserving sinners that Father you might by your Spirit move in the hearts Of those whom you have chosen to bring them to saving faith. To the glory of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.