Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the 23rd Psalm. We don't think of the 23rd Psalm particularly as a Christmas Psalm. Nor do we generally think of the 23rd Psalm as a Lord's Table Psalm. And yet today, the Sunday after the 25th of December And the Sunday, which is the last Sunday of this year, we celebrate the Lord's table together. And I'd like us to meditate on the 23rd Psalm and consider a comparison of this psalm to the Lord's table. I'm going to read the entirety of Psalm 23. And I'm sure you know it by heart. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in paths of righteousness for his namesake. Yea, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me. In the presence of mine enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to consider God's Word this morning. Gracious Father, Lord, we pray today that you would open your word to our hearts that we might receive your truth. Father, may the Holy Spirit, the comforter and the guide, show us Christ in the Word and direct our thoughts to Him. Father, may you open our hearts that we might receive that word. Father, may we not be forgetful hearers. May we not simply look into your word as a man that beholds his face in a glass and go away forgetting the things that thy word has illuminated within our hearts. Father, may we meditate on your truth. May it continue in our hearts day by day. Bless us, your people, we pray. Bring great honor to your Son through our study this morning. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Christmas hymns that we sang this morning Point to the cross. The last verse of Sing uh O Sing a Song is O Sing a Song of Calvary. And then we sang, We Three Kings, and there's a verse there that speaks of the coming suffering of Christ. We cannot consider the incarnation without taking into account the suffering of Christ, for it was for that purpose that Christ came and suffered and died We read this morning the 22nd Psalm as our responsive reading. And it's right across the page there in your Bible from the 23rd, which we'll be considering. But consider what we find there in the 22nd Psalm, the first verse, my God, my God. Where hast thou why hast thou forsaken me? When will we hear that again in Scripture? Obviously on Calvary. The seventh verse of Psalm 22, all they that see me, laugh me to scorn, they shoot up the lip and shake their heads, saying He trusts me. And then down to the fourteenth verse of Psalm twenty-two, I am poured out like water, all my bones are out of joint, my heart is like wax. it is melted in the midst of my bowels. Verse sixteen, they pierced my hands and my feet. Verse seventeen, they made tell all my bones. They look on me and stare upon me. Verse eighteen, they parted my garment among them. and cast lots upon my vesture. We love the 23rd Psalm. It is quoted frequently in our secular society. And yet there would never have been a 23rd Psalm without the 22nd Psalm. Right. The 22nd Psalm speaks of the suffering of Christ. And the suffering of Christ was essential. For there to be the 23rd Psalm. In order for Jehovah to be my shepherd, the good shepherd had to give his life for the sheep. Because the good shepherd laid down his life for his sheep, I shall not want, but rather I am made to lie down in green pastures and drink from still waters. For because of the death of Christ I have daily access to the green pastures of the Word of God. Because of the sacrifice of Christ, I am led by the still waters of God by the Holy Spirit. By the sacrifice of the Good Shepherd, my soul is, was, and shall be restored. You see, when Adam sinned in the garden, my soul, though I being yet unborn, died, as in Adam all died. But on the cross, Christ made restoration for my soul. And because of the death of Christ on the cross, I am raised from the death of sin into life. And so he restored my soul. On the cross. But then he restored my soul in time when he brought me to himself. And daily, he continually restores my soul by the continual washing of the word. And so when he reads that he restoreth my soul, it all goes back to the cross. It all goes back to the death of Christ. If Christ had not died on the cross, there would be no 23rd Psalm. There would be no, He restoreth my soul. And someday, someday, this body shall be transformed. And my soul shall be restored in perfection. For today, though I live in this body of sin, and though my spirit within me is regenerated, yet I have sinned, and I do sin and I will sin. And yet Christ in the resurrection shall restore my soul perfectly, and I will be sinless as he is sinless in that day. And so he restored my soul, he restores my soul, and he shall restore my soul. But it's all about the cross. When the Good Shepherd died for my soul, he conquered death, and he conquered the valley of the shadow of death. And so, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? Because the 22nd Psalm precedes the 23rd I need not fear evil in the valley of the shadow of death because Christ has conquered the valley. And I fear no evil in the valley of the shadow death because Christ has walked the valley before me. And I fear no evil in the valley of the shadow of death, because Christ will walk the valley with me. Ah. Yea, though I walk. In conquering death, Christ bruised the serpent's head. And now a table is prepared before me In the presence of my adversary, the devil. And what is it that the adversary the devil does? Well, he walks about as a roaring lion. seeking who he may devour, and who is it that the roaring lyre desires to devour in his deceit But rather than me being a meal for the sheep, or for the devil, a table is prepared in the presence of the devil for the sheep. I am safe. And a sheep will not lie down when it's nervous. It will not lie down when it is fearful. But here he maketh me to lie down in green pastures, because a table, an abundance is prepared before me, in the very presence of the roaring lion. All Because of the cross. Because the good shepherd lovingly and tenderly cares for his sheep He daily anoints my head with oil. He daily loadeth me with benefits. He blesses me in his tender love, just as when the prodigal son came back to the father, filthy, dressed in rags and smelling of the homes. The father did not reject his errant son, but rather he welcomed him. Kill the fatted calf. Bring a ring. Bring the best robe. And so, though I fail him, though I return to the weak and beggarly elements of this world. Not by desire, but by the wickedness of my own flesh, that sinful nature that fights within me, for Paul said, I see another nature within me that fights against the Spirit. And yet if I confess my sins, he is faithful and just to forgive me of my sins and to cleanse me from all unrighteousness, and he daily anoints me with oil. But there would be not not that be that anointing oil without the cross. And though, and through the death of the Good Shepherd He has opened heaven to my soul. And so indeed, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever because of the sacrifice of Calvary. Because the Good Shepherd gave his life a ransom for my soul. Let us take this fifth verse. and divide it into its component words and component phrases and examine it a little bit further. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. All of us at some time or another have prepared food. And our preparing may be as simply as taking something out of a wrapper and sticking it in the microwave. But there is a process involved, even in that simplest of preparation. And there is a thought. There is a decision as to what we'll prepare, and then there are the activities of preparing a meal. And so to prepare a table is not something that happens automatically, but rather it is a process. It begins with a concept. This is what I'm going to prepare. And then it is further carried out in the action of preparing it and presenting it. Thou preparest a table before me. This is not something that just happened. Mm-hmm. But rather, God has a plan. There is an intent that takes place here And this word preparis literally means to set in order or to arrange. It is translated to set in ray, set in array in the preparation for battle. In Scripture. But consider the words of Paul referring to the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, Paul said, him being delivered by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God Ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. God by his determinate counsel and foreknowledge. Ordained the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Now we're going to partake of the Lord's table today, which represents the blood and the body of Christ. Our Heavenly Father prepared this table. It was forethought. Before the foundation of the world, I was chosen in Christ. But in order for me to be chosen in Christ, before the foundation of the world, the crucifixion of Christ had to be planned. It had to be ordained. It had to be set in order. It had to be arranged. God prepared this table for us. And we read in First Peter chapter one and verse eighteen Forasmuch as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition of your fathers. but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb, without blemish and without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. Before the foundation of the world, God had a thought. I must redeem a people. And then God ordained a plan to redeem the people. I must sacrifice my son. And then God took that plan and put it into action. Christ was born in a manger. He lived a sinless life and he died on the cross, a perfect sacrifice. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of my enemies But there's greater significance here, because this word preparist that we find in Psalm 23 Is most often used in terms of the sacrifice and the activities in the tabernacle. That's the most frequent use of this word in our Old Testament. When God told Abraham to offer Isaac as a sacrifice, We read in Genesis 22 verse 9. And they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built there an altar and laid the wood in order. The word laid in our English Bible and the word in order in our English Bible are both the same word translated for Paris in Psalm 23. He laid the wood in order. There was a preparation. There was a plan. He put the wood. He laid the wood and he put it in order. It's used twice. He prepares. He prepares. And what was that for? It was the sacrifice, his son Isaac. And what was the sacrifice of Isaac a picture of? Of the father giving his son But then God shows the ram caught in the thicket, and there is a substitutionary atonement picture for us. Thou preparest a table before me. And then in Leviticus one, verses seven and eight We read, And the sons of Aaron, the priest, shall put fire upon the altar and lay the wood in order. And that in order there in Leviticus 1 is that same word preparest in Psalm 23. And lay the wood in order upon the fire. And the priest, Aaron's sons, shall lay, and that shall lay is again, that same word preparest, shall lay the parts the head and the fat in order. There it is again, three times in those verses, upon the wood and upon the fire and upon the altar. And then in verse 12 of Leviticus 1 And the priests shall lay them in order. And they shall lay the burnt offering. And in chapter 6 of Leviticus, we find it again: lay in order the burnt offering. This word prepared is most often used in reference to a sacrifice Thou lays in order a table before me in the presence of my enemies. And it was because God ordained Christ, who we remember on the table today. Laid in order, a sacrifice for us, that we have this glorious 23rd Psalm. But then it says, Thou preparest a table before me. And this word table that is used here in Psalm 23. 5 is a is a common word. It has it's used many times in scripture. But I believe there's great blessing and edification to consider some of the other times that we find a table. in scripture. One that comes to mind immediately is this same word cable in Psalm 23 is the same cable word that is used when it speaks of the table of showbread In the tabernacle. What was the table of the show red? Well, it was also called the table of presence. Thou prepared a table for me in the presence of my enemy. It was a table of presence And on that table, there in the tabernacle, there were twelve loaves laid out before God. It was the twelve tribes of Israel acknowledging themselves in the presence of God. It was the table where their presence was made known to God, and it was the place where God met with his people. He met with his people there in the tabernacle. Thou preparest a table before me, and it's in the presence, it's in the presence of mine enemies And yet my God is present with me. Yea, though I walk through the valley of shadow of death, I will feel no evil, for thou art with me. And so the table is used in that way. But then interestingly, we find the word table used in a complaint. For Israel were in the wilderness. They lacked food and water. And in Psalm 78, verse 19, yea, they spake against God. They said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? Is God able to give us a table in the wilderness? Well, God has given us a table far greater than a table to meet the needs of the body God has given us a table to meet the needs of the soul. Not that there is salvation in the elements, but they represent what Christ has done for me. This is my body. Take heed. This is my blood. But what did God do when the children of Israel complained and said, Is he able to prepare a table in the wilderness? And that word prepare again is the same word provide a table in the wilderness. Well, God littered the ground with manna. And what does the manna represent? Our fathers gave us bread. Abraham gave us bread in the wilderness. Your fathers gave you not that bread, but my father giveth you the living bread. The man in the wilderness was a type of Christ. Is he able to provide us a table in the wilderness? Speak to the rock. and out gushed the water of life. The rock was a picture of Christ. He said quail, low flying quail through the wilderness and they ate their fill. Is God able to prepare a table? Huh. Not only did he prepare a table, he gave them far more they could consume. He gave them in abundance Thou preparest a table before me. But then again We consider thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Why is it significant that God would say the table is prepared in the presence of my enemies? Well, when Christ instituted the Lord's table, he was hours away from the crucifixion. When Christ instituted the Lord's table, Judas was there with him. He that dips in the sop with me. And so indeed, when Christ was preparing the table, the Lord's table, he was doing so in the presence of his enemy. But why was the cross necessary? Well, because of the adversary, the devil. Because of the enemy of my soul. And so Christ died. He prepared that table before me in the presence of my adversary, the devil. As a rebuke to dev to the devil. It is finished. He conquered death. He conquered my sin. He conquered my adversary. He provided for me this meal of redemption. And he did it right in the presence of mine adversary. Get thee behind me, Satan. Christ declared. And so, in the presence of our enemy, in the presence of the adversary of my soul, before the roaring lion. He died. He gave his life a ransom for my soul. He gave his life a ransom for many. But when Jesus was instituting the Lord's table, he was preparing us to go out before the enemy. For Christ warned the disciples, Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be ye wise as serpents and harmless of doves. And you see, as we go about the ministry and the cause of Jesus Christ, we're in a foreign land, folks. This world is not our home. We are to occupy till he comes, but we are in the territory of the adversary. And yet he daily prepares a table before us. When I sent you forth without purse and script, lacked ye anything, what is our defense against the roaring lion? Well, he prepares the way. He prepares the table before his people in the presence of our enemies, and it is a rebuke. To the enemies of truth, that God prepares a table. They should put you out of their synagogues. Yea, the time cometh when whosoever killeth you shall think that you do with God a service. And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father nor me But these things have I told you, that when the time come, ye shall remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning Because I was with you. John 16, verses 2 through 4. And so God prepares this table in the presence of our adversary, the devil, in the presence of all of our foes of this world. God prepares a table. Thou anointest my head with oil. Oh, what beauty we have here. These words, anointeth my head with oil, could literally be translated to make to make fat. To make fat. We in our modern society and in the physical sense think that fact is not particularly good. And I I have battled fat all my life, and I know many of you have as well. And yet in Scripture, fat is often used as a term of blessing, as a as a term of abundance. Thou anointest my head with oil. In other words, thou makest me fat with blessings. I have more than I need. I have more than I can receive. The same word anointed is used in Proverbs 11, verse 25. The liberal soul shall be made fat. And in Proverbs 13, verse 4, the soul of the slugger desireth and hath nothing, but the soul of the diligent shall be fat. It's the same word, anointeth, that we find there. The Lord makes me fat with oil. He blesses me above anything I could ever imagine. I look at what is before me and I say, oh no, Lord, this is wrong. This can't be. It shouldn't be this way. And yet I come through and say, Lord, you've made me fat with blessing. That which I dreaded, that which seems to me to be the wrong path, and so contrary to anything that would be blessing, Lord, you make me fat. Now anointest my head with oil. Oh, what blessing. Consider the disciples. They've been with Jesus for three years. They love him. They've been asking him what their position will be in his kingdom. They've developed for themselves this plan. Oh, he's going to run Rome off. He's going to restore what should be. He's here. This is the way it ought to be, Lord. They're going to crucify you. Not so, Lord. They'll all forsake you. Yet I will not forsake you. You're not going to take you and cut off your ear. All their plans! And then on the road to Emmaus, they're so sad. As they walk, we had thought he had been the Messiah. Nothing worked out for the disciples the way they wanted. Nothing worked out as they had planned. Their preparations didn't work. But God had eternally prepared a table. And oh, how the crucifixion of Christ has made us fat! Ha, what blessing to our souls by that which was in God's perfect and eternal plan. Thou anointest my head with oil on the worst day of my life. Isn't it glorious that God daily loadeth us with blessings? In the Oriental context, when an honored guest came to your house, Your feet would be washed often by a servant. But if the guest was particularly honorable The master of the house would wash their feet and anoint them with oil. It doesn't say in the 23rd Psalm that the angels anoint my head with oil. Does it say that my brethren anoint my head with oil? Says that Thou anointest my head with oil. And who is the thou? Follow the context. Jehovah is my shepherd It is Jehovah God the Father that is being spoken of here. It is the one who is worthy of all our honor and all of our praise and all of our glory, all of the The worship we can give him, and yet all the worship we can give him is nothing. It is worthless. Because how can we be profitable to our God? And yet he anoints the servant with oil rather than the servant anointing the master. The Son of Man has not come to minister or to be ministered unto, but to minister. He came to minister. He came to give his life a ransom for my soul. And this is because of Psalm 22. Then in Psalm 23 we read, Thou anointest my head with oil. God loathes me with blessing. But there's even more there. For Noah's not not only was the anointing of the head with oil a picture of God's blessing, the anointing of the head also was a sanctifying act. When the priests were coming into the priesthood, they were anointed with oil. And that anointing oil was to set them apart. It was to consecrate them. It was to separate them from all those around them, that they might be holy unto God, that they might be prepared for the service of the great King of heaven. Take Aaron and his sons and anoint them with the oil. When David was made king, he was anointed with the oil And so when our God Jehovah anoints us with oil, it is a mark of our sanctification, of our setting apart to the service of God, and we would have no sanctification. If God had not prepared the table. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished. That her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for her sin. Isaiah 40, verse 2. She's received the Lord's hand double for our sin. Augustus top lady wrote, Be of sin the double cure, save from wrath and make me pure. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over Why is it that the blessings of Christ run over to my soul? It is only because Christ in the garden prayed, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Yet not as I will, but thy will be done. You see, Christ drank to the dregs of the cup of suffering. And he said to the disciples, take the cup. This is my blood in the New Testament, which is shed for you for the remission of sins. Christ bore the cup for me. And because he bore that cup, now I receive of another cup. My cup, not his. My cup runneth over. I cannot receive all the blessings of Christ. We Several of us enjoyed a performance of Handel's Messiah a few weeks ago. And my my favorite passage of the Messiah is taken from Psalm 69. Uh in the Messiah says, Rebuke hath broken his heart. He is full of heaviness. He is full of heaviness. Rebuke has broken his heart. Thy rebuke And Psalm 69, verse 20, reproach hath broken my heart. I am full of heaviness. I look for some to have pity upon me, and there was no none. And for comforters, comforters, but found none They gave me gall for my meat, and in my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink. On the cross, Christ needed a cup. But they didn't give him a cup of refreshment. Rather, they put vinegar in a sponge and gave it to him in mockery. Ah, Christ bore the cup of suffering, that I might receive the cup of blessing. And so, because of the suffering of Christ, because God from all eternity prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies, I can say with the psalmist in Psalm 116, verse 13: I will take Take the cup of salvation and will call upon the name of the Lord. In First Corinthians ten, verses sixteen and seventeen The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the body blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ For we being many are one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread. And so, because of the table prepared by my father, he anoints my head with oil. And my cup runs over And surely. Plus love that word surely. There's no doubt left there. Surely Goodness and mercy shall follow me next week Next month. No. Without a doubt. Surely Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Why? Because Christ prepared a table before me. Because I am his child. No harm can befall me, no ill can plague me. No matter what happens, all things work together for good to those that love God, to those that are called according to his purpose, because God ordained a terrible. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Every single one. There's not a day left out. But it all goes back to the table. It all goes back to the crucifixion of my Lord. He purchased it with his own blood. It's because of him. The goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I shall never have a day without goodness. I shall never have a day without mercy. Because of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me. This word goodness here is the same word in Genesis when God saw what he had made and said it is good. It is good. Same word. And the word is used again in Ruth, where Ruth and Naomi are talking, and Naomi says to Ruth, You've been better to me than many sons, and it's the word goodness. That's the blessing that Ruth had been to Naomi. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And surely, I have no doubt, surely, I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Because of the sacrifice of Christ. Because he gave his life a ransom for many I shall dwell in his house forevermore. Psalm twenty-three rests upon the foundation of Psalm twenty-two, my God. My God, why hast thou forsaken me? God the Father forsook the Son on the cross because of my sin. And it was all a table prepared in the presence of mine enemies. It was all in God's eternal plan. God had thought it through. God had reasoned it. God had weighed out the consequences. And he sent his only begotten Son into the world to seek and to save that which is lost. To give his life a ransom for my soul And he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. Luke 22, 17 and 18. John 14, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myselves that where ye are Where I am, there ye may be also. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.