Open it in your Bibles with me, please, to the eighteenth chapter of the Gospel of Luke. The third of the Gospels and the 18th chapter. And I'll read verse 1 through verse 8. The third book of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and beginning with verse one of the eighteenth chapter. There we read, and he, that is of course Jesus, and he spake a parable unto them to this end. That men ought always to pray and not to faint. Saying, There was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversaries And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man Yet, because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. I tell you, that he will avenge them speedily Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth Put a spell for prayer. Father, we thank you for your inspired and preserved word. We thank you, Lord, for this parable which came directly from the lips of Jesus Christ, which was recorded accurately by thy ordained servant. and which has been kept pure to this day for our edification and admonition. Father, I as a sinful man will attempt to expound upon thy word this morning. But the true message is found here in the printed page. And so, Lord, as is always our prayer when we approach thy word, may thy Spirit be our teacher and our guide. May you reveal truth to us. And O Lord, will you continue this day to protect this holy word from words after man's wisdom? From thoughts of a man which may be errant, but O Lord, may thy word ever be true. We thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. As is the case with much of Scripture, this parable, this passage was given to the disciples at a time of difficulty. At a time of trouble, God never promised that the life of his elect here in this world would be easy. And so much of Scripture deals with times of trials, times of difficulty. The previous chapter, chapter 17. probably on the pages you have open begins with, It is impossible, but that offenses will come, but woe unto him through whom they come. This is the continuation of a multitude of narratives and warnings of Christ preparing his disciples for the day when Christ will be crucified. When they would be in great fear, when they would forsake him, when Peter would deny him, and then he would be gloriously raised from the dead, and he would be with them another forty days, and then he would go to heaven and he would not be there anymore. Here is a parable of a widow who, much like the disciples after Christ's return to heaven, She was alone. And so it's a glorious preparation that Christ is making for his people. Christ, who is the Alpha and the Omega, who knows the end from the beginning. Knows what is coming. He has told his disciples that the Son of Man must go to Jerusalem and be crucified, but they don't get it. They don't understand it. They don't comprehend. Isn't it a blessing that we often don't comprehend what's coming? We have warnings, and the Spirit of God does even in this day prepare his children for trials. And I believe every one of us can testify of a time when we went through great difficulty and great trials, and when we look back, we can say, you know what, the Lord was preparing for that. And the Lord was with me through it, and though at the time the trial was hard and difficult, as I look back, I would never want to go back to those days again. And yet the Lord blessed me so much. in those days of trouble and trial. Christ knew all that. Christ there in the first verse gives us very specifically the purpose of or the whole I shouldn't say Christ, it's the Holy Spirit that under inspiration gives us very specifically the purpose for which this parable was given. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. You see, Christ knew that it is the human condition to be prayerless. And it is only by the prompting of the Spirit that we are prayerful. And Christ also knew that it is the human condition of fainting. But he gave us the great weapon against fainting. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. And it's interesting that the emphasis there is that men ought always to pray, for some men never pray. Men ought always to pray, but some men never pray. Men ought always to pray, but some men only pray when they're in trouble. Hm. Some men only pray when they have problems. I always have problems, so I always pray. I think a lot of us can testify to that. Uh but some men they are fine until the problem comes and then they start praying like they've never prayed before. Some men only pray when fainting is imminent. Some and only pray when they have gone prayerless so long that they're ready to spiritually collapse. But men ought always, always to pray A few chapters further in this book, in chapter twenty-one, verse thirty-six, we find the words watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape these things which shall come to pass And to stand before the Son of Man. And so the introduction to this passage is simply this: Christ was preparing his disciples for a great trial. And folks, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. We as the Church of God are persecuted and will be persecuted. We have suffered nothing like the Brethren that have gone before us. None of us can name a martyr in our family. None of us can name anyone in our family who is in prison today for the gospel of Christ. None of us have been driven from our homes because of our testimony. But all those things are typical of the church throughout history. When Christ was preparing his disciples for justice of that thing, we do not know what the future holds. But this parable is given that we might pray always. And not faint in the troubles. Let us consider, first of all, the unjust judge. The unjust judge is a representation of the Jewish leadership that was oppressing the early church. It was a picture of the Jews who would drag Christ before the civil authorities and eventually put him to death. They were unjust judges. The unjust judge is also a condemnation of false prophets in all ages. And we have a lot of charlatans today. Who, through all kinds of means and emotional peals, rack in multitude, millions of dollars To buy their airplanes and their mansions and so on. And they stand as judges over the people of God when they themselves do not know the God for whom they claim to speak. And further, the unjust judge finds comparability in the political and legal system of the day. The unjust judge. Notice that the unjust judge does indeed have an area of authority. He was legitimately a judge in that city. Usually, any city would have a Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrim of Jerusalem, according to some of the commentators, had 71 individuals because it was a large city. The smallest of Sanhedrin would have three judges that would sit in judgment within a city. However, there were exceptions to the rule where a single judge was allowed to make decisions, and that is what Christ is pointing to here. This widow is going to one single judge. You see, this woman was not this widow was not in the city by accident. She could have been anywhere in the land of Israel. She could have been in a city with very kind, thoughtful, and godly judges. But she was not. She was not a widow by accident. She had been married and she had had a husband. But God had ordained her widowhood. She did not have an adversary without God's notice. She was being oppressed, but God knew all about her. And folks, this judge was not a judge in the city by accident either. This ungodly Unbelieving judge who feared not God and regarded not man was a judge because God allowed him to be a judge In Proverbs 8, verses 15 and 16, God declares, by me, kings reign, and princes have decreed justice By me, princes rule and nobles, even all the judges of the earth. God declares that all the judges of the earth are in their position by his decree. Folks, that sadly includes the judges back in 1960 465, whichever it was that allowed abortion. That took, no, that was 74. In 64 took prayer and Bible reading out of the schools Those unjust judges that did not fear God, they had their authority from the God they did not fear. And so it is the case with this unjust judge. When Christ was before Pilate Pilate said, aren't you going to answer me? I have the power to spare your life, and I have the power to take your life. And in John 19, 11, Jesus answered, Thou couldst have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. Folks, we as the church today are under the authority of unjust judges. We are under the authority of those that fear not God and regard not man. Our case is just like this widow. But this unjust judge had authority from God. In fact, in Romans 11, verse 13, and Uh chapter thirteen verse one that every soul be subject to the higher powers for the power uh uh for there is no power but of God, the powers that be are ordained. of God. And folks, that word ordained is an interesting word because it's an infrequent word. It's only used seven or eight times in Scripture. And it is the word that is used for the elect As many as were ordained unto eternal life believed. Acts 13, verse 30, 48. Acts 13, 48. It's the same word. As many as were ordained to eternal life. In Romans 9, we read of Pharaoh, for the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, even for this same purpose have I raised thee up That I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. Pharaoh wasn't good to God's people. But he was raised up. He was ordained by God. And so we find that this unjust judge, this wicked man had a legitimate authority. But folks, his authority was greatly limited. For it tells us there was a judge in that city. He was not a judge outside of the city He was not a judge in all places. He was limited by location. He was limited by duration. And he was limited by application. He was limited in where he had rule. He was limited in how long he would rule because he was a dying man. And he was limited in application because there was only a limit to so much he could do. Folks, the powers of this world are powers of this world and not of the next. Fear not him that kills the body, but fear him that can cast the body and soul into hell. The rulers of this world are limited by their location. They can only harm us here. They are limited by their duration because they are dying men and we are eternal beings. And they are limited in their application because Satan himself had to ask for permission to touch Job. And so take heart, folks. Though we live in a land of unjust judges, though we live in a day when the unjust judge has rule. Yet we have a glorious immunity from the unjust judge. Notice this character in verse two We find that he feared not God, neither regarded man. And in verse 4, we find his own testimony. Though I fear not God, nor regard men. He didn't even try to hide it. He was proud of it. He had a lot of pride and he waved his pride flag. He did not fear God. He did not regard man. You see, the unjust judge declared against himself his own disqualification. For we read of David in his dying words when David was giving instruction to his son Solomon in 2 Samuel 23 and verse 3. David said, The God of Israel said The rock of Israel spake to me. David very clearly declares where this command came from. He says it twice. The God of Israel, or he said it says the um Yes, the God of Israel, the rock of Israel spoke. That's Jehovah, who's the God of Israel, but the rock of Israel is Christ He's using both persons of the two persons of the of the Godhead. The God of Israel said, The rock of Israel spake to me, he that ruleth over men must be just. ruling in the fear of God. Two things that David, under inspiration directly from God, said about them. They must rule in the fear of God. They must be just Well, this judge here declares he's family on both. He doesn't fear God and he doesn't regard man. There's no justice. To be had. He declares his own disqualification. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And folks, you look at the judges of this world, you look at the politicians, you look at the political situation, you say, folks, There's nothing new under the sun. We have a political structure that does not fear God and does not regard men. But this parable is given that we pray and not faint. For folks, if you put your eyes too much on the judges of this world, you're going to faint. You're going to throw in the towel? Is there no reward of righteousness? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise instruction. God spare us from the sodomites. He did not regard man, and here he was violating the law. For we read in Leviticus 19, verse 15, ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment. Thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty, but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor. He violated the very law that as a judge in Israel he was to uphold. Notice thirdly his motivation. In verse 4 and 5 of chapter 18 of Luke, and he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard man Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. It was all about himself He wasn't doing the right thing to do the right thing. He was doing the right thing because she bothered him. Because she had become a thorn in his side. She had become a pebble in his shoe. And the only reason he moved to help her at all was because she bothered him. He did the right thing, but only for his own comfort. Folks, I would point out to you that there is a time when Christians need to be loud and troublesome. There's a time when Christians need to be loud and troublesome to the unjust judges of this world. City that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Let your light so shine. We are to be loud and troublesome. And so that's the unjust judge. We won't say more about it. But then we find the plaintiff. We find the widow. And as I've already alluded to, the widow here is a picture of the church. of God's own elect. In fact, it's very clearly spelled out there for you in the ver seventh verse, and shall not God avenge his own elect? He does not leave the identity of the widow to any ambiguity. It is not Israel that's being spoken of here. It's not the old Jewish system. I've already pointed out that the old Jewish system is the unjust judges. It is those that would pay witnesses against Christ. Christ was giving his final instruction to his disciples before his death, burial, and resurrection. It is the church that we find as a widow. who is often at the mercy of the unjust judges of this world. Verse 3, there was in that city Folks, we have a city not made with hands. We are heading for a heavenly Jerusalem. We have no need of an earthly Jerusalem again. But we're living in the city of Sodom and to Sodom today. We're living in the land of iniquity, and the only hope for the land of iniquity is that God will spare it for the sake of ten righteous. Right. We are in the city. We find that she was a widow. She was she had a problem that was beyond her ability to fix. You know, when we have a problem we can fix, it's our uh reason to to fix it. You know, we're not to pray uh for God to give us that which He's already given us and we're just too lazy to pick it up. I've often thought of the children of Israel and the manna. The children of Israel couldn't sit in their tent and say, Lord, give me some manna. They had to go out and pick it up. God provides for us, but He's ordained that by the sled of our brow we shall eat bread on this earth And so we're not to sit around and pray for that which we can take care of ourselves. But that wasn't the case here. This widow had a problem. She could not take care of herself. They find that she had no worldly help. Isn't that a picture of the church? This church is not a friend of grace. Sorry, this world is not a friend of grace. This world is not going to help the church. Christ is our only help help. We find That she had no possessions in this world. You understand that in this day, the wife of the richest man in the country became a pulper at death. She did not own land. She had no possessions. Everything was given to her son. And if she had no son, she was destitute. She may have at one time lived in great luxury, but at this time she was a widow and destitute. I've alluded to before, folks, that we as Christians in this nation and in this culture have lived at great ease. We have lived with freedom of religion. We have lived, I would venture to say, that every household has a stack of Bibles. And yet, our forefathers died for a single copy. Their blood was shed. Families were ripped apart. If you read about the persecutions under Stalin of believers sent to Siberia, families separated. Families separated from their husband for decades. Because of the testimony of Christ. This widow had no possessions in this world, she had no wealth, and she had no inheritance here Folks, that's the church. This world's not our home. Having food and raiment, there we'd be content. We have no inheritance here, but we seek a city, even a heavenly. And we read it in Hebrews that the Hebrews of the faith had been mindful of this world, they would not have sought a city. This poor widow was helpless. She was at the mercy of an unjust judge. She was subject to the legal structure of the city. And we are subject to the legal structure of this city. We are sub subject to the unjust judges who fear not God and regard not man. How like this widow we are. She was subject to the legal system of the city, she was subject to the economy of the city, and she had little hope that the legal system and the economy of the city would do anything for her because the judge was unjust. So all she could do was keep crying and keep crying and keep crying. She didn't have the strength to fight for herself. She didn't have the wealth to hire a lawyer. But she cried. And she cried. And she cried. And oh folks, how we must cry to God. How we must trust in God because He is our only hope We must cry and cry and cry and call and call and call. Believers at times must be noisy and bothersome But finally, I would have us consider the judge of all the earth. For we find And the Lord said in verse six, Hear what the unjust judge saith, and shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them I had thought about you know the the title in your bulletin is The Tale of Two Judges. I'm a literary fan, so A Tale of Two Cities, A Tale of Two Judges, because it is a tale of two cities. It's an earthly city and a heavenly city. It's an earthly judge and a heavenly judge. What I had thought about is a title and shall not God just those words. Julie, and shall not God, and shall not God avenge his own elect? In our call to worship this morning, I read from Genesis 18, 25, and shall not the judge of all the earth do right? This judge feared not God. Our judge is God. This judge regarded not man. But our judge, like as a father, pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are just. And so we have a contrast here between the judges of this earth who will not, unless we bother them and bother them, and the judge of heaven, who delights to give good things to his children. And shall not the judge he judge his own elect, which cry day and night You see, the problem might be that we're not cry enough. Some cry all day but forget God at night. Some cry in the night hours but go about their own business in the day. But we're to cry day and night. Though he bear long with them You see, every child wants it right now. My wife's lying cat will always tell you that she's hungry. Doesn't matter how often she's fed. She will tell you that she's hungry. But the Lord knows what things we have need of. And though sometimes God's answer may seem long delayed to our understanding, and though he bear long with us, yes, he hears. And yes who answered. Let me share some scriptures with you. Revelation six, the last part of verse nine, and in the verse ten. And I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God and for the testimony which they had. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood? On them which dwell on the earth. Lord, how much more can I take? How long, O Lord, till your judgment comes? Well, for us it seems long, but with him a thousand days is as a day, or a thousand years is as a day, and a day as a thousand years. Job chapter 8, verse 3. Doth God pervert judgment? Doth the Almighty pervert justice? Psalm 58, verse 10 and 11. The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance. He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked, so that a man shall say, Verily, there is a reward for righteousness. Verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth. Folks, there's a reward for righteousness. Although we're persecuted day in and day out, there is a reward. Psalm 67, verse 4. Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Selah. And Revelation 19, 11, and I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon it was called faithful and true, and in righteousness doth he judge and make Ah, and shall not God avenge his own elect, though he bear long with them. Folks, we don't need this world to be judged. We need to judge ourselves. We don't need condemnation on the wicked. We need condemnation on our own prayerlessness that leads us to fainting. For the whole purpose of this parable is not to point out the wicked judge, but to point out the prayerlessness of the believers. Because that is the stated purpose in verse 1. It's given that we might pray and not faint. The world's going to do what the world's going to do. The wicked judges and presidents of this world are going to do what they're going to do, and God will take care of them. But what will the widow do? What will we do as the people of God? And so to conclude and make application We find first of all that God knows the end from the beginning. In the beginning, God knows the end. And he may bear long with us And he may allow the trial to go far longer than we think we can endure, but there is strength in prayer, and we are to pray and not faint. Because God knows what he's doing. God heard the widow while the judge ignored her cry. God knew the need of the widow before the widow asked, for God knows the end from the beginning. As Job said, but he knoweth the way that I take. When I'm tried, I shall come forth as gold. So, first of all, God knows the end from the beginning. Secondly, God's children are prone to fainting. We're apt to painting. As the old hymn says, prone to wander Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and feel it Seal it for thy courts above. You see, if God didn't know that his people were liable to faint, he would not have given us this parable Brother Vincent Sunday School pointed out the scriptures that says that these things are written for our admonition. It is written for our instruction. It is written that we might take heed, because if we don't pray, we're going to faint. And so just as this widow cried and cried to an unjust judge, so he finally Heard her, we cry and cry to the judge of all the earth, the true just judge, who hears us at all times, and though he bear long with us, he will answer our prayer. Psalm 103, I've quoted before, but like as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities them that fear him Proverbs twenty four verse ten If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. Hebrews twelve verse three, for consider him that's Christ, for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself. lest ye be wearied and faint in your mind. Third, by way of application Prayer is God's ordained defense against fainting. Prayer is God's ordained defense against fainting. Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. Pray, pray. My father used to say pray and then pray and then pray some more. I heard him say it so many times. Pray. And then pray, and then pray some more. I remember calling him from Jamaica on a on a after standing in line for two hours to get a payphone. And then having to call collect because in the early days before cell phones was the only way you could communicate. And Dad saying to me over the phone, Joe, pray and then pray some more then pray and then pray and then pray some more. Prayer is the great defense against fainting. But if you look at the eighth verse, there is a great and stern warning. I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? A lot of people are going to fall, folks. It's a lot of people who today claim the name of Christ. And their faith will vanish away. Because just as we saw there in the Uh confessional reading today. There was no root. There was no fruit. They were on the rocks Watch and pray. Oh Father, make us a prayerful people. You have ordained the unjust judges among whom we live. You have ordained the circumstances all about the widow and the church, but you are the judge of the earth And you are the God who hears and answers prayer. Make us, O Lord, a prayerful people. Protect us from the evil one. May we be constant in prayer. May we pray without ceasing we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.