Gracious Father, we do thank you this morning that you have enabled us to gather for the sole purpose of the worship of Jesus Christ. The learning of his word. Father, we thank you that you have not left us to wander in this world without any guide or direction. But you've given to us your word, and you've given to us your Spirit, who is the interpreter of the Word. Bless our assembly this morning, we pray We thank you, Lord, for those that are able to gather with us online as well. May we today receive of thy truth and may it be applied to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Reading our call to worship this morning from the book of Galatians, chapter four, and reading the fourth and first fifth verse, but when the fullness of the time was come. God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And then glorious passage in the book of Galatians. Well, we turn to our opening hymn today in our blue song book, our blue song book, the Rejoice Hymnal. And if you would, please turn to number 208 as we begin our monthly series of various songs that celebrate the advent of the Lord Jesus Christ. A body thou hast prepared me, it says in Scriptures, and his body for Mary, his soul, and and his divine essence from the Father. O come, O come, Emmanuel number 208, we sing all three stanzas. And ransom can born in only a Until what love me Rachel Rachel Shall come to the Oh come now days wink all night. Our spirit by my His first stars will be surprised, and this dark shadow should fly. Rejoice, Rejoice in my Shall come to me for Oh come thou kill And open by our main home make The way that lead on wide and show the path that wings us not. We join, we join you Shall come to thee. Amen. Amen. Thank you very much. Thank you, Penny, Marissa, for playing. It's always a delight to have uh some additional musical accompaniments so uh you're not only hearing my voice, which cracks up at times. Uh Brother Anton, if you would bring us a confessional reading. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we go through the second portion or portion B of Article 31 from the Belgic Concession regarding the ministers, elders, and deacons of the church. Christian, in what do you believe? As for the ministers of God's word, they have equally the same power and authority wheresoever they are As they are all ministers of Christ, the only universal bishop and the only head of the church By the inventions of men and not out of the Word of God, many churches will follow a flawed structure of hierarchy of ministers. They'll put into power certain individuals and say, well, this one has rulership and authority over these other ministers, and this one is up there at the top. And uh we see specifically in the Roman Catholic Church, and Guido de Bray would have been familiar with this, the author of the Belgic Confession. Um that they had ministers of various authority so that somebody up top could call shots over things that are going on in the local church just because, well, he has the power. He's the the individual that's that's head over it. And in the uh Roman Catholic churches we see that there's the lay people that are in the pews, and then you kinda have another level of hierarchy, which is the uh deacons and the priests of a local church, and then You might have a a pastor that's over uh that that's the the the head of that church there, and then there's bishops and archbishops which are over a diocese or a region of churches And then you have cardinals that are ranked even higher. And at the top, of course, you have the Pope himself, who's uh sometimes known as the head of the church, or even the vicar of Christ, standing as a representative of Christ here on the earth. Now that's a a blasphemous position to take. And truly, what we see from the scriptures is that if the head of your church is anybody other than Christ, then this isn't Christ's church. It's that other individual's church. What we read of in the scriptures is uh in Colossians 118 it's written of Christ that He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, uh the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Christ is the head of the true church of God. And all people that minister to the church are servants. servants of Christ, and they're there to serve the church. It's not a competition to see who gets above, who gets more glory, who gets more fame before men. All ministers truly are on equal ground and they can still be checked. They still battle with the flesh. It's not as if They have now fully put away the flesh and now we can just trust anything that comes out of their mouth. They're still prone to error and they need to be checked. that none as infallible as uh sometimes the pope is made out to be. Um the alleged first pope of the church, which uh people will claim as Peter Even though that's that's not a true position, that's not a true uh office that the Lord has given in the scriptures. But what people allege of the uh tradition of the popes is that Peter was the first pope and then all the f others popes came uh through him. But the uh alleged first pope Peter he was rebuked by the Apostle Paul. He had some error. He could have received rebuke. And so this is a a good point and a good lesson to see that there's no man that's a a a achieved such a high authority that he can't be checked That though it seems he's going astray from scriptures, let's just believe him. No, but all things, all individuals, must be checked by the Word of God. And the same thing as far as the uh ministers being on an equal level, those that are seniors don't get a a double vote Just because they have uh maybe even they have more experience, but it's not because oh well I've spent ten or twenty or thirty years in the church, so now I should get double or triple the vote of somebody else. I have a a greater stamp of authority. No. Nor do you find bishops holding authority over multiple churches. It's not a right thing when There's somebody like a pope or an archbishop that goes ahead and calls the shocks on all these other churches. This is how you guys have to do things now. I know what's right for you here Hierarchies in church structure often lead to the worship of men. Often men start thinking that those that are higher up, those that are higher in the authority chain, are somehow closer to God. holier just because they have a certain title. And of course the Roman Catholics and the Orthodox churches uh have in the past declared certain saints that have passed away, they've declared that these individuals now have superpowers because They've just done so well, they've ministered so well, God's given them special abilities, so that now even after they're dead If you have an icon of them or you go to the place where they were buried, they can bless you just by going and visiting that place. That's the unbiblical teaching You don't find that in the scripture. And truly that's what happens when you have this uh false view of the hierarchy of men. You might think, oh well this individual he's so holy, so yeah, he can give me this extra blessing just by being in his presence. That's not what the scriptures teach. Instead, God calls for there to be elders in every church, not just one elder over many churches. And we read in the scriptures of how uh Paul and Barnabas they ordained elders during their uh time of going about to preach to different places. In Acts fourteen and twenty-three we read And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, uh they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. So we see that they had ordained elders in every church. It wasn't just there's a person at the top that goes ahead and rules over all. But no, there had to be uh ministers in every church. And uh an important thing to consider with this topic here is that a truly if there's any individual that has a title or even is in a right role of ministry It's only God that's given them this gift, as we read in 1 Corinthians 4 7. For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory? As if thou hadst not received it? We have to remember with any minister of Christ, however holy they might seem, anything that they have is not of themselves. We ought not to worship men, but we ought to praise the Lord if we see anything faithful in them. Truly all glory must go to the Lord, and we must remember that all ministers are just vessels, vessels that the Lord has poured into, and now they're laboring, serving the Lord. And uh any increase that's brought through an individual or a minister uh is only truly through the work of God. I just want to leave you with this uh portion which I think is very Uh instructive from 1 Corinthians 3, verses 5 through 8, and we'll be finished with this here. We read, Who then is Paul and who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believe Even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted Apollo's water, but God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything. Neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor Yes, preach the word, be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine That is the biblical command for those who would minister in the church. Well, again, it's good to see you. I'm sure you notice a few empty seats today. We do have A lot of folks to be in prayer for. Let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Our gracious Heavenly Father. Lord, we thank you that we come before the God who alone hears and answers prayer. Lord, we are so struck by the sad plight of the prophets of Baal who cut themselves and leaped upon an altar and cried from morning until the time of the evening sacrifice, and yet your word tells us there was no voice, nor none that did regard. Father, we thank you that the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much, and that we are bidden to come boldly to the throne of grace. And Father, we know from thy word and we believe by faith in the effectual working of prayer through the Holy Spirit. And so, Father, this morning, we come before you, bearing the needs of your people, and endeavoring according to thy word to bear one another's burdens. And Father, we begin this morning by praying for the multitude of whom we're aware that are battling cancer this day. Lord, I thank my own dear lifelong friend and my own brother. And several members of this congregation who are either battling cancer or have battled cancer or have family members that are battling with this disease. And Father, we know that in every age there has been a certain illness that has been predominant in the hearts and minds and within the bodies of people, of individuals. And Father, it seems like today we hear more and more that are battling with cancer, even referred to by some as the C-word, because they fear to mention that that disease. Father, there is no disease that is too hard for you to handle. There is nothing too hard for thee. And so, Father, we cry out to thee in faith believing that you were able to do what no earthly doctor or medication can accomplish. Father, with thee it is nothing to simply heal. And so, Father, we thank you for doctors. We thank you for the years of study that they have put in. We thank you for the wisdom that they may have. And we thank you for the pharmaceutical products that are available to us today, many of which that are relatively new on the market and were not available to generations past. And yet, Father Though we thank you for these things, we do not place our faith in them, but we place our faith in the great physician, the healer of the sick. And so, Father, may you according to your will and in your perfect plan bring healing to those for whom we pray this day. Father, we know that there are several of our congregation that have lost loved ones, some within recent years, and some that lost a mate, Lord, now many years ago. And yet this is a particularly difficult season for those that see an empty chair, that have a vacancy in their very being because of a loved one that has gone before. And Father, we pray that at this time you may bring a special comfort to them. That that memory may be sweet and not uh made bitter by the absence of a dearest friend, of a mate, of one with whom they walked and shared many, many seasons of joy. Father, may you comfort those that mourn. Father, we pray today, Lord. We've already prayed for those battling cancer, but Lord, we know that within our congregation there are several other illnesses that are going on currently. Some that have come up in just recent days, some which have been battles of many decades. But Father, we pray that you would bring healing and comfort to them as well. Father, we pray for our far-flung congregation. Lord, we thank you that you have enabled by thy mercy and by thy grace for our Mission Bible Church to have a very broad reach And you have brought into our sweet fellowship several families that are scattered far abroad. And Lord, we pray that in this season of joy, as we will be able to join together here in singing the Christmas carols and in and in enjoying a meal together Lord, may they not feel that they are separated from us. Lord, we think of the words of the old hymn, those sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat. And indeed, our mercy seat is not the lid of a golden gilded box, but indeed our mercy seat is Jesus Christ alone. through whom we pray and to whom we direct our prayers, our hymns, and our worship. And so, Father, I pray that in this season those that are scattered far may indeed Know our fellowship as well. Father, you know the financial needs of the congregation. We thank you, Lord, that you own the cattle on the thousand hills. We thank you for the promise that David declared, that I have been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. Father, meet the needs of thy people. Lord, we have those in our congregation that are sole proprietors, that operate businesses. And Lord, they are faithful in their labors, but they depend upon you to send business through the door. And Lord, we pray that you would meet their needs, that you would send to them those business arrangements and situations that are needful. Father, we have others that are government employees and concerned about the ongoing state of their employment. And Father, we pray that you would bless and help there. Still further, Lord, we have those that are employed, but they are to use the modern term underemployed. The employment they have just doesn't simply simply doesn't uh provide for the abundance of their needs. And Lord, it is you that provides for our needs. And so, Father, we pray that you would provide better employment for them. that they might labor with their hands, that they might be industrious in their daily activities, trusting upon you to provide for them the the level of income that is needful to meet the needs of their families. Father, as we've already prayed this morning, Lord, in our private prayer, Father, there are many of those associated with, connected to our congregation that yet walk in darkness. And Lord, we read of the advent of Christ, the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light, or that sat in darkness have seen a great And Father, we pray, Lord, that you might open for us opportunities to be a witness and a testimony to our sin-blinded family members. That you might enlighten their dead souls with the light of Jesus Christ. And Father, we find the Apostle Paul saying that he could wish himself to be accursed for his kinsmen. And Lord, we understand that, that if if we could do anything to save our lost family members, oh Lord, we would do that, even to the sacrifice of our own Regeneration, but Lord, that's not the way that salvation works. It doesn't none none can can bear the sins of another except for Christ. And so, Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. And so, Father, we pray that in seeking he might seek for our lost loved ones. May they be numbered among thine own elect. Finally, O Lord, we pray for our poor nation Lord, this nation is ripe for judgment, and indeed is deserving of any judgment you may send. But Father, we pray that just as you would have spared Sodom for the sake of a few righteous, Lord, may you spare this land for the sake of thine own people that dwell herein. Father, this nation was once the nation that sent missionaries all over the world. And today, O Lord, we are in need of the gospel ourselves. And so, Father, may you be gracious to grant a true revival in this country, not simply a refreshed interest in religion. But Father, true, God-wrought repentance that brings people to their knees, that changes a society, that turns us away from sin to the Savior. Your word warns us to trust not in princes and to put not confidence in man. We thank you for the leaders that we have, but Lord, our confidence and our faith is not in them. For Lord, they too are in need of thy salvation. But Father, we do pray that just as you used an unbelieving Cyrus for the blessing of your people, May you even this day use unbelieving men for the preservation of our liberties, for the Restoration of our freedoms. And Lord, may you bring about righteousness in this land, we pray. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to Matthew chapter 10 for our responsive reading. Once you've located Matthew 10 in your Bibles, please rise. We'll be starting with verse twenty-four of Matthew chapter ten and read to the end of the chapter. Matthew ten, twenty-four. The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord. It is enough for the disciple to be as his master, and for the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house the Eltimon, how much more shall they call them that are of his household? Fear them not, therefore, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known. What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light, and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the house house. And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall to the ground without your father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered Fear ye not, therefore, ye are of more value than many pharaohs. Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess before my Father, which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. Think not that I am come to send peace on earth I came not to send peace, but a sword. For I came to that man variance against his father. And the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a man's foes shall be they of his own household. He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. He that bindeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward And he that receiveth the righteous man in the name of the righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of full of water, only in the name of the disciple Verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word Yes, indeed, there's something to the reading of the Word of God that's truly beneficial. I uh was thought, I actually thought of a cross-reference to Eli, that old priest who honored his sons above the Lord more than the Lord himself. And uh what a fulfillment of what Christ said there. We turn to our red Psalter or Red Psalter, the Red Psalm book, and number 25A to The I Lift My Soul. It's an adaptation of Psalm 25. And uh the tune is Leo Minster, which uh you should know from a uh tune from uh Isaac Watts, I think it was. Not what my hands have done. Cedar Watts or I forget which one. Penny's shaking her head, yes, so I guess I got the right Well yeah. Uh we'll sing all three stanzas and close with the Amen. Turn thee I live my soul. Oh Lord, I trust in thee. My God, let me not be ashamed. Nor goes there, nor me. Yea, none that way or me shall be ashamed at all. But those that want to repress up on change out Show me thy way through thy past those beast round me And do thou lead me in thy roof, therein might be to be Yea, thou art God that die. To me, salvation sent I already all the day expected to understand. Thy tender mercy call to my new thou record And loving kindness for days have been through wages all my sins of youth life. Cause do thou Lord forget in lovely kindness take on me and for thy goodness. Oh well, please proceed. Uh briefly before we begin, just a temperature check here. Is everybody I'm a little cold, but is everybody okay? Any you good? I'm fine. We're all good. Okay. Open your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Gospel of Matthew and the 26th chapter of Matthew. And we're actually going to be looking in Matthew, Mark, and in John. But our scripture reading will be from Matthew chapter 26, and I'll start with verse number 6 and read down through verse 15. The Gospel of Matthew. The sixth verse and reading through verse 15. Now, when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat. But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world There shall also this that this woman hath done be told for a memorial of her. Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went out to the chief priest and said unto them, What will you give me? And I will deliver him unto you. And they covenanted with him for 30 pieces of silver. Let us bow for prayer this morning. Heavenly Father, now as we approach the very precious, inspired, and preserved Word of God, Lord, we pray that you would grant us understanding of thy truth. Grant us insight in thy word. May we this morning faithfully compare Scripture with Scripture. And Father, I pray that you would encourage us in our service to you, that you would bless us in our hearing of the word. And Father, that you would make us better servants of the King of heaven. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. It is typical when we consider Mary in the month of December, we tend to think of Mary the mother of Jesus. There are actually six Marys in Scripture. Mary, the mother of Jesus, is the one that we think of most because of the incarnation of Christ. But there was also Mary Magdalene, out of whom seven devils were cast. She had been a wicked woman of the city, and she was marvelously saved by the grace of God. There's also Mary, the mother of John Mark. There is Mary, the mother of James and Josie, and Mary of Clepa of Clefa Clopas, excuse me. But this Mary is Mary of Bethany. This is the Mary that was the sister of Martha and Lazarus. The verse that I kind of take as our theme verse this morning is that 13th verse, where Christ says, Verily I say unto you, Whereoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this That this woman hath done be told for a memorial of her. Mary of Bethany, Mary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus, has an enduring testimony. We still talk about it today, don't we? And wherever the gospel is preached, I preached from this passage many, many years ago in Jamaica. And I've been in many other countries, and wherever the gospel is preached, you hear about Mary. That's quite a heritage, isn't it? Can you name the name of your great-grandparents? I'm sure some of you can. But a lot of people can't We don't even remember their names, and that was just three generations ago. But we know the name of Mary. Mary had an enduring testimony. And we find others in the scriptures that had an enduring testimony. We find that Enoch walked with God, and he was not, because God took him. And in Hebrews it speaks of Ebon, it says before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God We think of Noah. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, and we find in Hebrews again that Noah was moved with fear to the preparing of an ark to the saving of his house. He became the heir of righteousness. We find of Abraham. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. These all obtained a good report, we find in the book of Hebrews. The first thing it happens to see about Mary's enduring testimony is that Mary has an enduring testimony because she loved the Lord Jesus Christ. She had love for him. And if you look there at the passage, we find Mary pouring ointment on his head. And in the John passage, if you want to turn there, it's John chapter 12. In the John passage of the same occurrence, we find Then took Mary a pound of ointment of Spike nerd very costly and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. Mary takes this very precious ointment of Spikenard, and she breaks her alabaster box. And in John's passage it says that she anoints his feet and she wipes them with her hair. Now, we need to pause here for a moment. Because the critics will say, oh see, we have a contradiction because Matthew and Mark says that she anointed his head, and John says his feet. Is this a contradiction? No, it is not in any sense of the word. First of all, you have to remember the orientation of each of the gospels. The Gospel of Matthew was the gospel that presented Christ to the Jews. The Jews were familiar with the Old Testament. He anointed my head with oil. The Gospel of Mark was to the Romans. The Romans understood the kingship or the head. The Gospel of Luke to the Greeks, but the Gospel of John is the love gospel. For God so loved the world, and the Gospel of John is presented to the world. Now, which is it? Did he anoint her head, or did she anoint his head or his feet? The reality is both She anointed him. And Christ says she's put this on my body for my burial. But why is it significant when The perspective given to us by John and Mark is the head, whereas the perspective given to perspective given to us by Matthew and Mark, if I get that wrong again, please forgive me Matthew and Mark had the perspective of the head, whereas John gives us the perspective of the feet. John is the gospel that presents Christ as the loving Savior to the world. John focuses on the feet for this reason. It's the position of humility. And of love. We find Mary over and over again sitting at the feet of Jesus And Mary's activity, Mary's work on this day is an ultimate demonstration of love. This spice of Spike nard would be a very precious gift that a man may give to his betrothed Uh it's also mentioned in in some of the contemporary writings that was often used as a dowry, where as part of the wedding celebration, this very fragrant, precious ointment was given. It was an act of love. And Mary's testimony is remembered Because of her overwhelming love of Christ. The first time we find Mary in the Gospels, not in canonical order, but the first time Not in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, not the order of the books, but the first time we find her mentioned in Scripture is the account of when Martha was busy making the meal And Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus, and Martha complains, Master, my sister has left me to serve alone. And Christ said Martha, Martha, you're troubled with many things, but Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her. And so we find Mary of Bethany, the place she loved to be, was at the feet of Jesus Christ. She had great love for Christ. And again, when we find Christ coming to Bethany after Lazarus, her brother, has died, we find Martha first going out to meet Jesus, and Martha saying If you had been here, he would have die he wouldn't have died. And we we I guess it's about six weeks ago we went through the the the various things there that Martha says and her coming to faith through Christ's testimony to her at that time. But when Mary is told that Christ is come, she runs out to meet him. And in Luke or John chapter 11, verse 32, and when Mary was come where Jesus was, she saw him. She fell at his feet. Isn't that beautiful? We find her over and over again. She finds her place is at his feet She fell at his feet. That's an act of adoration and of worship. Turn with me to Luke chapter 8. And in Luke chapter 8, we find the account of the man that was possessed of demons. And in Luke 8 and verse 33. After Christ has cast the demons out of this man, it says, Then went the devils out of the man and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were choked. This is uh Luke eight and now verse thirty-four. When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled and went and toad in the city and in the country. Then they went out to see what was done and came to Jesus and found the man out of whom the devils were departed sitting at the feet of Jesus. Clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. Folks, a great miracle has been done for this man. He he has been possessed of devils. He's been out of his head. He was not able to work, he was not able to hold a job, he was not able to be accepted in society, but now his life has been totally transformed. Now he's sitting. He's clothed. He's in his right mind. He's sitting at the feet of Jesus. Satan's hold on him has been broken and he has been set free. This is a man who would love Christ. But look where he is. He's sitting at his feet. He's in that place of love and adoration and humility. And then in verse 38 of the same passage there in Luke 8, the first part of the verse, now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him. He says, Oh Christ, I want to be with you. I want to go where you go. I want to follow you everywhere. Of course we know the story. Christ says, no, you need to go home to your own family. You need to be a witness there But his desire, I want to be with you. Why? Do you want to be with somebody you don't love? What is it about the holidays we We love to be with our family. My wife and I love Friday nights because most Friday nights my daughter and son-in-law come and we love my daughter and son-in-law But we got two grandkids and they bring 'em with them. You know, and so we we we love to see them and we want to be with them and we value that time and we want more and more of that time with the people that we love. You see, Martha was doing a good work. She was preparing a meal, but Mary, her testimony is remembered because of her love of Christ. The first and great commandment is given to us in Matthew 22, verses 37 and 38. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. The Old Testament commandment was to love Jehovah But Christ links that very commandment to himself in John 14, verse 20 and 21. At that day ye shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me And I in you. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father. And I will love him and will manifest myself unto him. We love him because he first loved us. What was the great and penetrating question? That Peter was asked by Jesus after Peter's denial, lovest thou me. Three times. And I love that last time when Christ says to Peter, Peter, lovest thou me? And Christ answers, Thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Folks, there's not a one among us that can say we love Christ as we ought to love Him. But oh what blessing it is to say, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee Mary had an enduring testimony because she simply loved the Lord. But folks I'd also point out from this account that Mary had an enduring testimony because of her labor for the Lord. Mary loved the Lord and had an enduring testimony, and Mary labored and had an enduring testimony. Look it again at the passage. We find that she comes in verse 7 with this alabaster box, very precious and anointed and poured it on precious ointment and poured it on his head as he sat in that meet. They find that she's very generous in her labor for the Lord. This ointment of Spike Nard was very costly. John's account in John 12 and verse 3 says that Mary took a pound of oil and a spike nord very costly She didn't bring a leftover, she didn't bring something of little value, but she brought this ointment of Spike Nord very costly. We find also that um It came in an alabaster box. That's something else we're thinking about this time of year, aren't we, as Christmas approaches and Uh my wife, as you know, has a broken wrist and so she's not able to wrap gifts this year, so she's seeking out gift bags because they're easy. I seek out gift bags even when I have too good wrists because I'm My graphic is horrible. But when we give a gift, we we bring it in the best presentation, don't we? Well, she brought this ointment that was in an alabaster box. This was a very precious and costly gift that she brought to Christ. In verse 9 of our text there in Matthew 26, the disciples' complaint is for this ointment might have been sold for much. and given to the poor. It could have brought a big price if we had left it in the alabaster box and sold it. In John's account, John 12, verse 5, why was not this ointment sold for 300 pence? and given to the poor. Now I can't tell you exactly how much 300 pence was, but um several of the commentators suggest that it was close to a year's wage Mm. Th that this was not just you know th she didn't run to Kmart to get this one. This was was at a very costly we find that her labor was it was over the top She was going to give the Lord the best. But we also find from the passage that Mary is serving Christ without any expectation of gain or reward for it. Mary broke the box. Mary broke the box, folks. You see, when this box, this alabaster, alabaster, by the way, was of almost translucent marble, fine-grained stone. Once this container was broken, it could not be put back together. They didn't have crazy glue yet. You weren't going to reassemble this. When Mary gave this gift, it was finished, it was done. She couldn't save some of the ointment for later. She could not reassemble the box. She gave her service to the Lord. It was finished, it was done, and she doesn't expect anything in return. And folks, that's the way we serve the Lord. Yes. The rewards of serving the Lord are abundant. But we don't serve the Lord for a reward. You see, when we love someone and we give them a gift, we're not thinking, I wanna go give me a gift that costs as much as the one I gave them. In Jamaica, one time we tried to have a gift exchange with the youth group. And all the kids wanted the gift they brought because they thought that they had brought the best gift. You see, when we give a gift, we just give a gift. So what the fuck is Mary doing here? Mary is just pouring out A vast sum to the Lord. The box was broken. And you find in Scripture that the most precious offerings to God were poured out. They were poured out. Consider this in Leviticus chapter 4, verse 30. And the priest shall take the blood thereof with his finger. and put it upon the thorns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out the blood thereof at the bottom of the offering. It was poured out And remember David. David in, I'll just read the passage to you to get it right. David in 2 Samuel 23, verses 15 and 16. And David longed and said, Oh, that one would give me a drink of water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate. And the three mighty men break through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David. Nevertheless, David would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto the Lord. These three mighty men hazarded their lives. They broke through the battle lines. We have a Marine in our presence. They broke through the battle lines of the Philistines. just to get some water from the well. Why was that water any better than any other water? Well it was it was David's home well. It was the home of Bethlehem, the well of Bethlehem And when these three men that have hazarded their lives, they have served their king with great sacrifice, bring this water. David's Opinion is this is too precious for me to drink. Now in our modern in our modern way of thinking, that would be an insult But to these three men, it was a great honor that David valued their gift so highly that he says, I'm just going to pour this out as an offering before Jehovah, my Lord. You see, that is the attitude of Mary's service. She breaks the alabaster box and just pours out this perfume to her Lord. But consider this from Isaiah 53. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great. And he shall divide the spoiled with the strong, because he has poured out his soul unto death. And was numbered with transgressors. And folks, that's why I read first the passage from Leviticus where the blood of the sacrifice was poured out. And the picture we have of our Messiah is that he poured out his life, his soul, unto death. Mary was very generous in her labor for the Lord. Mary did not expect any reward from anyone from the Lord, but we find that Mary did not receive the praise of men. for her labors for the Lord. You know, we kind of at work want to add a boy, as they say. You want the boss to come by your desk and say, hey, you did really good on that project. You want your employer to notice that you put in some extra hours on this particular assignment. That that you know if you're in sales, you want you want the sales manager to say That was a good sale. Well you you you really held value in that sale. Well you pursued that customer and good job. Mary doesn't receive that here from the men in the room, does she? Those around Mary did not comprehend her labor. In verse 8 of our text there in Matthew 26, but when his disciples saw it, they had indignation. Saying to what purpose was this waste? Do you ever have your labor called waste? Boss come by seduce and say you're wasting time. I remember when I was in Bible school there was a a dear lady. Uh Still remember her very fondly at the convalescent home that I went to every Wednesday night for three years to to hold a service there And week after week she would say, don't go to that Jamaica. Don't, don't, you know, don't waste your life going to a mission field. And folks, I'm sure sure some of you may have family members that see your testimony for Christ and their opinion is what a waste. And I had a a dear friend who um uh had opportunities in the entertainment industry and we'll just leave it at that. And he was called to preach And he turned those aside and went to Bible college and has been a pastor. He's retired now, but he's a pastor for many, many years. And his friends told him, what a waste. What a waste Folks, you know, the world doesn't understand our service of Christ, and sometimes other believers may not understand our service for Christ. Here we find that Mary is dealt with with indignation by the disciples. By the ones, folks, who should have said, yes, any honor that is given to Christ is due. When we've done all, we're unprofitable servants, should be our opinion. But here, Mary alone in a room of men, folks. Mary alone in a room of men has a higher esteem. Remember we talked last week when we talked about our giving. That our giving reflects our esteem of the one to whom we give. We give the best gifts to the ones we love the most. Mary, here, her labor. In verse 10, Christ says, Why do you trouble her? Why are you troubling her? Why are you giving this woman grief? But look at this In verse 8, they say, to what purpose was this waste? But in verse 12, Christ says it's for my burial. What the disciples viewed as a waste, Christ said, no, it's for my burial. It was not a waste at all. But the final thing I'd have as a C about Mary's labor is that Mary's labor did not go unnoticed. She gave what was very precious to her. She did not expect personal return. She was rebuked by other believers, but her labor did not go unnoticed. In the Mark account in Mark chapter 14, verse 6 and following, and Jesus said, Let her alone. Why trouble ye her? She hath wrought a good work on me. For the poor, ye the poor ye had the po ye have the poor with you always And whensoever ye will, ye may do them good. But ye have not always. She hath done the what she could. She hath done what she could. She is come aforehand. to anoint my body to the burying. Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world This also that she hath done shall be spoken of her for a memorial. Folks, that's quite a epithet Mm on the tombstone of Mary. We obviously don't have her tombstone, but we still have her appetite. That's right We still have her memorial. Folks, she is remembered. She has an enduring testimony because she loved the Lord Jesus Christ above everything else. And she has an enduring testimony because she faithfully labored for the Lord Jesus Christ. But folks, the last one is the most important. Mary has an enduring testimony because of her learning of Jesus Christ, the learning that Mary received from Christ. Left an enduring testimony. Again, remember the first time we find Mary in Luke chapter 10. And we find that Martha had a sister and She had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Folks, had Jesus told His followers, his disciples, that he was going to go to Jerusalem, that he was going to be tried, that he was going to be put to death, and that he was going to rise again. Yes. Yes. Jesus had told them all these things. But Mary had been sitting at the feet of Jesus While Martha was busy preparing a meal, and while the disciples, we find actually in one passage were arguing over who was going to be the greatest. And Christ was telling him in that same conversation about his death. Jesus had been telling them again and again But it doesn't begin with Jesus, the Old Testament. You see, Mary had a broad view of Scripture because she had gone to the source. Mary, as a Jewish woman, would not have had the same religious education as the men. It was the reality of the day. The boys went to school to learn the Old Testament. The girls were not given that privilege. Today, we all have access to the Word of God. Mary was a student. She did not have a great education. We're not told of her occupation. We don't know. The fact that two sisters are living with a brother may have indicated that either Mary and Martha were unmarried or were widows. Because they were living with a male relative. They were all in the household of Lazarus. And not to go too far off the subject, but that would have made the death of Lazarus a greater tra film, a tragedy, because the the male head of household would have been removed From these two sisters. We don't know a whole lot about Mary on those externals. But what we do know points to a woman who was diligent about the Old Testament scriptures. Because we find in Isaiah, he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He's despised and rejected, a man of sorrows and accountable grief. Surely we hid our face from him He was bruised for our iniquity, he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement of his peace was upon him, of our peace was upon him. We know these things from Scripture And it appears that Mary understood them. For Mary here is anointing him for his burial. While the disciples are arguing about money. Christ is said in Matthew sixteen twenty-six for At that time, or from that time forth, Jesus began to show his disciples how that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and of the chief priests and be killed and be raised again. Mary knew the Old Testament scriptures and Mary listened. Mary listened. You know, a lot of times men are guilty of not listening. I I don't know why, it's I guess it's our in our nature, but Mary listened. Mary learned. Folks, if Mary had not sat at the feet of Jesus where she learned If Mary had not learned of Christ, if Mary had not chosen that good part which would not be taken away from her, she probably would have missed it too. But instead we find Mary, who loves Christ above all else, bringing a most precious gift, bringing her laborers to Christ. Breaking the alabaster box with no hope of any return in demonstration that she believed, that she had learned, that she knew Folks, may we be more like Mary. May we not be forgetful hearers. May the Word of God not come in one ear and go out the other. Folks, may we be more like Mary. May we serve the Lord even when our family doesn't understand. Even what we do for the Lord is viewed as being a waste. Hmm. We know and we understand, but above all, that we love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength May God like make us like Mary. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your precious word. Father we thank you for these glorious accounts, these not fairy tales or fables. But these glorious, actual, true stories that are given to us, that leave for us such a glorious example. That show us the way of righteousness and the way of service before you. Lord, we thank you for Mary. And we thank you for the fulfillment of the promise of Christ that with us whoever the gospel is preached What she did is remembered for a memorial. Make us more like that, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Turn to our blue hymn book, our blue song book, and number two hundred and twenty-six. 226, Old Little Town of Bethlehem. 226. Blue Song Book. As we get to sing a few themed songs for this particular month. 226 to a little town of Bethlehem, and we will sing all four stanzas. How shall we see the light? All my deep and dreamlessly, the silent stars alive, yet in thy dark street shine. For Christ is all of her. Lord will sweep the angels speak there water wandrights. All morning stars together proclaims and greatest things to go. How signed house my life beach, the wondrous gift is given so running parts to go. Where me souls will receive him still does hear Christ answer. We shall of the word be said to us we pray. Has thou sin and ensuring before in us today. We hear thy Christmas say. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Please be seated. Thank you again to