There I've shortened the uh reading today to uh Mark nine, fourteen through twenty-seven. That's not mistake but I went to the bulletin. I have shortened that. Um I know if you read on those two verses, oh how can you leave those documents the whole new sermon itself And uh also when you went through the response of readings for one of Simeon in the temple, you know, what's that got to do? You make to think that the response of reading ha has something to do with the sermon. Well it does. I thought that that was a very touching moment when they came into the temple and Simeon who had been awaiting saw the Christ. And we'll be talking about other touching moments this morning So if you would follow me in the reading now, um this reading begins uh as Christ is coming down off the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter, James, and John. And uh they've just been up in the top and they've seen Elias and they've seen Moses and uh the Christ and they went they're so excited they want to set up three tabernacles for all of 'em. Another very touching moments and uh had to be clarified that we're not gonna do three tabernacles. for them of course but they're coming down off the mount when we reach Mark chapter 9 and verse 14. So bear in mind three disciples are with Christ and there's nine down below. Verse 14, and when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning or discussing with them. probably arguing with them. And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed and running to him, that is to Christ, they saluted or greeted him. And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them? And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit. Can't speak. And wheresoever he taketh him, that is the demon that's in him, he taketh, and he teareth him, and he foameth and gnasheth with his teeth, and he pineth away. And I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not. Now bear in mind that in Matthew ten, chapter ten, the very first power Christ gave them was to cast out demons, along with resurrections and Healing all diseases. And you hear the very first thing that they're supposed to be able to do, and they can't do it. And that he said that they couldn't cast them out. They could not. Verse 19. And he answered me, he said, O faithless generation How long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring them unto me. That is the the child, the son And they brought him onto him, and when he saw him, straightway the spirit or this demon tear him, and he fell on the ground, the child, and wild, foaming. And he asked his father, how long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child. And oft times it has cast him into the fire, into the waters to destroy him. But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said unto him, if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. Amen. And straightway the father of the child cried out and he said, with tears, Lord, I believe, but helped all my unbelief. And when Jesus saw the people came running together, he rebuked the foul, or some scripture will say, the filthy spirit. saying unto him, thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him and enter no more into him. And the spirit or this demon cried out and rent him sore, rent the child again sore, and came out of him. And the child was as one dead, insomuch that many said, He's dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. Boy, what a touchy moment that must have been. So price comes off the Mount of Transfiguration. That'd have been a high. If we go back and read that, that'd have been a high. Top of the mountain experience. And now they come down into the valley and I think that's often us. We have highs and lows, right? And and if you notice around a mountain there's valleys everywhere around the mountains, only one peak top, one mountain top. So often we have more valleys Uh more discouragements than we have mountaintops but you can't have one without the other. Gee, they make a song like that. Can't have one without that work on the mountain So he finds all nine disciples down below, defeated, overwhelmed, a father discouraged, and a delighted demon, and most likely the scribes were excited too that these nine disciples had failed. Failed. And they were discouraged. You ever been discouraged? You think you're unusual that you get discouraged sometimes? Well, I can think of Sarah discouraged that she couldn't and have a child and Rachel discouraged for the same reason and Hannah discouraged. They were discouraged. They wanted children so bad. They'd weep and they would pray and they'd cry out. And God answers those. Tearful prayers as well. And then we we think of the men that had gone fishing and had been fishing all night and they caught nothing. Were they discouraged? All of them were discouraged. And then we think that the crucifixion of Christ, how it says that all the disciples fled, they went in hiding, and they were discouraged. And here, this morning, we find them discouraged that they can't heal. They can't cast out this demon And Christ comes down and he and he sees there's there's something going on here. These scribes are questioning and and uh you saying probably accusatory things to them and and they're questioning the disciples We often find that the scribes and the Pharisees were great fault finders, and so they must have found a fault here with them as well. Had they not found faults with Christ? He heals on the Sabbath. Shocking. Anybody here ever been to patient first or a hospital? Because you're hoping to get healed on the Sabbath? On Sunday? Would the scribes find fault with you? Oh, I think so. His disciples, they plucked corn on the Sabbath. And the certain Sarah Pharisees they said on the Sabbath they plucked corn. I mean they can always find something to to fault the Christians, can't they? Could uh these scribes find fault with you on the Sabbath day? Gee. How many stop and got a coffee on the way to church some Sunday morning? You you were doing business, exchanging money on the Lord's Day. How many of you stopped to put a little extra air in the tire of your car to get gas in your car Oh yeah, I think the scribes could find fault with us on how we treat our Sabbath as well. And how about the disciples? They eat bread with unwashed hands. They probably washed their hands. They didn't wash them from the elbows up and down. and moving flowing water and and so the disciples they eat bread with unwashed hands. They found fault, not holding the traditions of the elders. We read in Matthew 7 and verses 2 and 3. Yeah, we have traditions too It's not that we don't wash the elbows up, but we have traditions like get your elbows off the table. Don't wear that hat at the table. And turning around backwards doesn't mean that's okay either. And we we got our own traditions, right? How about who gets the wishbone and breaking the wishbone? That's a tradition we have around Thanksgiving time often. We have we have traditions too In fact, uh, how about the three second rule? Ever break that one? You don't tell the kids, oh, we drop the hot dog on the floor and wipe it off and I'd call to the table again and it was more than three seconds, we break the three-second rule, right? And they could find fault with us for that too. I think someone here has talked about your binky Your baby drops the binky and oh my goodness, it gives it up your mother, you wash it off and you wipe it and you give it back. And then uh when the second baby comes along, you drops the binky, you just kind of wipe it real quick and stick it back in his mouth and By the third way you think it's a heck and you shove this mouth, right? Three second rule. We break the three second rule. And the scribes would find fault with that, wouldn't they? The fault finders love to find the speck in someone else's eye, but consider it not the beam that's in their own eye, Matthew 7 and 3. And so we have these fault finders here. I I can remember a pastor one time someone coming to me and saying, that that new person that just walked from the church this morning. They got a tattoo. And I said, the two elderly gentlemen sit up there, you love so much. Oh yeah, yeah, I know I'm gonna use their names They said, they got tattoos too. I didn't know that. I said, Oh yeah. You know, some of us weren't born in a church too, you know. We we got tattoos She says, oh, all right. But that mustache on the preacher you got here on Sundays, it looks terrible. Dr. West Hauger, I don't know if you ever knew Dr. Westauger Mr. Elliot, but he had a mustache. But before he had a mustache he had a hair lip and he had surgery. The mustache was to cover the lip. And the mustache never quite looked right. And I I told her, well he had surgery on his lip, the mustache covers the surgical. Oh, well she's a gossip over there. She's a gossip. And I said I know. And what you just shared with me was gossip too. We can always find fault with one another. We c we really can do it. It's not that difficult. And so we read they come down there, and here's the scribes, and they're finding fault with the nine disciples. Can you imagine? Matthew's over there and he's going to cast out that demon. We've done this before. We've got the power to do it. It doesn't happen. And Matthew says, what's wrong? And Anderson's Peter's brother. Let a fisherman take care of it, Matthew, the tax collector, you need to sit down over there. And he can't heal. And the the demon's still inside of him Thomas comes forward. You know, all Thomas needs is something to cast a little doubt in his life, right? Doubting Thomas. And he can't heal a child. And on and on we go through all of the different disciples. All nine of them. Judas even Judas is scared. You know, Lord trusts him with the money bag. Surely he he Judas get in here. fail. They're all discouraged. And Christ comes along and sees all this happening. He sees the scribes attacking. them and asking him questions and questioning with them and the disciples are just befuddled and they're discouraged and all of Christ's nine disciples What a touching moment for Christ to arrive and to take care of the problem. I don't know if Peter, James, and John said, stand aside, fellas. We got this when we just came from the Mount of Transfiguration. I suspect the Lord said, no. I'll take care of this one. Don't need all twelve of you discouraged. Touching moment The scribes might have been addressing the disciples and saying, huh, supposed to be faith healers? Fakes? Fake healers? Phonies? Flawed fishermen after all, that's what you are. Just flawed fishermen after all. Not theologians. Why there's even a Canaanite among you. And a tax collector too. Putting them all in their place. The devil's crowd is always looking for flaws in the Christians Seemed like they're always walking around with the magnifying glass or microscope, right? Yeah, look on it to find some flaw. We all got flaws They're always looking. We're living under a microscope. First Thessalonians 5. 22, if you've got a good Bible, it says this. Abstaining from all appearance of evil. Now the other Bibles, as you say, abstaining from evil. Believe or from appearance. And I when I was going through the Greeks uh my course in Greek, we didn't use the the uh received text. Uh it was the Nestle twenty four. But you know what it had there in Greek? It said abstain from all appearance. It was actually there. But then when you the Bible describes they got involved in our day and age, they just changed things Abstaying from all appearance of evil. So we're placed under a microscope. People are always looking at us. And they're going to find things, but let's not hand them an accusation on a silver plaid. You know, I mean sometimes we we make it so easy for them. We dress like the world. We are caught lying about things, cheating. Listening to vulgar jokes, vulgar music and videos and watching vulgar movies and even stealing a paper clip, a pen, or some soap from work. How am I showing no don't give me a show of hands in front of you He said, Well what's a paperclip? Yeah I gotta take the stuff home and work out and and by the end of the year you gotta pull ashtray. You got an ashtray You got all these paperclips in your in your that you've been taking home from work and pens from work and maybe some extra paper from work. Well when we read in Genesis fourteen and twenty three, Abraham, when Lot was kidnapped and his whole family and and all the people out of Sodom and Abraham goes out and it does battle with them and he brings back uh the Is Lot and the children and the others have been cat taken out of Sodom. And the king of Sodom comes out and says, Oh thank you, thank you, thank you. You brought even my people back too, thank you, thank you. You can have the spoils of war. Take a shoelat uh a thread or a shoelatch that you might say you made me rich. See, Abraham knew he was under the microscope. And what they might say later on. So let's not hand the world on a silver platter. The most obvious of things. We don't need the spoils of war. Do we? No, we don't. God will take care of us. So verses 15 and 16, Christ has arrived. And there's a discouraged father, and there's the defeated the disciples also discouraged and this delighted demon and Christ was arrived and he asked the scribes What question ye with them? What question ye with them? Five words Five words. Now why is that important? Because from this verse 16 until the rest of the chapter, the scribes are struck dumb. He shuts them down with five words. By the way, those five words are in the Bible. That makes those words holy scripture. He uses it's holy scripture. It's it's the word of Christ. It might be in your Bible and reading It's five words and he shuts the scribes down. Not for a moment, not for a minute. He shuts them down for the rest of the chapter. Five words. You say there's no power in the word of God? Ho ho I wonder what they thought as they looked around and the scribes aren't saying anything else. Wow, what's going on here? That's kind of a touching moment to be involved with, isn't it? Five words from Christ Twenty-some verses. They do nothing. The power of the word. Sometimes we try to come up with arguments to deal with the world out there, and we forget to use the Bible verse. The power of some words. Word, man. Power's in the word. You know when you run these people with a they start promoting their promiscuous lifestyles uh from Hollywood and uh Islam's promiscuous lifestyles and the gay permissible lifestyles and the age of Aquarius promoters. Just respond with five words. Thou shalt not commit adultery. You're done, all right? You're done. Nothing else you gotta say. It's power in the word and it will and it will it will stop them. Oh I I I've been there with that one. I mean I I mean they're just like, you know, they didn't expect the core and if that's not good enough just say, Well nevertheless Nevertheless, what sayeth those scriptures? That's always good for almost anything you want to toss in there that they say or do Five words. How about a thou should I said thou shall not communicate. Someone starts talking about euthanasia. I'm getting kind of touchy about that one You're the I got through the abortion one, you know. But uh it was a close it was a close call, but uh um but I got through that one But now I don't know, it's getting closer and closer. Jim, we've been in the households recently with COVID and everything else. It gets closer and closer. Dr. Ellen, he's been there too. We know it's getting closer and closer. And people start talking about abortion, euthanasia, like it's uh you know, something's never gonna touch them 'Cause they're younger. Well, I just give them four words. We don't need five words. If it's scripture we can go down to four words. Thou shalt not kill. Done. We're done. Exodus twelve in verse fourteen was this verse on adultery, and Exodus twenty in verse thirteen, thou shalt not kill. Matthew twenty-three, I love that one. Chapter Matthew 23, Christ is there and he's involved with the the scribes and the Pharisees and all the stuff they're doing, and he's lambassing them, he's calling him hypocrites for things they do And then when he really wants to let him have it, he says three words. Whoa unto you. Boom. And he it works so well that he used it in Matthew 23, 13, and in verse 14, and in verse 15, and verse 23, and verse 25, and verse 27, And verse 39, woe unto you. And it works. And you go to the rest of the New Testament and he uses a lot with them. He uses the way in the book of Revelation. Woe unto you. We don't and when you've got the Word of God, it's so powerful, you don't need to memorize long passages. We should, that'd be great. But can you remember can you remember thou shalt not kill? Thou shalt not commit adultery. Woe unto you. I love it with Peter. Peter's in Acts chapter 2, Pentecost. And all these different Jews have come in from all over the world, but also the Jewish people have come in from from Jerusalem. They want to hear what these What these these drunken disciples are doing, and he's out there and he starts lambassing him. And he starts in there and it does for about 20 verses in Acts chapter 2. He starts lambassing him, letting him have it And it really starts to bother them. And he's he's saying, You crucified the Lord of glory. And he did miracles. You go back and read that, chapter twenty-two. He's he's not just talking to the ones from Crete and Pathodosha. He's talking about the ones that were there, they were he said, You were there. He's talking about the ones right there in Jerusalem. You live here. You were there and you crucified him. Now some of them have come from a long ways. They're going, Wow, they were involved in the crucifying. That Pharisee was. That scribe was. Oh my goodness. What's the reaction? They're you know, boy they're reacting like like they are guilty They did crucify him, they start observing all this. He said, You crucify, and you saw the miracles he did. You saw this. That's in chapter 2 Now he can't say that to all the people who've come in for Pentecost, but there's enough of them there in Jerusalem that worry He said he saw the miracles and you crucified them anyway. And he gets all through with this and all the people at the Pentecost What's gonna happen? What's gonna happen here? This is this is startling charges. And then Peter finishes it up with with just with just one word they say what shall we do what should we do all of us and these people live in Jerusalem what should we do what shall we do and Peter says one word repent whoa one word of scripture He'd already said a lot of other things. Well they said, What can we do? What can we do? Repent. Sometimes that's all you need when you're talking to the world out there. And they're doing things. I've done this and I've done that and I don't know. You know, I had an abortion when I was younger and then, what can I do? What can I do? Just repent. See, repent doesn't have to always be said, repent! It doesn't have to be said that way. Sometimes you throw your arm around him, you cry out and you say, repent. Just repent. Power. Power in the Word. In the Holy Word. Woe unto you. And repent can change your heart. And then the Father speaks. Because Christ has gone there. He says, What are you doing? He says these these scribes. He jumps on them. And only the Father speaks. Verses 17 and 18. And he comes and he says, Master, that's a good way to approach the Lord. I I I just hate all these these people that say, Well Jesus this and Jesus that. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. It's rabbi, its master. The disciples always gave him a title. And if you're coming to the Lord and you need something He's the Lord of glory. It's not just Jesus, my buddy and my friend. And you go all through the scriptures, at least in the King James. Christ was always directed by the believers with respect. Now the Pharisees might come by and call him Jesus in the scriptures, but not the disciples. Master, this is the Father. He's in great need of something. In fact, in Matthew 17, 15 says, he came and he kneeled before Christ. That's always a good position to get into as well. And he says, my son, my son. Now if you go back in Luke chapter 9 with the story told, he says, my son, my only child. Do you realize that? He didn't have any other kids at home. The only one he had is this kid here that's been tossed into the fire and tossed in the water and the demon's been in him He had the dumb spirit, he says. And then in verse 25, we read, he says, he's got a deaf spirit. You know, he can't hear. He can't speak. He foameth and he gnashing with his teeth. This child could not speak to Christ and ask for help himself. And this child couldn't hear the prayers of Christ over him because he was deaf. This child didn't have a prayer. And we know people like that. We know that where they are in their life. They're not going to ask Christ for anything, and they're not going to hear anything you say, but you can pray on your knees as his father did. The child didn't have a prayer, but the father had one You got any reality you don't think has a prayer discourages you? I look at the faces and I think every one of us Can nod their head of that one. So I'd ask you to pray for them and pray to one who cares to hear about it. Must have been a touching moment. I mean Christ knows everything, but You know, he says, hey, what's going on? You're the scribes. He knew what was going on. Oftentimes he plays that to try to draw them out or to shut them down. And so here here Christ is before them And uh he says, I got this this demon that takes my son and tears him and forms him out and mash a teeth and throws him down. He says something's got a hold of him, Lord. Ever heard people say that? Well that boy ain't right. Something got a hold on him. You know what? It might be this fat. It might be this fat. Something got a hold on him. Well stay away from that guy. Something got a hold on him And Christ says in verses 19 to 22, must have been a touching moment for the Father. Christ didn't say, oh wow, nine of my best disciples are here and and you couldn't heal them. I don't know. Never happened before. I gave them the power. I I don't know. If you read the rest of that chapter, you'll find out why they couldn't heal them. Here's the words the father heard. Bring 'em on to me. That's not the word Christ said. Christ said, bring them on to me with confidence. I mean if you're discouraged, read the word of God, you'll get undiscouraged Hearing from Christ would take away your discouragement. He says, bring them on to me. And we should do the same with the ones we're praying for. Bring them by prayer. Bring them before the scriptures. Bring them to a church service. Bring them to Christ. He said, bring them unto me. And the Father said, oft times he cast them into the fire and into waters of showing him. He said, have compassion on us and help us. That was the Father's prayer. And also where you read on his knees before the Christ, calling him the master, and with tears. Boy, now that's the kind of a prayer you want to give. If you're discouraged about someone, on your knees with tears. My grandmother had prayers like that for me. What a waste of time they thought. Well I got friends friends in the old world. They think it still was a waste of time, but that's another story. What a touching moment. In verse 20, Christ says to him, how long has your son been like this? How have you thought about this before? How long has your son been like this? And the father says, since a child This is not a child he is bringing. He is bringing a son. A son might be 15, 70, 18, maybe 25. We don't know how old he was. But he's been this way since a child. And the longer we have people we love who are like that, the harder it gets. We just think that it's never gonna happen. They're never gonna change. It's always gonna be like this. Discouraging, isn't it? Another touching moment. He's been like this since a child. What, three years old, four years or five? We don't know. Child? And now how we don't know, but you have to assume maybe twelve years like the woman with the issue of blood. No, what's a guy look like that's been tossed in and out of a fire for twelve years Have you ever thought about that? And and we're not talking about a matchstick. This demon he looks for a fire. You know, if there's people over here uh cooking fish on a fire somewhere or or if there's a house burning down somewhere, you'll t I mean, what does this guy look like after uh all these years of being tossed into a fire? He might look like someone that comes back from Iran or Iraq who's been in a fiery explosion. This guy might ha he might look about as bad as any leper you can imagine. If you think about it But Christ is bringing to me. He delights in delivering a soul from the rulers of darkness and spiritual weakness, and we wrestle not against flesh and blood, by the way. Ephesians 6. 12, if if flesh and blood is your only concern in this life, We are missing the target. You know, we we think, well, uh we're what do you mean we're missing the target? You're missing the cure. For what ails someone that you've been praying for. So it isn't getting another Republican president in the White House. That's not going to fix a whole lot. If God doesn't touch this country and touch the soul of this country and give us a a revival in this country, it doesn't matter if he put George Washington back in the White House. What is it that ails the side and what ails it that ails the ones that we're praying for? We can fall short of it by providing them the best clothing but not Christ, the best food but not Christ. the best school in education, but not Christ, putting a roof over the head, but not Christ. If you don't introduce your child to Christ, the Christ of the scriptures, early on in life, if you don't introduce him to Christ Guess who the devil will introduce him to? That's right. Or the demons will introduce him to. That's right. So well I I I I don't want to cram religion down his throat. I don't want to cram this Bible down his throat. Why not? He's eating all other kinds of junk and fast foods Well I'll wait till he's eighteen. Really? You ever heard that one? I've heard that one a lot. Well I'm gonna wait till he's eighteen, he's mature, and then he can make a decision for himself. You're gonna wait till he's eighteen? Yeah, I think that's what we're gonna do. Well the devil's not gonna wait till you're eighteen This kid from a child, two or three or four years old. The devil already got a hold on him. And we're gonna wait until we're eighteen to try to re fix that. I don't think so. I don't think so. You ever heard people say they're too young to understand? I mean, I'm gonna go somewhere people probably hadn't been for, unless they've heard me talk about it, but I'm gonna tell you some touching moments that took place with young children. I know we don't see much of that nowadays, do we? Two or three-year-old running around singing Jesus loves me, this and I know. We used to hear that when I was growing up. You don't hear that anymore. Quoting scriptures, we don't hear that anymore. But I'm going to tell you how early it can happen. Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 5. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee. Saved them in the womb. Wow. I I sometimes feel I say, when did you get saved? I don't know. I just feel like I always loved the Lord. Well you know what? Maybe they did. That's right. Isaiah 49 verse 1. Or rather, Luke chapter 1, first, and verse 44. This is John the Baptist's mother, and Mary comes and she announces that she's pregnant with a Christ child. And what does John the Baptist do in the womb when he hears that he's pregnant with the Christ child? It says he leaps for joy in the womb. In the womb, John the Baptist was already praising God. Wow Isaiah 49 verse 1. The babe I'm sorry I got the wrong verse there. Oh here is the Lord hath called me from the womb. Isaiah. That's pretty early. You know how that happens? When mommy's leaning down the tummy and quoting Bible verses and singing hymns and psalms. And the baby comes out and he hears the songs in the living room, the dining room, and the mother that same boy she sees uh what she looks like now and and quoting these verses and he said, I wonder what it means, you must be born again and I wonder you know but he it's it's all being established. David says in Psalm 22, 10, Thou art my God from my mother's belly. That's pretty young. There's power in the words. So read and sing the songs and songs and hymns and scriptures to your babies even before they're born. Watch that's just ridiculous. What? I just gave you four ridiculous situations here. I they said but but but That's so so early to to work it on children, really? Go back to 2 Kings 21, 23 and verse 24. There's 42 children who are carrying on against the prophet and they're saying, Go up thou bald head, go up thou bald head. And out come forty-two uh two f two she bears that come out and and they just tear these forty-two children about Well they're such young children. Well they're responsible. Well And something gotten a hold on those kids, hasn't it? Mm-hmm. What a moment that must have been. Talk about a touching moment for the for the mothers of those forty-two children to see what the she bear was doing out there to her to her children. Did I say two? I think it was only one she bear How about Samuel? He's called of God. It says in 1 Samuel 3 and verse 3. He's just he's a little two or three year old kid. He's just been uh weaned from his mother and she brings him to to uh the prophet or to the uh the priest, uh Eli and and says, Here's here's my son, he's yours and and he's there, he's sleeping at night and hears God calling that that's what it says. The Lord called him and Eli recognized that the Lord was calling this little three or four year old kid. Well, let's just wait till they're 18, you know? We'll give we'll give the devil a free shot for about fifteen or sixteen years, and then we'll step in when they're old enough. Cheerful kneeling prayers will get results. They'll get them early, they'll get them late, but they'll get results. results. And the Father says here, all he Christ says all things are possible to him that believeth. And the Father cries out and said with tears, Lord, with tears, he says, Lord, I believe. Help thou my unbelief. So let me give you an assignment for those you're praying for. On your knees with tears, and don't give up on your loved ones until they cease to breathe. And maybe even better than that to me the second direction I give you is this one. Along with the tears and everything else, for your loved ones, don't you give up. until your last breath either. Jesus rebukes the false spirit. We read in verse 25. He rebukes the false spirit. And uh He says, thou dumb and deaf spirit come out at him, and the spirit came out. There was a time when you were deaf and dumb too. And God got a hold of you. Now that's a good thing for some. If God gets a hold on you You know, I I I can remember when I when I first got saved and the construction was around that you walk by and say, boy something got a hold of him. Yes it did if the Holy Spirit got a hold of me. It was Christ that got a hold of me. Christ can get a hold of a young child. And if you think he can't get a hold of a young child Think of this. Well, I don't think that the word of God can get a hold of a young child. Well, maybe you don't believe that, but I'll tell you what the Bible says here. Not only can Christ get a hold of a young child, but so can the devil. So which way will you have it? That's right. And Jesus took him. In Matthew seventeen, he's called a lunatic. Today we might call him the lunatic. Little different pronunciation and spelling, but the lunatic. He it says in Matthew 17, 15 that Christ took a hold of him by the hand and lifted him up. What a lunatic touching moment because when he was torn and foaming and gnashing and laying down the ground, they thought he was dead. They thought the demon inside had killed him. And Christ walks over And the father might be aghast. It didn't work. The same thing happened. And he's laying there pining away. He's like he's dead again. It didn't work. And Christ goes over, grabs my head, and lifts him up. And the father must have been. What a moment. What a moment in time that was. A touching moment for sure. Stretched forth his hand when Peter was sinking in the water. What a touching moment that was. When Christ touched his hand and pulled him up. How about Peter's mother when she was sick? Christ came in and touched her hand and lifted her up. What a touching moment that was. When Jerus he was discouraged because the word came that he can forget about bringing Christ to the house because she's already dead And Christ said, Don't worry about that. And he comes into the house, he takes the young maiden by the hand and she arose. What a touching moment that was. Don't give up who you're praying for and start early. I know I've getting all these verses about Jeremiah and David and all that. But well let me get I I did leave one out and I just know it's I want to give it to you. Because Christ said when he's coming into Jerusalem and everyone's cheering and screaming and it says And children are are shouting Hosanna to the King of David. And they said, Can't you hush them up? Can't you hush them up? And Christ says, Out of the mouths of babes. That's pretty young. Oh, but I'm not done yet. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings shall come praises. Wow. Sucklings, that's gonna be a two or three-year-old, right? That's pretty young. Let's not give up on our people. The Bible's full of touching moments. So whatever you're facing today, if you're discouraged today, or if you've lost a loved one, or someone's died, or whatever's going on in your life, the world will tell you that Christ is not the answer for everything. Okay, well I've been saying about forty some years now and uh if he's not the answer for everything I'll maybe find it in here, but I haven't found it yet. So far he's the answer for everything. He's not the answer for everything. Scripture teaches us otherwise that Christ is the answer for everything So you want to cry out to Christ on your knees, cry out in tears, and prepared for Christ to touch you and give you like a touching moment if it hasn't already happened. A touching moment that will give you a peace. No matter what's going on in your life, until Christ returns, or until you're with him, he'll give you a touch of peace that passes all understanding. Let's pray. Lord, we just thank you today that most of us here understand that touching moment. Some of us can remember when it was, maybe not the date, the month, but we can remember when it happened, when you just Without our without our volition, without our asking, without our even uh making an effort, God came down and touched our heart. We began to read the Bible, we begin to pray. We didn't even know what was going on at the time But we knew it was something special, something different. And we couldn't wait to tell others. Oh Lord, these touching moments May they become more frequent in these horrible discouraging days among our own families. Give us something to hang on to, Lord. And we ask this in the name of our Master, our Rabbi, our teacher, our great God and Savior. Jesus the Christ. Amen.