Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of 1 John. We're coming back to our study in 1 John that we kind of set aside for Thanksgiving and Christmas. 1 John chapter 3 And we're going to consider the first three verses of First John three this morning. And I don't expect to come anywhere close to exhausting them. In fact, we may only get through the first verse and pick up with verses two and three next week. But a glorious passage. Amazing words, the words of life, the words of God. 1 John chapter 3, and I'll read verses 1 through 3. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Let us stop for prayer. Oh, Heavenly Father, our gracious and great God, we stand in wonder and awe at the great love of God. We stand before you as sinners saved by grace. We stand before you as logs fit for the fire of hell, and yet made into trees of righteousness. And Lord, we read that the godly man shall be as a tree planted by the river of water, not as a tree cut down for fire. But a tree planted and its leaf will continue to flourish. Father, we thank you for this. Oh God, this morning Uh we we all come before you in the infirmity of the flesh. We come before you with colds and distractions and headaches and earaches and sinus infections and all the various things, Lord, and Many here today have been sick this week, and many are not here today because they're sick today. God strengthen us in body, we pray. But, O Lord, more than that, in this time we have together, may you set aside all of our cares for the body. And Lord, may your spirit attend to the soul May this day we be edified and blessed by your word. May we be strengthened in you. Open your holy book to us and let us look into it and there find the perfect law of liberty. Father, bless your people in Jesus' name. Amen. Behold what manner of love Can you ever say, behold, like that? Behold, what manner of love. Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy. Behold is not a word that you say quietly, even when you have a cold. Behold, take a look, stand back in awe. This is amazing. This is something important. You don't say, behold a hamburger. Behold is not a word that's used for the trivial or the common. It's a word of great excitement. It's a word that arrests the senses. Look out! You don't say to your child, that stove is hot, don't touch it. No. You don't say to someone who Your wife doesn't say to you when the car in front of you stops and you're not paying attention, she doesn't say, that car stopped. Look out That's the kind of word behold is. It's an arresting word. It's a word that grabs our attention. Does your salvation still amaze you? Do you still stand in wonder and awe at the fact that God has saved a wretched sinner? Does it thrill you? Do you wake up in the morning and your first company? Hallelujah, I'm not in hell. Because I ought to be. Because my sin deserves it. But wonder of wonder: God sent his own son and died for me. Behold. What manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. In the message to the church at Ephesus in Revelation chapter 2, God says, I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne and hast patience. For my name's sake hast thou labored and fainted. Nevertheless, I have something against thee, somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Here God says to the church at Ephesus, you're busy? Your doctrine's sound? You've tried those that say they're apostles and liars. You've labored, you've borne affliction, you have done all these things, but God says, I still have something against you, Ephesus. You've lost your first love. Do you remember when you were first saved? What a thrill it was. Do you remember that first moment, friends? Do you remember that first moment when you realized your sins were forgiven? And how your soul shouted with joy. Saved, saved, saved. That's what John is saying here to these believers. Look at it again, folks. You've gotten too used to it. Behold, what manner of love. Father has bestowed upon us. Take a fresh look at it. We've gotten so used to its beauty and its glory and its wonder that we've lost the amazement. We just sang amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me was grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. How precious. That's why I chose that psalm this morning. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? We as God's people need to behold afresh and anew We need to behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. If we fail to wonder at his great love, It will not be long before we fail to love him. You see, we love him because he first loved us. But when we forget how much he loved us, Then we also forget how much we love him. And we grow cold. We continue in all the motions and all the busyness. And having our devotions and being in church and telling others, just like Ephesus, we're busy. But we've lost our first love. Remember Mary and Martha when Jesus comes to Mary and Martha, the sisters of Lazarus? And Martha complains to Jesus because Mary is sitting at his feet and hearing his words. And Martha says, look, I'm so busy getting the meal ready and getting the house cleaned and everything prepared for your visit. Mary is sitting there at your feet and just listening to what you have to say. And Jesus says, Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away. Ah, how busy we get with all the things around us that we fail to adore the Savior. We are to be madly in love with Jesus. Christ. Do you ever see a young couple that's madly in love? Boy, that fresh wow. They they can't look anywhere but each other's eyes. You know, Google eyes, we call it sometimes. They're madly in love Oh, may we as the people of God be ever madly in love with Christ. Can we not take our eyes off of him? May He fill all of our thoughts and all of our visions. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. Stand back and wonder and behold it. And as we behold the love of God, behold what manner of love it is. What is its type? What are its characteristics? What kind of love is this? And what degree is this love poured out upon us? Behold, the nature of the love of God. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son What is more precious to us than our sons, than our children? We would give up anything for them. That's the manner of God's love. God loved cockroaches. Rats. Think of the most despicable creature that you can imagine. And then put yourself in that place. God loved me. What wonder. How much there is to behold here, folks. How much there is here just to gaze on and gaze on and gaze into his eyes and look into his word and rejoice and shout and sing. What great love it is. In this was manifest the love of God towards us, we find in chapter four of this same book. And that God sent his only begotten Son into the world. That we might live through him here in his love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us. And gave his son to be the propitiation for our sins. That's what kind of love this is. This is the love that was given Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. This love, the manner of this love, is so far above anything else. And the world talks about love, and what the world means by love is lust. The world talks about love, but what the world means by love is greed. The world talks about love, but what the world means by love is selfishness. Love me, love me, love me, the world says. And God says, no, love me, love me. Love me. You see, this is the manner of this love. It is so far different from the love of the world. It is the love of God Of God. And that brings us to the source of this love. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed. God is love. Love is of God, little children, and everyone that loveth Is born of God and knoweth God. If any man love not, the love of God is not in him. Love not the world. Those verses are all from this book we're studying, aren't they? Did you ever purchase something and you were excited about it? And you thought it was very rare and very old, and then you found out that it was very fake. You thought you had some treasure and you found out no, it's a counterfeit. No, it's a good copy. It looks very much like the real thing, but it's worthless. It's forgery. It's a fate. The source of this love is the source of love. And this love that we have is the real thing Young guys, young girls, don't get involved with an unbeliever because they have no idea what love really is. The world knows lust, the world knows the attraction of the flesh, the world knows pride and greed and all those other things, but the world does not know what love is, and the world cannot know what love is. Why? Because we only know what love is as we experience love. We love him because he first loved us. This love that we are to behold with wonder and glory in its nature comes from God and God alone. Behold, what manner of love the Father. Hath bestowed upon us. And you won't get it anywhere else. And the world will offer you all kinds of forgeries. and all kinds of nice copies and all kinds of artificial and it's all fake. The world doesn't love you Satan does not love you. He is your adversary. There is one source for this love that we're to behold. It comes only from the Father. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon you. Jeremiah, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. Paul prays for the Ephesian believers in Ephesians 3, verse 17 and following, he prays that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. That ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend that word comprehend we can tie back to behold different words, but that ye may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height And to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that you might be filled with the fullness of God. Ah, brethren, behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. But then when we consider the source of this love, when we consider its origin, we also have to consider the application. Do you ever buy a can of paint? And you flip over, spin it around, and it says apply to clean, dry surface. It tells you how it's to be used. And if you don't apply the paint to a clean, dry surface, what happens? Well it paint it you know it peels off. The spots behind it come through. You've got to apply it right. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed. That word bestowed is an important word. This love is bestowed upon us. It's not a paycheck. Paycheck is something you earned. It's not something you deserved. It is simply bestowed. And this word bestowed Basically means a free gift. There are very few instances where this same terminology is used for a paycheck, but here it is totally different from that. Behold, what manner of love the Father has freely given. What manner of love the Father hath poured out upon us. Do you deserve to be loved? No. Did we do anything to earn his love? No. Think about the adoption of a child. Child's not my flesh and blood. Don't really know anything about his genetics. An adopted child is adopted out of pure love. Pure, simple love. I want to give my love for this child. Therefore, I will adopt this child into my family. I will give this child my name. I will give this child my life. I will give this child my fortune. I will bestow on this child that I adopt every blessing I can possibly give. What a picture of God the Father. Stand back in awe and wonder at this love that is unlike any other That is freely bestowed upon us. When Israel was getting ready to depart out of Egypt, And Moses was telling them what lay ahead and reminding them of the blessings of God that God had given to them there in Deuteronomy. And Moses reminds Israel that they came into Egypt as 70 souls, and yet they're going out in bands. They're going out in millions, hundreds of thousands. And Moses says to the people there in Deuteronomy 7, God did not choose you Because you are more than any other people. Let me read it to you because I'll get it wrong. Deuteronomy 7, verse 7 and 8. The Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people. For ye were the fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep his covenant and his oath that he swore unto your followers, he hath brought you out a mighty people with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of Bondage. God didn't love Israel because they were big. He just loved them. God didn't love me because I was righteous. God didn't love me because he knew that if he saved me I would do something. God didn't love me and save me because of anything. He just bestowed his love on me. And that is the application of this love. It is just simply poured out. On us. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. We don't find anything in the story of Noah about him being righteous in his generation. Until after we find out that he found grace. And I believe that Noah was righteous in his generation only after he found grace in the eyes of the Lord. But there are results of this love that we find in this first verse. It says, Behold, what manner of love the Father had bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. And that's the first result. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. God. The first result of this great love of the Father is that we have a new title. We are called the sons of God. And this word called here That John uses in this first verse of chapter 3 is the same word for called that we find in Matthew 1:21 And she shall bring forth a son, and his name shall be called Jesus. Now think about that When the angel declared that this baby that would be born of the Virgin would be called Jesus. It wasn't simply giving him a name. Rather, it was assigning to this baby a title. Jesus means Jehovah is salvation. It was a designation, a declaration upon this baby. This baby is like no other. His name shall be declared Jesus. His name shall be called Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. It was a declaration upon this child. And the same word is used here, behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should have a declaration upon us That we should be called the sons of God. When the king or the queen makes someone a knight, they say, I dub thee, sir, knight. And this is so much far above that. The first result of this great love is that we now have a new title upon us. We are declared to be the sons. of God. We are made his sons as God. His sons and of God indeed. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name For ye are all the children of God by faith. And Galatians 4 and verse 4, but when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law That ye might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God has sent forth his spirit into your hearts crying, Abba, Father. Because of this great love that we are to behold, we are declared to be the sons of God. This is my son. And remember at the baptism of Christ, when God made a declaration of Jesus Christ, this is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased, hear ye him. Certainly, we're not the Son of God in the sense that Christ was. But this is also a declaration, just as that was a declaration, just as the birth of Christ was a declaration. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that this title is stamped upon us, and Satan should never take it away. The world should never take it away. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be declared to be the sons of God. The title, Son of God, is granted the believer. It is stamped upon us. As the result of God's great love, we are made his children. But there's another result of us being declared the sons of God. There's another result of this great love that we find in verse 1. And it's interesting how often the Sunday school lesson just blends right in to the message of the morning. This morning in Sunday school Tim was talking about trying to convince people of things and not hearing you, not understanding, not believing you Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Because we're the sons of God, the world doesn't know us, the world doesn't hear us, the world doesn't understand us. Jesus came unto his own people the Jews, and they would not receive him. They knew Jesus to be the son of Joseph the carpenter, but they did not know him to be the son of God. And our family, our friends in this world may know us well by our earthly titles. But they don't know us at all by our heavenly title. They don't understand us. You see These people in Jesus' day did not understand his ministry. They drank the water he made from wine. They ate the food that he made from a little boy's lunch. They saw lame men walk, they saw blind men see, they saw Christ have power over the demons, and they talked with Lazarus when he came back from the dead. And then they crucified him. He didn't understand him. They knew him as the son of Joseph, but never knew him as the son of God. And you see, because God's love has been manifested unto us and bestowed upon us, and now we're called the sons of God, the world doesn't know us. Because it didn't know him either. The world does not understand our message, the preaching of the cross, and then that perish, foolishness. I know how many times we've told a friend or told a family member about Jesus Christ, and they said, you're nuts! We warn them and warn them as we saw in Sunday school this morning. And they won't heed the warning. They won't listen. The world does not understand our message because they don't know us. And they don't know us because our Savior does know us. Because he's declared us to be the sons of God. This is a result of our sonship. In Genesis 19, God has sent the angels to warn Lot of the destruction of Sodom. Lot heard their message. And he ran out to warn his son-in-laws. And in Genesis 19, verse 14, and Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-law, which had married his daughters. And said, Uh, get ye out of this place, for the Lord will destroy this city. But they seemed unto him, but he seemed unto them as one that mocked. Let me read it right. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons-in-laws. The angel has come and warned Lot, get out of the city, don't look back. Lot goes to his son-in-law and says, Get out of the city, don't look back. And they said, You're crazy. You're making a joke, right? Yeah, I get it's not April 1st, but Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Look out! But the world doesn't know us. Because the world doesn't know our Savior. The world doesn't understand our message. The world doesn't understand our lifestyle. There's not a person here this morning that's out of the Ravens party today, is there? We're here. And who cares about what happens On a football field this afternoon. Doesn't matter. You mean you guys give up your weekends? Isn't everybody working for the weekend? But you don't go out and do stuff on Sunday? You're in church. Let me get this right. Let me let's understand you now. You have joined this group of people, and now you're giving up ten percent of everything you make. Ten cents of a dollar? Are you crazy? Are you nuts? You mean you don't go to those parties anymore? We had such fun. Yeah, it's Friday it's Friday. When you get off work, we're all going out such and such and We're going to run over to Delaware Park and gamble or we're going to go do you're not coming with us? Why not? What's wrong? World doesn't understand her lifestyle. It doesn't understand the transformation that's been taking place in our hearts. It doesn't understand that now are we the sons of God? And it doth not appear what we shall be. But when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in himself purifies himself even as he is pure. The world doesn't understand it. It doesn't make a bit of sense to the world. Why? Because this love has been bestowed upon us Because we have been transformed and changed by the love of God. We have been made into something we were not before, and we've been made into something we could not make ourselves into. Only the love of God could do this. Oh, brethren, stand back and wonder. Behold this love. Take a new look at it. We've lost our first love, just like Ephesians. We're so busy about the service of God that we fail to love the God we serve. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us. The world doesn't understand our lifestyle. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal Because where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. You see, it's all a matter of the heart. And what is the heart? It is our love. What do we really love? Or should we say, who do we really love? If any man come after me and deny, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. The world doesn't understand. But you know what else? The world doesn't understand our joy. The world doesn't understand our joy. My brethren Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Alfred said, count it all joy when when you Get a bonus. Count it all joy when everything's going well. Count it all joy when the whole family's healthy. Count it all joy when the car's running well. Count it all joy when the bills are paid. That's what the world would say. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. And why? Because the trial of your faith work in patience. Let patience have its perfect work. All things work together for good. Love God. Then they're called according to His purpose. The greatest tragedy that we have It's a token of God's great love that He's bestowed upon us. Oh, I know. When the trials come and the burdens are heavy, When our hearts are sorry, oh how it weighs us down. And the Bible doesn't say that we don't sorrow. It says we don't sorrow as others. Have no hope. You see, we have manifold temptations and problems. We have all kinds of difficulties, but we sorrow not as the hopeless. Why? He's not the son of God. Why does it matter if I lose anything in this life? This isn't my father's kingdom, not this earth. You know what I mean. My home's in heaven. It does not yet appear what we shall be. But when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. And so what difference does it make? What happens here? The world doesn't understand our joy. Why do good things happen or why do bad things happen to good people? Wrong question. Why do good things happen to bad people? Why is there ever any mercy? Why is there ever any joy for the unbeliever? Ah, God has changed our entire outlook on life. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 12, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. And what is the context? Paul said, I've got this problem. I've got this thorn in the flesh. Oh, this thing's digging into my side constantly, and I prayed three times. Lord, please take this away. Because of the burden to me, it hurts. And God said, My grace is sufficient for thee. Most bloody there. Will I therefore glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me? World doesn't understand that. World has no part in that. And it's all because this love has been bestowed. Upon us. Yea, doubtless I call all count all things but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb. Job lost everything he had. Everything but his wife, and she was a thorn in the flesh. You know, curse God and die was her support of her husband. Job lost everything that he had. And in Job 1 and verse 20, and Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. How often we say God why? Well that's charging God foolishly. That's sitting with our mouth. Ah, brethren, behold what matter of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should Should be called the sons of God. We're going to stop there this morning. I know a lot of people were sleepy and tired. I know a lot of people were on cold medicine this morning. We're going to stop there. And Lord's willing, Lord willing, will pick up next Sunday with it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Let us stand for prayer this morning. Our gracious God, our loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for this great love of which we are so undeserving. Lord, we praise you for your mercy and your grace upon us. Father, we pray for our lost loved ones and our family. We pray, Lord, for our coworkers and those around us, Father, that just don't understand us because they don't know the sign. God, we pray that the Son of righteousness would shine upon their hearts. Lord, may they come to the knowledge of Christ. Father, forgive us, for we become cold so easy. We are so often a Martha instead of a Mary. Oh Lord, may we behold afresh and anew this great manner of love that you've given to us. Bless your people. Lord, give us health and strength. Lord, help us to get over these colds and flus and sicknesses. Lord, we raise up our sister Libby, Lord. We praise you for sparing her life. And pray, Lord, that you would give her good healing to be with Pastor Keith. Bless us, your people. Lord, we love you. Help us to love you more. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think