For example, if you want to go to the same time, you can't do that. Turn with me this morning, if you would, Second Samuel chapter nineteen, verses thirty-one through forty. Second Samuel chapter nineteen, beginning of verse thirty one To recall David had been run out of Jerusalem by his son Absalom. There was a great battle. David won that battle. Absalom was killed. The tribe of Judah and others have come to David and asked him to return to Jerusalem and be their king again. And there were several people we talked about last week that came down to meet him, and this morning we uh find another name, actually two, but we're one we're gonna read zero in on, uh Barcelaya. or Barsilia. Verse 31. And Barsilia the Gileadite came down from Rogalem and went over Jordan with the king to conduct him over Jordan. And Barsilii was a very aged man, even four-score years old. That doesn't sound so old to me anymore, but maybe he was a very old eighty year old. That's probably what it means. And he had provided the king of sustenance while he lay at Mahanaham, for he was a very great man. And the king said unto Barciliai, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem. And Barsillion said unto the king, How long have I to live that I should go up with the king? unto Jerusalem. I am this day fourscore years old, and can I discern between good and evil? Can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my Lord the King? Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king. But why should the king recompense it me with such a reward? Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in my own city, and be buried by the grave of my mother, my father, and my mother. But behold thy servant Kimham. Let him go over with my lord the king. and do to him what shall seem good unto thee. I want Kim Ham, that's his son, or Cili's son. I want let him take my place. Let him go with you, king. and do to him what shall seem good unto thee. Verse thirty-eight the king answered, Kim Ham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good unto thee, Barcilia, and whatsoever thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee. And all the people went over the Jordan, and when the king was come over, the king kissed Barcilli And he blessed him, and he returned unto his own place. And then the king went on to Gilgal, and Kimhem went on with him. And we'll close there in the reading. Title of Ses this morning from verse 32. A very great man. That's what Barsiliai is called, a very great man. Verse 31, Barsili went with the king and to conduct him over the Jordan. In verse 32, Barsilia was a very aged man, and he was a very great man. Yet few of us know much about this saved man barcillii. I I don't know maybe anyone here has that name has ever popped in their head in the last weeks or months or years uh about Barcili. We know about Isaac in Genesis 26, 13, where he was called a very great man. And we know about Moses in Exodus chapter 11 and verse 3 where Moses is called a very great man And the Lord Jesus Christ called John the Baptist. He said, of him, among them born of woman, none is risen greater. Matthew 11 and verse 11. And others we would probably comfortably could label as very great men, like Joab, Daniel, Elijah. The Apostle Paul, although they're never specifically designated or identified as very great men, we would consider them so But who is this barsilii, this one who's called a very great man? Why don't we know more about him? Why do we not even know maybe who he is this morning? And so I want to look at this very great man. How could we not look at someone called a very great man? And I would like you to see four or five things that made him a very great man this morning. Verse 32, Barsili, we read, had provided the king sustenance. And we know if we go back to that story and just a few chapters back in chapter 17 of 2 Samuel. Verses 27 and 29, when David was fleeing, fleeing with his son Solomon and his wives and with his army, an army of about 600 men. When he was fleeing with all of these driven out of Jerusalem by Absalom, Barsilia met him on the other side of the Jordan. And he met him At a great cost to himself and at a great risk to his life if he had been caught by Absalom, he met David and provided him. We read in 17, chapter 17, 27 and onwards, that he met him And he gave him beds for all those concerned, basins, vessels, wheat. Barley, flour, corn, beans, butter, sheep and cheese, and much, much more. He was a very rich man, but that's not what made him a very great man But he he met at great risk to his own life if he was caught by Absalom, and he also at great cost he met the king and provided all these things. He was very rich, but it did not make him very great. What made him very great was like Absalom in Acts 4 and verse 36, where Absalom uh gave so much to the workers of the Lord Jesus Christ, the apostles. uh sold his land and gave it all as it were. And here we find that Barciliai comes forward and he he gives this practically everything he's got for the king of Israel, at least for the workers and those that accompany the king of Israel. What made him a very great man was that as he demonstrated his giving heart, and he had probably done it many times and numerous occasions to others, what made him a very great man. The first point is that he loved the King of Israel without reservation. Do you love the King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ, without reservation? Have you given him your all? Is he your first in your life when you wake up in the morning? Is the last thing you think about at night when you go to bed and sleep? Does he take preamments in your life throughout your day? Is he without reservation your king and your lord? For Barsili, David, the King of Israel, who foreshadowed the King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ. For Barsilio, the king He was his king and he loved him without reservation. And that made him a very great man. And so as he meets him on the Jordan River, the king said unto Barcellia, Come with me, and I will feed thee in Jerusalem. You fed me. You fed my wife and my son, and you fed my armies, and you and you took care of us. I want you to come to Jerusalem that I can feed you, that I can honor you Barsilia, you've been loyal to me. You've showed your love to me. You've showed your courage in the face of Absalom and your generosity. And now I want you to join us in the victory celebration in Jerusalem, the guest of honor as it were. David was a most grateful individual. I wonder how grateful you are, pilgrim, to those that God has placed in your life. And I mean everybody that he's placed in your life. No. There are some we probably aren't too happy with that God has placed in our life. And then there's some that with God's place in our life like a barciliate. Oh, we'd be happy with him But we need to be happy with everyone God has placed in our life. They're there for a reason, if nothing else, to grow us in grace and knowledge and patience and endurance and long suffering. Are we grateful for those that God has placed in our life? life. David was grateful for Barsilia. And in verse 34, Barsilia said unto the king, How long have I to live? I don't think he was feeling well. I think he was feeling his age. There was probably things that have been happening to him. Maybe he'd been a bit faint of late. Maybe he was having little mini strokes. We don't know. But he said, how long am I to live, verse 34, that I should go up with thee, the king, into Jerusalem? And he says in verse 36, and why such a reward? For him, what he had done for the king was but reasonable service to the one he loved. We ought to give reasonable service to those we love. Sacrificial service. He knew in offering to bring him into Jerusalem for a meal, it was more than just that. He was to be the guest of honor, he was to be kept there, to be pre cared for, uh be quite a blessing. It was more than just a meal. He knew that. For in verse 36, he says, Why give me such a a a reward? It was something more outstanding than we first see going on here. Dave was offering him far more for what Barcellia had done for him. And just as Christ, the King of Israel, our King, the Lord Jesus Christ, he will compensate us for what we've done for him. And he will compensate what we've done for him more than David had planned for Barcilia here. We read in scripture Christ teaches that what he compensates for us Some will get thirtyfold more than they ever gave, some sixty-fold, and some a hundredfold, according to Mark 4 and 20. And in Hebrews 20, 35, Christ has promised us great recompense, great compensation. For what we suffer for his name, for persecution, for what we give in his name, for what we supply in his name, and for the workers in his name. Great recompense, recompense in Hebrews 10 and 35. And Barsili knew this, and Dave was planning on more than just a meal for him. But he was nearing the end of life It had been a good life. He had prospered. He was a rich man. But approaching death for Barsilli, the second point I want you to note about this man that made him so great. David was offering him so much, but he had little interest, and he had not had much interest in the temporal things for some time. For maybe many decades, the temporal things, although he was rich, didn't mean a lot to him. And that made him a great man. That though he had much The things that were temporal, the things that were earthy, the things that were physical, the things that were carnal, they never meant a whole lot to Basilii. To temple Things mean so much to you today, Pilgrim? For Brasilii, they meant little to him, always had He just gave it away when he had it. And that's the second thing about him And then he says in verse 35, can I discern between good and evil? That is for Barsilia, he says, life at the court in Jerusalem and the political intrigue, it really doesn't fascinate me anymore And then he goes on, he says, Then and can thy servant taste what I eat or what? You ever notice some of us as we get older things don't taste like they used to used to? Our memories maybe they used to taste so good and some things just don't taste as we add more salt, you know. And here he says, Can I taste Can I eat and can I drink? Can I really enjoy? Can I hear any more the voices of singing men and singing women? In other words, what he's saying here to King David is the parting and the second The festivities that are about to take place in Jerusalem, the parting and the festivities, they've lost their attraction for me. I'm approaching eternity. And there's not as much fascination for those things anymore. And I would say to the young people, and at my age that pretty much covers everybody here if you're younger than me, but I would I would say to you this morning. Do you find you're still still looking for the next good party? The next good time? Is life nothing but uh one adventure and and one and one activity and and and one m another what can we enjoy next and pile on? I'm gonna say something this morning and that is this that The spring in your step will soon go away. You will weaken. You will grow older, and your dreams and your tastes they will change. It all will change unless what you've really sought all your life It is to be a very great man by having set your affections on things above. If you set your affections on things, Below, if you set your affections on the earthly, it's gonna change. You're gonna grow old But if you set your things above and not on the things on this earth, the light that is hid with Christ, that's what it says in Colossians three, two, this set your effects on things above, not on the things on earth But the life that is hidden in Christ, if you'll do that, then so mu not much will change as you grow older. If your affections are set on the eternal things, the everlasting things, the infinity of the Lord Jesus Christ, then as you grow older and weaker and less uh sure footed, not much will change. Your tastes won't Change. The things you enjoy won't change. Your dreams won't change. Other life otherwise your your life will fade. Things will grow stale, and you will be disappointed unless you have been setting your heart on the things above. And not just at the Christmas season. So he is saying here to us Barcelli, think as I am on your latter days, on your last days, and think about Because for some of us, your latter days may be today. Maybe tomorrow. Maybe next week. You know, we're not all gonna make eighty Like Barcelli. He had set his heart on the things above in his youth He says in verse 36, Thy servant will go a little way over the Jordan with the king. And in verse 37, But let thy servant I pray thee turn back again that I may die in my own city. And be buried at the grave of my father and my mother. For Silly I was thinking of the last days, and he was thinking of his grave, and he was thinking of this open grave. And you know how he saw his open grave? He saw the open grave as an open door into paradise. He saw the open grave as an open door into heaven. He saw the open grave that was waiting for him as an open door to the reunion with loved ones like his mother and his father here And that was just for starters. He didn't fear death. He looked forward to it. Getting out temporal world and going into eternity. He thought about these things early in his life. And that's the third thing about this great man. Death was his friend. And not this world That was Barcellis. It made him a great man. Unlock the unsaved people out there today, and you'll hear them say it, I'm gonna have my fling, I'm gonna do my thing, I'm gonna sow my wild oats, and then And then what? When you get older? Yeah. You may not get older. Oh. Them that seek me early shall find me. Proverbs 8 and 17. That was Barcelia. He had sought the Lord early and early in life before he was ever anywhere near what he thought was The grave? He was looking forward to it. It was his friend. It was a reunion for him. It was it was eternity in heaven with his mother and his father, another lost, maybe he'd lost some children. At the age of eighty, a good possibility he'd lost some of his children. Death was going to be his friend. Seek me early when I may be found. Proverbs 817 It's always harder to find salvation through Christ tomorrow than it was today. The older we get if we haven't turned to Christ, the older we get if we haven't accepted the gospel, the older we get before we decide to pick this up and read it, the older we get before we decide to really pray to God. about our soul, not about the next job promotion or about will she or won't she accept my hand in marriage and those kinds of things we pray to God about eventually. But praying about our soul's eternity It's always easier to do it today than tomorrow. The longer we wait, the harder it becomes to pray and ask God to save us. save us. In fact, as much as tomorrow is harder than today, praying today is harder than if we had done it yesterday. Seek me while you may be found. Call upon me early. We read in scriptures. These are the things we're to do. And not left leave it undone. The delay of a holy choice to seek Christ for salvation. The delay of a holy choice that does violence. For every day of delay it does more violence to your conscience. It adds on more sins are piled on the longer you wait and the longer you delay. The deeper and the darker and the harder the impression is made upon your soul of sin. It just gets harder and deeper and darker, that impression on an unsaved soul. And so tomorrow becomes harder than today, and today is harder than yesterday about praying that God would save us. A holy habit is a great friend. And a sinful habit is a deadly disease to the soul. Delay is like a cavity in your tooth. Well, it's there and I can feel it or I can see it, but I'm not going to the dentist yet. And what does that cavity do? What does that delay do? What is that uh if we look at at the cavities dig it away at our soul, because that's what sin does, the cavity of tooth, it goes deeper and deeper, and it becomes painful And it becomes so painful that you can't take care of it. You can't remove the decayed tooth, although it's become painful. And as painful as it is, and as and as discomforting as it is you can't get rid of it without a really good physician, a dentist, or the great physician, to remove the decay that sin has has wrought on your soul. And the longer you wait to ask God to forgive you, The deeper and the more painful that decay becomes to your soul, the difficult, the more difficult it is for you to ever remove it, the more painful it is to give up those sinful habits you've grown to love. And so it's painful. To pray the prayer that we should have prayed yesterday, last week, last year. But do it today. Not tomorrow. Ask God to save you. That His blood might cleanse you of your sins. change your heart. Barsilia had done this young at a young time in his life and and it made him a great man Life here is but a vapor, James says. Even if you're here for 80 years, as Barcilia was, it's it's but a vapor. It's James says it's it's just a little time compared to eternity. It's just a little time. So what awaits you, pilgrim, if you were to die today What awaits you, is it the Marriage Feast? The Married Supper of the Lamb recorded in Revelation 19, 9. Wow. That would be great, wouldn't it? Eternal festivities and banqueting? What awaits you at death? Will you hear the harpers harping and a new song before the throne, Revelation 14? What awaits you at death? The harper's harping or the weeping and gnashing of teeth of Matthew 8 and 12? What awaits you if you die today? If you are a very great man, and that's point four of He was a very great man. If you're a very great man, you believe and you love the King of Kings, and you want others to believe as you do. You want them to believe the gospel. You want them to believe the scriptures. And when I say believe the scriptures, I mean every jot and every tittle and every number that's recorded in here And every miracle, not pick and choose, you want others to believe as well. Barsilia believed. You want others to be like you. You want others to be great, great Christians, great men of God. And so Barsilia says in verse 37: Behold, thy servant Kim Ham. And we go through and read about this. Kim Ham is his one of his sons. I think Kim Ham is one that he was worried about. We've all got one of those, don't we, parents? Or if you're an uncle or an aunt, you've got a niece or a nephew, there's one out there you're worrying about, right? I think he's worried here about Kim Ham. He says, Behold thy servant Kim. Kim Ham is the servant to King David. Alright? Behold thy servant. Kim Ham, but he is Barciliai's son. He said, Behold him, and let him go with my lord the king. In verse 38, and the king answered, Kim Ham shall go over with me. And I'll do with him that which shall seem good unto thee. There's almost something hidden there. What what there's something that he needs more than a meal? Now Betcha Barcilia told David his greatest fear for Kim Ham. Have you felt it? Fall in short of reaching his heart. All pastors feel that way. We look out over the congregation. We weep that we've fallen short of reaching somebody, seeing a change in our life, a love interest for Christ. Barsilia must have felt that I don't know how many children he had, but of this Kim Ham, there was something amiss, something that wasn't right, something that needed to be addressed. And so he says, Behold, thy servant Kiman, let him go with thee. And the king says, That which shall seem good unto thee, I'll do it. And the old Barsilli, he could he could use his son's presence because Barsillia, he's old. He's eighty. He's near to dying. And if you're near to dying You want one of your kids there to take care of you and to watch over you and to be with you and to help to usher you out of this world to the next. This is not a time to get rid of his son Kim But Barsillion is willing to let Kim Ham go. He he probably would love to have them there, but he prefers David's Christ-like influence. on Kim Ham. There's something missing. And this very great man, this is the fifth thing that made him so great. He was willing to sacrifice for the well-being of the soul of another. I need Kim Ham here. I'm dying. I'm going back to my grave and where my parents are buried to my hometown. I need Kim Ham with me. But he's not safe. I don't think he is. There's something not right with his soul. I want him in the presence of David, the king of Israel, the sweet psalmist of Israel, the one who writes the psalms, and David's written all the psalms. I I need that influence on Kim Ham before he is heading into his grave And David took him, Kim Ham, over the Jordan with him into Jerusalem We read in 1 Kings 2 and 7 when David is dying on his bed, he says to Solomon, Show kindness unto the sons of Barsilei. And I think most likely Kim Ham was a part of that kindness. And let them eat at thy table. Remember Barcelly was going to eat at his table. He says, send Kim, let Kim Ham eat at your table. Let Kim Ham. presence and and under your influence and under your Christ-like uh attitudes. Let Kim eat at your table, David. Take him with you. And here David is saying to Solomon in 1 Kings 2 Show kindness on the sons of Barcellia and let them eat at thy table, for they came to me when I fled Absalom, thy brother Boy, the influence that we can have on the life of others. What an influence Brustilia has here on all for the sons. For what have you done? In the days of Absalom. And verses 39 and 34, the king it says he kissed Farsili. This is their final parting. This might be our final parting. There may be somebody here today that I'll never see again. There may be somebody here today that you'll never see again David kissed him and blessed him. And returned onto his own place, and Kimhem went on with him. So Barsilia goes home. And he passes out of her sight. This very great man. And one has to wonder Whatever happened to Kim? Was David successful in reaching his heart? Or did he finally become so disgusted with him he talks them out of Jerusalem? I mean I I wanted to know about the soul of Kinham. And I went through the rest of Samuel. There's nothing And I went through 1 Kings. There's nothing. I went through 2 Kings and 1 Chronicles and 2 Chronicles. And there's not a word about Kim Ham's soul. Is that bad news? Four hundred years later, in the book of Jeremiah. It's a long time to wait. The pilgrims landed at Plymouth. And here we just had an election 400 years later. That's a long time to find out if anything took place at Plymouth Walk. was still lodged in this country 400 years later. There's nothing about Kim Ham But if you don't believe in the providence of God, and if you don't believe in the sovereignty of God, if you don't believe in the infallible word of God, take heart. There's something in Jeremiah that tells us that this book was not just written by man, but under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Things are written here that answer the deep, deep questions of life. And Jeremiah, 400 years after Barcillah, said, take care of my Kimham. Jeremiah records in chapter 41. You go home and read it today. It's during the Babylonian captivity and things are all amiss and there's those who won't accept the captivity and they're fighting and they're killing some of the Babylonian king's people and some of them are fleeing out of Jerusalem who have who've Rebelled against the Babylonian captivity and they were fleeing out. It says in Jeremiah 41, 17, as they fled out of Jeremiah, out of Jerusalem, they came through an occupied estate. Called the habitation. The habitation of Kim Ham By Bethlehem. Wow. Four hundred years later it's still known, it's still occupied by the family of Tem Ham. It's still known. It's still occupied. It's by death. It is a portion of David's birthplace that David has given to Kim. Why would he do that? Why would he conduct Kim Ham to a piece of property by Bethlehem, his home place, his place of birth? It's a royal favor. How does he keep it for four hundred years in the family? Because it's never to be sold, it's never to be taxed, it's never to be given away, it's never to be redistributed. It will always be the habitation of the blood of Kim Ham because I'm inclined to believe that Kim Ham finally impressed David, that he was following his father Barsilia, and he too. Was saved and become a very great man. Showed his love for the king. Oh pilgrim this morning. Do you love the King of Israel? The Lord Jesus Christ? The King of Kings, the Lord of Lord, do you love him? Will you leave a fingerprint on history that someone will see 400 years later that you loved our King Jesus I'll tell you this: if you love the Lord Jesus Christ on your deathbed, as that grave is being opened for you. It'll be a hope-filled departure. You'll not be grieving a half-filled bucket list or fearing a judgment to come Come. Oh, may the Lord raise up this morning here some very great young men and women. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you answer some of the questions For us that trouble us. We don't find all the answers, but as we dig through the scriptures, we find so much that lifts us, encourages us, that blesses us. And may we share with others that they too are blessed. Share things with others that we might not think are so important at the time, but share things with others as Barcellus shared all that he had. That someone like Kim Ham in our life Before he dies, we'll love our King Jesus as well. And we pray this in Christ Jesus' name. Our great God and King. Amen.