Gracious Father, it is indeed a joy to gather for the purpose of worship. It is a great privilege to gather in freedom. It is a great necessity to our souls not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. It is a necessity of our souls to dig deeply into thy word. Thy words were found, and I did eat them. O Lord, this day, we do pray that you would free us from distraction, free us from the natural tendency of our human minds to wander But, O Father, may our attention be drawn to Jesus Christ. May our minds focus deeply upon thy word. And Father, may you grant that our souls may be refreshed, our consciences convicted, our hearts stirred, and our love renewed. Father, bless our assembly this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship. Reading the 100th Psalm, familiar to you all, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord, He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. The truth endures to all generations because it can't be corrupted. We turn to our opening song this morning from the Blue Rejoice Hymnal number 389. My faith has found a resting place. 389 in your blue songbook. A classic one I trust you all know. Three hundred and eighty-nine, we sing all four stanzas. My faith has found a resting place, not in division for me. I trust the living one. Of that Jesus died, and many die for me. Jesus Christ is right by now cause and also I come to him. Every past me now I need no mother or humble bit, I need no mother is. When Jesus died, and when he died for me, my great position healed the sick, the lost became. For me, his precious body shed. For me, his life be saved. I need no other way. It is enough that Jesus died and had He died for me. My heart is leading on the word, the written word of God, salvation by my Savior's Saturn. Salvation provision I need no other argument, why need no other plea is using the That Jesus died, and then he died for me. Amen. Please be seated and turn with me to the back of your bulletin for our confessional reading this morning. This reading comes to us from the Belgic Confession of 1561, Article 14, the creation and fall of man. We cover half of this particular article today. Please read with me. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that God created man out of the dust of the earth. and made and formed him after his own image and likeness, good, righteous and holy, capable in all things to will agreeably to the will of God. But being in honor, he understood it not, neither knew his excellency, but willfully subjected himself to sin. And consequently to death and curse, giving ear to the words of the devil. For the commandment of life which he had received, he transgressed And by sin separated himself from God, who was his true life, having corrupted his whole nature whereby he made himself viable to corporal and spiritual death, and having thus become wicked, perverse, and corrupt in all his ways He had lost all of his excellent gifts, which he had received from God, and only retained a few remains thereof Which, however, are sufficient to leave men without excuse, for all the light which is in us is changed into darkness As the scriptures teach us, saying, The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not, where John calls men darkness. It may not be evident on the surface why this is such an excellent and well-written confessional statement concerning the fall of man. There are many pitfalls into which one may fall, theologically speaking, if you describe the fall of Adam in different ways. And short, in summary, the issue is Is man of such a state that Jesus Christ as a man is likewise corrupt? Or is man so fallen and depraved to never be recoverable? Or Is there still a spark of life in man who's just trying to reach out to God? All of these are various views of the fall of Adam. And a lot of these pitfalls are hedged through this confessional statement. Many errors which the church has been plagued with in the past have been steered clear by way of these kinds of clear words to illustrate to us what's going on. You find, for instance, that you have creation, that God created man upright, that he has sought out many inventions Man didn't evolve. There was no real such sense of that. This idiotic idea of evolution is just a continuation of the Greeks, which referred to it as spontaneous generation. And so we have creation, and therefore God has rights that he like uh is able to confer upon that creature. And there are certain things he expects. Likewise, he's made in God's image. He was in honor. He had he was completely uh in the image and likeness of God, and yet the corruption falls entirely upon the man himself. He listened to the deceitful eyes of the devil. And so we find here just a very nice, concise pulling together of many scriptures to Point out the root causes, the word the root blame is, uh the downfalls, and the pitfalls. Uh we also find that um Although man is totally fallen, yet you still find these communicable attributes of God in men. Why are men able to know things? Why is there knowledge? Because our God is an all-knowing God Why is man uh able to uh uh have, as it were, the milk of human compassion and kindness towards others? Because our God is kind. Man is distinctly different from the beasts of the field uh who are typically more interested in their belly and their territory than altruistic means. And so um we also have in here a testimony that there is uh uh uh sufficient light left that men know they have in their heart written the law of God. He's written eternity in their hearts. They still have sufficient information and knowledge Given. Not to save, but to point out, you're the creature. He's the big sea creator. And there is a God to whom you have to do. And so Yes, it's it's it's excellent in many points. It's very instructive and helpful to us. And I uh and you'll see the raft of scripture references there that support all these points If you try to summarize, I don't know, 20 different scriptures in three sentences, you'd be hard-pressed to replace this. Thank you. Thank you, Brother Venice. Wow, aren't those confessional statements a great blessing to our heart if we do well to study them? It's good to be back with you. I guess I was here last Sunday. I missed prayer meeting because I was at a conference this week. Great blessing. It was good to good to be preached to, as all preachers need to. We're glad to have Dr. Elliott with us this morning, who will be bringing the morning message. That's a little bit of my ability to go to a pastor's conference and sit and drink in the word without having to be preparing to preach the next Sunday. So I thank you for the opportunity and thank Dr. Elliott for his willingness to minister among us. He's no stranger to us and we're always glad to see him. Let us go to prayer. Great God of heaven, our Heavenly Father. the creator God who loved his sinful creatures so much, to send his own son to die in our place, to bear the full price and punishment for our sin. We thank you that we have this privilege to prayer. And we thank you that this privilege is made available to us through the shed blood of Christ. We are told to come boldly to the throne of grace. Father, we thank you for the multitude of answers to prayer that we have seen just in recent days. We do thank you that our dear ones there in Texas have apparently been spared from the wildfires that were raging through their area, that they're their property. And I trust that their children's property has been spared as well. Father, bless them in that area, bless their souls, and keep them as the apple of your eye, we pray. Father, we thank you that those of our congregation that are currently traveling have had safety thus far and have been able to visit with the far-flung Congregation of Mission Bible Church as they travel across the country. And Lord, be blessed and be a blessing. And we thank you for this, Lord. We thank you, Lord, that they are safely in California this morning. And may they be a blessing there. Father, we do pray for our dear family in Wisconsin and for their sister, Lord, that you would be with her as her cancer is overwhelming at this time. And has spread throughout her body. Oh Lord, we pray that you would bring salvation to her soul above all else. And then Lord that you would work in your b in her body according to thy will as well. Lord, bless and help there, Father Lord, we do pray for a daughter, Lord, in Texas that has had a medical emergency this week. And Father, we pray that you would continue to work in her body and in her soul, Lord, to bring about that which is needful for the soul and that which is needful for the body as well. Father, we thank you. To see some here this morning that are not often with us because their bodies simply will not permit. And yet, Lord, we had prayed earnestly this week that that Our dear sister could be here. And she is here. And Lord, you are good. Father, we thank you for others of our congregation that have struggled long and continue to struggle with health issues. And yet, O Lord, we see them when they are able, and we rejoice with them. And yet, Lord, there are others that are absent this morning. And Lord, you know the physical state of each, and we pray, Lord, that you would help and bless. Father, the great need of Mission Bible Church. Is that we might walk with thee. That concept of walking with the Lord was so clearly expounded to us already this morning. And Father, we we love our fellowship, we enjoy our meals, we are excited that you provided for us so we can help Those of the congregation with their needs, these are all things that are good and well. We are able to give to mission works, and we are able to save for the future, and these are all good things. But oh Lord, they mean nothing if we begin to become cold of spirit. If we begin to read thy word with disconnected minds and hearts. If we begin to take for granted the voice of the Spirit of God speaking in the Word, O Lord, we need revival every day. For Lord, as the old hymn says, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Lord, we're not gathered here because we're all good friends. We're not gathered here because we enjoy being together. But always remind us that we are gathered here because we are poor, needy sinners. And we need Week after week and day after day, the renewing work of thy spirit to convict us of our sin to point out our failings, to show us where we wander, and above all, to cause us to love Christ more. So, Father, may you work that work in the hearts of your people this morning. Father, we do pray for the far-flung congregation. Lord, our hearts yearn for those who worship with us on the Lord's Day but are not able to sit around the table with us Sunday afternoon. They live out in spiritual wildernesses, theological deserts. And Lord, in your providence, you have brought us into contact, and many of them have actually made the journey to worship with us whenever they can. But Lord, we are, as another old hymn says, by s uh those sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat. We have many miles between us But Lord, our fellowship together is sweet and precious. And we thank you for it. Oh Lord, may you bless them and encourage them and strengthen them. Father, we pray for our mission works abroad that we are privileged to be a part of. And Lord, we pray for the persecuted church. We have Seeing reports just this week of of some of the persecution in Syria and in other lands where where believers through no fault of their own, through changes in government, through Assumed alliances and allegiances are coming under very great persecution. Lord, we pray for them. We rejoice with them. For the instruction is that we are to rejoice under persecution. For indeed, that very persecution is an indication that they are different. That there is something about them. Oh Lord, bless them. Father, I thank you for our brother who will open the word in this place today. Oh Lord. It is one of the failings of the human nature that when the word is read our minds can wander. The rebuke of the disciples was, could you not watch with me one hour? And Lord, we know how often we go to prayer and find ourselves still upon our knees, but the prayer has long ago ended. And our thoughts have gone to the things of this world. Oh Lord, forgive us and help us. We thank you for the promise that you are purifying to yourself a glorious church. Without spot and without wrinkle. And our confession this morning is this: we are thy church, bought with the blood of Christ. But as long as we dwell in these bodies, we are filled with spots and wrinkles. But O Lord, this morning, through the preaching of thy word. Through the work of the Spirit of God in the Word, may you continue that work of removing the spots and wrinkles and making us more like Christ. Christ in Jesus' name. Amen. Please open your Bibles this morning to James chapter 4, and if you are able, rise with me for our responsive reading. Responsive reading comes to us from the book of James, the fourth chapter. Where we will read the entirety of the chapter responsibly. James chapter four. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lusts, that war in your members Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain. Ye fight and war, ye have not, because ye ask not Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Do you think that the scripture saith in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh unto God, and he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother speaketh evil of the law and judgeth the law. But If thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who art thou that judgest another? Go to now, ye that say, today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city, and there continue a year, and buy and sell, and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be in the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live, and do this or that. But now ye rejoice in your boastings. All such rejoicing is evil. And altogether therefore to him that knoweth to do good and not to him it is since May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His holy preserved word. Um please now take your red Psalters and open up to number sixty-five A. That's sixty-five A. We sung to the tune of Stand Up, Stand Up for Jesus We'll sing all three stanzas. And I have to thee thou shalt shall be O God of prayer, the hearer, all pleasure. Shall come to thee inequities are daily, prevailing over me on Thou was the man thou chooses and bringest near to thee. Where in my horse for a dwelling place may be we shall live in my temple. He's passed his fight and built the whole goodness Christ came forth from my. . Thou in thy righteousness with boss and peace and wonders, thy answer will express. Thank you. You may be seated. This time we ask our dear brother, Dr. Elliott, to come to the pulpit, one who's not unfamiliar to you. One who labors at teaching the word ministry and working project-based uh effort at the Authentic Scripture Foundation. Uh and you should subscribe to his YouTube channel. I'm sure it would do his algorithm wonders. Dr. Ellen, if you would please bring the word to us this morning man. Good morning. It's so good to be with you again. Uh I must well I'll I'll start by saying a couple of things. Uh I must ask your Forgiveness perhaps this morning. Uh I'm not going to be preaching from the passage that's in the bulletin. Uh I I'm preaching the Lord Willing here today and on May 11th, I believe it is. I believe I'm on the schedule for May 11th. I think that's the date. Yes, May 11th. I'll be picking up joke in college. And uh I had two messages in mind. All the weeks in between, I'm going to be preaching for a church in Philadelphia, near Philadelphia. Uh and that was already laid out. But Mission Bible Church, okay, I had two in mind. And uh one came together much more smoothly than the other The one that I had in mind originally for this morning, uh I I d I didn't feel after praying and and studying that it was fully formed yet. So uh the scripture that we read I think is still very appropriate to uh what I would uh present to you this morning. And so let's look at the word together. Galatians chapter 4. Galatians chapter 4. Beginning at verse 4. The Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, wrote these words to the Galatian believers and to us. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law. that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Now the passage that we have before us and others that we're going to turn to this morning will tell us about a very vital aspect of our salvation. our adoption in Christ as sons of God. And the word that's here translated the adoption of sons would better be translated the adoption as sons. And we'll see in a few moments why that's especially important. The Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, wrote these words in the context of a discussion about the Christian's freedom in Christ. Those who were once in bondage to the law, that's all of us Those who were once under the curse of the law, that's all of us. We've now, we who are in Christ, have been freed from that bondage. We've been delivered into a glorious liberty, and that liberty is ours because We are now the adopted sons of God. And the Apostle Paul is writing to Christians who were being tempted by false teachers to put themselves back under the law once again. They're being told by these false teachers to depend upon their works for salvation. And so Paul, throughout the book of Galatians, is saying in many different ways And demonstrating by so many different proofs as we would go through the book that this is the worst possible thing that anyone who names the name of Christ can do. And so in the first chapter of Galatians, he makes the strongest statement that we have in all of Scripture concerning this vital matter. He says that if anyone comes to you and preaches any other gospel than the gospel of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, apart from works, on the authority of Scripture alone. Let the one who comes to you and preaches any other thing be accursed. Literally, let the one who comes to you and preaches another gospel, a false gospel, let that person be condemned to hell. It's that serious. Why? Because what that person is saying is a soul-condemning lie. Paul says you've been utterly and completely freed from the bondage of the law. Freed from the curse of the law. If you're truly believing in Christ alone for your salvation, the law can't touch you again. And one of the ways in which the Apostle Paul reminds and declares this great fact is by reminding us here in Galatians chapter 4 that we have been adopted as sons by the great God of the universe. We who were in bondage to the law, we've now been freed from the curse of the law by the grace of Christ, and we've been placed in the highest position possible. And so this morning I want to remind us of some key aspects of this great doctrine of adoption. And especially as it concerns matters that we read of in James chapter 4 this morning, matters concerning what we ask of God, how we ask it of God. I want to look at one particularly glorious aspect of it this morning, an aspect that's vital, especially in these days of great spiritual conflict and we are indeed seeing that. Well first of all it's vital for us to understand that Scripture says that each of us has been adopted as sons. Here in the book of Galatians and also in Romans and in Ephesians, the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul places before us a picture that's based on the Roman law of adoption. And why would the Holy Spirit do that? Why would the Apostle Paul do that? Well, because that is the mode and manner of adoption that would have been familiar to these people in the first century. The Roman law of adoption was different for an adopted son than it was for an adopted daughter. The rights and position that were granted to an adopted daughter under Roman law were not the same. Not nearly as extensive as the rights and privileges that were granted to an adopted son. The adopted daughter under Roman law only had partial rights and privileges. But an adopted son under Roman law had the fullest possible rights and privileges. To be adopted as a son under Roman law meant that you had the right to the name and the citizenship of the person who adopted you. You had the right to inherit your adopted father's property The adopted son had the same rights and privileges as a naturally born son in every respect. Rights and privileges that weren't granted in that time to an adopted daughter The Roman law of adoption also granted the one who adopted that son the full rights and privileges and responsibilities of a natural father, as if that child were born of the womb of your own wife. Full authority over the adopted son. Full responsibility for the care of the adopted son. And that's the picture that we have before us. That's the spiritual picture that we have before us. Paul is saying that our adoption is full adoption. With full rights, full privileges. The adoption as sons. Each and every believer on the Lord Jesus Christ, man, woman, boy, girl, doesn't matter. Everyone who's regenerated and indwelt by the Holy Spirit has received the adoption of sons, as we're told here. Full rights, full privileges in the kingdom. under the structure of authority that God has instituted. No second-class citizens in the kingdom of God And the keynote of the doctrine of adoption is that it gives the believers here and now A very blessed rite and privilege. And that is the privilege to cry out to God. No one else has that right, has that privilege, except the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the one who The one who has in the Father's eyes all the rights and privileges of an adopted son. That's how we come before our God, through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's Christ, the only begotten Son, who has opened the way for us as adopted sons to approach God. God, who was once our condemning judge, he's now our loving Father. And so we have in Christ by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit the right and the privilege to cry out to God at all times. Now, as we consider this great truth, I want to do this by asking some questions. It's good to ask questions of the Word of God. First of all, what's the nature of the cry? of the adopted Son of God. Well the word that's translated crying in verse 6 here is the word from which we get our word cry. It's Krodzo in the Greek It means to cry or to cry out. It's a word that in the Greek of the New Testament carried with it the idea of deep emotion. Deep emotion. It's a strong word in the original. And there are other uses in the Greek and the New Testament times where this word was often used to represent even the sound of a harsh scream. Or an exclamation of fear, or an exclamation of pain. We find the same word in Matthew chapter 15 when the woman of Canaan came to Jesus and cried out to him, pleading. For him to have mercy upon her and to deliver her daughter who was possessed by a demon. And the Lord answered her cry Mark chapter 10, blind Bartimaeus crying out when he heard that Jesus was passing by, saying, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And we're told that many in the crowd told him to shut up, be quiet. And he cried out even more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus did. He had mercy. He healed him. He saved him. And so the Apostle Paul is telling us here in Galatians chapter 4 that because we are positionally adopted sons of God, we have the same privilege of crying out to God. Crying out for mercy. Crying out for help in time of need. Crying out not only for our needs personally, but As we prayed corporately this morning, crying out for the needs of families, crying out for the needs of the church, for the needs of fellow believers, crying out over the sins of our nation. Crying out indeed over the sins of the church. And also crying out to God in praise and love. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. So this is the believer's cry. We have this privilege of crying out to God in every circumstance, every need, also crying out to express our love and our gratitude. For our great God and Savior. And yet, as we read a few minutes ago in the book of James, we must not ask amiss. What does it mean to ask amiss? It means to ask with wrong motives It means to ask, as we read in James, to ask for things in order that ye may consume it upon your lusts. In other words, so that you may waste or squander What you're asking from God on worldly pursuits, friendship with the Lord is enmity with God. A loving father does not give gifts to his children that they will squander in such ways. There was a great Bible teacher, I'm sure some of you are familiar with him, Arthur Pink, in the 20th century. And Arthur Pink wrote this about this matter. He said, there's nothing that we really stand in need of that God has not promised to supply. yet in such a way and under such limitations as will make it good and useful to us. That's a loving father of adopted sons. And hence, Pink says, the better we're acquainted with the divine promises. And the more we're enabled to understand the goodness and grace and mercy prepared and proposed in those promises, the better equipped we are for acceptable prayer. And thus it is that we may cry out to God. But now, okay, is that too great a challenge? How can I consistently pray in such a way? In my flesh, how can I do that? Well, you can't. Not in your flesh. We find the answer as we understand that when we pray, it is not we alone who do the crying out to God. Notice again Galatians 4 verse 6. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Now, if you'll keep your place in Galatians, please turn for a few moments to Romans 8. Romans 8, verse 15. And here we have what appears to be the opposite of what we just read in Galatians. Looks like the opposite Romans 8. 15. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba, Father. In Galatians, the Spirit is crying out, Abba Father. In Romans, the believer is crying out, Abba Father. Is there a contradiction here? Paradox? No, not at all. Not at all. So what's the explanation? Well we have it in the next verse in Romans 8, Romans 8. 16. The Spirit itself, or more correctly translated, the Spirit Himself, beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. We, together with the Holy Spirit, cry out, Abba, Father. And we have that further explained to us in verses 22 and 23. Where we're told this, we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain until now. And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves Waiting for the adoption, or more literally the consummation of our adoption. To wit, or that is, the redemption of our body. Having glorified bodies, that's going to be the consummation of our adoption as sons. And here's the explanation. We cry out to God because we're still living in these sinful, decaying bodies We cry out to God because we're still living in a sinful, decaying world. And this world under the curse is not an easy place to live in, is it? Certainly isn't not getting any easier. Especially for the believer, especially for the adopted sons of God. We're no longer at home here. Our citizenship is in heaven. And we're told this in Romans 8. 26, you go further down, likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself maketh intercession for us. with groanings which cannot be uttered. And the statement that we saw in Galatians chapter 4 is expressing the same thought God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba Father. Romans 8, you've received the Spirit of Adoption by whom we cry out. Abba Father. Here's the picture When we cry out to God, when we cry out for His mercy, we cry out in fear, in need, in desperation. When we cry out in the deepest praise, whatever it may be, in all those times of crying out, God the Holy Spirit is uttering the cry with us. God the Holy Spirit is enabling and energizing that crying out. We cry out to God under the interceding power and the authority of the Holy Spirit. That's why the Apostle Paul exhorts us in Ephesians chapter 6 to be praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And that freeze that phrase there in Ephesians speaks of prayer as an act that emanates from within us by the instrumentality of the Holy Spirit. How does that work? Well in Romans 8. 27 here, the Apostle Paul tells us, he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit. Because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God. He that searcheth the hearts, who is this? The Lord Jesus Christ. This is speaking of the dual intercession of God the Son and God the Holy Spirit on behalf of the believer in Christ. God the Holy Spirit intercedes for us with God the Son. The one who searches the hearts. The Spirit articulates the things that we cannot articulate. The Spirit cries out for us. The Spirit cries out with us. And the Spirit enables us to articulate our own crying out, and the Spirit takes our imperfect crying out and perfects it before the throne of God. And Paul says that Jesus, the one who searches the hearts, the one who knows what is the mind of the Spirit, therefore makes intercession for the saints with the Father according to the will of God. every good and perfect gift. And it's because of all this that we come to that glorious statement in the next verse there in Romans. We know. That all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the call according to his purpose. And it's because of this that we're told just a few verses onward in Romans 8. 31, If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? What are all things? The great inheritance of the adopted sons of God. And then a few verses later in Romans 8, we're told that nothing in the entire created order Nothing in the entire spiritual realm can separate us from the love of God, not tribulation, not distress, not persecution. Not famine, not nakedness, not peril, not the sword, not angels, principalities, powers, nothing present, nothing to come, no height, no depth No other created thing, nothing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And let us not only take note of the fact that we can cry out, but that we can cry out together with the Spirit living within us, and also take note of what it is that we may cry out. And the essence of it, as we have it in both passages, is Abba, Father. What is that? What's that mean? Well The word Abba is one of the first words that would be spoken by a Hebrew infant. It's the equivalent of terms such as papa or daddy in English. It was a term in the Hebrew language that indicated The unquestioning trust of a child in the love and the care of a loving parent. And the Apostle Paul, both here in Galatians and also in Romans, couples the word Abba with the word Father. And I believe it explains two aspects of the believer's relationship with God, the Father. as adopted sons. The word Abba indicates on the unquestioning trust of a child. Childlike faith, if you will. And the word father indicates an intelligent understanding of the relationship. An intelligent understanding of the nature of our adopted Father, and of our position of privilege as the adopted sons of the Father in Christ. So the picture that we have in these two words coupled together, Abba Father, is that of a trusting child approaching a loving father. Approaching a loving father to tell him exactly what's on our hearts Dear friends, that's our enormous privilege as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're a believer in Christ here this morning, that is your enormous privilege. As the adopted Son of God. You can speak to God the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Holy Spirit on the most intimate terms about anything. There was a great movie and stage actor, some of you may know the name, Orson Wells. He was once asked if he ever prayed And Orson Wells said that he didn't pray because he said, I don't want to bore God. Well, those were the words of an unbeliever. Those were the words of someone who knew nothing of the adoption of sons of God in Christ. I don't want to bore God. That must never be the attitude of the adopted child of God. Or of the Church of Christ. We must never think in those terms about the tremendous privilege of prayer. That must never be how we think of our Heavenly Father, that he could be bored with anything that would come before him. We're to come before our loving Father as trusting children. You can't possibly bore your Heavenly Father with anything that you would have to say, with any cry of your heart. It's the privilege of the adopted sons to cry out to God. Tell him what's on your heart. Tell him everything. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 6, familiar words I'm sure to us, the writer encourages us there, let us therefore come how? Boldly Under the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help at time and need. Boldly. Now, the word that's used there in the original doesn't mean let us come brasly or presumptuously or without proper respect or reverence. No, none of that We're coming to the throne room of the God of the universe. And it grieves, we were talking about this just this morning, how it grieves us to see how some would dare to come before the throne of God, into the presence of God. With such presumption, with such a lax attitude, laxity of mind and of spirit Come boldly. Well, that tells us two things. It tells us how we may speak to the Lord, and it also tells us the attitude with which we may come. The word boldly in the original language is, it encompasses several things. It says that we may have freedom, freedom in speaking as we approach the Lord. It says that within the bounds of reverence, we may be unreserved in our speech. It says that we may and indeed we should speak to our God openly and frankly and without concealment. Philippians chapter four. With everything by prayer and supplication, let your requests be made known to God. At one point I wrestled with that. Let your request be made known to God. Why do I have to do that? The psalmist says that God knows my thoughts afar off. He knows my thoughts before I even know them. Why do I have to let my requests be made known to God? Well, again, this is an interesting place in the original language. The word that's translated, it's one word that's translated, let be made known there. It's a word that's very difficult to translate out of Greek into English. It's a very special kind of verb, a special kind of action word. Usually, you know, verbs, action words, okay. The subject acts on an object Okay. John threw the ball. It can be that simple. Uh first grade reader. Uh But this word, let your request be made known to God in Philippians, it's an interesting word because it it is a form in the Greek which says that it is not the object who's being acted upon, but the doer who's being acted upon. It's the doer who's undergoing a change of state. Let your request be made known to God. God's state doesn't change. He knows everything. Our state changes as we articulate our requests to God. He is forming us, he is shaping us. He is using our prayers to accomplish his sovereign will. The word boldly says that we can come with fearless confidence, cheerful courage, assurance. That as the adopted sons of God, that we have the right to come, that God wants us to come, and that's certainly the kind of understanding of the heart of God that we find in the words of David many times in the Psalms. And in Ephesians chapter 6, the adopted sons of God are told to pray always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, God the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Adoption, the one who dwells within us. the one who witnesses with our spirits that we are indeed the adopted sons of God. And that's because as we come to a loving Father through our mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ, as we cry out, Abba, Father, the Holy Spirit comes with us. The third person of the, this is interesting, the third person of the Trinity is making intercession for us through our Savior, the second person of the Trinity, to the Father, the first person of the Trinity. All three persons of the great Godhead are involved in our exercise of the great privilege of prayer. We can cry out to God. But there's this tremendous conversation going on among the persons of the Godhead. What an incredible thought, what incredible grace has been extended to us in that And so if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ alone for your salvation, you can pray to your Heavenly Father with complete confidence. It doesn't matter if you're alone, you're with your family, you're with your fellow believers, anytime, anywhere, any situation, about anything, about everything. In the secret closet of prayer of which the Lord spoke, or when you're going down in the waves, as Peter cried out, Lord help me. Oh and how does life in Christ begin? begins with a heart cry. The heart cry of the publican in the gospels, God be merciful to me a sinner. That's how it all begins And I think that often without admitting it we kind of discount the need for prayer and we discount the power of prayer We don't and I think this is often unintentional, but we effectively cross prayer off our priority list. It's so easy to do. How often do we hear the phrase, when some difficult situation arises, well, all we can do is pray. As if that were a weak thing to do. As if that were an unimportant thing to do. As though there's got to be something better. There's got to be something more effectual that we could be doing instead. But let us not think that way. What does James tell us elsewhere in that book? The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And we find many examples, and it's we do well to study the many examples that we find in the Word of God. Many examples we find in the life of the church over the centuries. And many examples, doubtless, that we can point to in our own lives as we look back, and it's there's nothing wrong with reminding ourselves of what the Lord has done. Examples and occasions that demonstrate just how much the Lord is pleased and glorified to show his power in answering the prayers of his beloved children. his adopted sons. We need to remember that we are the temple of the Holy Spirit in this present world. We need to remember that as we pray, this great intercessory conversation is taking place on our behalf. And so let us cry out to our loving Father. Knowing that we have all the rights and privileges of adoption as sons, let's look to the Lord in prayer, our Father. We do indeed come before you, and Lord, we need to come before you. Praying, Abba, Father. We need to come before you. Lord, in childlike, unquestioning faith, not doubting, asking wisdom of you Who gives to all liberally and upbraideth not, you do not reproach us for coming. Father, may we seek your wisdom. And Father, if there are any among us who are listening this morning who need to seek you in salvation, to need to utter that first heart cry, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me because of what Jesus has done. Father, I pray that this might be the hour, the moment. When that great transaction takes place. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We turn to our closing hymn now, number 169. May the mind of Christ my Savior One hundred and sixty nine. When you locate that, please rise. One sixty-nine, and we sing all five stances. Christ, my Savior, live me from day to day. I give. Say the word of God richly My heart draw not to work, so they see my trial only through this. May not be sure I do my life every day. Still As the waters will last me so basic as being. May I run the race before me? Show me to face the for. Only unto Jesus as I see