Working our way through the hall of faith and all the many different characters. And one of the reasons I really like this eleventh chapter of Hebrews is because you get an opportunity to springboard back into parts of the Old Testament. You get to see characters and how they walk by faith. I dare say if I were to walk up to the average person on the street and say, um Do you know ten commandments of God? They they might actually come up with some of the Ten Commandments. But uh if I were to say, do you know ten principles by which you walk by faith? I'm not sure I'd get one. Walking by faith is something that is very different than walking by law. People don't really get that. Well, this morning we're going to continue our survey through Hebrews 11, and we're at Abel. But as is my custom I have an opening question. Our verse reads like this, so you kind of maybe get where the question's going. It's Hebrews 11, 4. By faith, Abel Offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, that was his older brother, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous God testifying of his gifts. And by it he being dead yet speaketh So this is a fascinating text, and we're going to spend a bit of time in Genesis 4. But our opening question, which I hope you got by way of email. When we want to honor someone, we often get want to give them a gift of some sort Do you always give the same gift, why or why not? If it's to my great grandchildren I send money because I don't know what gets it. Okay. Well money works. Yeah. That answers everything. Okay. That's uh that's a good reason to give the same gift. I don't know what you want here. Yeah, I'm not choosing the gifts. I prefer that. Okay, you said you prefer choosing the gifts. Why do you prefer to choose the gift? Well I try to get something that's unique. All right. Okay. Um Yeah, um I I typically don't give everybody the same gift because you you want it to show that you're concerned or You know, it's personal. You know, this is something I think you would like. Um my mom always made sure she spent the same money on the grandchildren, but each gave each one a different gift, but but tried to keep the values in line so that one didn't feel like they got more or less, but it was a th a thoughtful gift. Yeah. That's interesting because you brought a couple of things in that that I hadn't thought about. One is the The personal touch, which of course I think is common when people think about wanting to give a gift, what would they personally like? But then also the the equity aspect of it Right, where the grandparent wants to not impart the idea that, well, Johnny got a a big car and I got a rubber ducky, you know, is something really disparate implies Favoritism. Well, um, let's turn this around for a moment. What is the worst gift you've ever received? What's the worst gift you don't have to tell me who gave it to you. I just I'm just asking about it can be your knucklehead husband after the first year who doesn't you know get it, got you a vacuum cleaner or something silly like that, unless you wanted a vacuum cleaner What's the worst gift you've ever received? You may have to think about that for a bit, but I'm kind of curious to hear Um I see something that was was already worn and was not new. And I featured it. Alright, so you received a uh uh a used item of clothing for a gift, uh, but it turns out it was a gag gift, so it's yeah, that that would be a good occasion How about anybody else? What's the worst gift you've ever received? When we were in Jamaica, a box showed up the post office and we have to pay duty to get any package that comes in So we paid the duty on the package, not knowing what it was, and when I got back to the mission and opened it up, someone we didn't even know, it was used postage stamps Because somewhere this individual would have heard that missionaries could sell used postage stamps to stamp collectors and Get money for them. And sometimes you can. Right. But but we have had to pay probably twenty-five, thirty US dollars total to get the package. And Stamp collecting is unheard of in Jamaica. Plus if people wanted to use US postage stamps, most of them had family that mailed them letters, so they already had them But it but it was but it was very thoughtful that someone tried to help but just didn't understand the needs of the person they've tried to help. Yeah. Any other candidates for worst gift received? It could be a gag gift, I think, if you can't think of anything else. Why is it you why is it that in these cases these recipients didn't particularly like the gift? I think I heard no value. No value. No profit. No profit. Thoughtless. Wasn't needed. Wasn't needed. Why do brides put out gift registries for their wedding? Why do they put out gift registries? What happens Moms, those who are already married, if your daughter doesn't put together a gift registry for her wedding, what happens? You get a lot of things you don't want don't need and sometimes five are the same thing. You get a mishmash of things. Maybe the bride likes the colors blue and green and she's gonna get black and gray, the very colors she doesn't want So gift registry is a way to telegraph to people, here are the things that I like. What would a bride think if she puts out her gift registry and somebody buys something that is not in the registry? And she doesn't like it. What is that bride going to think of the gift bearer? What might she think? What are some of the first thoughts that are going to go through her head if they register They didn't read the registry, obviously. Or old time there wasn't any registry anyway. Yeah. But today in old time you knew people, but today we're a little more distant. But if there was a gift registry You might think, well, either they didn't read it, or they read it and say, well, I don't like any of those things. Or you just scratch your head and wonder why. What was the significance here? So I'm just piquing your interest, just kind of tipping the the the the just running some sense in front of you to kind of get you going down the right path as we explore this fantastic topic. We're going to turn now to Genesis chapter 3. We're going to look at this account of Cain and Abel to kind of refresh ourselves from it because We are told that Abel offered by faith. What did that look like? Is there any hints from the text from which we can glean some insights? So I'd like somebody to read Genesis 3, 17 through 21. It's five short verses. We're going to start with some context here of Adam and Eve Genesis 3. Go ahead, Gabe. Genesis 3, 17 to 21. Okay. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife. And hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake. In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life Thorns also, and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of thy faith shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken. For dust art thou, for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skin and clothe them. So this is the of course sad account of the consequences of the fall. But I want us to look at this from a familial perspective for a moment. If you were Daddy Adam. You and your wife Eve starting a brand new family, brand new planet. No Nobody else. It's just you and her and you're starting a family and children are starting to come. What do you think Daddy Adam is going to tell the children when they grow up, what sorts of things is he going to talk about? Any ideas? Look forward. Look forward. In in some ways the same things we talk to our kids about because the child starts from knowing nothing. They need every piece of information. Okay. What are some of the pieces of information that mom and dad want to share? You look forward because why? Because there's nothing in the back. Nothing's in the Well, was there nothing in the back? What was in the back? If I had a little kid and I was in their situation, I'd be talking about the wonders of God's creation and naming the animals and how they can pass and the way God made them and walking with God in the garden and what that was like and the lessons that God himself taught them Okay, yeah, you would historically speaking, you would begin to speak about things that you knew of, things from the past, uh naming the animals and so forth But we have this horrible account in in verses seventeen to twenty-one. Would that ever come up in a conversation? Okay. What might Daddy Adam say regarding that episode? How I screwed up. Yeah, and made your life more difficult. Okay. Sure. So made the life more difficult, so how then can they look forward? Was there anything in this account of Genesis 3 that would indicate how to look forward Is there any hope there? Is there any Well the hope that uh my God made them falls off stins and uh lost them that there was The they thought that they were protected. Okay, yes, that uh God made them coats of skins. Now that's a good observation so they could talk about that. Yep, we We messed up, mom and dad did, and so we're kicked out of this place, go to the garden. We walked in the garden. We saw God. Daddy named all the animals mommy, you know, Eve might discuss. But God showed us a way to be accepted with him. Now, coats of skins, as you and I know, just don't sort of lie around on the ground. They didn't have stores they would go to to buy coats of skin. The safe presumption from theologians is that an animal was slain and the skin or the coat of that animal was used to coat Adam and Eve. I'm betting it was a lamb. If I'm gonna put my money on something, I'm pretty sure it was the slain lamb. It was a sheep of some sort that was slain And it's interesting because the Hebrew word for atone means to cover. It's the very earliest sense. The etymology of that word comes from a covering. God covered us with skins. So there was an early life lesson. That Adam and Eve could impart to their children. Mess up. God killed an animal And we were covered. Alright? Now let's read Genesis 4, 1 to 5. I need uh Gabe, you want to cover that one as well or uh you want to pick a different reader? Okay, Genesis 4, 1 to 5. Adam And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel he also brought of the thirstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wrong. And his countenance fell. I don't know about you, but I think the first time I read that account, as I went through it, the first thought that crossed my mind is, well, that seems kind of unfair. Right, me too. That seems unfair. I mean, uh, you know, not everybody has the same skills and so um Abel wants to go and and and he wants to attend sheep and that's all good and fine, but you know that's not what Cain wants to do. He's a gardener. You know, my dad loves to garden. Angela loves to garden. And that's just what they want to do. And so he he would bring some of that. This seems very unfair Any of you have that thought? She's already said she's had that thought. Does that cross your mind when you read the account? This seems very unfair. Well, do you really believe for a moment that God Himself is unfair? No, we don't, right? He is the judge of all the earth. He shall do right. And so there must be something more here that lay beneath the covers that we're not quite grasping just yet. But I hope to kind of unpack that. the thing that Jay was uh whatever his profession, he gave what his from and Abel was that profession, he gave from his profession, you see The very arbitrary. Right. Right. Seems very arbitrary. Right. Cain's fruits weren't bruised or stale. Yeah. It was the best fruits. Okay, we'll talk about that in a moment, actually. Yeah, we'll talk about that. So I want to make various observations here about our text in Genesis 4, because I've looked at this for a long time. Over many years, in fact. On and off, not a continuous study. But I believe I've got a measure of insight here from just paying close attention to it. The first thing is the professions. Now, God is the one that chooses each and every word recorded in holy writ. There is nothing in the Bible that is incidental or accidental. There are no superfluous words in the Bible. There is a tremendous amount of I'll use the word efficiency. I think the correct word would be economy, but there's a tremendous amount of efficiency in that God can say multiple things with the same word. There are in fact multiple levels of meaning in the scriptures. Now I'm not going to get into that here. I just want to deal with the historical record for the moment. The word keeper of sheep, that word keeper Is also rendered pastor. Now, that shouldn't surprise us. That's what a pastor is. It's a pastoral job. That's what a shepherd is. So Abel was a shepherd. Now, that's a big deal in scriptures, right? David was a shepherd. David was calling a man after God's own heart God sets up leaders today and they're called shepherds. We refer to them as under-shepherds. Jesus Christ himself is referred to as that chief shepherd. That's what that word keeper of sheep is. He's a shepherd. Cain, on the other hand, was a tiller of the ground. That word tiller is interesting. It means to serve, and it also means to worship That's an interesting insight in the word worship. It's service, the Lord. So one is a pastor, the other is a ground worshiper. Just going with the language of Scripture. I'm not saying Cain did worship the ground, but that's the sense of that word. He's a tiller, he's a servant of that ground. That's the first observation, just of the etymology of the words. Okay. First of all, we find, uh I mean a second, uh, when it says Abel brought of the flock, if you're a shepherd, what do you have to do to make a perfect lamb? Well You can make 'em fat, but is a perfect lamb going to come out of that? Are you guaranteed that? That's what it says. Well that's what he brought. That's what he brought. So Abel per se can't do anything to make a perfect lamb. He has to identify out of all the lambs in the flock which one is good. Right. Well sure. He but it was a discriminating gift, was it not? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Also, look at Genesis 4. 3. We see that in 4. 3 it says, Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. The best dose or something. It doesn't say he tried his best. What do we know that the ground produced after the fall? What do we reap thorns and thistles? Now, because Cain did not discriminate, it is very possible, and I think very likely, that he had no discrimination whatsoever in terms of what he brought from the ground. It just says fruit. Now biologically. Any plant that puts out a seed, that seed is called the fruit. So when you eat grains, that's the seed of that particular plant. You can mash it up, you can grind it, you can make flour, and so forth The text does not say Cain brought of the first fruits. It doesn't say that. Frankly, Cain could have brought brambles, thistles, and thorns. We have no indication of discrimination by Cain in this offering. We want to assume that he's doing his best, but when we make that assumption, that leads us to the next step, which is unfair. Here's one man doing his best, here's another man doing his best. God doesn't like your best. He likes this best. You go, well, that's not fair. But the scriptures are very harsh about Cain as we go through the text, as you look elsewhere So when I went back and looked at this, I had to ask myself, where does it say that Cain was discriminating? In fact, you look at what David said in 2 Samuel 24, King David said unto Aruna, nay, when speaking about what he wants to pay for Mount Moriah from this fellow named Aruna Nay, but I will sure buy it of thee at a price. Neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the Lord my God of that which doth cost me nothing. So when Abel brings an offering, he will bring something that's above and beyond. He brought the firstling of the flock, the very first and the fattest of the flock, he brought to the Lord. It was a fatted calf, and clearly it was the best of the flock, which is why God says a more excellent sacrifice. There is an emphasis on the fact that that sacrifice was more excellent. Cain, on the other hand, clearly did wrong. And we know he did wrong because let's read the next few verses in Genesis 4 and verse 5. It says, unto Cain this offering he had not respect. Cain was wroth, his countenance fell. Now listen to what God says. Now God knows people's hearts, right? Do we all understand that? God knows the hearts. He knows the counsel of the heart So God's not asking questions for information. He is drawing out what is going on inside The Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? Why is thy countenance fallen? Notice this phrase. If thou doest well, which he didn't, shalt thou not be accepted? It wasn't accepted, so he didn't do well. God's putting to me, if you do well, you'll be accepted. And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. And then, of course, we read the tragic ending of all of this in verse 8. Cain talked with Abel his brother. And it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him And the rest of Genesis 4 is much of the language of Cain and his descendants. Do you realize we never hear a word out of Abel? Only his offering. Only what he did is recorded. So God indicates Cain did wrong. So when we look at this, we say, well, what indication do we have that Cain did wrong? Well the indication is it doesn't say he was discriminatory. He didn't discriminate in his offering. Abel did. It says Abel brought the firstling and the fat. And so when we think about the history of where we are at this point in space-time on the human existence on the planet. What are the things that are aligned with good in the stories that Adam would have told his children? A coat of skin, an animal sacrifice, because that Goddess accepted with God. He accepts that. That's a good thing. What are the things that were associated with the curse? the cursed ground, the thorns, the briars, and the thistles. And if I'm correct in just being straining like a Philadelphia lawyer very carefully at the language here, if I'm correct about this It appears that Abel's offering is more in line with God's atonement, whereas firstborn Cain's offering does not discriminate. It certainly wasn't his best. God says you do evil Yeah, I would think the same thing. Well he's just doing his best. It doesn't say he was. Cain went back to the very root of sin. Sin began with taking of a fruit And then sin tried to be covered with the taking of leaves. Hmm. Interesting. And then he brought a further continuation of parents sin. Interesting. That's a good observation. Yeah. Yeah, we uh we we we from all this that that's good, I like that. You know, that's kind of why I got into this question about the gifts. Have you ever received a gift you didn't like? Cain obviously wasn't thinking he's bringing an offering to the Lord. This isn't to the priest, this is to God Almighty Himself. This is to the one who made you, and you know He made you because Adam and Eve don't have grand don't have parents. God was the parent. He wasn't trying to please the Lord. He wasn't trying to give him the very best thing. And so we find that He's not accepted. We have several gospel pictures in all of this because Hebrews is holding it up as that which is done by faith. First of all, the Lamb of God. I believe that this bringing of the Lamb is something that Abel clearly understands. It's all about the Lamb of God. What is it about the Lamb of God and atonement? That family didn't get. Adam understood it. Eve understood it. Obviously Abel did, and Cain did not. John 1 29. John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Turn turn for just a moment. Am I going to have you go back to uh uh uh Genesis uh no, I'm not I'm I'm not I've already read it. Turn to Luke 15 because this is an interesting theme that shows up in scriptures. And we're going to keep talking about the Lamb of God here for a moment. Luke 15 and verse 21, we have the account of the prodigal son. Uh, you know the story, the the the younger son this has his comeuppance and decides to give me part the inheritance. He goes off, he wastes his substance with uh riotous living, and he found himself feeding himself with wine's food says, why am I here? I can go back to my father's home and be a hired servant. He goes back And you read in verse 21, the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight am no more worthy to be called thy son. Luke 15, 22. But the Father said unto his servants, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand, shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf, and let us eat and be merry. Father saw something with that. Bring out a fatted calf. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost, and his family began to be married. The Lamb of God. This glorious feast. It's a picture of redemption, of a return, of a restoration. That was a consistent theme There's another picture that shows up here, and it's the elder versus the younger. This is another gospel theme that pops up throughout scriptures. This is the first older brother, younger brother scenario we have in Scripture. Keep reading in this Luke 15 account in verse 25. So the younger son has come back, and what do we find? Verse 25. Now his elder son was in the field. As he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing. Picture of the gospel. And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother has come. Thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and sound. And he was angry and would not go in. There is a consistent theme throughout scriptures about it something called older and something called younger. Don't focus too much on the family incidentals in particulars as if though God will always hate your firstborn and love your lastborn. not to be extracted. But it's a picture. There was in scriptures something called the first man Adam. who was made a living soul. There was a last Adam, the younger Adam, if you will, who was made a quickening spirit. Adam is a picture of Christ Jesus Christ is that second Adam. He is that younger brother. He is that preferred one. The first one blew it. The second one redeemed us. And lastly, we really have hints of election here. And I say hints. By hints of election, we see that in Genesis 4, where it says, the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering. Which one came first? He respected Abel, and then he respected the offering. God respected, it doesn't say the Lord had respect to his offering and to Abel. The offering is not what made Abel accepted before God. God accepted Abel first and then his offering. So the word order is significant. Again, it's a hint of election. Our text from Hebrews 11 doesn't try to highlight that part. The Apostle Paul digs that out from other places of Scripture, but there is a hint of it there, just from that word order. You know, Matthew 20, so the last shall be first, and the first last, for many be called, but few chosen. Again, this first and the last arrangement in Scripture is common. You know, when we look at the Old Testament, it is shadowy. There are very shadowy pictures in there, but they keep getting clearer as you come into the New Testament But when you get New Testament insight like we have from Hebrews 11. 4, it really is helpful to go back and look at the text because you find you can maybe draw out a little bit more than you thought was really there. So my concluding point is this. God didn't respect Cain because Cain did not respect God with his offering for atonement. Do we see that today? Do some people want to come to God with something that God doesn't like? We have an entire denomination which is prevalent in this state, the Roman Catholic Church They believe you're going to be accepted with God if you go to God Jesus' physical body mother, Mary. Talk to her. She's a co-redemptrix. Or that we can Offer our good works to God. Their works, they're good done with good intent. But insofar as God's concerned, you're not discriminating. You're not comparing correctly. You're not giving me that which I like. In fact, God doesn't have a neutral ground. We might be kind and say, well, we accept the gift. We, you know, know it's a gag or uh Uh maybe you were poor and all the items on my gift registry were way too expensive, and so you just did your best. God doesn't have a middle ground. He doesn't have a middle ground. It is Jesus Christ and his shed blood alone that's accepted with him. And so given the history of what the entire human race at this point knew was associated with atonement God's covering with sheepskins, and cursed things, the ground, thorns, and thistles. What audacity does Cain have by giving such an evil offering? We have to conclude that, that it was an evil offering. He didn't discriminate. He actually picked the things that he didn't even consider would be a complete stick in the eye of the Lord, that it would offend him. The text doesn't say he tried his best. Now we would find out later in the New Testament, when God sets up the Levitical priesthood, that there would be offerings of grain and there would be meal offerings. But more often than not, those were thank offerings. Those were not for atonement. They were thank offerings. They were things that were there to to reflect thanksgiving to the Lord. Feast of harvest, for instance, would be one where we were thankful to the Lord. This was Cain gave a more excellent sacrifice. He's pointing to that shed blood of Jesus Christ, and God accepted that. Just before the passage. In um 322, there's the reminder that God put the angels so they couldn't put forth their hand and take of the tree of life, that tendency of man to try to put forth his hand to do it himself. Um it's seen again and again there it goes back to the fruit. Yep, absolutely. Well what is the proof of Cain's evil heart? What audacity do I have to say that he gave a wicked offering? evil. We read that Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. Can you imagine such jealousy? You're at a um, I can't even think of a corollary. You're at some kind of a celebration and you're at a family celebration. People are bringing you birthday gifts. Maybe it's your family. We're going to celebrate uh uh a birthday here soon. Gifts may be brought. And let's say uh the birthday boy or girl receives a gift and they go, wow, this is spectacular I really like this. This is just what I wanted. This is so nice. Oh, thank you so much. Get up and hug them and think it's great. And then somebody else gives another offering, a gift. to the birthday person and they say, well this is very kind of you. Thank you so much. And they kind of pass it over and they go on to the next gift. You could kind of tell that they weren't that excited about it. If it was you giving that gift, what would you feel? Maybe bad. You'd feel maybe a little bad. Would you feel angry? Would you feel angry at the person who gave the gift that was accepted? Would you feel angry to the point that you would want to go out and kill them? Isn't that beyond our thinking? So what's amazing in this text is that Cain was so jealous and so angry that his off you did not like Mike. Obviously Cain liked his gift. Cain didn't seem to care that God didn't like it. And so, well, I'm just going to kill the one that gives the good gift. So next time when I give my offering, he'll like that. Hmm, how about that? What kind of an evil heart is that? Do you see how wicked Cain is The proof is in the pudding. Look what happens afterward. He rose up and killed his brother for no apparent cause, and you know no murderer has eternal life. Does that kind of maybe put a little different picture in your mind about Cain and what he did and why it's not all that innocent? You know, man is very deceptive, isn't he? He's very slippery. Does anybody believe the people are deceptive? Have you seen deceptive people in this town? Have you heard of deceptive people on the news? They're all in the generation of Cain, I'm telling you. 1 John 3. 11 continues to talk about Cain and his evil ways. It says, this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one. Who is that wicked one that Cain was from? Adam or the devil? Yeah. Cain was a seed of the devil and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil. And his brother's righteous. Here the Apostle John, the beloved apostle, says of Cain that his works were evil. Maybe that gives some insight. When we read in the book of Proverbs where Solomon says, a high look, a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked is sin. Here's a wicked man. He's doing it for himself. You know people who like to work for themselves. It's all about them. They have a picture of themselves on the wall with a little light on it. It's all about me. What is it about me you don't get and it's all about themselves And they do great things and they have they're captains of great industry, but it's all about them. And they're not beneficent. They're not giving. And God says, yeah, your works are evil. They're absolutely evil. Oh, but I employ a lot of people. No, you're doing it for yourself. You're not doing it unto the Lord. 1 John 3. 15, whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. What are the legacies of these two individuals? What do we find from Scripture? Cain's legacy is occupying the hall of shame. He goes down throughout Scripture as a clear-cut case of an evil individual. And he's listed with a few other fellows in the book of Jude. Jude and 2 Peter 2 are what I call God's glossary of false prophets. If you want to look up all the false prophets in the Bible, all those who are bad news. You can go to those two chapters. They practically read the same. Jude we find in chapter 1, verse 10, but these speak e speaking of false prophets, they speak evil of those things which they know not. But what they know naturally as brute beasts, in those things they corrupt themselves. Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain. Number one, the way of Cain Number two, ran greedily after the error of Balaam for reward. This is another Old Testament character. We're not going to cover him, but Balaam's a false prophet. And perished in the gainsaying of Korah. Korah, Dathan, and Abiram were those whom God slew in the Old Testament because they rose up against Moses. Here's Cain featured in the Hall of Shame. All the way at the second from the last book of the Bible. His legacy endures throughout Scripture as an evil one. What about Abel? What's his legacy? Nothing but righteous. I find it fascinating. The only event we find recorded about Abel is his offering. In Hebrews 11, 4 it says, by it, by this offering, he being dead yet speaks not only his slain lamb, but also his very death of his life. That word witness and uh has to do with is that Greek word you know, martyr. We get our word martyr from the word witness is a testimony This is what they're gonna this is the hill they're gonna die on. And that was the hill that Cain died on, the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and he was killed for it. Indeed, a man's foe shall be the head of his own household Jesus himself said in Matthew 23, 34, speaking to a bunch of Jews in Jerusalem And I'm going to summarize these two passages briefly for you in Matthew 23, 34. Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets, wise men, etc. That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel. He calls him righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias, the son of Barekiah whom you slew between the temple and altar. Luke 11, 51 records the same statement of the Lord Jesus, calls him righteous Abel. Later in the book of Hebrews, we'll get to the 12th chapter. And this to me is very impressive commendation from the Lord. It's talking about Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and that you're come to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Isn't that amazing? The blood of sprinkling is talking about the blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. That's the blood that sealed and instantiated a new covenant. What is God going to compare that blood with To show that it's better. He says it speaks better things than that of Abel. Abel shed blood, the shed blood of a righteous man who gave a righteous offering. That's a high water mark. For the blood of Jesus Christ to be compared to that, that is a high watermark. The only thing better than the blood of Abel is that of Jesus Christ. That's a mighty tall praise That's a mighty tall praise. And so even though Abel's words are actually not found in Holy Writ, his righteous life gives us an eternal witness. And like all martyrs for Jesus, his life was cut off early. Yet he being dead yet speaketh. He still talks to us from the scriptures. Lo, lo, these millennia Later, these thousands of years later, he's still speaking to us. He's speaking to us right here in this living room. So it's an interesting account, and I hope you got some Uh a measure of insight from it. I don't have all the answers to everything in there, but I think I got a good toehold on this. We'll wrap it up there. Would you mind closing us and prayer? Sure. Thank you. Precious Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word and for the uh death