Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the book of 1 Samuel and the 25th chapter of 1 Samuel. That was certainly a beautiful rendition of that psalm that we sang. Uh I had learned that one probably twenty years ago out of this particular book of Psalms we're singing. And haven't sung it in the last fifteen. But it is indeed beautiful. Our book of Psalms for Singing follows the King James. uh which we use for our worship. So it's a bit familiar and that particular one just really the rhymes all fit and the words fit the music very well. It's a glorious hymn, psalm of praise to our God and his working. Psalm 25, sorry, Psalm, excuse me. 1 Samuel 25 this morning. I'm going to read a bit longer portion than I often read from the scriptures. Because it's a marvelous story. It's easy, easy, easy during the scripture reading in any worship service for our minds to wander. So I would encourage you to try to pay close attention to the story as I read it for you. I'll try to read it in something more than a monotone I believe the scriptures should be read with emphasis and read well. Some of you know that I practice reading these scriptures at home before I read them publicly. uh just because this is the word of god it deserves our respect. It doesn't it should not be taken trivilly. Pr that's not even a word. You know what I'm trying to say, but this is the word of God. And I'm going to start preaching before I read it, I guess. But I have nothing inspired to say to you this morning. But when I read from this book, we're reading the very inspired and preserved Word of God. And so maybe we give it due attention as I read chapter twenty-five, from the first verse through the forty-second verse of the chapter. And Samuel died, and all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Peran. And there was a man in Maon whose possessions were camels And the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the name of the man was Nabal. and the name of his wife, Abigail. And she was a woman of good understanding, and of beautiful countenance. But the man was churlish and evil in his doings, and he was of the house of Caleb And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get ye up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name. And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity: Peace be both to thee, and peace to thine house, and peace unto all that thou hast. And now I have heard that thou shearest, that thou shearer shearers, now thy shepherds which were with us were hurt. We hurt them We hurt them not, neither was there aught missing unto them all the while that we were with them in Carmo. And the young men, they will show thee. Ask the young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore, let the young men find favor in thine eyes, for we come in a good day Give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand to thy servants, and to thy son David And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David and ceased. And Abel answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants nowadays that break away every man from his master. Shall I take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to men whom I know not whence they be So David's young men turned their way and went again and came and told him all those things. And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword, and they went upon uh and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred abode with the stuff But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed on them. But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything as long as we were conversant with them when we were in the field. They were a wall unto us both night and day, and all the while we were with them keeping the sheep Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do, for evil is determined against our master and against all his household For he is such a man, such a son of Belial, that a man cannot speak to him. Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five hundred measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me. Behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Abel. And it was so as she rode on the ass that she came down by the covert of a hill. And behold, David and his men came down against her, and she met them. Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept that this fellow hath all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missing of all that pertained unto him. He hath requited me evil for good. So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave all of him If I leave of all of him that more by the morning light, any that pisseth against the wall And Abigail saw David, and hastened, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground. And fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me, let this iniquity be, and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience, and hear the words of thy handmaid. Let not, my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Ba Belial, even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his ma name, and folly is with him But I, thine handmaid, saw not the young men of my Lord, whom thou didst send. Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth And as thy soul liveth, the Lord hath withholding thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand. Now let the enemies, even they that seek my Lord, be as Nable. And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my Lord I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid, for the Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house. because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. Yea A man is risen to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, but thy soul, my Lord, shall be bound in the bundle of life with the Lord thy God. And the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out as out of the middle of a sling. And it shall come to pass when the Lord shall have done to my Lord according to all the good that He has spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my Lord, either that thou hast shed blood carelessly, or that my Lord hath avenged himself But when the Lord shall have dealt with well with my Lord, remember thine handmaid. David said unto Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee this day to meet me. And blessed be thy advice. And blessed be thou which hath kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with thine own hand For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee, except that thou hast Hasten and come to me. Surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall. So David received of her hand that which she had brought, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and accepted thy person. And Abigail came to Nabal. And behold, he held a feast in his house like the feast of a king. And Abel's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing less or more until the morning light. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife told him these things, that his heart died within him. And he became as a stone. And it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal, that he died. And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach. from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil. For the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head And David sent and command commune with Abigail to take her to him to wife. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail, to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying David sent us unto thee to take thee to him to wife. And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth. And said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servant of my Lord. And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers, that went after her, and she went after the messengers of David, and became his messengers Let us bow for prayer as we begin to take this passage and examine it more closely. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for thy word. We thank you, Lord, that you have given us thy word for our instruction, for our admonition, for our edification. Father, bless this glorious story of thy providence to our hearts this day And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Today's Mother's Day. And We are considering mothers today, and if we were to give this passage of Scripture a title for the morning, it would be A Wise and Godly Mother, Abigail. Abigail, we find first of all in the third verse, was a woman of good understanding. It says that she was a woman of good understanding and of beautiful countenance But the man was churlish and evil in his doings, and he was of the house of Caleb. She was a woman of good understanding. Where did that come from? How did Abigail become a woman of good understanding? Did she go to school and study very well? Well no, in Abigail's days the women didn't receive any education at all. Well, did she read a lot of books? It's doubtful that she had access to any book other than the Word of God. Now it's obvious from what she says that she understood the working of God. She understood that God had ordained that David should be king. We'll talk about that a little bit later on. But how did Abigail become a woman of good understanding? Well, we find in Psalm 111 and verse 10, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom And a good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever You see, Abigail would not have become a woman of good understanding by accident. She became a woman of understanding by the fear of the Lord and by keeping God's commandments. And folks, ladies, and men alike, the only way any of us will become individuals of good understanding is by the fear of the Lord and by his commandments. Because that phrase good understanding is not talking about a pile of book learning. Okay? There are people in this world that have read millions, hundreds of books, thousands of books, however many books. Have vast degrees, have been to multiple colleges and universities, they have vast knowledge, but they have no understanding. You see, the understanding that's being spoken of here can be boiled down to good plain old biblical common sense. Discernment of what is right and what is wrong. You see, there are people that know all about the natural universe. They can give you the Latin names of all the animals. They can tell you all kinds of scientific things. But they really don't understand anything. They've got all kinds of theories. They have all kinds of suppositions which have no basis in science and are a total violation of the scientific method. Simply because they do not acknowledge that God made it all. And that God rules it all. You see, we find here of Abigail She had good understanding. She had wisdom and knowledge. And that comes from God. And that is what is highlighted here. Her knowledge, her good understanding, is highlighted. A great contrast between her and Nabal. Nabal was a fool. But his wife was a woman of good understanding. And good understanding comes to the fear of the Lord and keeping God's commandments. In Proverbs 3, verses 3 and 4, we read this Let not mercy and truth forsake, let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thy heart, so that thou shalt find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and of man. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them upon the tables of thy heart, so that thou might find good understanding before God and before man. Doesn't that describe Abigail? Her churlish husband Nabal forsook mercy. Here, David's servants had defended his shepherds In the fields. And now David is in the wilderness. David is running from King Saul. David's men are hungry. And he sends the Nabel and he says You know, ask your young men how we protected them. Ask your young men that we never took anything out of the flock. We were a wall to them. Now we're hungry. Can you help us? And Nabal says, Why should I take my flesh? And why should I take my water? Why should I take my grain and give it out to this man who I don't even really know if you're David's servants or not? You see, Nabal is an example of forsaking mercy. But Abigail is an illustration of mercy itself. Abigail's good understanding was recognized by her household, by the servants there within the house. If you look at verse fourteen, uh but one of the young men told Abigail You see, the the young men that worked in the household understood that, yeah, Nabal's a nut. But Abigail, she understands. The young men didn't go to Nabal and say, Hey, maybe you ought to rethink this They didn't go to Nabal and say, you know what, maybe you know they helped us, maybe we ought to help them. But rather they came to Abigail. There was a recognition. This is a godly woman Hmm. This is a woman of understanding. This is the one that I can go to and she will listen. She will reason. She'll be able to understand the danger that Nabal has put us in. And look at verse 17 of the chapter. Now therefore, know and consider what thou wilt do. Abigail, this is the problem. What are you going to do? Not what are you going to talk Nabal into doing, but Abigail, what are you going to do? For evil is determined against our master and against all his house for he is such a son of Belial. Now it also says that Abigail was beautiful. It says that she was of fair countenance And that's a good thing. It's it's nice to look attractive. And it's nice to to fit your hair well to dress in clean, appropriate clothing. But that's really irrelevant to the story, isn't it? We read in Proverbs 31: Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Young men, we've got some unmarried young men here today. If you find a wife based on her looks and not on her soul. Watch out. You're looking for trouble. You're looking for problems. Beauty is favor is deceitful and beauty is vain. And it doesn't last. We all know that the aging process takes over. We don't look the way we did 10 years ago or 20 years ago or 30 years ago. At least some of us don't. The men don't. The ladies do. I'll stay out of trouble there Abigail was a beautiful woman. But we don't recognize her here for her beauty, do we? It's not the outward appearance that makes Abigail stand out, but rather it is that she was a woman of good understanding because she was a woman that feared God. But the second thing we would point out about Abigail is that she had very difficult circumstances. And it's it's amazing to me sometimes how the The Lord coordinates the Sunday school lesson with the morning message because it wasn't it wasn't planned that way. I did not know what Brother Vincent was bringing. But Abigail had a hard time, folks. She was in worse shape than some of the wives here, because she had a husband worse than some of the men here. Her husband was allowed He was a fool. He had all kinds of money. He was a wealthy man, but he was a fool. He didn't know how to manage anything. He didn't have respect for any man. He did not know how to conduct himself. Abigail's marriage was probably an arranged marriage This was not a day when when Nabal would have come to her with flowers and taken her to nice restaurants and taken walks along the water with her and told her how pretty she was and how much he loved her and how how he worshipped the ground she walked on. He would not have stood outside her window and sung songs or written her pretty poems. There would be no romance here. Nabal was a wealthy man and he could choose a wife and that was it. So it was probably, and we don't know this for sure, but it most likely was a loveless marriage. It wasn't that she had a husband that cherished her and valued her opinion on anything. You see, the command, husbands love your wives, had not come yet. That was not. of the New Testament. The command, husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them did not yet exist. And we find Nabal when he finds out that Abigail has spared his life and has spared all of his servants and spared his household. Rather than rejoicing in a godly wife that has done the best possible favor that could be done to him, he's churlish. He's bitter against her, and he dies a bitter old man. Folks God's favor is not inconsistent with difficulties. Let me repeat that. God's favor is not inconsistent with difficulties. We can have massive difficulties and problems right in the middle of God's favor. Right in the middle of God's will, doing exactly what God would have us to do, we can have major problems. And the two are not a contradiction. Abigail was a woman of good favor, she was a woman of knowledge and understanding, she was a woman that her household had great respect for her, and yet she was in the middle of a terrible marriage. And in the middle of terrible circumstances, our circumstances are not an indication of God's providence. Our circumstances are not an indication of God's blessing. Terrible circumstances and the blessings of God can coexist. And I think we see that in the life of Abigail. The third thing that we notice about Abigail is she was a woman of generosity. Look with me at verse 18. Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed and five measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses. Now, she is sending food to David and his men. We know that David and his men are at least 600. Because it is listed that 400 followed David and 200 stayed with the stuff. 200 stayed in camp, 400 went with David to go wipe out Nabal. The shears of Nabel, maybe 50 at most. 3,000 sheep, 1,000 goats is what's listed in scripture. Maybe 50, probably less. So she is feeding 600 people when Nabel is concerned with feeding 25, 30, or 50. Okay? And 200 loaves. Somebody had to bake that bread. Okay, loaves don't bake themselves. There's some work going into this, there's some preparation. Hey You guys, I don't care what you're doing, drop it. Get over here. Fake some bread now. We need this bread right away Two bottles of wine. We think of a bottle like a Coke or maybe a two-liter. This is referring to two big jugs like they would have had at the marriage of Canaan that probably held twenty to thirty gallons each. Okay, this isn't just two little bottles, but enough for six hundred. Five sheep Ready dressed. My dad used to tell the story about a guy that was so lazy. I'm sure it's not a true story, but a guy was so lazy that one day they finally threw him on the wagon and they were going down the road and folks said, What are you what are you doing with with with old Bill? I'll just give him a name. So we're gonna take him and throw him in the river. He's he's too lazy, he won't work. We're just gonna throw him in the river. And the uh fellow said, oh no, no, no, don't don't throw old Bill in the river. I'll I'll give old Bill some corn Bill kind of leaned up on one shoulder and said, Is it shelled? Well, she doesn't send five sheep for them to butcher. Right? She f she sends them five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched corn, and hundred clusters of raisins, two hundred cakes of figs. She's generous. Nabal said, so why should I take my flesh? My water? He's not gonna give water. She's giving them wine My flesh, my water. In verse 2, we find he had plenty of wealth. In verse 6, we find he lived in prosperity. But he's stingy. He's selfish. But here we find Abigail. She's a generous soul She's concerned about others. In Proverbs 31, verse 20, she stretcheth out her hand to the poor. Yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the needy. She sees people in need, and she's ready to meet that need. The Apostle Paul commended the Philippians uh believers for their generosity in Philippians 4. He said, Notwithstanding ye have done well that ye did communicate with my afflictions. And that word communicate is also the word distribute. You saw that I had a need and you sent to help the need. And folks, it is a great blessing to believers to help believers. It is a great privilege within the family of God to see a need and to say, well, you know, how can we help? What can we do to meet that need. That is the one of the marks of a believer. It's one of the marks of the Church of God. That You know, we don't try to have all things in common as they did in the New Testament church. They were never commanded to do that, and it didn't work out particularly well. But There's not a one of us that would isn't willing to help another and to share what the Lord has blessed with us when someone else has a need, because someday I'm going to have a need. And you cannot give God. God will return. God will bless. God will open the he windows of heaven. And I am sure If we took time to to ask people if they had anything they wanted to share, there would be people who could say, you know, I I A a friend of mine had a knee and I I helped them out and it wasn't wasn't days before the Lord just restored everything. That's right. And blessed. That's the kind of woman Abigail was. Her husband's remembered for being a stingy churl. But she's remembered as a godly and generous woman. In Hebrews 13, verse 16, again that word to communicate, but to do good and communicate, forget not, for which with such sacrifices God is well pleased. And again in Romans uh twelve verses ten and thirteen, be kindly affectionate one to another, with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another, distributing to the necessity of the saints Given to hospitality. And again in Romans 15, verse 25, for it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make certain contributions for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. The the believers at Macedonia and Achaia realize that there was was starvation going on among the believers in Jerusalem and they say, Hey, we got to send something. We've got to help them, for they are our brothers. So Abigail is a woman of good understanding. She's a woman with difficult circumstances. She is a woman with generosity in her nature. But the fourth thing is Abigail knew how to be a peacemaker. Blessed are the peacemakers. Mm-hmm. For they shall be called the children of God. She knew how to be a peacemaker. Look at verse twenty-five In verse twenty five, let not my lord, that's David, let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him But thine handmaid saw not the young men of my Lord, whom thou didst send. She says, I you know, David, I'm sorry. My Lord, I'm sorry. I I didn't see your servants come, I didn't know anything about it. Let me fix this. Let me take care of it. Verse 27. And now this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my Lord. She's a peacemaker. She's oil and troubled water. David is coming with 400 men with the intent of wiping out all the men of Nabal. And yet she stands in the way. We find good instruction again in the book of Romans in chapter 12, where in Romans 12, starting in verse 17, we find these words: recompense to no man evil for evil. Well, Nabal had done evil to David when David had done good to Nabal. And David is coming to pour some evil on the head of Nabal. I understand. Boy, when I get cut off in traffic. I just want to go cut that guy off, right? Yeah, that's that's the way that's the way human nature is. That's the way our sin nature is. We wanna we wanna return evil for evil. But we find that Abigail was blessed because she was a peacemaker. Again, Romans 12, verse 17, reading the passage: Recompense to no man evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of man If it be possible, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thy enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heat coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. There the instruction is, if your enemy's hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him drink. You know what? David was Abigail's enemy. David was coming to destroy her household. David was coming to wipe out all the men. David was Abigail's enemy. But she fed him. And gave him drink. And it turned the entire situation around. Abigail knew how to be a peacemaker. You know, that's a good quality. That's a good quality for ladies, it's a good quality for men. Yeah, how often we're in a situation where we're at war with somebody, and it would be easy enough to make peace. But oh how sometimes we'd rather have revenge in our own flesh. Abigail knew how to be a peacemaker. And it was a good quality. James three, verse eighteen. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. And we began with Matthew 5. 9. Blessed are the peacemakers. For they shall be called the children of God. Number five, Abigail placed the safety of her family above her own safety. She stood in a messianic position. She placed her own good. her own danger between her enemies. Look at verse twelve of the chapter. So David's young men turned their way and went up again and told him those words, saying, David said, uh And David said unto the men, Gird on every man his sword, and they girded every man his sword, and David also girded on his sword, and then it went up with after David were four hundred men and two hundred above with a step. Folks, they're not going for a party. They're going for war. They're not coming with baskets of fruit. They're coming with their swords. They're coming to destroy. The scripture is very graphic in the passage that not a single man is going to be left alive. But you know what? Think about that. Was Abigail in danger? Well, her household was in danger. Certainly some of the wealth that she enjoyed Uh probably the very structure of their tents or dwellings was going to be destroyed. But Abigail herself wouldn't have been spared. The description is very clear, but Abigail here places herself in between danger. And that's a quality of a godly woman or a godly man. I believe every man here would take a bullet for his wife or stand between their wife and a mugger with a knife or with a gun. And every mother here would run through traffic to spare her child would jump between her child and an angry dog, would place herself in between those she loves and dangers. It's a good quality And we find that here with Abigail. In fact, the ones that she puts herself in danger between David and them were not even her blood. It was simply the members of her household that she stood to defend. In verses twenty-three and twenty-four, and Abigail saw David and hastened and laid off her ass and fell down before David. on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, Lord, Upon me, my Lord, let this iniquity be. Don't put this guilt on Nabal and the servants. Put this guilt on me. And what a beautiful picture of Christ. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all Abigail stood between her household and danger. A good mother, a good father stands between her household and danger, and Jesus Christ stands between my soul. And danger. Abigail placed the safety of her family above her own She saved Nabal and his entire household. Look at verse 32 and following. Verse 28, the last part, I pray thee forgive the trespass of thy handmaid. Well, what trespass did Abigail have? But she says, Forgive the trespass of thy handmaid. Forgive my sin, she says, even though it wasn't even hers. Again, another picture of Christ. Verse 32. And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee to me to meet today to meet me, and blessed be thy advice Ah, woman of good counsel, blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou which hath kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with my own hand For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back this day from hurting thee, except thou had hasten and come to me, surely there had not been left any unto Nabal by morning light. Mm-hmm. I would have wiped them all out. Except that Abigail came and stood. Folks, why why am I not in hell at this very moment? Because Christ has borne my sin. Why will I live eternally with God when my sin demands that I live in eternal death with Satan Because Christ is born by sin. And so Abigail placed her own the safety of others above her s her own. She was obviously a godly woman. She was a woman that feared the Lord. Look at verse 26. Now therefore, my Lord, as the Lord liveth. She's concerned about Jehovah God. If you notice there, it's in all caps. As Jehovah lives, she recognized that Jehovah was the one true God. As the Lord liveth, and thy look as thy soul liveth saying, the Lord hath withholding thee from coming to shed blood. She recognized that God was in control of this situation. The Lord is withholding thee from shedding blood. And from avenging thyself with thine own hand. Now she says, let thine enemies and they that seek evil to my Lord, that's the David, be as Nabal. She says, now may those that oppose David be like this foolish husband of mine. Be like this one who stands in jeopardy for his own life because of his foolishness, because of his selfishness, because of his godliness, because of his drunkenness, because of his own pride. May the enemies of God's anointed David be like Nabal, be like him, ready to perish. She was a godly woman. David recognized that she was a godly woman in verses 32 and 33. And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee this day to meet me. Blessed be God that sent you out here, Abigail. Abigail was a godly woman. Verse 33: Blessed be thy advice. Blessed be thou which hath kept me this day from coming to shed. Blood. She was a godly woman. But the final thing that would have us to see about Abigail. Abigail was rewarded for her faithfulness. Abigail was a wise woman because she understood and followed the law of God, because she kept his commandments. She was a woman with terrible circumstances. And yet she demonstrated her generosity, she demonstrated her peacemaking, she demonstrated that she was a godly woman in a bad marriage. She was a godly woman in very difficult circumstances. Look at verse 33. Again, blessed be thy thy device, and blessed be thou. And then verse 38, and it came to pass. About ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal, that he died. David was ready to go take care of things. As our brother says, God's got this. God will take care of our enemies. God will take care of those that seek our harm. God will take care of those that abuse and misuse us. Think all of us. Excuse me, at some time or another. I've been done wrong. The old saying, You done me wrong. Well, we've been done wrong. And how we would love to take revenge. But God will take care of it. Verse thirty-nine And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord God that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach. from the hand of Nabal, and has kept his servant from evil, for the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent a commune with Abigail to take her to him to wife. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail, uh to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee to take thee to him to wife. And she arose and bowed herself to the earth on her face, uh bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my Lord. And Abigail hastened and arose and rode upon an ass with five damsels of hers that went after her, and she went after the messengers unto David and became his wife. Now in our modern context, we look at this and say, okay, Nabal's dead. Abigail's inherited just inherited 3,000 sheep and 1,000 goats And Abigail now is a very wealthy widow and she can run the business well and Abigail No. Uh uh uh. You realize that when Nabel died, Abigail's inheritance was goose egg. When ab when Nabel died, Abigail had nothing. And so, you know, some some women today they've got a terrible husband and he dies and he leaves a million dollar life insurance policy and they're they're better off than they've ever been. Their life has suddenly changed for the better Abigail's life did not change for the better when Nabel died. Now she is a pauper widow. But now she's the wife that And when Nabal threw his big drunken feast, it said he threw a feast like a king. Isn't that scripture beautiful? Nabal throws a feast like a king. Now Abigail's married to the king. The kingdom truly is not like a king, it's the feast of a king. God took her out of a terrible situation. And made her the wife of a man after God's own heart. Nabal cared nothing for God. David was the sweet psalmist. The man after God's own heart. But there's more. God gave Abigail a son. In 2 Samuel 3, verses 2 and 3, we read these words. And David's sons, and unto David were sons born a Hebron, his first son, Ammon of Enohim, the wife of the Jezreelitis. And his second son, Chileab of Abigail, the wife of Nabal, the Carmelite. Abigail had a son. His name here in 2 Samuel is Chileib Chileib But he's also called in Scripture Daniel. And of course it's not the Daniel of the lion's den, but he is given the name of another famous Israelite that is well known. Daniel would have come along after this The Daniel we know, but it was a common name among Israel. Abigail became the wife of the king, and Abigail had a son. You see, God rewards faithfulness, God rewards blessedness, God rewards generosity, God rewards peacemakers God makes them godly mothers. And that's what Abigail became. And so I think we can find a lot in common with Abigail, in that she had a lot of trouble and a lot of difficulties, but may we find in common with Abigail the qualities of a godly woman and a godly Mother. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for these stories in Scripture that are not fairy tales. These stories of actual individuals who actually lived, who actually had a testimony for Christ, who actually endured great trials, but actually received the blessings of God. Father, how instructive they are. May we take them to heart and learn by them we pray. Father, we thank you for godly mothers. We pray for the mothers of this congregation that you would assist them as they endeavor to train up their children in the way they should go. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.