Easter today. We're looking at the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, and we are in our seventeenth verse. I'm going to read these three verses and then we'll tackle our discussion question, and I have some sort of an outline for you in the bulletin where you can take some notes. But in Hebrews 11 and verse 17, we return back to Abraham. We're marching through the book of Hebrews. We're in a very famous chapter. This eleventh chapter known as the Hall of Faith. And there's a lot of time spent on Abraham, and this is kind of the second phase of his life. We read this from Hebrews 11:17. By faith, Abraham when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that had received the promises, offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said Then in Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure I hope you're not so sleep-deprived that that didn't come across to you as blah blah blah blah blah, Abraham, blah blah blah blah blah But if it did, I'll give you an executive summary of what you just heard. And also a summary of where we're going to go with it this morning. Frankly, this can rightly be called the first Easter, this passage in Hebrews 11:17. The first Easter Because we see here that there's an only begotten, promised son, whose name happens to be made is Isaac, and he's going to be sacrificed at God's command And he's effectively dying at the hands of his faithful father. Abraham actually reached for the knife. But lo and behold, he did not die. He returned alive. In Abraham's mind, the boy was dead. He was a goner. He had to carry out what God had asked him to do. Yet, lo and behold, he did receive him from the dead. As a deliverance, miraculous deliverance by this ram that was told God's deliverance by the ram informed Abraham that Isaac was just a foreshadow of the Messiah. And so that's why I call it the first Easter. There's a tremendous amount of interesting facts about this account, and I'm really not going to spend too terrible much time in Hebrews 11, 17. I've kind of given it to you in thumbnail sketch. You can put that on a postage stamp, frankly. But I do want us to look at Abraham's first Easter. And with that, if you have your Bible Turn to Genesis twenty-two. If you don't have one, there's one in the corner over there. Somebody can hand it. Would you like one, sir? Would you like uh uh a Bible? Can you follow uh in the in English? Would that be okay? Would you like one? Maybe okay. You can try. Well that's fair enough. Alright, well we'll have somebody pass one to you and open it to Genesis twenty-two. In the Genesis twenty-two, this is the account that we find of Abraham And I've broken it into a strange command, strange obedience, strange solution, and strange disappearance. Ah, I see I'm already getting ahead of myself. While you've turned at Genesis twenty-two, just park it there for a moment and let's hit our discussion question. Almost got ahead of myself. That's all right. So We all have very curious and unique personal possessions, right? What are some of your unique personal possessions that you really value? Health. Okay, health, yeah. But we pray about your sciatic nerve. I don't think you want to preserve that. Your sciatic nerve pain. Oh no, I wasn't talking about a concern. I was talking about a possession that you have that is unique and and treasured. Oh, yeah. For instance, I have My dad, uh I have a very old 22 rifle that was made in the previous centuries, and uh he's uh pass that on to me. It's an antique. He actually used it to hunt fur-bearing animals to sell to get his clothes for school. That's how he clothed himself for school. So that's a unique possession I have two. The first is a glass, a curved glass china closet that was an antique when my grandfather bought it and gave it to my mom as a housewarming gift in 1957. And I grew up under the threat of death if I broke that curved glass. And so I told my mom Someday I want that China closet so I can threaten my children the way you threaten me. Nice. The second one is a little piece of paper about this big That is in my bill fold at the moment, that has been in every bill fold, every wallet I've had. I ask a young girl if I can have her address and phone number so I can communicate with her And she wrote Penny Lingle, 10 Sarah Street, Middletown PA, 17057. 717-939-9437. Oh, you got a phone number out of the deal too. On this little piece of paper. And if you're interested, I can show it to you after church. It has been all over the world with me. It has been underwater multiple times by accident when I fall into the water with my billboard. It is becoming unreadable. But I know what it says. Okay, good. And so Penny gave that to me. Maybe three years before we were married when we first met. And that is very precious. One other? Yeah, Lisa. Dave, I found he had a um the old coins that his father had. Real old old coins. So it was prize to him but I gotta figure out why it couldn't be price to me Yeah yeah some of these things from antiquity can come forward and be of great value. Yeah absolutely one last one I have That uh when we first uh moved it at least that was our first house. And we were probably furniture for the I'll find out with that. Well, hopefully it makes for that. Okay, we can mark it at all. You can't come in with this you can march up. And I said, yeah, it's you So I called my husband and I said, You bring in this furniture. Did you get something? Yes, it was supposed to be a surprise. A beautiful credenza that uh dad bought mom by surprise. Right. And you can go look at it if you'd like. Well, I did a little survey of that just to kind of prompt your mind to thinking about precious things. But I would have liked to have asked the question about precious people, but then of course that would become an awkward conversation in terms of those you count the most dearest. But you can see where perhaps some of the story is going. There are some things we treasure greatly. There are some people we treasure even more. Certainly Abraham treasured Isaac greatly. Well, we're looking now at Genesis 22, and we've discovered that Abraham was a very old man when he bore Uh through his old wife, he was a hundred, or he was ninety-nine, she was eighty-nine when uh they conceived, and uh he was a hundred, and she was ninety when Isaac was born We go forward in his life a few chapters, a little trip through different parts. He lived with the Philistines for a while, and then it says in chapter 22 And verses one and two, we read this, it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham. And said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. Not unusual. Abraham was a prophet. God spoke to him on a regular basis. Not often, but far more, perhaps, than undoubtedly what you've had. And he said, take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. Very clear which son he's talking about. Not Ishmael, not the one born from the From Hagar, the bond servant woman. Take Isaac and get thee into the land of Moriah, very specific destination. and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I'll tell you of. Another journey he has to undertake. He's got to go to a certain location. Not very specific, but to the land of Moriah. Get moving. It would be a three-day journey. You know, there are several observations I have from this, just this very strange command of God, is that when we get old, our trials don't stop. Sometimes God prepares his choicest servants for the most difficult trial they will face later on through a series of incremental tests and difficulties. And Abraham has now received the doozy of his lifetime. It says, after these things. You know, all that occurred in Abram's life was preparatory. Even so All of history was preparatory for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, his ultimate work on the cross. You read about that in Galatians. It says when the fullness of time was come God sent forth his son, made of a woman, when the fullness of time was come. It took a long time before the Son came Second, in the past, you know, Abram had to part with many things in his life. He had to part with his cattle at different times. He parted with his wife. At least once by my count, I think twice, if I'm not mistaken, in a trip through Egypt, Sarah was very fair to look upon. She was a beautiful woman. He was afraid he'd get killed. He parted with her. That didn't seem to cause him too much consternation He had to part with his wells. There was some dispute about that, and he would leave. His son Ishmael he even departed with. That was a grief to him. So he has parted with things in his past, but this one is a tough call. This is a point of no return. It was his beloved. He had no hope of any more children. This would be it. And Isaac was his only beloved and only begotten son of promise. Even so was the Lord Jesus Christ. We read in the Bible that The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, speaking of Christ, and we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father. Full of grace and truth. You know, it's interesting if you use the translation other than the King James, particularly if you use the ESV, it omits practically in nearly every instance except for four places the word begotten John 3. 16, it's not there. The verse I just read in John 1, not there. The only time it uses it is in reference to an Old Testament quote in Psalm 2. 7. This day have I begotten thee. They have to fill in something for that. And so they will repeat that thrice-quoted psalm that appears in the New Testament. has begotten nowhere else. That's a problem. That is a big problem. It robs the deity of God because God has had many sons. All are adopted except for one very unique son, monogenes, meaning his only genetic offspring. Begotten is a big deal. You can't leave that out Third point I want to make about this strange command is where he's being tasked to go, to Mount Moriah. Anybody know anything about Mount Moriah? It's not common in our vernacular What do you know about Mount Moriah? Let me give you a hint. Have you heard of a fellow named Ornan? This is an obscure Old Testament character Well David had sinned by numbering Israel and God through the prophet Gad, G-A-D, came to him and said, Take your choice. Three things. You're going to be afflicted to the Lord in manner A, manner B, or manner C. I can't quote the exact three. David said, let me pick number C at the hands of the Lord, because greater his mercies. And an angel went about destroying much of Israel in Jerusalem. Lo and behold, the angel stops when it approaches Mount Moriah. And it stopped at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. And in this strange account in 1 Chronicles 21, we find that God directed David to build an altar there. And God answered David at that altar. He stopped destroying Israel and Judah when he got to Mount Morion. And it turns out that that's exactly where Solomon would build the temple and the tabernacle, the very location That Abraham is being sent to is the very place right now in Jerusalem where the Dome of the Rock sits Abraham sacrificed his son there. The temple and the sacrifices and the offerings, those ultimate signs and figures of Christ, that's where God is directing Abraham to. Very prototypical, very metaphorical, a bit of historical allegory. So that's the strangeness of this command, and then we have what I find to be some very strange obedience. Let me ask you. I'm not going to ask you which one of your children is your favorite or your nieces or nephews or which spouse was your favorite if you've had more than one. I'm not going to ask that But in your mind, if you're Abraham or Sarah, and God gives you this command, what's going through your head? What kind of a god is he? What kind of a god is this? Yeah. That would be a tough one. What else would go through your head? That's not fair. That's not fair. This is just not right. Yeah. Come on, there's got to be a lot of strange emotions that you would have. It's almost painful to try to put yourself in those shoes. Am I sure I understood correctly? Yeah, did I miss a knot somewhere in that command? Did I did I did I did I get this d did I hear you right? It's it's he ha he has to do this not quickly and get it over with. It's like something that's gonna happen in the near future, so he has to ponder on that for some time. You know, that's 72 hours he's got to think about this thing. I mean, just as a sampler of things that would be buzzing through my head if I could get past the nausea and the gut-wrenching pain If I could bring myself to even contemplate carrying this out, how can I possibly do this? Now Isaac is not young at this point, by the way. He's not a baby. And we'll see why in just a moment. He's got to, I mean, Abram's old and Isaac is young. I mean I couldn't wrestle Nate in the backyard, right? I mean this is not going to be an easy thing. How up to a mountain Stuff's gotta get up there. How am I gonna tell Sarah? How am I gonna convince her? Is she gonna leave me over this? She's gonna kill me over this. I may not make it to the top of the mountain I may be a bloody pulp in the tent. There's so many hows and whys, and yet you find an inordinately strange obedience from Abraham. Because we read now in verse 3 back in our text, and Abraham rose up early. in the morning. How many of you like getting up early in the morning? Getting up real early in the morning? Oh, you're a brave soul. So I can tell you what, if you're a laboring farmer, and you know some days are nice to sleep in Getting up early to go do something like this? I gotta get up early to go kill my most treasured, beloved, favorite family member. Yep, I'm hopping out of bed for that. Not gonna miss that. Amazing and saddled his ass, took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave the wood for the burnt offering. He actually beat up some wood for firewood, and rose up and went into the place of which God had told him. Amazing obedience. Then on the third day, Jeffrey, your point, long time to think about it. 72 hours. I mean maybe the second day he thinks na going back to have some fittles. What do you say we go fishing, son? Uh-huh. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said unto his young man, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, laid it upon Isaac his son, he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father And he said, Here am I, my son, my son. And he said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? He hadn't told Isaac yet what the game plan is. Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. And they came to the place of which God had told him of. Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order and found Isaac, his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood, and Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. You know, I have several observations from what we just read, and I'm sorry I don't have more questions, but there's so much in this passage. That you've got to understand this as a real historical event that had real metaphorical allegorical applications. It is a marvelous picture Of the sacrifice of Christ. It's an unbelievable parallel. First of all, we see Isaac being young Well, he can talk, so he's not a toddler. He can climb a mountain, so he's not a little boy. He can deduce things. Where is the lamb? So he understands sacrifices. He can think. In fact, if you bookend where we are in Abraham's life from the time that the boy has been weaned, age one to the time of the death of Sarah, he is probably somewhere between the age of fifteen and thirty-seven years of age. Somewhere in that age range. And lo and behold, the Lord Jesus was also a young individual. He was cut off at around the age of 33, somewhere in that vicinity. He likewise was a young man. Second, we see that On the third day, Abraham sees the place afar off, and that number three is significant in Scriptures. It was three years of ministry that the Lord Jesus had. Days oftentimes can be references to years or longer periods of time. Third, you know, Abraham at the end of the day did believe that God would resurrect Isaac. You know, our account in Hebrews, our passage in Hebrews uses the word accounting, accounting that God was able to raise him up. So we actually do have some biblical insight into how Abraham processed this mentally Number one, he understood God's command. Number two, he accounted, that's the word logitsemai. He logically deduced. You can kind of hear the sense of that word logic in the Greek word, logitsumai. He logically deduced. That though this boy dies, yet I also have a promise of God that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Isaac had to be the progenitor of the race of the seed of Abraham. Had to be, because God promised that. I didn't believe it. I thought Hagar would be the one and Ishmael, my descendant, to inherit that promise, and God came back and said, no. It's gonna be Sarah, thy wife, the old one, you know, the one that can have kids? Yeah, she's the one. You got another six months to go to be qualified, Mr. Ross, before you get that. Exactly right. Yeah. And furthermore, his name would be Isaac. So he knew those promises of God in the back of his head, that God meant it, that God meant Isaac would be the one. And now God's telling him to kill this boy Hmm. What proof do I have that God works with dead things? Huh? You stand in the mirror. Look at himself. Look at Sarah. There's a couple of dead people. Can God make life come out of the dead? Sure can. Seen it before So, I guess what God's going to show now is he's going to raise this boy up from the dead in order for all these promises to fit together. That's what Abraham logically deduced. That's what we find, this insight. But we also see it in our text of Genesis 22. Listen to it carefully. Notice what he said here in verse 5. Genesis 22, 5. And Abraham said unto his young men, now here he is, he's at the base of the mountain. He's got two of his servants, because it's a lot of gear. He's got to carry enough wood to burn a person. He's got to carry a knife. He's got to carry a source of fire. He didn't have zippo lighters back in that day. Abide here with the ass, with the mule And I and the lad will go yonder and worship and what? And come again to you. We will go and we will come again. So you see from that passage Abraham believed, I'm going up, but yep, I'm going to see a resurrection up there, and I'm coming back again. That was Abraham's thinking. Folks, I'm sorry, I don't have that kind of faith just yet. That's mighty tough. You know, this learning about sacrifice in the life of a Christian is a tough one to handle. Some of you are getting older. You're already beginning to involuntarily sacrifice some of your faculties, your strength Your knee, your back, your eyes, your ears, your your bladder, your fill in the blank. You know, every time you meet an old person, it's the review of the systems, right? Well, this isn't working today, and you know, all the all the ills of life. But that's common. Sacrifice for God is uncommon. Would you take that treasured little piece of paper and burn it? Would I take my father's rifle and turn it in for the cause of missions? Would I take something that I value highly Sell my credenza so that I could give it for the cause of the gospel. Because If we're not willing to do that, we don't really understand this faith of Abraham yet, and we have been called into that kind of faith. Sacrifice is a hard thing for Christians to learn. Is it not? It is. David said he would not give to the Lord that which cost him nothing. He bought the threshing floor of Oran the Jebusite. He was more than willing to give it to David. But David said, nope, I must pay you for it. I will not. sacrifice to the Lord, that which cost me nothing. Christian, it is a hard road to hoe. But don't underestimate the promises of God. You heard him right. You did hear him right And it's a strange command. Oh, bless my soul, that we may find strange obedience in it. We keep going in this incredible analogy, because all things are possible with God. Isaac carried the wood up the mountain. He laid the wood upon Isaac. Here he was going up the mountain carrying the wood on his back. You know the Lord Jesus did the same thing? In John 19, we read they took Jesus and led him away, and he, bearing his cross, went forth into a place called the place of the skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha. For a while Jesus carried that cross. Later they compelled one Simon of Cyrene to bear the cross for Christ. But Jesus in fact did bear the wood up the mountain. Fifth point in verse 6 You know, there's a lot of detail given here. Abraham claved the wood. He prepared a knife, not any knife, a sharp knife He brought fire with him, a little box of some sort, some coal, so that he could get this thing going Just as Abraham prepared the wood, the knife, and the fire, God prepared history for Jesus Christ. All of it was prepared from the dynasty of the Herods. They were Arabs, by the way. The Herods were Arabs And four Herods all had an interaction with main figures of the time that Jesus came both the Herod that killed all the infants in the seashore coastline to the Herod that finally sent Paul packing to uh Rome, uh Felix and Agrippa. Lo and behold, all of history was preparatory for Jesus. We read in Acts 2. We'll read it later today in our responsive reading, speaking of Christ. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and crucified and slain. Acts 4 says that they did whatsoever God's hand and God's counsel determined before. It was the counsel of God that Jesus Christ should come and die. It wasn't an accident. Jesus didn't play his political cards wrong. He didn't just inadvertently say the wrong thing. He always did the will of his father. He was that ultimate perfect Isaac. And speaking of Isaac and Abraham, the sixth point is that Who goes up that mountainside? Who went up? Isaac and Abraham went alone. Servants didn't go. Animal didn't go. This was a family ordeal. Only those two went. That's all. Even so, God the Father and God the Son alone were involved in the atonement. God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, we read in Corinthians. Only those two were involved Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Only we see the Father and the Son involved in redemption. There is no outside help. None. You know, frankly, verse 8. My seventh point. Abraham is rather prophetic when he says, God will provide himself a lamb. I couldn't think of a better way to phrase that. Because you have the sense that God will provide the lamb, he himself will make the provision for it. But you also find that he will provide himself. as the sacrifice. He is the one who will make that provision of himself. So he's very prophetic when he says that. We read in John 1, John the Baptist Turning to Christ says, behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. You know, look at verse 9. Notice the obedience of Isaac as well. I mean he's a young man, I'm sure at some point he's starting to figure this thing out, and then when he is bound up Father's tying him up. Father is laying him on the wood. I I I can't I struggle to understand. Mother, what would you think if Dad was told to sacrifice me on a Pile of brush out in the country. Heartbroken. Beyond imagination. It just stuns you to think I'm an only son in the house. I'm her favorite son, I might add. You know, even so Jesus willingly submitted to his father. He said in Matthew 26, nevertheless, not as I will, but thou wilt. And which brings me in referencing that prayer, I find it interesting here that you don't find Abraham or Isaac pleading with God for Isaac's deliverance. You know, Abraham doesn't know how to negotiate with God. He did it with Lot. You're going to destroy Sodom. Um, would you destroy it for the sake of 50 righteous? 45? I mean he's he negotiates with God. He got it down to ten. He figured, well, that might be the bare minimum number of Lot's Howe. I don't know why he got to ten, but he stopped there He knows how to negotiate with God. He's successfully done this in the past. And that for a you know a little bit of a stiff-necked nephew who wants to go live in Sodom. He's not pleading to God for Isaac. And yet God delivers them. And this is where we see a radical difference, a very big departure from what happened to the Lord Jesus Christ, because he pled with God the Father three times. Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. And the answer from heaven, silence. Abraham didn't plead and got a deliverance. The Lord Jesus Christ pled, got no deliverance, not proving or showing to us that Jesus was losing his mind or that he was separate from the Father. But to prove to you and I that there was no other way to pay for the sins of God's people. There was no other way No other way. Jesus is the only way. Muhammad can't cut it. Buddha won't cut it The high priests of academia in the halls of evolutionary thinking can't cut it. They're not acceptable. They're defiled. You can't cut it as hard as you may try. There is no other way. The only way was through the God man. And God made that abundantly clear through that prayer. You know, we also find in our account a very strange solution. He goes all the way up this hill, and we've seen the significance of that hill. That would be the A very long prototype working to show this is the mount of God where sacrifices are accepted. But we have a very strange solution. Let's consider that for a moment in verses 11 to 14 of Genesis 22, because the rest of the account is spectacular. And the angel of the Lord called out unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. Now he uses his name twice. God used it once the first time. Now it's twice. Often an endearing term. The Lord turned to the woman and said, Martha, Martha. When he speaks twice, it's a a comforting call. Encouraging statement. And he, Abraham, said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad. Neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God. You're a God-fearing man. Seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me Christian mothers, are you willing to withhold your son from the Lord? Oh, don't let him go into ministry. He needs to be successful. He needs to have You know, a vibrant career. Don't let him go on the missions. How we withhold our children from the very best. Verse 13, and Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram. Caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering instead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jirah, as it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. You know, observe God's intervention. There is no detail in the scriptures, folks, that is incidental or accidental. All little details are important. First of all, it was a ram. That means it was a male sheep. Second, it was A ram with horns. It was a mature male sheep. Third, it was caught in a thicket. How? By his horns. Tell me something about horns. Are they soft? Tell me something about a ram's horns. I know you probably haven't handled one of late, but what do you think, Nate? A ram's horns. They're pretty strong, they're maybe kind of hard, and the thicket would get curled up in it, and it wouldn't tear the horn. Because he was caught by his horns, he wasn't caught in his flesh, which means there was no blemish in him. He was an untorn animal, therefore he would be a suitable sacrifice. Had he been torn, it would not have been acceptable. God provided Abraham an acceptable sacrifice. Isn't that amazing? I think it's fascinating. We read about that clean and unblemished sacrifice. If you wish to look it up, the references are there. Exodus 22, 31 and Leviticus 17, 15. But in the crucifixion, the thorns did pierce. In the crucifixion, the thorns were indeed caught around the head of the Lord Jesus. As it were, he was caught by his horns. You know, we also find um that uh Jesus was that precious blood of Christ. He was a lamb without blemish and without spot. He asked, you know, for what good deed do you do this to me? Not for a good deed, but because you, for blasphemy, because you said you are the Son of God. Well, it wasn't blasphemy, it was a true state of us, and they didn't receive it, they weren't willing to receive it because they were blind You know, God's salvation is only seen in the Mount of the Lord. How many of you felt like, boy, it's a mighty long way to church today? It's just such a long way to church today. Oh, it's so far It's almost like climbing a mountain. But this is where God's salvation program is seen. In the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. Salvation is seen at the end of a long, hard journey. Not an easy one. It's in the not in the valley. It's in the mount of the Lord. That's where an only begotten son is sacrificed for sin, and that's the only place you'll hear about an only begotten son sacrificed for sin. He is our Jehovah Jirah. Next, Isaac's relief from the altar depicts the resurrection of Christ. The fact that the lamb was slain and Isaac steps off of that alive is a foreshadow. That yes, he was to be slain. And in fact, it didn't spare the Lord Jesus. And so Isaac is a picture of that as best as you can. If you were to depict this um the resurrection in a movie play or in a theater, you do the same thing. You take the actor, you show all the elements going forward to kill, and then Maybe the actor would feign to be dead, he'd be squirreled away in another part of the stage, and then later shown to be resurrected. That's how any screenplay would illustrate it. That's what God's doing here. He's giving you a screenplay of how The crucifixion and the resurrection of Jesus would happen. And last, Abraham surely rejoiced to see God's Messiah. When he says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day and he was glad. Oh yeah This is where he rejoiced. He rejoiced to see there would be a sacrifice to come, a Messiah to come. Oh, glorious. His son was spared, but God would not spare his son. You know, the last here is kind of a bonus track for you, because while we're at this account, look at me at the text again with me in Genesis 22 and verse 9. Because you read, they came to the place, dot, dot, dot, and he bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood If you have an electronic Bible, you can look for that word Isaac and you can search for it to see when is the next time we find Isaac on the scene of any biblical historical account. And you know what? Not here, not in Genesis 22, because after the event we find that Verse 19, so Abraham returned unto his young man, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba, and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba. It doesn't say Abraham and Isaac, it just says Abraham returned. Where is Isaac? You don't you don't read about Isaac. Now we would presume he did go down, but in fact, Holy Writ chooses not to mention his name until you get to the twenty-fourth chapter, and you can skip ahead a page to Genesis 24, 62. Because in Genesis 24, 62, the next time Isaac appears on the scene is when he meets his bride. In Genesis 24, 62, you have Isaac meditating in the field. He's in the South Country. And then verse 64, Rebecca lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. She said unto the servant, here's the unnamed servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my master. Therefore she took a veil and covered herself. And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done. And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent and took Rebekah, and she became his wife. The next time we read about Isaac is when he takes his bride. Even so, the next time we see the Lord Jesus is when he returns again. to bring us, his bride, home into his heavenly house. Isn't that glorious? I think it's more glorious. So this is Abraham's life And we find a picture of Jesus' ministry 2,000 years before the Messiah, and why I call that the first Easter. The Messiah who left heaven, his country, sojourned in this sin-cursed world with a faithful few. After a long season, Jesus is born. He sacrificed on Calvary, he rises from the dead, and he'll be next seen when united with his bride, selected in advance by this unnamed servant known as the Holy Spirit in Scripture. What an amazing historical parable. We close with that. Pastor, would you close it? Gracious Father, we do thank you for The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. Isaac's blood shed could not provide remission. And so a lamb was as a ram was a substitute for Isaac. Only the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And Father, we thank you that you did not provide a substitute for your son, but rather your son was the substitute for me. And that your son Jesus Christ shed his own blood there on the cross that we might be saved. And you confirmed the acceptance of the sacrifice by raising Christ from the dead. We celebrate that this morning, the resurrection. And thank you, Father, for these glorious foreshadowings, glorious pictures, glorious prototypes that we have in the Old Testament. confirmed in the new. Bless your truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.