Continuing our study in Hebrews 6. And I'd like you to open up your bulletin, follow on the inside, or turn in your Bible to Hebrews 6. We're going to look at 13 through 15, I'm going to start actually in verse 12 of Hebrews 6. I'm going to read that, and then I'm going to get into our discussion questions so that we can have the scriptural context in front of us before we get into the discussion question Need to switch that order a bit. Hebrews 6, beginning in verse 12, hear now the word of the Lord. That you be not scothful, but followers of them Followers of them. The word follow means to mimic or to imitate. It's the Greek word mimites. It means mimic. We brought it over from the Greeks. Follower, mimic them, who through faith and patience inherit The promises. Now here's our passages for today. For when God made promise to Abraham. Watch what we're going to survey Because he could swear by no greater. He swear by himself, saying, Surely blessing, I will bless thee, and multiplying, I will multiply thee. This is a specific promise. And so, after he that is Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. Thus ends the reading of the word Discussion question. This may seem totally tangential, but my aim is sure. I'm sure you got it by email. I hope you got it by email. Apart from salvation. What are the top three blessings of the Lord in your life? The top three blessings in your life. We have one online listener, Patty, respond. She said, great question. Thank you, Patty. Love you for that. I appreciate Kudos for good questions. God is in control of all things. I am most thankful for my daily needs. running water, shelter, heat, AC, well that's true in this area, plenty of nutritious food and a pretty healthy body. I am thankful for the fact I can take care of myself. Boil down to three Daily needs, healthy body, and my pets and other loving, caring creatures. Friends in church, family, lives, encourage me in the Lord, because I see answers to prayer and I know they're praying for me. So that was her and that she gave a little poem from the Johnny Apple Seed But shall give it to you. What are the apart from salvation, what are the top three things that you're the most thankful for? He wants to start. I'm gonna go around the room and ask everybody so you're not getting out of the Penny is absolutely number one. Yep. And then third would be a tie in so many directions. Mm-hmm. That's um it's not worth trying to enumerate all. Yeah. Okay, somebody else, thank you. I just wanna hit the top three for Carol Definitely my husband and my marriage. Husband and marriage, yep. Um family and health. Family and health, yeah. All right, those are good ones. Penny. Pretty much just my family Ministry and extended Christian family, church, good ones, yep, all good. Probably um being raised in a godly family. Okay. With godly parents. All right. Godly family, godly parents, all right. Anybody else? Lisa? I agree with what everybody said with their spouse, their family, their health. And also, I would like to say with my choice of employment 'cause I could have gone a different way. I think God can see what was best for me. I really wanted to join the police force. I'm thankful that I didn't and that I have a job that I've been on since ninety eight. So I have options. And I chose you know with thought with that with what I picked. Yeah. Certainly having a good job is uh something to be thankful. Who's thought about top three things. Everybody said that we've said You don't have a job right now, you're retired. I guess you could be thankful for a good retirement Yes, good retirement. Good retirement. Good family, okay. Good family. Yeah, what what's unique to you that you particularly like that uh maybe others don't have? Um I don't know, I have uh You have many blessings. Yeah. Um I should say to the Gods for uh getting the opportunity to return to the university because that's the end of cultural revolution uh in China many years ago. At that time all the schools were older to close for as long as ten years. So we had to work um in the countryside. I myself worked on a farm for eight years before I got the news that university open and they're going to uh have uh national uh exam for uh remission, something like that. Okay, partly the ratio of um going back to high school uh higher education uh most like the university is the four percent nationwide. So that is a good one. The ability to be able to get higher education. Okay. Yeah. formal classmates, they di they lost the opportunity to uh get the high education again so they have to work in the factory like workers. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Uh Girble? Just yeah, two other blessed things I can think of is an outstanding job and being homeschooled. Yes. Outstanding job being home school. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good kudo when your employer's here. Uh Mrs. Ross Mine are a little bit longer. Okay. Uh the first one is uh my mother was a paranoid schizophrenic. And at my age of ten, sh she decides she didn't like me. True. And so she didn't like me all the time until she was in her late seventies And then she forgot that she didn't like me. And so that was a wonderful blessing. Because then I could help her I could uh do things for her in her old age. Uh my second blessing would be uh my first husband uh was a lovely man he was awfully dishonest. And so I kept him out of jail for two and a half years. And then I decided well maybe there was more to life than this So I walked the streets for two or three weeks. Uh not a street walker. We understand Mr. Jess. You're in good company here. The microphone's hot, you got that recorded? for uh from dusk to d to dawn. I was out all night for two or three weeks and he told me that uh finally at the end of that time that he uh did not want me to stay with Dick And so I got a divorce, four months later, met Denny, and two months after that, married him, and that's my second blessing Sorry, my mouth is dry. And then my third blessing is our sons, who are both in the genius range. Uh they're good fathers, they're successful husbands. Uh they're uh very religious, they're they're good Christians. And so that's my third. Yes, excellent. Well very good. I appreciate No, I think that despite the difficulties I made it through with my education and then did it on my own. Yes. Has left that, of course. Yeah. That was particularly difficult because she has a master from Hopkins in a time when she did not have a lot of support to get through that, so that certainly is a you you've all really hit the nail on the head here and I and uh it it's gonna help us, I believe start to embrace a passage that perhaps is maybe overly familiar for those of you who know scriptures and the story of Abraham. Our text mentions Abraham because it opens in verse 13 for when God made promise to Abraham. We're going to go look at exactly what that passage was here in a moment But the exhortation from Hebrews 6 here is that we are to consider Abraham as an example. It tells us to be followers of them who through faith and patience, long-suffering, I like that old English word long-suffering, although that's not the word used here. That God made a promise to Abraham. Now God made many promises, plural to Abraham, but he's focusing on one in particular. One in particular, when it says, because he could swear by no greater, because God could not swear by no greater, he swear by himself. And then it says in verse 15, so after he had patiently endured, and as I read that, I had to ask the question, well patiently endured what? Good question. Walking around the land of Canaan for a lifetime. Because it does say he received the the promise. Take you all and give you It does say he received the promise, but we know he didn't receive the land promises while he was yet alive. So he did receive a promise of God. But it says he had to endure something patiently to get to it. And what was that? And that's what piqued my interest as I went through this. So walk with me now. We're going to turn back the pages of time, back through the millennia, 2000. 4,000. Many, many, many, many years ago. Roughly 2000 BC is about, I believe, when we had Abraham appear on the scene. We are way before telephones and electricity, which you should know. Nothing moved faster than three miles an hour in their day. There was not a large population on the planet. To a high degree, it was very sparse. Fences were Not considered. Walls and walled cities would be a superpower if you had a walled city. And that was rare even at that time. Freedom and travel, there was no world superpower really. Even Egypt was not the Egypt that Joseph helped develop Because that consolidated a lot of the fiefdoms. Egypt was really more little chieftains and little tribal areas, each of whom had measures of success based on the Nile. So we're going way back in time Freedom of transportation was no big deal. Language barrier was not that big of a deal. Abram could freely speak with the Canaanites and the Egyptians. There was no difficulty of language and communication. The divisions were not as prominent. This is a very different time. There was no 401k plan. There was no bank. There was no the universal currency would have been Sheep, cows, cattle, camels, or gold and silver. Those would be the means by which you could get along. The needs were common And the struggles and trials of life also very common. What is it that Abram patiently endured and received. So we're gonna walk our way through that. Alright? That's what we're gonna do. Turn your Bible to Genesis chapter 12 where we read at the start of of Abram. Now if you have your bulletin you can open it up on the inside. I made a printout But it might be helpful if you like to kind of look at your Bible later and think about it and maybe make some notes along the way. You can do that. But either way works. I'm going to read the first three verses and make some comments. Genesis 12, verse 1. Now the Lord had said unto Abram. We've 11th chapter describes his parentage, his lineage. Lord said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. Now that's not a promise, that's just a command. God tells him, Get out. Don't like where you're at. Use from Ur of the Chaldees. That would be in the area of modern day Iraq. And I will make of thee a great nation. This is a promise. And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. When it says I'll make of thee a great nation, there's an implication there. You're going to have children because they're going to grow up and become a nation. Your descendants are going to be a nation. He keeps going. Thou shalt be a blessing. I will bless them that bless thee. And curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. There's a lot of theology there, but I'm just going to move on. So let's stop and think about what God has said here. He's told him to get out of his country. Would that be a struggle? Yes. Would that be tough? Yes. In that day? Mom, was it easy leaving all your brothers and your family behind? No, it's not. This is especially in those days Can you imagine the exclamation to the wife? Hey Sarah, we're going to go on a trip. Yeah, where are we going? Uh I don't know, but God spoke to me. Okay, what'd he tell you? We're supposed to leave. Got it? Going where? Don't know How am I supposed to pack? What are we supposed to take? Are you sure you heard the Lord in one of those burritos we had last night? What's up with this? So Sarah had a life of faith as well. She had to believe and obey what her husband told her. We keep going, verse 4. Genesis 12. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. This was his brother's son. And Abram was 75 years old when he departed out of Haran. And Abram passed through unto the land, unto the place of Sikom. Verse 7. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. A reiteration of the promise. Verse uh uh ten. So now after sojourning in Sikh for a while it said there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down into Egypt. Alright, so we find here that Abram was 75 years old when he leaves, and let's keep going. Genesis 13, verse 1. So after he'd been in Egypt for a while, we read Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him into the south. And Abram was very rich in cattle and silver and in gold. Now stop and think about it The journey started off a little rough. Well, I've got to leave everything. But the trip through Egypt wasn't bad. We know later that he picked up some a fellow named Eliezer of Damascus, who was the steward over his house. We know later when he goes to battle with the kings that had conquered the king of Sodom and Gomorrah and took away Lot, that he brought 318 servants, trained servants, who were born in his house. Can you imagine having servants, household servants, through your trip of Egypt and everywhere else that you picked up, you gained all these servants. He was rich in camel, rich in cattle, rich in gold He's a wealthy man. He has a small personal army. He's got his own militia. Abram's big stuff. This thing of following the Lord is panning out pretty good. It wasn't a bad stint through Egypt. He picked up a lot. And then we continue. Verse 14, God's going to remind him of something, lest he get puffed up and think that the things of this world is what it's all about. Genesis 13, 14 And the Lord said unto Abram after that lot was separated from him, lift up now thine eyes and look from the place where thou art, north, northward, southward, eastward, and westward For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever. Notice that seed business. And I will make thy seed as the best of the earth. So that if a man can number the dust of the earth, so shall thy seed also be numbered. Alright, let's think about this. If you were Abram, what would you be thinking as God gave you that promise? How is this possible? How is this possible? Can't convert silver and gold into children. If I could, I'd purchase a few more sons. They're not a bad deal. You can't convert camel and goats into dust of the earth that becomes a great nation How is this possible? And God comes to him and says, he doesn't even mention all the wealth that Abram's got. That's not even Mentioned of God, he just says, I'm gonna make thy scene great. He's gotta have children. But he doesn't have any. And he doesn't have any. And he was seventy five years old when he left and he hadn't been getting any younger as the journey is going on. We keep going into life of Abram. Verse 15, chapter 15 after We read Genesis 15 and verse 1. It says, After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram. Well, the these things is the battle I mentioned earlier as He goes and rescues Lot from being captured out of Sodom and Gomorrah. He rescues them. After these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield. And by exceeding great reward. And then we go to verse 4, as he asked the question, well, how is this going to be? You've given me no heir. A steward of my house is the one who is my heir. He says, This shall not be thine heir, verse 4, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. God's getting specific I'm not kidding. I'm not talking about a metaphysical family. Someone from your own bowel shall be thine heir. And I go to verse 18. He reiterates it again in verse 18. In the same day The Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land. There's a repetition of the seed to come. He keeps hitting this point. This is what God keeps telling him about. And yet it didn't show up. First um uh uh uh then we get uh I have a note to it's the first five. And he brought him forth abroad. Is that uh I have a bum reference here, Jen. I think we're still in Genesis fifteen. Where does it say? Scan down and tell me where it says, and he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, so shall thy seed be. Is that uh sixteen or seventeen of the fifteen-five. Fifteen five. Oh, I was uh uh I'm skipping around a bit too much So he tells him again, you're going to have a lot of seed. There's going to be as number numerous as the stars. And in verse 18 again he repeats the same day, he says, Unto the seed have I given this land I've got a cut and paste error in there, sorry for yanking you around a bit. Again, God reiterating, unto thy seed, unto thy seed, unto thy seed. The land is almost a recipient for the seed. The only reason for the land is that the seed is going to need place to live. Alright, now we go to Genesis 16 and verse 1. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bare him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now The Lord hath restrained me from bearing. I pray thee go in unto my maid, it may be, that I may obtain children by her. Sarah's thinking, too. And she's figuring out this isn't going to work. And we read in verse 16, and Abram was fourscore and six years old. He's 86 years old when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram. So just as Lisa pointed out, Abram's beginning to wonder, here's a promise of the seed. Don't see any seed forthcoming Looks at Agar, not likely. Looks at himself, not happening. And so she puts two and two together and says, we will make this work. You're going to have to go to my handmaid. I will give her to you. Perhaps we will have children by those means. And thus came forth Ishmael when Abram was eighty six years old. Ah! Now he has a child We got this program going now. The same thing happened with uh Eve. What was the Eve's? Right. We got this program going here. All right Now we go to Genesis 17 and verse 1. And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, so now he's ninety-nine. This is some thirteen years later, folks. That's a long time That's a long time. The Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. Be mature. Be complete. I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly as for me, behold, my covenant is with thee. And thou shalt be a father of many nations, neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham Because it means, for a father of many nations, that's what Abraham means. Father of many nations have I made thee. Not just your seed is going to be a great nation, going to be a father of many nations, plural Have I made thee? Verse 6, and I will make thee exceeding fruitful. In other words, this is going to be hyperabundant. God just multiplies the promise. And verse 8, I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee all of the land of Canaan. Alright, let's stop and think about this for a moment. Ishmael's 13, Abram's 99 God reiterates the promise. You're going to be a father of many nations. You know, my dear patriarch. And and brother and and Father in the Lord, Brother Burning, was an excellent uh fellow with uh uh for advertising for automobile dealerships. And uh one of the things he had a great knack at condensing sayings and used to say, my dog needs meat, not promises And perhaps we, like Abram at this point, are thinking, I hear all these promises, but here's the right now, and I'm not seeing it. I'm not seeing it. I'm just not seeing it. Alright, we keep going Genesis 17, 19. And God said, Sarah, thy wife, shall bear thee a son indeed. And thou shalt call his name Isaac, which means laughter, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. Now God is being even more specific. Many nations to thy seed, to abundant, to Pharaoh, thy wife, to thy loins And she will bear a son. God keeps getting very specific. In the face of all odds, All the doctors, all the old wives' tales, all the witch doctors or whatever you want to call all of Egypt Egypt's magicians would all say, no, she's beyond the age of childbearing. There's nothing possible here. What are you talking about? You've been eating the loco wheat again? This is not going to happen The world around them would say this is impossible. God said, no, your wife will bear thee a son. We continue reading. Genesis 21. And the Lord visited Sarah, as he had said. Genesis 21, 5. And Abram was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born unto him. Can you imagine, Mrs. Ross? I mean you you know what going through childbirth was like as a young woman All right. Now you're still too young for this to happen. But can you imagine hitting the ripe age in your nineties? And bearing a child. That would be mighty rough. And yet it happened. And we read in verse 11: Sarah said unto Abram, as the Ishmael was mocking uh Isaac, cast out the bondwoman and her son, for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son. Let's pause for a moment here. Let me ask a discussion question here. And we're almost to the finish line. I want you to describe to me Abram's life experiences as a Christian up to this point. How's it going? Very well. He's getting everything that he wants except the sun. Well, he's got Isaac now. Okay? Anyone else? How's it going for his life as a Christian? Lots of promises and little fulfillment. A lot of promise, little fulfillment. Okay, yeah, what else? Henry, you're scratching your head. Jeff, patience. Yeah. Boy you see a lot of that. That's what I said, why have God takes too long to answer the question? Yeah. Why is he taking so long? You know and nothing in the scriptures incidental or accidental. God tells us how old Abram was when he was called out of Ur of the Chaldees, 75 years old. How old he was when he had Ishmael, 86 years old. How old he was when he had Isaac, 100 years old. So that you and I can relate to those ages and understand, oh my. Yeah, I was gonna say he uh it it seems like through every uh portion of his life he there's always a trial. Always a trial that comes along that he has to base and whatnot. There had been a trial at every portion of his life, and what was the result of each of those trials? Good or bad, you don't have to be too profound. Yeah, well it definitely helped him uh build his patience. Helped him build his patience. Yeah, yeah, it seems that Sarah wasn't too patient. Alright, now we get to Genesis twenty-two And uh what's interesting is that Hebrews 6. 12 said, we inherit the promises plural, and God had given, as Pastor pointed out, many promises plural to Abram, a land, many nations, and so on. But the only promise that was fulfilled so far was what? The sun. The sun. Isaac. That was the only thing God had promised, and in fact gave to him. You could say was a tremendous gift of God. It says there was a great celebration. Abram held a great feast, and when Abram held a feast, I'm sure he fed everybody, and he had at least 318 servants in his house. Probably more at that point. He made a great feast when Isaac was weaned. He was ecstatic with Isaac. Here is God's promised descendant. to me. And then we get to Genesis 22 because we haven't got to the promise yet that Hebrews is talking about. We read in verse 1 of Genesis 22. And it came to pass after these things That God did tempt Abram. Now, when that word tempt is used, it does not mean tempting to sin. It means a test or a trial. And said unto him, Abram, Abraham, excuse me, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he that is God said, Take now, and listen to this language carefully, take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get thee into the land of Moriah. And offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of. Let's pause and think about that command of God for a moment. You're Abraham. How are you processing this? So you gave me one and you want to take it. You gave me one now you want to take it. Yeah. What else goes through that mind? This makes no sense. Thank you for that. That's excellent. Makes no sense. What are other people gonna say when they hear about this? What are other people gonna say when they hear this How will the promise be fulfilled? How will the promise be fulfilled? Yeah. Millions of easy questions. And you know the beauty I like about the Word of God? is if this book were translated into Chinese, I dare say those very same thoughts would come into the mind of Li Ying's relatives and friends and family as they read this account, because this is such a universal thing You have a promise for a child. And indeed, there are plenty of couples who would like to have children but cannot. And there are those that have just one, and it's a very precious child. And so this is a trial that is universal. And you can begin to sense the drama and the tension going on. Let's keep going. Because thankfully we know the end of it. If we skip ahead to verse twelve, Abram did exactly as he was commanded, and he Isaac and the wood and the dagger and the coals all the way went up to the mountain. He had raised the knife, ready to kill the boy, and we read in verse 12, he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad. Neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. Verse 15. Called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time and said, Now here's the promise that we read about in Hebrews. By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord. For because thou hast done this, this thing, and listen to this language, and hast not withheld thine son, thy son, thine only son, that In blessing, I will bless thee, and in multiplying, I will multiply thy seed, as the stars of heaven, as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies. And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed because thou hast obeyed my voice. What strikes me here is that God has given Abram just a foretaste Of a promise, of a fulfillment of the promises to come. And then God says, I want to now take that away from you. And what is your reaction? What did the devil say to the Lord as he pointed out Job? Of course he serves you. Take away all the stuff. He'll curse you to your face Are you a fair weather Christian? Brother Mahan one time talked about those who were saved in the storm and lost in the calm. It could be the other way around, too. Saved in the calm when everything was easy, but as the time went on and the waters got more difficult. And it didn't make sense what God is doing. Lord, this makes completely zero sense. I thought I was on your team. I thought you were on my side. Why are things going sideways? That is the test. Do you believe God in the face of all the impossibilities he had Pretty much done something that few would ever do up to that point. Leave your country, leave your kindred. This is don't you know this is how the world operates? You you stay in the land with your kin and we kind of grow and we're kind of a little tribe or a little family. You're a patriarch. You have some respect and honor and you're leaving that? He was already swimming upstream. He was against the tide And he's putting all the chips, to use a gambling term, on God's promises. And God gives it to him and yanks it away. And then because Abram did what God said, gives it back. That's what I want to walk us through. What thing do you have in your life that's very precious to you? That if God were to take away, and let me change the question, when God takes it away, What will you do? The stock market tanks. Your retirement's in the toilet. Do you still believe the promises of God? One thing I'm grateful for is that I didn't blow my mind away in college. I'm thankful for that. I still have a brain. Thankful for a good family. What happens when God takes the family away? Car wrecks happen all the time Some days I wonder, I leave this house, I come back, am I going to see a smoldering pile? That happened to me and my family on vacation one time. We came back from a long trip to California, we looked across the street, the house just in the corner, diagonal from us, was burnt down. We didn't notice it. We came back as our eyes are focused on our house. But as we're unpacking, we look across the street, wow, that house burned down. Are you still going to believe God? What do you hold and cherish so great in this life, yea, even if it's something that God gave you, and you say, what a blessing of the Lord. And when he takes that away, because I'm convinced it's not an if, I gave three things, you might as well set your mind right now to thinking. One of those will be removed from you. Will you still believe God? Are you still going to hang on to those promises? It's hard. Yes, it's very hard. But the stakes are high. God will not have Mambi Pambi followers. You've got to be all in, or you're none in. When God removes it from you. Ministry? He wouldn't do that. Yes, he will. We've seen that. The thing you love, God will explode it in a million pieces. Oh, you think you're going to serve me? Sure, I'll show you what this looks like. I'll send the devil your way. Let me show you what a church shipwreck looks like. And you feel like I'm not going to church again, I don't want to evangelize again, forget Bible study again, this ain't worth it I've had those thoughts. Throw in the towel. Not yet. Not yet. When God removes one of those things, will you serve him? Well We find now as a commentary, Romans chapter 4, verse 16 to 22, this. Romans 4:16, the Apostle Paul tells us this. Therefore, it is the faith That it might be by grace, to the end, the promise might be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law. But to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is written, I've made thee a father of many nations. Before him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead and calleth those things which be not as though they were, who against hope believed in hope And calleth those things which be not as though they were. Who against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken. So shall thy seed be And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God and being fully persuaded what he had promised. He was also able to perform. And therefore it was imputed unto him for righteousness. So when we're talking about believing God, Do you believe him in the face when everything around you says this is going wrong? Everything The business is collapsing. The health is collapsing. The family is falling apart. My mind is shot. I can't even remember things, or you name it. When everything is going sideways, do you still believe God? And I say to you, God will say, surely blessing, surely blessing. I will bless thee. He gives them a token. God didn't kill his son. It seemed like it was gone, right? Sure seemed like it. So my observations are this. Abram received many promises of the Lord over his life, usually an amplification of what he had already heard. And likewise, God's promises to us do grow over time. The more you learn about scriptures, the more you realize, well, I have this to look forward to as well. Very similar in the life of the Christian. Number two, Abraham experienced very common trials, famine, war. Family battles, the business with casting out the bondwoman, these were common in Abram's life, just as they are in ours. The Lord saw him through them all, and so will we, but These are not the trials that are in view in Hebrews 6. These things are common. And verse, or my third point, excuse me. Abram's real test of faith was when a God ordained and presently realized promise Namely Isaac was laid on the altar, the sacrifice. And so I conclude that it's not about the gifts, it's about the giver. It's about the one who's able. James tells us, blessed is the man that endureth temptation For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Why did Judas hang himself? He wasn't after the Lord. He was after a position, a paid position, a wealthy position. Why did others throw in the towel? Because this is not what they were looking for. Esau, what does this birthright have to do for me? Give me that pot of lentils. God is sifting. He is sifting. And sometimes that sift is mighty strong. You are a Christian You've been fighting against the world, the flesh, and the devil for a while. Maybe some twenty-four years like Abraham. God has blessed you along the way and what will you do when God places the most treasured blessing you've received on the altar of sacrifice at the risk of total loss? Will you then obey the clear commands of God? Or will you fight to keep what he's given you thus far? And so that is our consideration of Abraham. Let's close there. Shall we pray? Father in heaven. Lord God. We read these things and A touch of trembling comes upon us, Lord, not our children. Lord, not the very most precious things in our lives. O Lord, have mercy upon thy people. Remember our frame that we're frail but of dust. And yet, thou art God, strengthen our faith even at those very hours and trying times. In Jesus' name. Amen.