Our text today comes to us from the 11th chapter of Hebrews. We're walking through this hall of faith and we're getting to a very famous character, Abram. And you know, just when you think you've looked at somebody long enough in the scriptures of, yeah, I understand who this person is, I know what's going on, you always gleam something new. So I hope to share that with you today But I'm going to read the passage and then get into our discussion question. Hebrews 11, and we're reading beginning in verse 8. Here know the word of the Lord. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance Obeyed, and he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise. As in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For He looked for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. Very famous text of scripture, and we're going to try to get into it some today. First of all, our discussion question. I trust you all God. Think about the various promises of God. If you ask somebody name ten commandments of God, they probably would name a few. If you ask them to name ten promises of God, hint, hint, there's more They would struggle to name one or two. So think about the promises of God. Which ones are your favorites? Anybody? What are your favorite promises? I have only one. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Yes, that's one that often comes to mind, and we will get to that one later in Hebrews 13. That's a great promise. I'll never leave you nor forsake you. What are your other favorite promises of God? uh what do you call it for him about his uh future that he would be uh From his seed. The promises to Abraham and the future and of his seed. Okay. Anybody else? One in uh Psalms which says, No good thing w will he withhold from them that part uprightly. I think that's one of the favorite ones No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. Yeah, that is a promise, even though it doesn't come with a big label, hey, I'm telling you a promise. Absolutely. He will subdue our iniquities is the one that has meant the most to me because you know no matter how hard we try, we cannot. But he will subdue our iniquities. Hmm. Yeah, that's a uh that is a good promise. Masaba, you have any favorites You have many. I'll take one. Well, which are the greatest promises to you personally? You've given me some of those. Are there any promises which seem a bit hard to embrace over time. So this is maybe not your favorite, but some other promises of God that maybe weren't your favorite because perhaps they were a bit hard to embrace over time. I think the obvious one is all things work together for good because the good isn't often isn't always our will, our way. And we we don't particularly like our circumstances, but God has promised yes, this too will work. Yeah, that's very insightful. That that is a one that is difficult, particularly when a difficult situation is coming upon you Your first reaction, I know mine isn't, and I suspect I'm not alone, is glory, hallelujah. I'm about to lose, fill in the blank, or you know. That big three-letter word, why. Yeah, always seems to come up. Why? Yeah. Uh there's one in Matthew who says, Um if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. I think that one is Maybe not so hard to believe if we just understood it better, but it it does seem it is hard to get your arms around what is it actually talking about there That's another good thoughtful one as well, these promises of prayer, that uh it almost seems like you can name it and claim it, but we've all had the experience that that doesn't always seem to be the case Anybody else have any promises that seem to be hard to embrace over time? All right. Well, maybe by the time we get through this a little bit more, you might think of some others. So in your bulletin in the middle, I provided you a map of Abram's journey And you'll see that he uh I I think I have it in the uh I don't know if I put it in the PowerPoint slides or not, Victoria, but that's okay if I didn't because uh yeah I messed up and didn't put it in there Well basically we know that he left Ur of the Chaldees, and Chaldee or Chaldean is the land that eventually would become the Babylonian Empire, and that was over all the way at the top of the Persian Gulf on the back side of the Arabian Desert. And then he had to go up To Haran, where the scriptures records he went up to Haran. Basically, he walked up the Euphrates River, that that valley there And then he came down to the land of Canaan and of course wandered around in there. I say that because there is a city in Syria, or A Syria, what used to be Assyria, called Ur. That's not the same birthplace of Abram. Uh they probably picked up that name, but that's not actually where Abram came from. It's early the Chaldees, and the Chaldeans were not uh in that area. The Babylonians were, but not the Chaldeans And well anyway, let's look a little bit now. And what I'm going to have you do is turn in your Bible to Genesis 11. I didn't spell it out for you in the Handout because I'd like you to see it in your scriptures. You'll see in Genesis chapter 11 we find Abram's heritage as this. Hear now the word of the Lord again. Now these are the generations, the Toledoth, the history of Tirah. Tirah Begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. So these are the three sons that are listed of Tirah. And Haran begat Lot. So Lot's father's name was Haran. And then lo and behold, we have a tragedy here. And Haran died before his father Tirah in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees Now, we're going to get into the rest of the story. You know about the call to Abram and the relocation that God requested of him. So I have another question for you. So here's the heritage, here's the family history, here's the people that are there. And they're going to get a call to relocate. And I want to ask you a question, have you ever relocated and left family behind I'm not talking about, you know, husband, wife, or whatever. Have you ever relocated? What was that like? Scary. Okay, scary I left Maryland, I went to California, moved up there and stayed there for three years. It was it was kind of daunting because I had Well, my brother was there. I had a brother there but still my core family was back home. She dropped us. I did. Yeah. I was young Yeah, very young, left for California. I was young, left for California. I've relocated uh in a bigly way to two different states and my experience has been it takes about two years to kind of get re-established to to the norm Even though maybe you know you need to turn to a certain radio station to pick up on traffic. If you don't know where Van Gleve Road is, it's not doing you any good. Is it a road I care about or not? And is there something I can do about it or not Penny and I left home, family, country, culture with four suitcases. What are the struggles involved in all that? Couldn't understand a word that was being said. Um didn't we did not know we knew the mission was in Grange Hill But we did not know where. So we got a taxi driver and told him if you can take us to Greenfield and just start driving around. We know the area is called Crowder. I think If you get us in the crowd or we will recognize where we are. And told him what church. He said, Yeah, I think I know where that is. But that's right to it. Hmm. So he became a good friend by the way. We use that used that same taxi driver for sixteen years. That's great. That's great, yeah. So you've really had you you've really brought, I think, to light more to this than I would have recognized. You know, Lisa and I relocated from a state to a state. We're kind of still in the U. S. They still take our currency, they still speak our language, they more or less still eat the same food. Did you ever have a fish taco in California? Those are good. The chicken is good. The chicken is good, yes. I'll give them that. But they don't have crabs, so so it's very difficult. Now, back in Abram's day, which by the way, this is around the year 2000 BC. And I don't think it's a stretch for me to say that that's before cell phone, before telegrams, before uh postal service, before 401k plans, before portable money. When you pick up and leave family back in that day, that could almost be considered a death sentence, really. You you may relocate and never be heard from again. The same is true for some of the early colonists in America, some almost four thousand years later in the 1700s, in the sixteen hundreds, some of the early inhabitants of Jamestown, I believe, came and were dropped off and there was insufficient food and they went and left to go bring back and they came back and the 20, 30, 70, don't quote me, but there was less than 100 left behind which disappeared from the face of the earth. They have no idea what happened to them. Legends of Indians having blue eyes, Indians don't have blue eyes. They would have uh intermarried some of the remaining settlers and they would have gone to them for survival because there was nothing else It would be very, very difficult. This was a non-trivial thing. It has some very real risks to it. Well, furthermore, we observe that when Abram was in the land of his nativity and Ur of the Chaldees, they had a certain habit. One of the habits that that family had was they were idol worshipers. Did you know that? Abraham, known as Abram, started off as an idol worshiper. He was worshiping idols. Hint, idol worship is not seen favorably by God. We know about that because Joshua tells us about it, and Joshua would have gotten it Moses from Moses. Moses would have gotten it from Abram himself. And we read in Joshua 24, 2, and Joshua said unto all the people, not Abram himself, but the Tolodoth, his record, carried down. Joshua said unto all the people, thus saith the Lord God of Israel. This is Joshua 24, 2 in your handout. Your fathers, he's speaking to the Jews that had just come into the promised land. dwelt on the other side of the flood. That's a reference to the Euphrates, it means a big river. In old time, even Tirah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nahor, and they served other gods. Quite shocking. Here we find that God goes to an idol worshiper. When God came to you, were you in a state of tremendous obedience to the Lord or not? No. You find that when God comes to us, it's in a period when we do not have an honorable background. Well then we find Abram's calling because back in Genesis 11, keep your hands in Genesis 11 because we're going to slowly walk our way through parts of Genesis. We then read this in Genesis 11, 31. We've ran read about his family. We've read about him in the land of his nativity. There's a little bit in tidbit about Sarai as barren. She had no children. Then in verse 31, we read this. And Tirah took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai, his daughter-in-law. his son Abram's wife, and they, Plural, went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees to go into the land of Canaan. And they came unto Haran and dwelt there. Now you already have on your map, you know where Haran is. They marched straight up north-northwest, the Euphrates River. But what's interesting is apparently the call came to the family, and the family knew about it, and who is the one that took the initiative to depart Who took the initiative to depart? Tira. Tira. Abram's father. Look at it again. And Tirah took Abram his son, dot dot dot, and they went forth, dot dot dot to go into the land of Canaan. Tirah is the one that took the initiative. And furthermore, the call apparently came to them and they knew about it because you read in Genesis 12. 1 this, now the Lord had said Unto Abram. It doesn't say now the Lord said. There's a little word tucked in there. It's the word had. We have an English teacher in here somewhere, had. Is had present tense or past tense? Last I checked, it's we have two English teachers in here. It's past. We have three actually. Past tense. I think I get concurrence and agreement? Yeah, all past tense. Well, I find that fascinating. We see that Abram gets the call. It's a family of idol worshippers. It's your son. And he comes to Dad and says Dad, I got some news for you. I just got a message from heaven. Somebody called Elohim. He says, we got to get out of here. We got to go to a different place. And they obeyed. Did they all obey? Who stayed behind? Look at the you got Genesis 11 in front of you. Look at all of his sons in verse 27 and figure out who actually came, who stayed behind. Tira the father, you have three sons. Abram, Nahor, Haran. Haran's dead. Haran has a child called Lot. Abram's married. Has a wife named Sarai. Who's missing from that list that goes into Canaan? Do you read about Nahor coming along? Abram's brother? He doesn't. In fact, Abram sends a servant back to Nahor later to get a wife for his son, and he would have had Rebekah Uh that was the source, and and Laban and others, Uncle Nahor. So my question is this, when they got this call, did any of them know really where they were going? They had a general idea. Canaan. Look on the map. How big is Canaan? Is it a city? I mean it's an area level. That's that's that's bigger than just the Gaza Strip, it's bigger than Israel. It's the region that really spans uh Israel, Lebanon, and the Gaza Strip today. It's this large area. At that time it was called Canaan. And the people that dwelt there were the Canaanites. Could they have known where they were going? I don't know how they could have. So we contemplate Abram's journey and how stunning it is that he obeyed a command to go to a place he'd never seen. He didn't know, frankly. Where it was, I don't doubt that God led him there. That God was directing him. And what would your reaction or your concerns be? If your husband or your son came to you with such a visionary message today Nasaba, if Roy comes to you and says, I got a vision from God that says we got to go to Kansas, what would your thoughts be? No more spice. Hesitant? Right. No more spicy dinners for you. No way, Jose. No way, Jose. Yeah. When my dad first heard that I was headed for the bishop field, uh, he exactly he was like, I don't know that I'm ready for this, I don't know that I can let her go and the Lord had to work in his part. as well before the Lord confirmed with him, like, yes, this is from me, this isn't just some hairbrained teenage idea Yeah, that would be a tall order for a daddy to let his daughter go with uh some nice young handsome fellow out of Bob Jones who's unproven. I'm not quite you know I trust him but I I don't trust him that much. Yeah, that would be tough to swallow. When when the plane took off from Baltimore, I honestly thought in my heart, I will never see my parents again. You know, the plane's gonna crash, we're gonna get killed, we're gonna disappear. You know, I I honestly when we left it was like, okay Lord, that's all gone. Yeah Yeah. We would have the same concerns, I believe, that Abram would have had, that he'd never see his family again. And we don't read, in fact, in the hundred and seventy-five years of his life that he personally ever made a journey back to earth. He really, literally and truly left it all behind. Folks, when Jesus Christ calls you out of this world, have you left it all behind yet? Have you really left all the things of this world behind yet? Have you really left Ur of the Chaldees yet? Are we still kind of. . . hanging around here, dilly-dallying around in Ur of the Chaldees. Back to Hebrews 11 it says by By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. Now, Hebrews is taking a broad view of Abram's life. I'm calling him Abram because at the point when he received the call, that was his name. He obviously is known throughout Scripture as Abraham And now when it brings in his sons and his great singular and his grandson, Isaac and Jacob, we're now a little further along. So we're going to consider these additional promises that were made to Abram during his sojourn, which involved, quote, his seed. Notice it says he dwelt in tents. They stayed together as a family. Not only his son, but when his son got married, they pitched their tent nearby, and the grandson was there. And by my calculations Abraham would have seen his grandson Jacob up until about the age 17 to 20, somewhere in that range. He lived to be 175 I want just to look at the understated promises of God because this first part is really emphasizing kind of the human aspect of it, the impossibility, the hardship, the difficulties of it. But Abram wasn't stupid for doing what he did. In fact, it was the best thing he ever did in his life. It might be the best thing a human being has almost ever done on the face of the planet, because it's a blessing to us Gentiles No one gave us a fighting chance, but Abram, Abraham, secured it for the Gentiles. Because through it he received some understated promises. Folks, don't cut God short. These promises of God are big, weighty, and mighty. So while you're in Genesis, let's kind of walk our way through some of these promises of God. First of all, and you know these, I've I've taught them before, I'm sure you've read them before. It's a fascinating part of history as you read through it in Genesis, but look at Genesis 12 now. And in verse 2, God told him, Get thee out of thy country, from thy kindred, from thy father's house, to a land that I will show thee. Verse 2, I will make of thee a great nation. A great nation. Well, that means you're kind of the patriarchal head of that nation, something Kim Jong-un could only think to ascribe to. Leader of North Korea claiming to be their father. And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. That's a pretty tremendous and big promise. That would have been part of the message that he would have shared with his family And that would have encouraged them to have received such a great promise. And they said, Yeah, why not? These gods we've got, they don't promise us anything. They're idols, they're rocks, they're stone. They they don't even talk to us. This one talks. I think we're following this one We continue in chapter 13 and verse 14, and this one I want you to pay attention to. Genesis 13, verse 14. And the Lord said unto Abram, after that lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art, northward, southward, eastward, and westward. For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever. Folks, let me ask you a question. He's standing apparently on a a large high spot on the on a on a mountain Because he had just asked Lot, hey, there's a strife between us. Survey the land, take what you want. And Lot chose the well-watered plain of Jordan Well, you're not in a plane if you can see the plane. You're kind of up on a high spot surveying things. And so he would have been, from the context, we certain we deduce that he's in a mountain, a mountain peak, or some high hill But God told Abraham to lift up your eyes and look north, east, west, and south. Where is he looking? Well but he's on a mountain. And he says to lift up your eyes. He's looking up at heaven. If you're in a plane looking up you can see the top of the mountains, but if you're in he doesn't say look down and survey and see what you can see He said, lift up your eyes and look. Of course, as he's in the process of coming up, he's also surveying and seeing other things. But that's not a trivial observation. You'll see why in a moment Let's keep going through these understated promises in Genesis 15. Genesis 15, verse 2 It's been a while now. God's promised him a great seed. He ain't got no kids yet. His wife, Sarai, is still barren. Abram said, verse 2, Lord God. That's the only time I found the Bible where that word God is in lower small caps. That's actually the word Jehovah. Lord, Lord, what wilt thou give me? Lord Jehovah, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? Verse four, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir, speaking of the uh seed of Hagar, Ishmael. He that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. Verse 5, look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. Now he tells him to look to heaven. Now he tells him that you're going to have an innumerable seed, as many as the stars. Would that be a little hard to believe? It's been thirteen years you still don't have a son other than the one that came from Hagar and you seem to think, well, this is a good beginning, better late than never, and God says, no, no, no, this ain't it. Really? Really? You think Abram's faith is getting a little tested at this point? That's a mighty long waiting time. And then you read in Genesis 17 The great, great establishment of the covenant, Genesis 17, 4, as for me behold my covenant. Almighty God, my covenant, Lord Jehovah, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations. Neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham, for a father of many nations have I made thee. God's multiplying the promise. I will make thee exceeding fruitful. I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee, and I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant. To be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. That's oh verse eight, and I will give unto thee, into thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession. And I will be their God. Those are the quick summary, the outline of the big promises. This last one I'd liken to me, say, promising an individual I'm going to give you a new car. You're going to get a nice, beautiful new car, a new Jaguar. Something that is really highly valued by many. And you go one year, two years, ten, thirteen years, no car. And then you say, I'm going to give you Many Jaguar dealerships. He's going to amplify it. I'm going to give you more than just a car. You're going to have multiple dealerships. No car yet. It just keeps getting amplified But you don't have it yet. You sense this this interesting interplay that's going on here But it says that Abram believed God and he accounted unto him for righteousness. This is a a belief that leads to righteousness because God has given him some incredibly understated promises. Well, there was a fellow many years later who was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. Anybody venture a guess who I'm speaking about? Who was the fellow that called himself a Hebrew of the Hebrews? Paul, the Apostle Paul. Zealous in his father's traditions Raised at the feet of Gamalia. He understood the Torah and the Tanakh like the back of his hand. He knew it well. By the way, I learned that Tanakh is actually an acronym, TNK in Hebrew. It stands for the the law, the writings of the prophets. So when you say Tanakh, you're referring to the entire Old Testament. And when you say Torah, you're talking about the law. Well, these promises, it turns out, are expanded in the New Testament, and they're particularly expanded in light of Christ's advent. So I want to show you some extra insights from the Apostle Paul, and the first one I want you to look at is in Romans 4. In Romans chapter 4. beginning in verse twelve. And it is in your bulletin if you'd like to follow along there. And from here out you can follow along because you've seen the promises of God in Genesis. Let's look at some of the insights we find in Romans 4 and verse 12. It says, and that, basically, and that Abraham might be the father of circumcision to them who are not Of the circumcision only, he's referring to Jews. He's the father not of Jews only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham. Which he had being yet uncircumcised, Paul is saying. By the way, these promises of God came to Abraham when he was uncircumcised. He was an uncircumcised Chaldean from Ur, who used to be an idol worshipper. He's kind of hinting at that. Yeah, that puts Abram in our shoes. And shows the Jews that they are unique because of God's calling only. And he continues He says, for the promise that he should be, oh, watch it now, highlight this, heir of the world. Heir of the world. was not to Abraham or it to his seed through the law but through the righteousness of faith. Heir of the world Did you ever understand for a moment in those promises which we read in the opening chapters of Genesis 11, 12, 13, 15, 17? Did you ever see in there that God says, I'm giving you the world? Well, it was sort of there, but veiled. He said, lift up your eyes. He is stars, numerous, a place that I will show you. I think Abraham understood in measure the understatement and the greatness of the promises of God that he wasn't just getting the dirt gym he was physically walking on. He was going to get a whole new planet. And a whole new heaven, meaning stars and all of that. He's getting a new heaven and new earth. That's what he believed those promises to be. Do you see how God's promises are understated? I want to double down on that. Don't cut God short on the promises. When he says I'll never leave you, nor forsake you, you need to understand is I'll never, never, never, never, ever, never leave you. Nor forsake. I'm not going to abandon you. I may I may dangle your toes in the water a little bit. Son, you're playing with something that's not good. Let me dangle your toes in the water here. Are you scared of this stuff? Do you really want to go down that path? No, okay Pull you back over. He may dangle you to make you know I'm not going to forsake you, even when you think I am. Don't Miss the understatement of God's promises. They're bigger and greater than you might possibly realize. The Apostle Paul also informs us a few verses later in Romans 4 of this. He says, Therefore it is of faith that it might be grace. To the end that the promise might be sure to all the seed. That's a loaded word in the Bible, seed Not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations. Two points from this. Number one, we then find that nations refers to Gentiles. And you and I are what? If you're not a bloodline Jew, can prove it from your father, not your mother, and his lineage, then you're a Gentile. Number two, he talks about the seed. Yes, God does tend to operate through families, but not exclusively. The seed that counts are the seed who are those of faith. They had to be born again. You can't be once born into the kingdom of heaven. You have to be twice born to make it into the kingdom of heaven. Number three, if he's the father of many nations, and we are a seed, do you see how you enter into this promise? A nation's going to come of you too. Kings will come of you too, and you yourself will be one. In the new heaven and the new earth. It's promised. You read it in Revelation. He's made us priests and kings. It says they shall we shall reign with him forever and ever. That's going to be one of the Easter songs we sing. Well, you don't reign, Jim, if you ain't got a kingdom to reign over. Trash men don't reign over anything. Do you see how you enter into these understated promises that they are great, that they are multiple, and there are many? But Brother Vince, I ain't seeing nothing right now. I mean it's pretty it's bupkus, eh? I'm not Jeffrey, are you seeing it right now? How's your empire doing down in DC, Jeffrey? It reminds me of Sanford Sun My Empire. You know? I love that. That's a terrible that's a terrible program that those of you my age and group understand that, but it was ridiculous. God's promises to Abraham, folks, were a lot richer than what appeared on the surface. His seed is not only Isaac and Jacob, but it's also the Gentiles, and they culminate perfectly in Jesus Christ, in whom we are found. He is that ultimate seed. If you use a translation other than King James, you will miss this theological point. No other Bible uses the word seed. Galatians 3. 16 says, and he saith not unto seeds as of many, but to the seed, to the one which is Christ. And all other translations will render Genesis 17 as descendants or some other plural form. God says, no, I'm not talking plural. I'm talking singular. It's one of those unique words, kind of like sheep. One sheep is a sheep. Two sheep or sheep. You don't say sheep It's one of those singular plural words with a dual meaning. It ultimately points in Jesus Christ, and if you're in him, then that promise is sure to all the seed. It's a unique word. It's a tremendous theological truth. And most Bibles, but the King James, absolutely positively get that wrong. The inheritance territory for Abram included not only this Canaanite territory, which by the way was fulfilled by Joshua. Joshua insists that all the Canaanite promises were fulfilled. You can look it up on your own. It's Joshua 21 43 through 45. It says, not one single thing failed of God. We're not going to turn it, I don't have time. However, that territory would also include a new heaven and a new earth. He's getting all of that. And Abraham still hasn't fully realized at this point, 2025, at this point, Abram has not yet still fully realized all the promises that God has given to him. Can you imagine on that great day when he sees a multitude out of every South Camponian nation flowing in It was like, wow, really? It's gonna happen to the Lloyds as well. That great day. You're gonna sit there and go, really? I thought I'm an unprofitable servant having done that which was my duty to do. So can that seem be understood as being a progenitive of people, of human beings and saved. It has to be fully understood only as referring to the elect of God. Those who are born again. Right, that's what I'm saying. That's what I put Yes. So that that would make us the pro that seed would be the progenitors to a whole new race of people, so to speak. So as we witness, we are, as it were, propagating the family of God Right. Who will continue to propagate the family of God? Who will continue to propagate the family of God? And only in eternity will you know just how profitable the ministry became Only in heaven. Abraham still doesn't know. He has no idea. He has no idea. Well And we Gentiles are brought also to walk by faith, trust in the same promises, and wait for Jesus and his eternal kingdom. And what was Abram's hope? I gotta wrap this up. We know Abram was not looking for physical dirt. Let me tell you right now, Brother Bernie said this a long time ago, and he's absolutely spot-on accurate. People talk about peace in the Middle East. The Jews are not interested in peace. They're interested in real estate. That's what they're interested in. They're still looking at dirt They have plum missed the spiritual promises that God gave to Abraham. It wasn't a dirt. In fact, later as he expands the covenant, he makes it clear, and if you rebel against me, I'm going to kick you off the land. They rebelled against him. He kicked them off the land. God kept up his end of the deal. We know Abram understood this greater promise Perhaps a little bit measured, better measured than what we read in the circus, because of Hebrews 11:10, which says this, for he looked for a city which had foundations, whose builder and maker is God. It doesn't say he looked for a nation. It doesn't say he looked for a land. God told him to go to the land of Canaan, but he looked for A. A is one, right? Math teachers, A, A something, A thing. You don't say a dogs, you say many dogs. A is one city. A city that God made. And we read in 2 Corinthians 5, 1, for we know. That if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. That's our city. That's our building. That's our house. It's not this. Jim, this ain't gonna last forever. It's just not And Revelation 21 gives you another little snapshot into what that city is. And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me that A great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending from heaven, out of heaven from God. One city. Abraham's looking for that city as he's walking around Canaan. Are you looking for that city? Is that your hope? That city? In that city are people who love Jesus Christ. In that city are people who have struggled in their sojourns among evil people and evil men, seduction. Blasphemies, idolatries, all of that stuff. Or do you want Babylon or do you want Jerusalem Babylon's had a lot of suburbs, let me tell you. It's got a lot of extensions. It's kind of scattered everywhere. But there's one city, that's Jerusalem. That's where your hope is. That's where your reign is. I don't know over whom we shall be reigning. I don't know how that works out. But I have a promise from God that says this. And I'll close with this. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or get a load of this, misses Ross, or think God can go bigger than we can think. He says, your brain's too puny to even figure out what I've got for you. You can't even get there. You you can't even imagine. We're gonna have to have a new brain to comprehend everything God's given us. Is how I'm taking this. According to the power that worketh in us, and to him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. That ain't this world Amen. Well that's our message and our thought process about Abram and these great promises we have. So is the sojourn hard? Yes. Are the promises hard to believe? Yes. Were we going to see them fulfilled perhaps in our life? Likely not. But you're looking for a city. You're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. Let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven, strengthen us all in this very difficult sojourn. Comfort our hearts, Lord, with your promises. Help us to look at them again