Indexed in your Bible, the psalm that we just did responsive reading and sang. It is a psalm that David penned under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Spirit while he was fleeing from his son Absalom. And we find ourselves there today in uh 2 Samuel chapter 8, having fled Absalom and now the battle that ensues. And we're going to read just the uh the first 18 verses of this story. 2 Samuel chapter 11 And David numbered the people that were with him, and he set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them. And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai. And the third part under the hand of Atai the Gittite. And the king said unto the people, I will surely go forward with you myself also. But the people answered, Thou shalt not go forth, for if we flee away, they will not care for us, neither if half of us die will they care for us. But now thou art worth ten thousand of us. Therefore now it is better that thou secure us out of the city, or supplies from out of the city, if we need refreshments or extra troops And so they did not want David to go into battle to stay with them for fear that he would be killed, captured, tortured. Verse 4, and the king said unto them, What seemeth you best, I will do. And the king stood by the gateside, and all the people came out by hundreds. and by thousands. And the king commanded Joab, Abishai, and Hittai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalon. And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom. And so the people went out in the field against Israel, and the battle was in the woods of Ephraim. Where the people of Israel were slain before the servants of David, there were a great slaughter that day of twenty thousand men. What we have here is a civil war, Israelites fighting Israelites. Verse 8, for the battle was there scattered over the face of all the country, and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and the earth. And the mule that was under him went away. And a certain man saw it and told Joab and said, Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. And Joab said unto man that told him, And behold, thou sawest him, why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? I would have given thee ten shekels of silver and a girdle, or it's like a band or a ribbon of it depicts uh uh courage and and uh some great venture that someone's gone through. Uh sometimes a sash was s stuck in that or a sword was stuck in that sash or the sash would would cross over the shoulders and down to the hips It would point out a heroic uh thing that something someone had done. And he would have given them all the silver and he would have given the sash, and yet he he did not uh kill him And the man said in verse 12, and the man said unto Joab, though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son. For in our hearing the king charged thee, and Abishai and Ithai saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom And otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against my own life. For there is no matter hid from the king. He'd have found out if I'd killed his son, and thou thyself, meaning Joab. Which have set thyself against me to cover his own back. Joab said, He killed your son Absalom. And Joab would have you would have killed me if I'd done that, this young soldier says Verse 14, Joab said, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took three darts in his hand and he thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak. And ten young men that bare Joab's armor compassed about and smote Absalom and slew him. So apparently the three daggers didn't quite dispatch or kill him immediately. And Joab blew the trumpet, verse sixteen, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel, for Joab held back the people. And they took Absalom, and they cast him into a great pit in the wood, and they laid a very great heap of stones upon him. And all Israel fled, every one to his tent. Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself a pillar, which is at the King's Dale or the King's Valley. And he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance. And he called the pillar after his own name, and is called on this day Absalom's place. Titled the Meshi this morning, Absalom's Place. Verses 1 through 4, the king has said to the people, I shall surely go forth with you to battle. But the people answered, Thou shalt not go forth. Thou art worth ten thousand of us if something happens to you. I want you to see in these verses this morning, it's a it's a civil war going on here It's David with his Israelites and his son Absalom in rebellion with his set of Israelites. It's a civil war. And this battle that's going on here has been going on between those throughout all the land, throughout all the world, throughout all the ages, a battle between good and evil, as it were. A battle between those who love the king of the anointed king of Israel, that is David And who love his Psalms and His Words, people who could not kill David And the other side, who had no problem with hating the anointed king of Israel, hating his word. And that battle goes on to this very day, especially here in America. Where there's a great hatred of the anointed King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ, where there's a great hatred for his word. The battle is still going on today. And we have to fight it as well. Christ is called the King, as David was called the King here. In fact, he's called the King of the Saints in Revelation 15 3. And I trust today that those sitting here that you love the King of the Saints because you are one. Because there is a battle going on today If you don't know about it, I don't know where you've been. The colliding of Absalom's troops and the colliding of David's troops, the colliding of good and evil. Takes place Tuesday in America. I realize that I'm not gonna be found in agreement with some s sitting here I cannot at this time and fortuitously these verses fall out. They not say something. We have a choice on Tuesday. to vote for one of two sinners. We've got two sinners running for president. One of those two sinners is going to win. And in the day of the digital world and the mega databytes and the CIA and the FBI and NSA and and Twitter and and uh texting and videos and cell phones It's hard to believe there will ever be another election where we won't know as much about a candidate as we do today. Who knew about Kennedy and his mistresses or Eisenhower's mistress or Or who knew about LBJ's mistress? Or who who knew about uh you know all the sin that was going on in the lives of who ran before? But I suspect that there will never be another election where we won't know it all. And then some that isn't even true. How will we ever vote again if we're not willing to vote for a sinner When I look at the differences in the two, I see one that he not only loves his country, but he loves Israel. And the other this one's selling out our country to pay to play and has no love for Israel. I see one that would appoint those to our courts who would uphold the laws of the land. And one that would appoint those to court who would have a ushy-gushy feeling for the one group or another. I see one that is totally opposed to aborting young babies in the womb and the other that's all for it and doesn't mind making a profit out of it and the selling of body parts. I don't see that there's much of a decision to be made here, but I know some of us struggle with voting for a sinner. You might as well stop voting altogether for governors, mayors, legislators. And I see one that would maintain our freedom of religion While one thinks that we're only free that one hour a week in a worship service, quite isolating our freedoms. So which side will you embrace on Tuesday? You could not vote at all Hmm. That's what some people did during the Holy Cost. They just didn't want to look at it at all, confront it or face it. There were some here probably in this battle that Absalom and David that didn't want to take sides, that didn't want to fight at all But if you don't want to fight, there will be those who will. We need to take a stand None of us here are probably old enough to have stood during the Civil War against slavery or or stood against Holocaust. We didn't even know what was going on. But you know what's going on in this country today I pray that you would get out and vote. I want you to note here in verse five that the king is told he cannot go out. He's to stay back inside the city of Manaha. He's to stay in the city. And if we need Extra supplies or extra troops, you'll send them out for us. And so the king says in verse 5, okay, I will stay back. But he gives them some words of mercy. The anointed King of Israel has words of mercy for us even this morning. Here the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai To deal gently, he says, for my sake. And we're to deal gently with people for the sake of our King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ. We're to be a gentle people. We're to be a tender people. We're to be a forgiving people. We're to be a merciful people. He said, I want you to deal gently for my sake with Absalom. And all the people heard. He stood at the gate. And here comes Joab with his hundred. He says, Joab, remember, deal gently with my son Absalom. And as Joab's men passed through, then came uh Abishai's men and says, Abishai, stop, wait, I want you to remember, deal gently with my son Absalom. And as his men passed through, David must have read it again to Itzai, the captain of that host, deal gently with my son Absalom. All the people heard That they were to deal gently with Absalom. Perhaps the reason David wanted to go into battle that morning was he might prevent Absalon's demise in case Joab got carried away in the excitement or the heat of the battle. Or Absai wanted to wear the girdle and and win the win the the the the awards or the ribbons for Taking out this rebellious Israelite wanting to kill the anointed king of Israel. David thought, maybe if I'm there, I can prevent his demise. And surely David felt guilty. That it was because he had his hands bloody with the murder of Uriah the Hittite. And the seducing and the taking of Uriah's wife Bathsheba. He felt guilty that he'd done these things, and that the prophet Nathan had told him because of these things the sword shall never depart from thine own house. Behold, I will raise up evil against thee, out of thine own house, second Samuel twelve, nine through eleven. And he saw Absalom coming with a sword, raised up in his own house, David had to say Here comes my son, my rebellious son with the sword. He's just fulfilling Nathan's prophecy. Oh, that he would repent and allow it to be fulfilled once Someone else, but David had to see in all of this that Absalom was coming driven by the prophetic words of God shared with Nathan to David and he had to have felt some responsibility for his son's rebellion. What had that son thought? When his father, already with several wives, picks up another one named Bathsheba, whose husband has just died in battle. What are you doing, father? What's with you? I guess I can live a life like that too. And he became a rebellious son, and David felt so responsible. Deal gently with my Absalon. He's the seed of He is my seed and he's a product of my way. I have raised him. Deal gently with him. And what they wouldn't let him go into battle. And so came Absalom, who hated his father, who hated the anointed king of Israel. And David wanted to be there. It would give him one last opportunity, perhaps, to extend mercy to this rebellious son, a sinner. Give me one more opportunity to talk to him before we dispatch him, before he is killed. I want to go out these gates. I want to go with the army. I want one more opportunity to reach him with the gospel. Of forgiveness and mercy and salvation. What a king What a king. His son has taken his concubines and laid with them publicly. His son has done all these horrendous things. He's driven David out of Jerusalem, out of his kingdom. Now he wants to kill him. And yet King David, the anointed of Israel, He wants one more opportunity to extend mercy to his son. What a king! What a father. Do you know there's still a king like that today? A king of Israel who reigns from heaven, whose name is Jesus the Christ. More merciful than David. More tender than David. More understanding than David. Psalm fifty-seven ten says that he is filled with great mercy. Psalm 69. 16 tells that Christ has a multitude of tender mercies. Psalm 86. 15, he is plenteous in mercy. Psalm 105, he has got everlasting mercy. Psalm hundred and eighteen twenty-nine, his mercy endureth forever. Is there a sinner here today who thinks there is no hope? There is hope because we have a King in heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ, who has mercy beyond your imagination for whatever you've done. There is hope. And maybe you struggle with that because you're not tender and merciful yourself to others If we are Christians, if we are Christ-like, then we should be tender, hearted, and merciful and forgiving. And if we aren't Christ-like, or if we're not a Christian, maybe we don't understand the mercy that endureth forever that Christ extends to us. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. Do people know you as one who is tender and merciful? How can you not be? I love nothing better than to hear this evening on the eleven o'clock news film at eleven That our president has become a born-again Christian. That those running for office have sold out their life to Christ. You don't think I don't pray for our enemies? You don't think I don't pray for our He says, God save the Queen. We ought to start singing, God save our present. And on Tuesday we need to start saying it again, because I don't think either one of us are Christian or saved. God saved our president. It's been a long time since we had a saved president That being said, in verses six and eight, the people went into the field against Israel. Now remember, these are Israelites fighting Israelites. And there was a great slaughter that day of 20,000 men. That is on the side of Absalom, the rebellious son, 20,000 men died. It says the woods devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. How does the woods devour? I love this verse they're talking about the in the in the Psalms and elsewhere, how it says that the trees will praise the Lord, they'll lift up their branches and sing. How is that possible that the woods can do this? It says you the woods devoured more in the battle than the sword did. Commentators lay it out pretty well, I think, when they talk about it. The Lord's hand was so obviously in the victory, they say, that the Moore died in the woods than died with the sword. How can that be? Well, as they're running through the woods, escaping, stampeding, trying to get out of the way. We had a stampede There in Orlando, Florida, at a mall recently when some balloons pop that people thought guns were being fired and they're stamping through the mall. Nine people are injured, four hospitalized For balloons popping. Here you've got real enemy, real you got swords and and stones and slings and you got battle going on and they're stampeding. It's a it's a route and they're fleeing to the woods and they're banging into trees and they're tripping over tree stumps and over tree roots and being slashed by branches and knocked to the ground unconscious and and more were slain by the woods it says here. And I can't help but think that we see Christ's hand in this When the more are slain by the woods than by the sword, is not Christ called the branch, the vine, the root out of Jesse? More slain by the woods. God's hand is in this And some commentators say that now as they were charging through the woods, they may have come across a mother bear and her cubs, and that dispatched forty or more. God's in charge of the bears and the beasts and the bees. And we can go through the scriptures and look at the battles in Exodus 23. 28, Deuteronomy 7, and 1, and verse 20, and again in Joshua 24, where God sent the hornets. And they drove out the Hivites and the Canaanites and the Hittites. And the Gergeshites and the Amorites and the Peresites and the Jebusites, he sent the hornets, and they knew to sting just those groups and not to sting the Israelites, and he drove them out. Now think about this for a second. How do we really know he drove out the Gergeshites, the Phariseites, the Hivites, the Hittites? How do we really know that? Because there aren't any more. When's the last time you ran to a Gurga site? God says here in his inspired word, the woods devoured more than the sword. And as Absalom verse 9 rode upon a mule, and you see these mules up in Lancaster, stop thinking about some little donkey that Abason. He's on a mule. Pretty stocky horse on steroids almost. He's on this big mule. So he's sitting up pretty high. He's not gonna be dangling with his feet three inches off the ground. He's up pretty high when he catches this oak bough and around his neck and his head. He rode this mule, and the mule went under his thick boughs of a great oak, and his head was caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between heaven and earth And the mule went away and there he's hanging between heaven and earth. He can't touch the ground. And some believe that he actually got his hair entangled in it And so he can't even reach up to grab the tree branch to lift himself up because it's his hair. And maybe he's trying to pull himself up by his hair, but you know how slippery that is. He is he it's he's just stuck. And maybe his hair that was his pride, and it doesn't say here specifically it was his hair caught in the branches, but most seem to think that, that his pride took him down, his long and gorgeous and and flowing beautiful hair, his pride was his apparent instrument of destruction. Deuteronomy 21, 22, and 23. That's kind of easy to remember. Deuteronomy 21, 22, 23, right? Deuteronomy chapter 21, 22 and 23. Hang them on a tree. For he that is hanged is a curse of God. Wow, who hung Absalom on a tree? God did, didn't he? Hang him on a tree. It it represents, as it says here, suspended between heaven and earth was Absalom. He's suspended between heaven and earth. When you hang some on a tree, they're suspended between heaven and earth because they're not worthy of either. The sinners In the Garden of Eden were not worthy of the earth that God had given them, the paradise he had given them. They were not worthy of the earth that God had first created. And suspended between heaven and earth, they were not as sinners worthy of heaven either. When you're hung on a tree, you are an accursed thing, not worthy of heaven, not worthy of earth, and destined for hell. That's what it speaks of. Remember the Nuremberg trials in Germany? How did they all die when they were sentenced to death? They were hung, suspended between heaven and earth. Of whom the world was not worthy and heaven was not worthy. You ever watch the old westerns? How the old westerns take care of the worst criminals in the element? They hung him high between heaven and earth, did they not? Now sometimes an innocent person is hung Like the Lord Jesus Christ. He was hung on a tree. Why? Because he took the curse of sin upon himself. Suspended between heaven and earth. Just where we should have been as sinners, not worthy of either, and destined for hell. I'm not here to encourage anybody to commit suicide, but may I tell you this. Please refrain from hanging yourself. Do you know what when it speaks? It speaks volumes to your family. Robin Williams, great comedian, loved watching that guy. I thought he was super. He hangs himself. Christ has already hung himself. We need not do that. Redeemed us, it says in Galatians 3. 13. He redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. How? Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. That's why Christ was hung on the cross, hung on a tree, that he might take the curse that we deserve to be hung out to dry as it were. He took that curse upon himself. He wasn't beheaded. He wasn't stoned. That would not have fulfilled the law of God. Christ had to die to take the curse upon himself of our sins He had to die being hung upon a tree. His curse, our curse rather, was taken from us and placed upon him Not in the garden where he prayed and shed like it were great drops of blood, but it was on the tree where he hung that our curse was taken care of and dispatched. There he absorbed the wrath of God. There are those that do not comprehend. Why a loving father would crucify his only begotten Son And if you don't comprehend why he would do that, you don't understand that God is a just God. You do not comprehend You have a you know you have a low view of the holiness of the triune Godhead if you think that crucifying the Son of God seems to be uh such an outlandish thing to do. You have a low view of the holiness of God and the judgment of God that must be addressed. And furthermore, you have too high opinion of your own good works if you don't think your sins need to be addressed Too low of an opinion of the holiness of God and too high an opinion of the good works of worms, because that's all we are. From dust we came, from dust how shall we go? And while we're here as worms, we're still just crawling to the dirt and the filth of this world Christ died on the cross because our sins were just that filthy. And God was certainly so holy, his judgment had to be met. Had to be addressed. So here is Joab, or sorry, not Joab, Absalom. Hanging from the bough of an oak tree. And a certain man told Joab, verses 10 through 13, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. And he must have told me he wasn't dead. He was just there squirming, trying to get down, looking for help. And Joab said, Why did thou not smite him? In other words, Joab understood he wasn't dead yet. He just left him there hanging. Helpless, you're going to kill them. You're going to dispatch him right then and there. How do they give me ten shekels of silver? And the man said, though I'd received a thousand shekels, listen to this. Ten shekels or a thousand shekels. Quite a difference. Though I'd been given a thousand shekels, yet I would not put my hand forth against the king's son. For in our hearing the king charged you beware that none touch Absalom. And there's no matter ahead from the king, says this young soldier. I am not going to go against the words of the king of Israel. What would it take for you to transgress or go against the words of Israel? There's a new movie out, Not Ashamed. I haven't seen it yet, Rachel, the girl in Columbine, where a pistol was put to her head as she looked around the classroom at all the other dead people students that he'd already shot. And he says, oh, this is the one that loves Jesus. Rachel, do you still love Jesus? Tocks the hammer back. She said, Yes. What would it take for you to sell out the king of Israel? Maybe to have some worldly affections bestowed upon you. Maybe uh to Sell out your soul to win an election. Maybe to sell out your soul to win a promotion, to be the spotlight of attention, to be the center of attention, to have a special lead in a movie somewhere What would it take for you to sell out the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of Israel? This man said he would have done it for a thousand silver shekels. And I suspect if Joe I'd say, well how about ten thousand or a hundred thousand? He'd have said, no, no, no Now Absalom had been hanging there quite a while. I say quite a while because first he's caught in the bow, in the heat of battle, and people are fleeing everywhere. And now eventually, or as he's hanging there, a few scattered men of his troops are also coming through the woods. He can hear them coming Doesn't know whether they're friend or foe, and then he finally would recognize or or see their their implements in their battle and he might recognize a few faces. People used to stand at the gate with and say, Oh, if I was king, what I would do for you. He said he'd begin to see some familiar faces, perhaps. This is not nighttime. It's daytime. And so he's hanging there for a while and they come running towards you. Oh, help, cut me down, get me down. And they're fleeing for their life and they haven't got time to save Absalom. And so he hangs there a little while longer. And then this soldier comes along. Now most of Absalom's troops are dispersed, and he's starting to see the the front runners of King David's army coming towards him and one spots him and must have conversed with him and says, You are David's son, Absalom. And he puts his sword back. We have orders not to harm you. And he flees back. And apparently nobody else harmed him either because while he's gone to go to tell Joab Nobody else dispatches him, nobody else kills him. So he's hanging there quite a while and Joe finds out about it from where he's directing the troops and he marches back in the woods with this young fellow, wants to see where he is, he's upset with him He's been hanging there quite a while. Precious time has been given to Absalom to repent He knows he's in a dismal situation. There's not much time left, but with little time left he's got, he has time to repent. He has time to cry out. He has time to make his peace with God But not a hint, not a tear, not a word in Scripture ever says he does. How difficult does life have to get, pilgrim, before you repent? I've known people with cancer, but they don't repent. People in car accidents, but they don't repent. People dying of atrocious diseases or old age, they live to be a hundred years or more, and they don't repent. What difficulty must your life have before you will repent? Turn, that is, from your wicked ways. Change the appetite to the spiritual rather than the carnal and the physical and the fleshy. What does it take, pilgrim? Someone sitting here probably has never repented. Oh, you might have said, oh Jesus, forgive me. I walked the other side. Oh, okay, I'm saved. No, no. If you're It hasn't changed from the fleshly to the spiritual. You have not repented. You're on your way to hell. And there's nothing left we can give you. There's no new gospel. Well, I know John the Baptist preached repentance. I know the Apostle Paul preached repentance. But I'm going to follow the King Jesus. I don't think he ever preached repentance. He said, See without sin cast the first stone And he said, Come Peter, you can walk on water with me too, and turn the and uh get these bread and we'll divide it up. Yeah. But I don't think Jesus ever preached repentance. Really? Matthew 7, 14, 17, rather, Christ said, repent. Mark 1 and verse 15, Christ said, repent, as he preached. Luke 13 and 3, Christ said, repent. And guess what? There's more than that. So Job came in verses fourteen and fifteen with this young fella, and Took three darts and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the yoke, and that he was still struggling and probably spitting out blood and and heaving in his chest, and when it says stuck him in the in the heart or the heart in the middle of the chest. And he was still alive, still gasping, and ten young men that were with Joab. They they surrounded him and they smote him, and they actually slew him. You do that by cutting the throat, by the way. Make sure they're dead. Or slip the spear up under the fifth rib as they did to Christ. Make sure that they're dead. Several times Absalom must have heard somebody approaching that day and recognized some faces and called out for them for help and he got none. He's hanging there desperate, dangling, deserted, discouraged. With only a dismal outlook for him, and he does not repent in his discomfort, which is only getting worse and worse. And after a time Finally, someone else is approaching him. It's Joab. The commander of David's forces. He's been told not to harm me. Joab as his thoughts are going to Abzon's head. Wait a minute. Joab. Huh. He's the guy whose barley fields I burned. Oh no. Oh yes. He came to Absalom as a thief, first Thessalonians five, two And like Esau, I bet he started to repent then. Oh no, Joab, I'm so sorry about the barley fields. I'm so sorry about the things I did to you. I'm so sorry about the way I used you. Oh, I'm so sorry. Tears running down. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm repenting. Like Esau. It says he found no place of repentance though he started carefully with tears. Hebrews 12 and 16 and 17. It's amazing how people people want to repent when they're caught. When they get arrested by the police and they're in jail or being fingerprinted. All of a sudden before the judge they start repenting. And you know what? They don't find repentance in the court of the judge, do they? It's too late. Repent before you're caught But there comes a point when you're hung in the branches of the word here, and the repentance is too late. It's not perceived as genuine. Though you seek it carefully with tears, destruction will come upon you Even they that call upon me, the Lord said, I will not answer. Proverbs 1, 27 and 28 You see, you can say, well, you know, someday I'm going to turn to religion. Someday I'm going to turn to Jesus. Someday I'm going to turn and start reading the Bible. Maybe when I'm really sick. Maybe when I'm when I'm told I've got cancer. Maybe when I'm pinned in that car wreck And I see my ribs sticking out, and my leg is broken, my arm is broken, and my jaw is broken, so I can't even talk and can barely mumble. Then I'm going to call out to Jesus. You may not find repentance. Because God says in the Proverbs, they shall call upon me, and I will not answer. You're looking for a deathbed conversion, they happen. They're genuine. And they're recorded in Scripture once. And yes, you might be the second or the third or the hundred of the thousand, I don't know how many times. But by and large, we're told if we wait till the destruction cometh upon us, that God says, Then I will not answer. Absalom's desire to kill his father, the abuse of his father's concubines, it merited death. Had he been taken back to Jerusalem and tried, he would have been put to death. Scripture tells us in Proverbs 30, the eye that mocketh his father, and Absalom mocked his father by taking his concubines and numerous other things. The eye that mocketh his father, and by the way, young people sitting here this morning If you've ever rolled your eyes at something your mother or father has said, if you've ever sneered at them as you walked out of the room, if you've ever mocked them with your teenage buddies and friends while you're hanging out at the mall, the eye that mocketh his father, the raven shall pick it out. Proverbs one and twenty-seven. Our son The mother and the father came and said, Our son is rebellious, he will not obey our voice, and all the men the city shall stone him that he die. So shall they put away evil from among them. Deuteronomy twenty-one. The Lord loaths Rebellious children. You young folks, you think twice about disobeying your parents. Now I'm not asking to do something that's contrary to the word of God if your parents tell you go out and get an abortion if your parents tell you to go out and help steal some money from a cash register in a store. I'm not asking you to do that. We do not sin because our parents tell us to or direct us to But if our parents are asking us to do reasonable things and we mock them and sneer at them and ridicule them to our friends, who is you? Have you ever mocked your father? Some will say no. But have you ever mocked your everlasting Father? The Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah nine. He's called the Everlasting Father. Have you ever made fun of the Lord Jesus Christ? Oh, those Christians. Hey, did you hear the joke about Jesus? He's out playing golf and he hits this ball. Making light of our Savior with jokes? Sneering and rolling their eyes when someone quotes a verse from scripture that Christ has said Well, I tell you, mocking the everlasting Father, the Lord Jesus Christ, that's a whole lot worse than mocking your own Father. Don't you think? I want you to note here that the Joab, by the way, he kills he kills Abzon, but he doesn't kill Absalom in the heat of battle You know, you're swinging the sword, you're driving the spear, you're shooting the arrows, and you're just seeing people coming towards you, or you're charging the people, and you fire a arrow and it goes in the guy's chest as you're running by and say, Oh wow, that was a son of judge. In the heat of battle you don't know sometimes. Sometimes you even shoot your own people in the heat of battle. This isn't done in the heat of battle. This isn't done after a trial back in Jerusalem. Joab kills him in cold blood as he hung helplessly. Here's an idea of the heart of Joab that we'll find more about him in the chapters to come. And then after killing him in cold blood helplessly, Joab does not return the body of Absalom Royalty is the son of David. He does not return him to his father for a decent burial for his father to have one last look at his son. Son. No. Sixteen and seventeen, Joab took Absalom, and he cast him into a great pit in the wood, and he laid a heavy heap of stones upon him. Matthew Henry, writing in the 1500s, says that people still pass by this area in the woods and they still throw additional stones on the pile, the heap. It's bigger and bigger. Verse eighteen we read that Absalom in his lifetime had reared up for himself a memori a memorial, a pillar as it were, in the King's Valley or the Kingsdale, just outside of Jerusalem, short distance. It was to keep his name in remembrance. It was a memorial. It was called the Pillar, Absalon's place, where Absalom was going to be buried and be remembered in all throughout the history, buried there in the King's Valley with this beautiful memorial. Absorg was never placed there when he died. It had been far better had he made plans for where his soul would spend eternity. than where his body would spend eternity. He was more concerned about the flesh than the spiritual. I suspect some people are that way still today. And if we're like Absalom, you know we have a choice. It's paradise or perdition. For like Absalom, it it's the the bosom of Abraham or the blackness of darkness forever. If we're like Absalom, our choice is is Hades or Heaven, misery Or eternity, what will it be, pilgrim? Is that battle going on inside of you right now and you haven't made the choice of the decision yet? Are you waiting till destruction comes upon you when God says He will not hear your pleas? Where will you spend eternity, Pilgrim? Pray. Plead. Beg, repent it not be in Absalom's place. You don't want to die and be in Absalom's place. You want to be in Christ, Colossians 1 and 28. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee today that as hard as it we will find in the verses that follow for David to bury an unsaved son, an unrepentant son as near as he knew. Well Lord, may that not be the history of the mothers and fathers that are here today. May that not be the history of us. We are children of someone. May they not live to bury us. With unrepentant hearts. May we learn from this, Lord. All the chances Absalom was given. How many have we been given? Choose this day whom thou shalt serve. Seek him early why he may be found. Don't wait till you're hanging on the cross. Percentages are not good as we get older. For salvation. Oh Lord, may we Take it serious this day. As the battle goes on in our heart, in our lives, in our country, may we make some good decisions. May we make the right decision. May we make the only decision that will honor Christ And save our souls. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.