We're going to actually finish the sentence we began last week, which is in Hebrews 12. We read in verses 28 and 29 the following. Wherefore, we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear for our God is a consuming fire. So I want to open with our discussion question Because it was the best I could come up with to try to show an interesting contrast that's in this verse. And the question is this, you know, there's culinary chefs that are very clever. Uh I don't know if you know, but the Um one of my favorite salads, the um I can't think of my favorite salad. I'm sorry? Caesar. Caesar salad was actually made in a restaurant in Tijuana. I went to that restaurant. Right outside they have it plastered on the side of the building, home of the Caesar salad. Wouldn't have thought that Caesar would come from Nako. But sometimes you get some very unusual combination of ingredients that turns out to make something really dynamite tasting. And so my question to you is think of the simplest recipe that has the most opposite kinds of ingredients in it that turns out to be really, really good. Uh to spurn the idea along, I immediately thought of a Hawaiian pizza. How many of you have heard of a Hawaiian pizza? It's basically ham with pineapple And you would think, oh, that's uh that's disgusting. Until you actually try it and it's kind of not too bad. If it were truly Hawaiian, I think it'd be guava and spam, but that's, you know, native to Hawaii Uh your thoughts. Well we had someone online send us a uh uh a note that said uh what they liked was uh uh fried white fish uh with uh mustard, a little bit of spicy mustard in it That's kind of an unusual combination, but it turns out to be pretty good. Your thoughts? What are some interesting culinary delights of opposites? Curried lobster. It's very popular in Jamaica. You would think curry would just ruin lobster, but curried lobster. Interesting. I would not have thought of that. Yeah, you're right. I first thought is well you're just gonna ruin a perfectly good lobster. Yeah, that's neat. That's neat. There's an old baker back here who's had some interesting combinations of simple recipes. What are some that you found that have the most unusual ingredients but actually come out pretty good Probably two favorites, one thing to do cheesecake, uh snow rolls, and uh Yeah of course. Cheesecake, snowballs, and chocolate chip cookies. Well I think the common ingredient there is sugar. Which is always a hit. Yeah, that's always a hit. I thought a simple ingredient but one of my friends suggest is to try onion rings with syrup. Onion rings with syrup. Yeah, I'm a salty tasting kind of guy. That would be, oh, this is kind of strange. I know a fellow who used to uh eat his French fries with mayonnaise And we look at him and say, that's weird, but he says, well you make a potato salad with mayonnaise, don't you? It's like, well, okay. But just the thought of uh a fried Uh thing with one more really weird one that Penny still says is disgusting. But um must go strawberries? Yeah, that's over the line for me. Mustard with strawberries. Well, I think if I have a batch someday I may try that. Mustard with strawberries. What is that what does the mustard do to the strawberry flavor Well it it's a long family story. Okay. But um we were on a picnic one time, we had mustard and strawberries, so for the entertainment of the children I combined the two And it's just gonna be kinda become a family thing. I see. Well, you know, uh in your defense the Chinese are masters at mixing very opposite flavors together. They do that a lot And uh you get some interesting combinations. Well, uh the point of this whole little simple exercise is to show that sometimes very disparate, very different things can come together that you might not normally expect. And that's what we have in our text today, because it says That we are to serve God with grace, but with reverence and godly fear. You wouldn't expect it to say that If it was to be strictly with grace, it would seem that grace casts out fear. Grace eliminates that. You're no longer under the condemnation, the wrath uh and the persecuting eye of God, you're an object of his mercy. You're an elect child of his. So this seems to be right off the bat a strange jucta Juxtaposition. If I were writing this, I wouldn't write it this way, but I'm not inspired of God to write down scripture. So let's try to unpack this because We're at the end of Hebrews 12, and we're going to now transition to a very, very different chapter. The first 12 chapters of this whole book seems to have been aimed at one purpose. To convince a Hebrew that Jesus Christ is the real deal. That this is exactly where the prophecy of the Old Testament and the trajectory has always been headed towards. You know, I learned a difference this week, but I'll see if you know. What is the difference, and there is one. It's subtle, it's kind of nuanced, but you'll appreciate it. What's the difference between a Jew and a Hebrew? Any ideas? A Jew and a Hebrew No ideas? Okay. Um the Hebrews was the entire entirety of Abraham's line, whereas the Jews were the line of Judah. Okay, so you're looking at Ju as a const uh constriction of Juda. Okay, yeah. Um That that's that's that's that's uh to a degree correct. I I like that. You're you're going down the right track looking for what those national type distinctions are Well, I learned recently that a Hebrew is somebody who is truly devoted to the cause. They they think of themselves they think Aramaic first. Some of you are from a different country. They think in Aramaic first, and then in their day the Greek language later. The Apostle Paul says he was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. And he's using that as a point to show that he was truly and deeply embedded. He was a very conservative, orthodox. member of the faith-believing community of the Old Testament. The Jews, on the other hand, were generally associated uh at this point in time as those that had returned from captivity the Samaritans were scattered so these were those who had a national identity for instance you also will read In Acts, where it says the Grecians had a dispute about the care of their widows. The Grecians there actually is not referring just to Greeks, but it's to Greek-speaking Jews. They have long since lost the religious aspect. They are in heart, not that they ever had it to begin with, but they're not even trying. They're just a Jew in name only We have certain repu certain politicians that we say are their party in name only. There are very nice Muslim people I've worked with and whom I had as doctors. They're not connected to Muhammad or any of the right. They're in name only. It's just a nationality, something that they have a crude association, a rough association with nothing type. This is the difference between Jew and Hebrews. This is not written to the Jews, this is written to the Hebrews Somebody who is mentally connected to the teachings of Moses and is trying to be orthodox and faithful to it. And so At this point, there's this line of argumentation that's being given, and let's suppose for the moment that the Hebrew mind has been convinced by the arguments of the first twelve chapters. The superiority of the priesthood of the Order of Melchizedek, the superiority of Jesus as the greater temple and tabernacle, of the superiority of his sacrifice. All the arguments that have been given, and I'm just really touching on them briefly, it's now kind of like you've brought them to this point, you've moved them away from Moses, and you say, now what? Uh now what? If we don't go back to feast days, what do we go to? If I'm not going to bring a sacrifice to the temple, now what? And that's the question that's being posed here. And this is the start As we get to the next chapter, like the Mississippi River flows down a great long way, lots of winding turns, major tributaries that come in. reinforce the stream, it gets bigger and broader, and it finally dumps into the Gulf of what is now known as America, into a large delta. And that's where we're at right here. It's a large delta, and there's a lot of explanation that has to be given later, and that's the 13th chapter And so to the Hebrew mind, and this is in your handout, your first fill-in-the-blank, to them it sounds like a total abandonment of Jehovah worship according to Moses. If we're totally abandoning this, so how now do we actually worship God? How do we now serve God? I don't go to the temple, I don't go to a lit. Okay, now what How do I operate? So to the Hebrew this would be a big deal, and frankly, I think it would be true for a Gentile as well, because we have a lot of old idols. of the old man, things that were a big deal to us, and we need somebody to tell us, well, what do I do now? You know, I asked that question of a psychiatrist at Kaiser Permanente when I was at the verge of desperation for my own very life. And I said, Pat, you've taken away the bottle, you've taken away the booze and the drugs. I have nothing left to turn to. What do I do now? I didn't know. My idols were shot. She says, why don't you go to church? A worldly psychiatrist. Why don't you go to church? She said church, I thought Bible. Went on, picked up my Bible, haven't set it down since. It's that crucial point. Now what? And that's what's being answered here. Now what? You know, it does sound strange to the Hebrews' ears, and you'll see in your handout, I've listed a number of verses throughout the book of Acts, because there was another fellow named Saul of Tarsus, who was a Hebrew of Hebrews. Who had been converted, who'd been changed, and he's preaching a different message. And listen to what the Jews, those who weren't necessarily committed, They were in name only. Listen to their response. Their response was this. This man ceases not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law. We've heard him say, this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place and shall change the customs which Moses delivered to us. That was their takeaway. He's blasphemous. Is some of what he was saying true? Yeah. But they didn't get and how what? That was Acts 6. 13. Two chapters later in Acts 18. 12, the Jews made an insurrection with one accord against Paul. And brought him to the judgment seat, saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. They're not talking about the Roman law They're talking about Moses' law, the old covenant. Again, Acts 21, 27. Stirred up all the people, laid hands on him, crying out, Men of Israel, help! This is the man that teacheth all men everywhere against the people in the law in this place. He's furthermore brought Greeks into the temple and has polluted this holy place. Huh! He's even bringing in these unbelievers in here. What's he doing? It's the then what? Because it's very different. We're no longer serving to the shadows. Acts 24, 5 and 6. Now it Charges are coming. We're going to prosecute him. We found this man a pestilent fellow, a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarene. who has also gone about to profane the temple. And so this would be the obvious conclusion to those who are wild-eyed fanatics all of a sudden against the normal order of things. And it would be a hard right turn. Now what? How do we serve God? You know, even today I've met people that still cling tenaciously to the old covenant. Gabriel and I sat with a man At a table at an event recently where a family is a very nice large house and they brought in members of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra to play with the uh the the brass instruments and they had a few Christmas songs and they had members of their family sing. It was a delightful two hour evening. It was really very nice. And we sat there with this fellow who was at a church that meets on Saturdays. He fastidiously avoids pork. He's somewhat trying to follow the old covenantal rules, because that's what their church teaches. So even today there are those who still start in the book of Genesis and they can't get past Exodus and Deuteronomy, all the thou shalt, thou shalt, thou shalt, and they It seems they've never gotten to the book of Galatians, and I think the best argument to them would be the book of Hebrews to say, you know, these things were a sign in a shadow. The fulfillment has come. So even to this day, this is still a relevant problem. It's not just a first century issue. Now what? Now what? This is a question that's on many Christians' minds, frankly, because the New Testament lays out a lot of principles. It's not as specific and detailed. On sixth days you do this. On the seventh day you don't do this. You can't kindle a fire. You can't walk this distance. Very clear. You shall not mix these types of garments. Very clear. Can't mix garments. But that's done away. If you're looking for a bunch of thou shalt and thou shalt nots in the New Testament, there's not a lot. There are there. But they're not as explicit and as detailed. They're more of a principle. And Christians have difficulty with those principles and applications. Well, we have the start of it here, and more detail is given in the 13th chapter. It says that we are to have an acceptable service. At this point in time, there is an acceptable service with God. Likewise, there is an unacceptable service of God, and that unacceptable service is that which has been described in the previous chapters. Going to the synagogue and worshiping sacrifices and offerings, if one may be found, unacceptable. Having a cedar, the current-day Jewish form of a Passover, that's unacceptable to God. That's a slap in his face. There are various ways that you may try to pull out from the Old Testament without integrating the whole Bible and say, well, this is how I'm going to worship God. No, that can be unacceptable. What is the acceptable service to God? I see three things. We serve with grace. We serve with reverence. We serve with godly fear. And this is a time when being a wordsmith is kind of handy because there's some interesting nuances in those words. Serve with grace You all know, or at least certainly if you've been in church any period of time, I think you've heard the word grace. There's a nice acrostic with it, God's riches at Christ's expense. Grace is God giving us what we do not deserve. Mercy is God not giving us what we do deserve. The flip side of that. You know, it's actually The same words that have been used earlier in Hebrews about serving. Hebrews 8, in the old, they serve the example in the shadow. Hebrews 9, it could not make him that did the service perfect. Hebrews 9. 14, purging your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. We understand that concept of service. It's actually rendered in chapter 10. Worship. Worship is an act of serving the Lord. It's serving him with your praises, your offering, your thanksgiving. It literally means to echo grace. That word has been brought over into our English language. I'm not saying it should be translated echo, but. That's the concept, to have it. You know, you say something, boom, it comes back, it's still there with you. It's not in a void. We're to echo our life is to be an echo chamber of the Lord Jesus. I know there's fault with this, but I do like the little acronym. If it's used in a God-fearing sense, what would Jesus do? There's a lot associated with the WWJD things that have been fancied about Uh but fundamentally just the phrase taken at face value is a nice thing to ask yourself and to bring forward questions when considering certain things. You know, my personal observation is this, and then we're going to turn to Romans 12. The serve with grace, I believe, looks like this. The old man, the way you were prior to salvation, the old man is harsh to others outside. He thinks about his own personal trinity, I, me, and myself. He's harsh to others outside, but he's kind to himself. He cuts himself a lot of slack. He's nice to himself. He gives himself a pass. He's gracious to himself. But he's kind of harsh to others. You see it on the road all the time. The fellow that cuts you off. I was going down the road. It really wasn't safe to be driving faster than fifty-five, sixty miles an hour on this one foggy day and I had a guy behind me that the second he had uh a slight of an opening lane, he zipped around me and kind of waved me with the one-finger salute. I've seen others do that and they roll their car in the snow because you really can't go 50 miles an hour in the snow in a pickup truck if it's not a four-wheel drive. Ice is no respecter of of ma auto manufacturer The new man, however, is very different. He's the opposite. He is actually kind and gracious to them that are without, but he's harsh on himself. He is harsh to himself. By harsh I don't mean suicidal. Please don't misunderstand me. I don't mean that. But he lowers himself a notch. He comes down. His business of one upmanship is over. You know what I mean by that? There's a table. I went fishing, I caught a a two pound trout. Well that's nothing. I went out and caught a fifty pound tarpon. That's nothing. I latched onto and it just keeps It's the one-upmanship, the chest pounding. I want to show you my resume and make sure you understand who you're talking to. All that disappears. They're harsh on themselves. Look, for instance, now at Romans chapter 12 and verses 1 and 2, to serve with grace. Because serving God is now no longer A specific act at a specific place in front of God's specific named person who's a man who will die. at a specific time. It's rather an ongoing life situation. Romans 12, 1 and 2, he says, I beseech you. I'm begging you. I'm I'm I'm urging you. Notice he doesn't say command Although to you and I it ought to be seen as one. I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, what's he appealing to? He's not appealing to the law of Moses. He's appealing to the mercy of God. That's grace. I beseech you that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. First time I read this with Brother Bernie, he kindly informed me that sacrifices are normally burned. But not a burnt sacrifice, you don't kill yourself, a living sacrifice. Again, that's this idea of putting yourself down, subjecting yourself to the will of others and say that's okay. Holy, acceptable unto God. That word shows up twice in this sentence, which is your reasonable service. Excuse me, there's a second sentence that shows up in. He says it's your reasonable service. It's your logical service. This is obvious. You ought to do this. If Jesus Christ willingly came and did this, you ought the more do the same. And Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. I don't care what side of the political spectrum you're on, but the political world has this totally opposite. It says this. It has in the opposite in the sense of uh Be conformed to this m this world, meaning their world of political, but don't be transformed by their thinking. This is the other way around. It says, be not conformed to this world, but be you transformed by the renewing of your mind. Don't get hung up on my silly example, but understand where the transformation is occurring. It's this internal work. It's how we think about things. And this shows up so many ways, which are explained, I think, in the next couple of sections here. Transformed by the renewing of your mind. Notice it's a renewing. It's a revival. It's a giving back of life. It's a wonderful thing. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Who are you proving it to? Well, first and foremost to yourself. You're proving it to yourself. How does that work? Well let's keep going. It says to serve God with grace, and then we serve him with reverence. I went halfway through this study Before I corrected a grievous mistake I had made, because I assumed that this particular word reverence is the normal use of the word reverence Such as that found in Peter. And wives see that she reverence her husband. It's the word phobia, which has come straight over into our language. You have a fear of certain things, arachnophobia, fear of spiders, things like that, fear of flying. That's not the word phobia. It really is not. It's the word aidos. Iidos is the word for knowing. Know you not. Or to know something. This is the word not knowing. Serve God with not knowing. He's not talking about serving God with ignorance, but it's a phrase that has come to mean shamefacedness. Now you who are teachers in this room, and we have teachers there, uh, you know there are these students that are trying to learn. A question is asked publicly, and they don't know, and they kind of hang their face down because they didn't know the answer. They're kind of ashamed. That's the sense of the word, with shamefacedness. It's the sense of modesty, not to be uh not to overtake the root of the word It's bashful, not braggadocious. It's lowly, not loud. That's the sense of reverence here. We're not braggadocious about what we know or what things we might have. It says in Philippians 2. 3 Let nothing, that's a pretty broad term, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Joey, I watched this channel on YouTube called Active Self-Protection. Host is John Carrias, former Baptist preacher, who decided that he liked to teach people the principles of self-defense and he has a research informed channel where he reviews all kinds of uh uses of the defensive um the defensive use of a firearm and shows various clips that are sent to him, maybe police reports and the like And he has a rule to avoid stupid people with stupid in stupid places at stupid times doing stupid things. He calls it the four rules of stupid. Because there's just so many opportunities for the flesh to get into road rage or uh a little bit of alcohol and we've got an anger match going on that just spirals and escalates out of control. These things are to be alien from the child. Do you have those hot buttons where somebody pushes that button, you're pushing my buttons, people will say, you're just aggravating me, and it can really spiral you up. God says let nothing Be done through that. Or vainglory. Some guy's a glory hog. He's got to have the first word, the middle word, and the last word. He's got to have it all. All the attention's got to be there Let nothing be done through that, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. That may be hard for some people to do. It certainly is of the old man, but it ought not to be for the new man. This is serving with reverence, shamefacedness, a coming down. You know the two main points of the law that Jesus summarized? To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. The second is likened to it, which is you'll love your neighbors yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets So, loving my fellow man is a whole lot connected with loving the Lord my God here in service. It's a lowliness, it's a bringing down. Ephesians speaks extensively in the fourth chapter in the first verse. I therefore beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called. We've been called to a job. Some of you perhaps have been fortunate this year to get a new job. And you're in this job. And you show up and you're happy. And they're going to tell you something. You've consented, and it's amazing what people will do with consent. You've consented to work in this job, and here you are. Well, you're not free to hang out in the back room surfing your phone, smoking a cigarette during work hours. If there's customers up front that need shoes tried on, you're supposed to be out there doing that. You're Likewise with the Christian life. You've been called to this vocation. Your job is Christian. Do you know you have a job? If you're a child of God, you have a job. Do you know what that job entails? Do you have any idea? Have you asked the Lord for guidance and insight and wisdom on how best to occupy that job? Maybe you're in a training phase. You're just basically learning how to work and operate. That's okay. Spend your time well in the learning phase. Maybe you've been a senior citizen for a long time and you're thinking, boy, this is getting tired, I'd like to do something else. Guess what? It's a short life It'll end soon enough. But you are called. It's a vocation. But you have to walk worthy of it. Some of the biggest Sellers in newsstands are the tabloid magazine, and their targets are often the monarchs of Britain I don't pay attention to them. Ever since 1812, you know, the U. S. has kind of had nothing to do with the monarchs, you know. We've kind of given up on that, so that's their problem, you know. Not my circus, not my monkeys But they love to look at all the shameful things that happen in the royalty in the family. They bring shame upon the royal family name. If you're a child of God, you're royalty. He has seated us in the heavenly places. Here is kings and priests unto God. We will rule and reign with him forever. You are a king, like David in those early days, anointed of Samuel to be the king, but for the time The time being and the season in a warfare, a spiritual battle, until that day come when it is pronounced to you, come, inherit the kingdom. Made for you, prepared for you from the foundation of the world. So you have been called by God to this worthy occupation. Serve Him in such fashion. Be humble, be modest, you don't need the attention. Next is serving with godly fear. I thought this one too might surely be phobia. Nope, not the word phobia either. Doesn't use that. Because phobia has to do sometimes with the cringing fear of a guilty criminal. That's not this word, it's the word eulabia, which is an odd word. U, EU, uh when you go to a funeral you pronounce the eulogy. We've even brought that over. The EU means good. And labia here means a receiving It's rightly rendered godly fear. It's a good fear. A good receiving. I kind of take the sense of this as a good beatdown. Just a take your whoopings, boy. Um It's a healthy respect for, say, fire. A little child wants to reach out and touch the candle. Ooh, that hurt. Okay, he has a healthy respect for fire. He learns, okay, I I enjoy it, but I have a respect for it. That's what reverence is, a healthy respect for the Lord. There's a limit to what we do For instance, in Hebrews 5, it speaks of the Lord Jesus. And this is the only other time this word is found in the Bible. And it speaks about the Lord Jesus. It's in Hebrews 5, 7 through 8, it says, Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications, with strong crying and tears to him that was able to save him from death Yeah, he's beseeching God. May this cup pass from me. Repeat. May this cup pass from me. Repeat. He was heard in that he feared Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. He received it. There was nothing guilty about him The thief on the cross had it right. This man has done nothing amiss. The lowest of the basest criminals declared him to be innocent. Moments before Pontius Pilate had it right, I find no fault in this man. From the most powerful rightfully placed ruler to the deepest, lowest criminal, across the board, if there was any honest assessment of the Lord Jesus Christ, their declaration was this, this man has done nothing amiss Yet look at the calamities that came upon him. I mean, honestly, who among you would like to walk in Jesus' shoes for one week? I'll even give you the ability to do miracles. How would you like to walk in his shoes for even just one week? He rose up early and went into a mountain to pray. He had his very own disciples arguing among themselves who should be the greatest. Fellas, he ain't getting it. He the beatings, the whippings, the mocking Just the the constant rejection. Who among us would like to endure what he endured? His very birth, his parents were chased out of the country for fear of their lives. Who among us? And yet he was perfectly righteous. Who among us can say you're perfectly righteous? And who among us can say, well, why am I suffering like this? You got a comment? Yeah, the he asked the disciples, are you able? And they oh yeah, yeah, we're able. We can do it. No you aren't. No you're not. Who among us who among us could do that? You know It's a receiving, this serving with godly fear, I believe, is this. It's receiving both good and evil from the hand of the Lord. And you suppress those doubts when hard times strike. You remember my introductory part? The old man, harsh outside Good to yourself on the inside, kind of let the emotions fly, whatever. Yep, uh excuse it, justify it. Oh, I'm such and such an age. I I've got such and such a degree. I I've got these privileges. I can do No, God says you can't. You have to operate as a child of the king. Think about Job God himself said of Job, Have you considered my servant Job? There's none like him, one that feareth God. He's a God-fearing man, so we don't have a question as to whether or not Job feared God, and askews evil. He pushes it away. And when all the calamity of God came upon him, then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die? You see, that's the nature of the flesh. This Christian life is too hard. I've had it. Alice, enough. I don't want it That was Job's wife. And what was Job's response? He said unto her, thou speakest as one of the foolish women speak. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of the Lord? And shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job send with his lips. Came across an interesting chapter in this book I got for my birthday recently about mindfulness and self-awareness. And one of the points in the book was that you can actually be very happy no matter where you're at. It's all about your frame of mind. And the illustration is made of that of a little infant and a baby. Babies are pretty much happy. They get food, they got clean diaper, they got sleep. They're happy. You meet those three conditions, they're for the most part happy. They can be happy sitting in the car. They can be happy sitting on the floor. They can be happy sitting in the dirt. They can be happy with ants crawling over their legs. There's a lot of things they can be happy with. They can be happy with a dog looking in their face. They're happy with it. They're just generally happy. It's like somewhere between that And now we lost happy. How'd that how'd that happen? I'm convinced it's when they took away the nap in kindergarten, but that's my opinion. Right after kindergarten we lost the nap, it just all went downhill from there Well, it turns out that a little story was given that a man goes and a uh his um his car breaks down and he can't get to work and his friend says, Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. Your car Can't make it to work. He says, who can tell whether it's good or bad? A few hours later he finds out there had been a tractor trailer crash on the side of the road, exactly at the spot in the bridge where he would have been crossing. Wow, it's a good thing you didn't cross the road at that time. He said, who can tell whether it's for good or bad? Everything he answered, all the different scenarios you can imagine where something bad happened, but it turned out to be good for later on, he says, who can tell? Maybe God is bringing certain calamities and difficulties in your life for a point that at this present time he just hasn't been pleased to tell you. Do you believe in the sovereignty of God? Do you believe that all things work together for good? Yea, even the bad. The pain in the back, the falls, the Cancer diagnosis, the lost job, the Yeah, even a divorce, which is an ugly, horrible, hideous thing. The death of a loved one The failed ambitions of college, not getting a job coming out, the crushing debt, all yeah, we can trace it to some of our sins. But do you honestly believe in the sovereignty of God? Do you think that there's some corner of the universe where God says I forgot about that. Oh Lisa, man, I'm so sorry. Snap. I forgot about that. That's not the God of the Bible Serve him with godly fear. Think about what came on Jesus Christ. Nothing Is incidental or accidental? A brother one time told me there are no such things as accidents. There are events, but there are no such things as accidents. Give thanks for this this thing. It is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Yeah. That's hard. This is a mindset change The new covenant is about the renewing of the mind. The new covenant is about an outlook. The new covenant is a walk of faith. It's a walk of trust. It's not a tangible thing I can touch and hold and hug. Although there are tangible things we can touch and hold and hug one another, the fellowship of the brethren is sweet, and I look forward to Sundays. There's a dynamic in between these two ingredients, grace and fear, isn't there? These are two you would not consider putting together But consider the outcome. Just as some of you can't consider putting together ham and pineapple on a pizza, and I personally like also anchovies and pepperoni on a pizza too, but some people cringe at that. There is this dynamic between kindness to others and an internal suppression of rebellion against God. It's contrary to the natural man, and frankly it may take you a lifetime to master it, but here's the hope, brethren. When you do, you can walk on water Even the very storms of life won't move you. That's a walk of faith. That's where God would have you to be. And mom, he's going to keep you here until you learn how to do that. So you thought you were kicking out four years ago, well you're not. Because he knows I still need chocolate chip cookies, but that's another story. Every child's question in verse 29, you get up to this. What does every child ask when mom gives an order that the child doesn't like? Why? And they love that question because they can keep torturing mom with that question again and again and again and again. Why are you only to pick up your room? Because it's a mess and needs to be clean. Why? Well, if it's not clean, you get mice and bugs and and then they bring disease. Why? At some point, you get done with the whys And you answer it as you would to a stiff Hebrew mind who's asking the same question. Because there are consequences. This is more than a nice idea, folks. It's actually a commandment of God to walk and to serve Him with grace and godly fear because our God's a consuming fire. He's given you Jesus Christ. You've, as it were, won the celestial lottery. It is guaranteed If you're in his hand, you'll never be lost. You have an eternity of joy forevermore at the right hand of God in pleasures. You'll be alive more than you could have ever imagined. We just have five senses now. I think in that new world we enter in, it's going to be like having 50 senses. It's going to be alive more than you've ever felt before Angels can just move swiftly and quickly. Our mood of freedom of movement will be with ease. We'll think and we're there. It's an instantaneous thing. That's my opinion But the answer is very succinct as to why. If you reject this, there's a consequence. Our gods, a consuming fire. You cannot reject this. Why? Because it's the same Jehovah of the Old Testament. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. It's the same Jehovah Deuteronomy four twenty-four says this, For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. He's jealous for his name. He's very impressed with what his son has done, and he looks to you and say, Aren't you impressed? And you go, Meh No, that's not an acceptable answer. You have to be equally impressed because it was for your benefit. And it's because of him that you stand by grace. The other reason why it's is it's an even worse than Moses' consequences. We read in Hebrews 10, 26, if we sin willfully after we receive the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more sacrifice for sins. A certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which will devour the adversaries. He that despite despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses How much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who's trodden underfoot the Son of God, counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and is done despite to the Spirit of grace We know him who said, Vengeance belongs to me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. The Lord shall judge his people. It's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God. He's already covered that. You can't say no to Jesus and think, well, there's got to be plan C. No, Jesus' plan A, B, C through Omega, there is no other plan. Well, God could have done it some other way. No. He couldn't. But he's sovereign, yes. And in his sovereign perfection, he is ordained one way. And therefore, there are no other choices. This is how God operates There is no other prophet. There is no other one to come. There is no other messenger. If he's not coming, as Paul said, though we are an angel from heaven preach any gospel unto you, land be accursed. Third point, why the succinct answer is there, it's not only the same the same Jehovah, it's not only worse than Moses' consequences, but as I've been saying, it's just and right. It's just and right because God gave us his only begotten Son to redeem us. We have to hear him. So I pray that that would be a worthy consideration. And we'll get into some more details, some more specifics as to how to serve God acceptably with grace and godly fear in the 13th chapter as it opens up into that section. Alright, very good. Thank you. Um Rick, would you mind closing us in prayer? Could I ask you to do that? It's okay if you say no, I'm hitting you cold. No, I I haven't. Okay, thank you. We see here thankful once again for the chance to pour into your words. For the chance that whatever we listen to your words, they may fall on the good soil of our hearts. That your words may continue to bear fruit in us, Lord. That your words may continue to move us. That your words may continue to stay out of our mind constantly, Lord. We pray all these things in God's name. Amen. Amen. Amen.