Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the Book of Galatians Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, and the epistles of your New Testament, Galatians chapter 6. And I'm going to read the first ten verses of chapter 6 of Galatians for our scripture reading this morning. I mentioned to Brother Vince between Sunday school and now that so often the Sunday school lesson and the morning message are like a double-barrel shotgun. twelve gauge out of both barrels but uh but at the same target and it's always a blessing when the Sunday school lesson Sunday school message and the morning Message couldn't coordinate together. If you have your place now in Galatians chapter 6, I'll read from verse 1 to 10 Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a thought, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another. For every man shall bear his burden, his own burden. Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap For he that soweth to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we therefore have opportunity, let us do good unto all men. Especially under them that are of the household of faith. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's Word this morning. Gracious Father We thank you for thy word. We thank you for the clear and pointed instruction thereof. Lord, teach us this morning by thy Spirit. We pray Open our hearts to receive thy word. Open our hearts to the understanding. Open thy word to the understanding of our hearts. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I read as our call to worship this morning, that verse from the first chapter of the book of James. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. I'll get it right. To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. That is the definition that James gave of pure religion. Visiting the widows and the fathers. We find there in the second verse of this sixth chapter, bear ye one another's burdens And so fulfill the law of Christ. And the title for this morning's message is actively fulfilling the law of Christ. Now, how do we get here? We we pull out one or two verses from a chapter and from a book. And sometimes we need to step back a bit and see the broader picture. Paul the apostle, under the inspiration of God, has been dealing throughout this book of Galatians with the contrast between the law of the Old Testament, the law of works, the law of the circumcision, as Opposed to salvation by the grace of Jesus Christ. And Paul uses a glorious term here: so fulfill the law of Christ, not the Old Testament law of works and sacrifice and circumcision, but rather fulfill the law of Christ And if you look there in the sixth chapter, I'm sorry, the sixth verse of the first chapter of Galatians, Galatians 1, 6 Paul says, how soon you've been removed to another gospel, which is not another. In other words, the Jewish believers are looking back to the law, and the Gentile believers are being told you've got to keep the law in the circumcision. And then in chapter 2, Paul talks about the fact that Peter, James, and John were going to go to the circumcision, to the Jews, but Paul himself and Barnabas were going to go to the Gentiles. And in verse 10 of chapter 2, we find that only as they would remember the poor In other words, not keep the law, but what are you to teach them? Remember the poor, keep the poor in mind. And then in verse 16 of chapter 2, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. And so he's building this contrast. If you go to chapter three and verses one and two, O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you that ye should not obey the truth before whom whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth before you, crucified among you, this only would I learn. Receive you the Spirit by the works of the law Or by the faith of Jesus Christ. And then in uh chapter 3 verse 11. A man is justified, but the just shall live by faith. Chapter 3, 24, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ And so, before we get to this truth that we are to fulfill the law of Christ in bearing one another's burdens, we have to understand it. He's built this up, he's built this contrast. You have the law on one side and faith on the other. But wait a minute. When we talk about bearing one another's burdens, aren't we talking about works of the law? When we talk about bearing one another's burdens, aren't we talking about something we should do? And we're talking about actively fulfilling the law of Christ. How do we balance that with faith? And this is what we find in Scripture that we demonstrate our love of Christ. And we demonstrate our faith in Christ by the way we behave among ourselves. Okay? By the way we order ourselves as Christians, by this shall all men know that you're my disciples. That you feed the poor, that you care for the sick, no, that you have love one to another. But why is it that a mother and father Will set aside their savings. Instead of saving money, they pour it into these kids. Kids are expensive. Kids cost money. And why is it that parents will say, well, that vacation looks nice, but the college fund here needs this And I heard a story about a family that grew up very poor. And One of the kids said, it wasn't until I was an adult and had children that I understand and understood why my mother liked the chicken neck so much. Because it it was a growing family and a lot of kids and the mother always took the neck. Well, there's not much meat on a chicken neck But she wanted her children to have the best. Why? Because she loved her kids. And so here we're talking about actively fulfilling the law of Christ We show that we love him by the way we love one another. And in Matthew 22, the passage we read, we find that uh That Christ says, You saw me naked and you clothed me. You saw me sick and you visited me. You saw me thirsty and you gave me something to drink. And the disciples are saying, We never saw you sick, we never saw you naked, we never saw you in prison, we didn't see you thirsty. When do we do these things? And Christ's answer is, when you did them to the least of my brethren, you did them unto me. And so when we as a congregation meet the diaconal needs of the congregation, Care for the sick in the congregation. We are ultimately doing those things not to the flesh and blood that's among us, but to the Savior whom we represent. And so we find here this glorious truth that in bearing one another's burdens, we fulfill the law of Christ. Now, what do we know about the Old Testament law? The first thing we know about the Old Testament law is we broke it. The first thing we know about the Old Testament law is we failed. The first thing we know about the Old Testament law is we did not keep it and we cannot keep it. But Christ here, through the Apostle Paul under inspiration, is giving us a law that we can keep. You failed in the Old Testament law. But in bearing one of those burdens, you keep the law of Christ. So with that foundation, let us consider the burdens that we bear. The first burden that we are to bear For one another is found right here in the context, and is the burden of the sinful flesh. Look at verse one. If any man be overtaken in a fault Ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself. Lest thou also be tempted, bear ye one in those burdens. And so fulfill the law of Christ. That word spiritual there in verse 1 is an interesting word. Paul said in Romans 7, verse 14, for we know that the law is spiritual And I am carnal, sold under sin. And again in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 10, brethren, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes. The law is spiritual, but we're sold under sin. Paul said, I couldn't speak to you as spiritual, but as babes, as carnal. You see, being overtaken in the thought In which we bear one of those burdens is the danger of every one of us. And when a brother is overtaken in a fault, we're to help bear that burden. Oh, we can't pay for the sin. Christ alone paid for the sin. But you see, we as a congregation had the responsibility of looking to the spiritual needs of one another. It is marvelous and great to meet the financial needs, to meet the physical needs, to meet the social needs, to meet the emotional needs, and we're going to talk about those yet to come. But first and foremost We bear one another's burdens of sin, in that we watch for one another's soul. And iron sharpens iron. And when a brother falls, we don't throw out the baby with the basholder. We change the diaper and move on. That we might grow in grace. And so we bear one of those burdens, folks. Paul himself said, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Paul knew that he was always subject to temptation. And so when a brother falls We do not condone the sin. There's many verses about that. In Leviticus 19, we're not to suffer sin upon our brother. And in Luke 3, we're to, if thy brother trespass against thee, thee rebuke him. And so we're not saying that we condone sin in the body of Christ, and we rebuke it, we fight against it. But at the same time, we do not condemn the brother, we condemn the sin, but not the brother. Because you know what? The next one to sin may be you. The next one to be overtaken in the fault may be me. And so the first aspect of bearing one of those burdens is understanding that every believer is subject to sin. And so looking there at the verse that we were to restore one another in a spirit of meekness. Considering ourselves. Considering that we are subject to the same temptations that we are subject to sin. Iron sharpens iron I've already mentioned, but uh uh the priests of earth themselves are subject to infirmity. We find in Hebrews 5, verses 1 and 2, for every high priest Taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he might offer sacrifices for s gifts and sacrifices for sins. The priest who can have compassion on the ignorant And on them they're out of the way, for that he himself is is compassed with infirmity. And so the first way in which we bear one another's burdens is to strengthen one another and to hold one another up, understanding that there's no temptation that we're not capable of falling to. Bear one of those burdens. But then the second way in which we bear one of those burdens is to bear one of those burdens on sickness. Folks, we have a long list of folks on our prayer list. I hope that you are printing out the prayer list. It's emailed out And I hope that you print it out and read through it day by day and pray for it. Some people you may want to take three families and make that Monday and three families and make that Tuesday, whatever way you do it Pray for one another. We have seen mighty answers of prayer in this congregation to physical needs. But folks, we've got a lot more physical needs to come. And so we need to be praying about them. But in James chapter five, we find these words If any is uh is any sick among you Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if any have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults to one another, and pray that you may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We are to bear one of those burdens and sickness. And we find this throughout Scripture. Remember Lazarus? Lazarus was sick. What did they do? Well, he sent for Jesus. Remember Peter's mother-in-law? Christ comes in and they tell Christ in uh Mark 1, verse 31, but Simon's mother uh lay s mother Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever and anon they tell him they told Jesus about it That's what we do. We tell Jesus about these sicknesses. We tell Jesus about the sickness of the body. And we read there earlier Christ says, I was naked and you clothed me sick and ye visited me. Well the disciples said, When were you sick? We don't remember that You visited my children that were sick, and you did it unto me. But not only do we bear one of those burdens of this sinful flesh, the temptations we all bear, and the the physical needs in terms of sickness. But we fulfill the law of Christ by bearing one of those emotional needs. We're told to rejoice with them that rejoice And to weep with them that weep. Folks, we have people that are hurting, we have people that are rejoicing. That's always the state. And we all know what it what it is to have a toothache. Why does a toothache hurt your big toe? Well, it does. What? Because we're one body When one rejoices, all rejoice, but when one is sorrowing, all are sorrowing as well. That's part of fulfilling the law of Christ. is bearing that burden. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 26, and whether one member suffer, all members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all members rejoice with it. Second Corinthians 1, verses 3 and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of all mercies, the God of all comfort. who comforteth us in our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble By the comfort whereof we ourselves are comforted in God. Has God ever comforted your heart on something? Well was that just for you? No. It was that you might learn to comfort those that are in tribulation. In First Thessalonians we find the great truth that we sorrow not as others which have no hope, that that they which are dead in Christ shall rise again. But that passage concludes with these words, wherefore comfort one another with these words In 1 Peter 3 and verse 8, Peter says, Finally, be all of one mind, having compassion one of another. Love as brethren, be pitiful, be Courteous. And so part of fulfilling the law of Christ is bearing one another's emotional needs, caring for those that suffer, remembering those that are in sorrow. But then also we bear one another's burdens of this needy flesh. We have needs in this world. We're told in Scripture, having clothed and raiment, therewith be content. We're not looking to build uh mega mansions. The the area where we live used to be farm country and now the farm country is being sold and cut up for houses. And we're not talking about bungalows. We're we're talking about houses of I don't know how many square feet these things are, but five bedrooms and thirteen bathrooms and a living room and a anteroom and uh I don't know. Penny always says, how do they clean it? To be wealthy in this world's terms, we're not looking to build for ourselves empires, but we do need food and raiment. Having food and raiment therewith be content. But a roof over ahead and with the coming cold we have needs And as a congregation, part of fulfilling the law of Christ is looking to those needs. In James chapter 2, starting in verse 15, if a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, And one say unto them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled. Notwithstanding we give not those things which are needful to the body. What do they profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. You know, somebody's hungry, oh well be warmed and filled. Well, it doesn't put anything in their belly. It doesn't put a coat on their back. It doesn't do any good to say, well, I'm praying for you and God bless you. And our care of the brethren to end there. And again in 1 John 3, verse 17 to 18, but whoso hath this world's goods And see if his brother have need, and shutteth up the bowels of his compassion from him. How dwelleth the love of God in him My little children, let us love not in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And so we are to distribute to the necessities of the saints and be given to hospitality. And folks, I'm kind of preaching to the choir on this one. You know, at the establishment of this congregation, one of the th first things that my wise brother did was establish a diaconal fund. In all honesty, I hadn't thought of that when we were establishing the congregation. But that was a high priority. And it has been used uh throughout our long and short five-year history uh extensively for the blessing of the saints And folks, that is the way a church, a congregation ought to be. And so God will bless the generosity of the congregation. If you look there At the text, down to verse 5, it says, For every man shall bear his own burdens. We're not talking here about laziness. We're not talking here about someone who is unwilling to work a job. or unwilling to extend themselves and just wants to live on charity. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about caring for the needs of God's people. People, if you look down at verse 9, let us not be weary In well doing, for in due season ye shall reap as you faint not. You cannot cannot outgive God. I was talking with another pastor Just this week a retired pastor actually. And th this subject came up and he mentioned that churches that are stingy Always have a deficit in their budget. But churches that understand that every cent that comes in belongs to the Lord and is for the furtherance of the gospel and the blessing of his people. Well they'll have a surplus in their budget. And God has blessed us with that year after year. Cast thy bread upon the waters, Ecclesiastes 11:1. Cast thy bread upon the waters. For thou shalt find it after many days. The Lord will bless it back. And I mentioned to you before a congregation that I heard of some time ago that was endeavoring to purchase a two million dollar property They had $400,000. And they learned of another church that was endeavoring to purchase a $400,000 property, but just didn't have the means. And they said, no, you know, that church needs it today. We can wait. And so this church gave away their entire savings to another congregation to provide for them a building and within a year they had two million dollars and got the property they look at. Now, uh the we're not talking about the prosperity gospel here. But we're talking about the fact that God will provide the needs of his people, if his people are faithful in the use of the means he puts in our hands. Right. And so we fulfill the law of Christ by meeting the needs of God's people. Especially those of the household of faith, as it says there in our text. who are of the household of faith. But then also we find that we bear one of those burdens by bearing the burdens of the fearful flesh. We've talked about the spiritual flesh, we've talked about the physical flesh, we talked about the financial flesh and the emotional flesh. But the fearful flesh God does not describe his people as lions. God does not describe his people as bulls or alligators. Or dinosaurs, or any creature that you think of as being a man-eater, or being able to defend himself. God describes his people as sheep. And sheep are fearful. Sheep are easily startled. But you know what the great comfort of the sheep is? The fold. Being together. That's why if one sheep runs left, the whole flock will run left with it. Because sheep are flocking animals Sheep are sheep of one shepherd, and sheep dwell together for their own comfort and peace. And we understand that God's people are fearful people. We are afraid of many things. We're afraid of falling in sin, should be top. We're fearful about the economy. We're fearful about wars and rumors of wars. We're fearful about getting sick. We're fearful about retirement. You can start naming all these things that bring great fear to the people of God. We bear one another's burdens by bearing and comforting and reassuring one another's fears. In second Timothy chapter one, verse seven, for God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love. And I'm a sound mind. Think about those three adjectives, power, love, and a sound mind. We're weak as one, but we're powerful as a group. Love. We're not talking about loving ourselves. We're talking about loving each other. And a sound mind. We have the mind of Christ. We're to be of one mind. That's a flocking term. So we bear one another's burdens by bearing one another's fears. In first John four, verse seventeen of following, herein is our love made perfect That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. If any man say I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother who hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment we have from him, he who loveth God, love his brother also. And so folks, we have a law that is true and right. We have the law of the Old Testament We have the Ten Commandments, and none of us have kept them. We have the righteousness of God laid out That a man should live by these things, but we failed before them, and God knew we would fail before them. So God provided his Son. Jesus Christ is the only one who has ever kept the law of God. But we're not saved by the works of the law, but rather by the faith of Jesus Christ. But that doesn't mean we're free from righteousness. It doesn't mean we're free from the law. So here in this one verse, we have very distinctly described for us: bear ye one another's burdens. And so fulfill the law of Christ. And folks, if you think about Christian duty and Christian responsibility, it can all in some way or another be tied to this one concept. Bury one of those burdens. And so may God give us grace, as believers, day by day, not to fulfill the old law But to fulfill the new one. May we fulfill the law of Christ. Let us stand for prayer, please. Father, we thank you for thy word. We thank you that we are not, as the world would say, a law unto ourselves. But Lord, you've given us this word as we saw in our our confessional reading this morning. It is sufficient. It is complete And Father, the d the whole duty of man is found in this, that we love the brother, that we love one another. Father, may we indeed uh continue to faithfully fulfill this law by our loved one for another. Bless your people. Strengthen us, we pray through prayer. In Jesus name Amen