This morning I'd like you to open up your Bibles to Romans chapter five, and I'm going to be looking at verse fourteen. Lord willing, this will begin a series for our Sunday school entitled Pictures of Christ. And I'm always struck that this is a hymn book, H I M book. It is a history book, but it's his story. It is his story And uh I'm just struck with how m often and how frequently throughout scriptures we find that God typifies and magnifies the work of his son through many little vignettes and snapshots. In Romans 5. 14 we read this, and I know it's cutting things in in part, but I want to focus on a particular aspect about Adam perhaps you haven't considered before Romans 5 fourteen says this nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression. Now here's the punchline, it's just this one phrase Who is the figure of him that was to come? So the Bible says that Adam is, what did I say, the figure, the type, the shadow of him who was to come. And what does the figure or a type mean? Anybody? Again, interaction. What's a figure or a type? Oh by the way I have to institute a rule. You can everybody can speak up to two times until everybody's spoken twice and then it resets. All right, fair enough. everybody to be able to participate. The figure or the type of him who is to come. What is the figure or a type? Would it be like a simile, more or less? Not necessarily a uh well yeah like a simile meaning it's similar but not exact. I like that. Assimile. Assimile. Something that's very similar. So of whom is Adam a figure? Who is the him that was to come? Right. Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, let's go back to Genesis 2, 21 to 25, and let's look at Adam before he fell. This is a Bible study, you will be flipping, but I'll try to give you some time. Genesis two twenty-one. He's the figure of him who was to come. So let's look at the pre-fallen Adam, shall we? The figure of him who was to come. In turn, read Genesis 2, 21-25 Good and loud. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord God has taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Alright, so you got the text right in front of you So now here's the multiple guess question. Here nice the multiple guess. Just free choices here. In what ways was the living, meaning the pre-fall atom? A type, a figure, a simile of Christ. From what you just read, how was he a simile of Christ? He was the first among many brethren. Um well you don't see many brethren in here per se. You're not wrong. What's that? Later on there will be more later. Clearly there would be later on. But from this text I'm not sure we could support that. Just that alone. Okay. Right? Both David and the apostle quote this verse concerning Christ and his church. Bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. Okay. Of course, we know marriage is a pig. of Christ and his church. So let's draw that out some more. So that would make him that would make Christ what? And that would make the church what? Christ is the bride, the bridegroom, the church is the bride. Okay. So we've got the bridegroom, he's the bridegroom, and we are the bride. Isaiah 62, 5. You don't have to turn there, I'll read it to you. For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee, and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. Alright, we know this. Jesus also talked, he said, when he was present, can the children of the bride chamber mourn? uh as long as the bridegroom is with them, but the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them and then shall they fast. He, referring to himself as the bridegroom And those who heard him and followed him as the bride. So we have ample evidence to put to support that. And of course the passage that Brother quoted. So that's one way he's a bridegroom. uh Adam was the first bridegroom. Alright, what's another way that prefallen Adam was a picture of Christ? Uh that kind of gets where Gabriel was going, where exactly that's where where you see that that Later on you'll see that as as the seed comes, but but I'm just gonna stay right here because there's plenty right here in twenty-one to twenty-five. Yes, yeah. Um the rib was taken out of Adam, uh, and Adam was created in God's image, and in the same way the church proceeds out from Christ, it is his body. is created and it is part made part of him, not that we are part of God, but uh Christ in us is the hope of glory and we are referred to as the body of Christ taken out. That's a really good one. I didn't have that one here so I may have to add I've got room on my notes to add that, so I will do that. Uh Joe's making uh Pastor Joe's making a very good point, and that uh we come from him and you can really build on that um Adam fell asleep and a rib was taken from him and fashioned into the woman. So are we from not of this creation we are from that that ul that first man, that one made in the image of God. I also think about the Spirit of God, which quickens us. The Spirit of God is said to be given to us in as an earnest, you know what an earnest payment is. That's a what? What's the word I'm looking for? Down payment, that's all it is, right? It ain't the whole amount. The deal ain't done until something follows the down payment, right? And so we have the earnest Even so the rib is just but the earnest, it's just a portion of it. There's a lot you can do with that. That's a good one. Thanks. Two other points from this text. Anton. Uh I just uh saw how Adam was uh laid down and his side had to be open and so it was Christ uh laid down or put to death at the cross and his side was open and uh the water and the blood poured out and that that was what was required in order to attain the church. So here with Adam he had to be opened up for him to receive his bride. That's a fifth point I'm gonna add here that isn't that is very good. Notice it said the Lord God caused a what? Deep sleep. What is sleep? A picture of in the Bible. Death. This wasn't an average sleep. This was a deep, deep sleep. Yes, yeah. I like the uh the uh confessional statement that says he descended into hell. Right, all that was required to pay for your sins he underwent And a and a and a bride came out, a a new creature. Mark. And then I think Well, I I l I the language is he of course and he caused a deep sea fall on N but he uh he brought the woman just to unto the man. He brought her unto the man and that's how God brought us to him. He did it. He made it he you know we're drawn to him of course above. Two other points you haven't hit on yet. See if you can get to 'em I like the fact that it talks about God has done all the work. Yes. Yeah, no. But as you stare at these things, you can certainly see a lot of gospel overtones in here. My my point is back in Romans 5, 14, who is the image of him to come, the figure, the type of him who is to come. And so I'm kind of focusing on what is it about Adam. We've been looking at the bride and the church, but what is it about Adam? here that really figures Christ in this instance. Joe? They both were not ashamed. That's right. Adam dwelt in sinlessness before the ball. So let's keep drawing on that some. Kee keep pulling that. Back it up some. Well Ad Adam dwelt Made, okay. Made keep going with a made. the fullness of God come in the flesh. Made of a woman? But I don't want to make a woman. No, he wasn't. Keep going. You're you're getting there. Made out of the wall. It starts with the first letter of my name. And the virgin birth. Okay. Adam had a virgin birth. He was the first creature, first created. It was a ver there's no other. None other. See why I was drawing on that, pulling that thumb? Even so Jesus Christ was born of a virgin. Lotus. Uh he was uh he was uh uh in a sense Adam was had a birth from a virgin earth Pure, holy, and wise, righteous and upright. Ecclesiastes seven twenty nine, lo, this only hath I found. That God hath made man upright, but he hath sought out, but they have sought out many inventions Made man upright. Adam was righteous. This is the only individual you can point to in the scriptures and say, truly had free will. He had a righteousness. Adam was righteous. And in fact, had he never sinned, would there have been any cause for death in him? No. How long would Adam have lived had he never sinned? We still be live. That's exactly right, forever. Because why is it men die? What is the only cause of death? Sin. Will the hospitals ever tell you that is the cause of death? Never. Do the hospitals advertise that they have a cure for that root cause of death? No, they don't That's why they practice the medical. It's an art form. There's one more point in here, and this may be a little more subtle. Um that uh uh Adam is a covenant head. He is a covenantal head. He is the head of the woman of the church. He is that covenantal head. He is the Lord of the world. Unto Adam was given the reign of over everything. So he is the federal head. He represents what happens to him is flowed down to the posterity. So if Adam had a righteousness, it was a mutable righteousness, meaning he could throw it away. And throw it away he did. The Lord Jesus Christ had an immutable righteousness. It cannot change. It cannot fail. And aren't you glad your hope is in a immutable righteousness? If I had my two times to speak A few extras, but that's go ahead. Well I I just noticed where woman got her name. She was called woman because she was taken out of man and we are called Christians. Mm-hmm. Because we are Christ. Very good. Yep. So that's the way the the woman illustrates the church. Alright, so given that the scriptures establishes Adam as a type and a figure of Jesus, I want to consider these things in a couple of more passages moving forward. Alright? I think you've all tracked with me so far. So let's just skip to the very next chapter, probably on the same page, Genesis 3. 6 And uh can I have a volunteer reader. Gabriel, why don't you read uh Genesis three, six good and loud for us? And when the woman saw that The tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise. She took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. Uh that's interesting. There's two words that are very telling, insightful, and troubling in that verse. What two words do you think I'm thinking about? Begins with a preposition for those of you English majors. She saw. To her husband with her. With her, yeah. Alright, so so where was Adam during in this horrible decline. Right there. He was there. Present. He was present. Yeah. Like some politicians move present. All right, present. Alright. What would you observe in this text about Adam's presence? Or what would you observe about Eve? Any observations? Remember we just established Adam as a picture or type of Christ. And of course he still is, even in the transgression, because the apostle tells us he is. He was not deceived. Let's go to that passage, exactly. Let's go to first keep your fing finger here if you'd like. Let's go back to first Timothy two. 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 11. 1 Timothy chapter 2 and the 11th verse. And Mark, go ahead and read 11 to 14, good and loud. What was represented? First Timothy chapter two and verse eleven. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection, but I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed in Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. And I for years have looked at Adam and I've pointed out that um fateful act in if I can use the word faithful, I'm not sure I can in that passage, but you know what I mean, that dreadful act in Genesis 3. 6, that Adam blew his role as prophet, priest, and king. He was He blew it as a prophet. He was supposed to declare unto her, Hey hun, God said, and declare unto her the words. He blew his role as priest. He didn't intercede. Hey, we'll stop. Wait a second here. And he blew it as king in that he didn't defend and protect her from this adversary. And what's up with his talking snake? So I've taught and spoke about that in the past. And that may be an interesting observation, yet the scriptures here say Adam was not deceived. He was not deceived. He said, who was deceived? A woman was deceived. And therefore there's downstream ramifications of that which reach to us even today. Hint folks, very much just because it's in the Old Testament doesn't mean it's time bound and culturally conditioned. That's nonsense. Right. There may be culture involved, that's just the color of the ink But these are written for you. We're written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Adam was not deceived And I think about that and I researched it a little bit to try to find the best words to put. I really like what Thomas Bradbury said on this. He lived back in the 1670s. He uh passed shortly after the start of the civil uh before the Revolutionary War. He said this, Adam wasn't deceived, he sinned with his eyes wide open. He knew what he was doing. He sinned out of love for his wife. Before he parted from her, he would be damned with her. Isn't this a picture of Christ? He loved her when she was fallen and he stood sinless. She was guilty. And he was free. He loved her in spite of it all. You ever thought about that? Yes, the scriptures refers to Adam in at in in Adam all die. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. He was the federal head and he fell. And after the flesh, historically, yes. But as a simile, which doesn't sh show the whole picture, as a metaphor, as a picture as a type Do you see that he he partook with it? Yes, I will go with you. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ is referred to in scriptures as our surety. Now, I was a surety one time and as when I was signing that paper I had that verse of scripture come to my mind that says, Don't be surety for your friend. Go rescue yourself and I thought, well, this will be alright Five thousand dollars later I was looking to rescue myself. But the Lord Jesus Christ became our surety, knowing full well That he would have to pay that price. You see. I thought that was an excellent comment on it. Let's go to 1 Corinthians 15. Thank you, Mark, for bringing up that passage in Timothy, because that's uh where I was hoping we could go You know, look at First Corinthians fifteen. I uh mentioned this a little earlier. I think I partially misquoted it. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-two. I want us to meditate on this for just a bit We read this. For is an atom, all die, even so in Christ, all shall be made alive Brief comment there, that's the same use of the word all. The Arminian has great difficulty with that word all. He believes all means every single human being throughout all time without exception. Does that what it is that what it means here in this context? It's contextualized, isn't it? It's all in Adam shall die. Who's that? Well that is every single human being throughout all time it's ever lived. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. All who? All that are in Christ. That's right. They're either all in Adam or they're all in Christ. But those two different alls is what God has in view. Context means everything. It's funny that you're saying that because they usually will say and uh people say oh all means all. That's what all means. I mean they kinda mean everything all means all they push every for every situation. it still means all. And it just doesn't as you just just passed it out. Right. This is the passage I would go to. Yeah. Because if all means everybody's a say it's a saying they use it that's what's all. That's what that's what all means. Yeah, all of that's all the all. Oh very cute. That is a good passage to help refute the concept that all every time means every single human being. not in this passage. You cannot find that. You cannot find Judas in there. You cannot find name your favorite Old Testament or apostate. You cannot find that you cannot find uh Esau in there. And God makes that plain. Skip down to verse 45. I'm skipping over a whole bunch of the wonderful resurrection language it says, and so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a quickening or a life-giving spirit. So now who is this last Adam? Of course, Jesus Christ. Again, the scriptures, the apostle is insistent. He is a picture of Christ. Now, what do these verses teach us about Adam and Christ? What we just read, these two passages right here. What do they teach us about Adam and Christ? What are the similarities that we find between the two? What I'm seeing here, what I'm really is hung in though, it says in Christ. I know we focus on the word all, but the word in Christ, not just know him, know his name or whatever. You have to be in him. Yeah. I love my backdrop here of Noah's Ark, right? Mm-hmm. You either in the Ark or you ain't. Right. Right? And those that are saved are what? In the Ark. In the Ark. They can see the Ark. Yeah, I helped build the Ark. I I gave Noah a couple of tools, but I'm not in the Ark. I I uh I know about the Ark. That didn't work, did it? No it didn't. It's a real simple figure. What do these verses teach us about Adam and Christ? How are they comparable? What similarities here? He says The first Adam was made a living soul, the last Adam was made a life-giving spirit. So where's the similarities? Or the contrasts? Breath. That is that jumps out of it. Breath? Breath. Salvation's a God-breathing. miracle that which God gives to his own. It's just life. You breathe into Adam the e even there, you know, God all these things did happen. But all these things do point to gospel truth, even as you're looking at cr Adam and his Paul, he's got his fist shoved in God's face, no question. Knowingly, a Christ knowingly became sin for his bride, as a lunar bride. Yep. But the great love wherewith he loved her. Even when she was dead in trespassing sins, he he died for her. Yes, because he didn't. He just What are some of the contrasts? How did the entire Oh sorry thank you? Natural life, spiritual life. Very good. Yes. All natural life did what in Adam? We have life. We are born oh in which we have to do that. All natural life what happened in Adam? All natural life. We received sin and natural death. Yes. All natural life in Adam died. We died in Adam. Yeah, that's that federal headship concept. All right, now flip it around. Keep going with your thought. What about the elect? Christ shall all be made alive. Made alive. Spiritual alike, which is eternal and will never end. And that made alive, what's that single word we use for being made alive? It's a quite infection. Yeah, it's a sexual resurrection. Yeah, resurrection. In Adam they went from life to death. In Christ they went from death to life. Amen. Um the first man is what? Of Of the earth, earthly. And the second man is spiritual, heavenly. There's the contrasts. There's where the differences are. But he was the first. Adam was the first of this earth. Christ is that first spiritual, the first heavenly. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. No other creature in heaven. Can claim, born of a virgin, fulfilling the promises, became flesh and dwelt among us. No other person can declare themselves to be an Adam, the first. There are some similarities. Very interesting. You don't often hear about Adam, Adam, we just tar and paint him and feather him up, he's just a complete disaster. And in many ways the scripture does that But he is still a picture of Christ. He's that first one made in the image of God. It's interesting we rightly Joseph we rightly say he's a type and figure of Christ. But Adam you have to because the apostle tells you she has right. Right. He doesn't do that. How many times does he do that? See you have to look at he's the similitude of him And so let's go back to Romans 5. 14 since you mentioned that. Well Mark's done a great job of giving me a segue and I haven't even shared my notes with him. That's great. Romans five fourteen and then we'll Close up a bit here. Romans five fourteen, needs to reread that again. Somebody good and loud. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned, after th the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. All right. In what way is Adam a type or figure of Christ? Even in his fallen state. In his fallen state, how is Adam a type or figure of Christ? What are some similarities? all were affected by now. Excellent. Yeah, let's run with that. So let's keep going. Yep. All were affected. So what was And in Christ we're all born again. Beautiful. Yeah, beautiful. Let me put it to you this way. One conveys sin and death to all of his seed. Christ conveys life and righteousness to all of his seed. That's that federal headship. The conveyor, the one that passes it down. See, I can't fix my DNA. I I can't amend those little telomeres at the end of my DNA nucleotide strands. Mark Brother Mark will explain all that stuff to you a little bit later. I can't Fix all that in Adam, I have the curse, the sentence of death, and sin and death upon me, plus I'm a willful sinner on top of it. And I can't unravel that. And I don't care how much medical research you pump into, you're not going to find a solution. It's not going to get fixed. This is the only way God points out an ark. You've got to get in that ark, and that ark is Christ Isn't it amazing that um death came to all men. Without exception. Without exce I mean, you know, it's nothing I w we could have done about being depraved. Yeah. Prior to being born again. That's just absolutely amazing. Yes. I'm I'm so glad you put stuff off that point 'cause that kind of opened my eyes up a little bit. Evolution would say maybe it should come to some, but we're all sort of getting better. You know, you've heard the oft repeated rant that, yeah, we're living longer, we're living longer. Well it's interesting in the annals of I want to say Bradford, but I don't believe that's correct. One of the first inhabitants of the newly discovered Americas in writing the historical account, it probably was Governor Bradford They said the average age of those early colonials was about seventy to eighty years old. Was it that much? Yeah, they lived about the same age we do. That was the average age. Gee You think Moses was right? If by reason of strength eating? Alright, there's a second way. Oh, I'm sorry, Bo. Man says we're improving, but scripture says the iniquity of man shall ask worship. I like the way um pastor one time uh put it. He said uh um He says, I don't like the term total depravity he says, because there's always room for debasement. Adam can in fact continue to get worse. He did believe in the doctrine of total depravity, but he spun it nicely. Let me just add one more thought to that 'cause I've been taking about it lately. That even in the culture that we live in in the world, in the e this country especially, and the world, we have bought into such so much absurd so many absurd things that is unbelievable. Yes. See we've taken the word you know, we've gone down there smoke ex uh just totally down. Yeah. Things that we would expedition. We would never have thought of two men being rider at one time. Right, right. That's absurd. Yes. We've never thought of a man going into a young woman's bathroom. Right. That's absurd. Right. But we bought it. And I can't but the the Bible tells us that slip and slope, that's what it is. Right. I had to get that out and set the big thing. The things that we that have become the new normal, so to speak. I want to give uh I want to wrap this up here and uh I didn't want to kinda kinda want to keep it a little short today, kind of give people time to gather and and uh time to pray and kind of arrange things as needed afterwards if uh to adjust on the fly There's another way Adam is a type or a figure of Christ, even in his fallen state. Talk to me some about the sin of Adam. And we say, what did it what what did it produce? It brought to us death. It brought to us death with or without our sins afterward, which we would commit. Well that's right. Even if I had not sinned, which is impossible Adam's fall brought death to his entire posterity, irrespective of what they would have done later. And oh, by the way, they willingly carry out the deeds of their earthly father Adam and their new spiritual uh adopted father, the devil, willingly doing his will. You know, Vincent, even though sometimes we think in our minds, w with all that we know, because we know what we know about Christ, we wouldn't have done it. But Adam Yes. Willingly. Yes. He did it. If you and I had been there at the garden, we would have done exactly The same thing. It's impossible for God to create God. Right. One's created, one's the creature. One's the creator, one's the creature. And y you can't There's an eternal righteousness and immutable righteousness. Let me just wrap up this point. The sin of Adam brought us death even without the sins we would have committed afterward. The righteousness of Christ Even those who haven't obeyed after his obedience will reign in life. Do you see how the righteousness of Christ is even conveyed to us? And we are seen eternally righteous even without what we do afterwards. Isn't it 100% by grace and no works? Or else grace is not grace and works is not works. You can't mix the two Adam's fall brought irreparable and permanent damage to his race. Christ's righteousness brings immutable Everlasting righteousness to all of his chosen seed. All that are in him shall live. It doesn't depend on what they do. It doesn't matter. If they're in him, oh, there'll be a new creature. He will put his spirit in him. He will cause them to walk in his statutes and know them. But know this, it doesn't depend on that. That's a reflection of a new creature. Uh some of you girls here. I'm glad I have little girls here. Good morning. Did y'all ever have a little doll Uh uh uh like a little baby doll when you were small. Did you have a little doll? Yeah? You did? Okay. Now did you ever have the little doll that you got to change its diapers? You could feed it. You did? What was the name's doll doll's name? Do you remember I don't remember what I I call 'em pee pee whatever at the at the store you could go to. Patty Poopy. Yeah, Patty Poopy or whatever, right. Um and um now did you have any baby brothers or sisters at the time you had that baby doll? No? Okay. Well did you know of other people who had babies at that time? No? Alright. Well anyway, what's the difference between that little baby doll you get at the store that you can feed it? And it actually, you know, wets the diapers. And its hair is kind of permanently polyester perfect. But then there's the little baby brother sister. And they're just a mess sometimes. You ever have one of them diapers that just it just manages to defile everything? It just the the bands don't hold, it goes up the back, out the sides, down your tie, over your shoes, and it just hits everything in one shot That child's a mess, you're a mess, you're angry, upset, and that little plastic doll looks fine. What is the difference? One's alive. Growing, changing. The fact that it's growing, the fact that it's changing, doesn't make it alive. It's an indication. Even so, your righteousness, your eternal life, is conveyed by Christ to you, apart from what you do, and you have it. But the proof that you have it is that you live and you walk. Well, let me let me say one thing. Now that exactly true what you say, but also God is not overlooking the sin but because it's been paid for the Wrath of God was poured upon his son that we can walk still walk around and stuff. It wasn't a free ride. Somebody had to pay the price. And that's what we I think sometimes we forget that that price, even when we sin, that's still offensive to God. God, but Christ has paid took the punishment that was so rightly due us. Yeah. Yeah. That's why we don't want to keep sinning to continuously take him to the cross to pay the in a s in a you know, since fire is the spirit of grace. Exactly. That's it. Is that the difference from Um when the scripture talks about imputed righteousness. Yes. And the righteousness that came from the death of Christ. Well, uh both are imputed. Both are imputed, right? Christ's death uh per se doesn't convey righteousness. Christ's death That takes care of the sin problem. Right. Okay. Now, uh Christ's life, I think Romans let me just let's just get Romans 8 language. I think the apostle answers that question directly. Don't have to let me uh mess it up. Romans 8 3 and 4, for what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. See, there's that condemnation, there's that judgment. He judged sin and the flesh. He judged it, he condemned it, declared it guilty, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That's the most ominous words from his mouth on the cross. That the righteousness I'm going to get back to that word. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled past tense in us. Who's the us? Who walk not after the flesh but after the spirit? That's who the us are. How do you know we're we're the us in the ark? Because they walk. Not after the flesh, but after the spirit. That word righteousness literally means equity. The equitable Christ equity. You get it, you get it. Equity was conferred. It's transferred. It's imputed. You got an accounting sheet. Check, move over, pluses, minuses, zero sum gain, balanced out. He gets the loss, I get the game. It's an astounding truth. It's an astounding truth. Final comments and I'll wrap it up. He made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the consciousness of God in him. He prayed with the wicked and with the rich in his death. That's more than he would. Just in Joseph of Arimathea's gravesite. He was he was cursed of God. It was right in himself. He was sinless in himself. But it pleased the Lord to bruise him. God was, oh I don't want to do this oh no right like you were saying justice had to be satisfied then he shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied right we don't understand this right but we can believe it right Yeah. Yeah. The depth of the payment. Brother Mark, would you close us in prayer? Let not let us so believe your son today that we would manifest that by the love we would have one toward another. Oh God. And how we pray for our children we have the Many of us have children that don't know you, that are in defiance of your grace. Oh God, would you prevail against them? Would you give them life by your great power, by your stretched out arm? You would save them by your God breathed salvation. Oh Lord. We don't want them to be religious. We want them to know Christ by your grace. Please, O God, today, bless our day, and we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right.