We're going to move past that third verse. Five through eight. And yet Isaiah is so contemporary, that's why many have referred to Isaiah as the fifth gospel, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and Isaiah. They speak about Mother Teresa or the Virgin Mary, the Mother of God, which, by the way, that Mary is not the Mary in the Bible. And he said, well, actually, you know, there are aliens on this earth. One of the questions I like to ask is, so what gets rewarded around here? What are you going to put? Yeah, that's another question to ask. And he's on a march. So getting back to Hebrews chapter two that we were looking at, you can turn back there now in your Bible if you're following in your scriptures or as we continue in the handout here, we look at verse eight and it says this Satan, because Satan is loosed for a time. That thou visitest him. All having to do with being subject to the sun. As a bastard shalt thou fold them up and they shall be changed, but thou art the same. Here it says, of the world to come whereof we speak. So if he's talking about a comparison between the eternal, everlasting, ever-reigning Christ, well, it doesn't make any sense for him to reign over this sin-cursed earth because it's being destroyed. I got a hole over here. And the earth can't be redeemed. Yeah, we we live in this world. It's like an old flower that's fading. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, have you ever thought about that? that thou visitest him. All sheep and oxen, yea, the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. I think I put it some of them there in your handout in the inside of your bulletin. And they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend and them which do iniquity. Yeah, that's a mighty big fulfillment. I'm the guy. You really had to know what those words would mean and in their context and where the word breaks because parchment was very Precious. But there is a sower going forth to sow seed. A people unto himself. which is typically rendered all. with new resurrected bodies compatible with that new earth, able to access that new heaven, complete access to the throne of God, we find all there Revelation 21 says, I saw a new heaven and new earth, and there was no more sea. All lower and middle management is gone. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Well, that's gone. You ever look back and think back on your childhood when you were a child and you did some really stupid things? What was I thinking? Verse fourteen, for the body is not one member but many. And so there's a very shadowy reference both to Jesus, but also you too, because the devil is wroth and he's making war against the remnant of the seed of the woman. Romans 10. He's going to bring a new heaven and a new earth and destroy them that destroy the earth. Who is making those changes? Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. Yeah, the the fellow that had walking with the king the fellow had walking with the king ministry. You can just listen in. Verse 7, thou matest him a little lower than the angels. We've seen in the earlier chapter that they're ministering spirits. Timothy and Silas unto the church at so-and-so. He says, we're talking about Christ ruling over the new earth. And the heavens are the works of thy hand, verse 11, they shall perish. It says the heavens are not pure in thy sight. uh for you. A world that's decaying and waxing old. You know, also we do see this earth kind of as a temporary shelter, don't we? Who has set thy glory above the heavens? That first word man is nos. Uh we rule over sheep, oxen, cattle, all the beasts of the field. in a sin, but it was man, the crowning glory of his creation. But we know from Hebrews 2, which is where we're studying, that the reference here is pointing to Jesus Christ. So what is it in Psalm 8, and I'm going to help help you a little further? uh the the despised one, the one that's incurable, the that's desperately wicked, that and w that's a big question, what is that kind of individual? And then he says, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him. The birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. has power on earth to forgive sins. And in some years, what's the pool this year? And you're going to put your title in there. You're gonna put in there, servant of such and such a company. that is not put under him. Pauline epistles, you'll he's got very long sentences and you'll break it up into many verses there. What's the conclusion of that? I've dissolved all lower management, all middle management. We talk about the rule of Jesus. Do we see everything under his rule now? Yes, he can rule everything, but he permits evil. You name it, injustice, all kinds of things. But tolerance are long suffering for it. You know, in the old world, when a king conquered another king, the conquered, defeated king would come, he'd put he'd bow himself prostrate before the other one, and the reigning king would then come and put his foot on the neck of his enemy. You're part of that judging process. It shall bruise thy head. We're going to see Jesus fully exalted on an eternal throne with all enemies under him, and we in fact are part of that kingdom. to his kingdom. Yeah, well, you know, when we think about how the world has been to us, you know, I guess there's kind of pluses and minuses. Maybe too much bad news. If you change the word order a little bit, it's a little clearer. which refers to the terrine part of the globe, the physical earth, the dirt and the ground on which you're standing. But what does the Bible teach is going to happen to this earth? Um Hebrews one ten. I found that phrase interesting. So again, we here referring to the author, or apparently authors, maybe it was a group of people. I strongly suspect that they are absolutely terrified to lose this world because it's all they have. a future earth. It's going to wax old. That's all they have. uh for the environmentalists, for those who and I'm talking about the atheistic environmentalists. I'm talking about you. uh elders and older people there's a a a great praise for for youth when God says that youthfulness is all foolishness. is um and you're trying to see if they're a fit for you. is the ability to uh uh lie and to appear righteous, uh the uh to to to be haul tall and handsome, to have the forever twenty-one look. The author of Hebrews takes it from the book of the Psalms. Psalm 8, 9 verses. Oh Lord, our Lord, he starts off. Now, what are your observations of this psalm? Even the cat that I have, which I feed daily, still runs away from time. The author of Hebrews points to and says that's referring to Jesus. You know, Jesus, the very Son of God himself, incarnate, walking here on this earth, often spoke of himself this way. But instead, he refers to himself just in the book of Matthew 30 times as the Son of Man What's another reason why you might use that? I got a promotion day, hon. What kind of psychic income is Jesus getting from that title, Son of Man? One of the most humble titles I ever met of a high-ranking government official was a uh Lieutenant General Vince Stewart. Very humble time. So, yes, Jesus is using a very humble title, and Jesus, the Son of Man, he's fulfilling these prophecies and all that would be under his rule. Finding support for Jesus' rule from Psalm 8, we read this about the future new earth, and that's your next fill in the blank, the future new earth which has three sentences in one verse. capital letters all jammed against each other and when they got to the edge of the parchment if it was in the middle of the word you just start the next letter right at the other side. For some, we would call that person power-hungry, greedy. And here the Lord says, yes, that God has given it all to him. Being obedient, following his will, carrying out exactly what he wants. Because he's given he hasn't fully redeemed everything. There's much about the new heaven and the new earth that's a little we see through a glass darkly. He is the one ruler. When he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and authority and power, Jesus is going to send out a general announcement. It's all things. Our passage says that all are subject to him and under his feet. Subject to him, my own selfishness, my own will, my own stubbornness and pride and all that. Because the feet refers to you, saints. Verse 21, the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. And scripture teaches that he will conquer all things under your feet. That the feet refer to the believers is also seen in the very earliest prophecy, the Lord Jesus. As we go forth with that message, we're slowly but surely, one step at a time, conquering it. Can this tie into Zechariah 14, 4, where his speech shall stand upon the Mount of Olives? You know, we do minister one to another and wash the sins of the saints. Joint heirs with Christ. There will in fact come a day when you can affect significant change, very great change. Sickness, even death itself, under us, we will rule over that. It speaks about Christ ruling. Uh in time, she closes some peripheral. And so now it comes out a little clearer. What what world or what earth might he be referring to? Alien to them and what they talk about is alien to us. Yes, to illustrate a dual nature, that he was fully God and yet fully man, and yet uh he would use that term son of man. I found when the boss doesn't have any money, hey boss, what's the pay raise pool this year, you know? Isn't that interesting? Well, if you look at that middle sentence in verse 8 for just a moment, for in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that's not put under him. You know, I opened Sunday school today by asking the questions people ask. But for the most part the Christians still just kind of, yeah, yeah, could be always could be a little better. But now we see not yet all things put under him. This language in verse 5 is perhaps a little awkward, where it says, unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come. What is interesting to me, and I do like to kind of poke into the words a bit from time to time, is that word for world. phrase an era or an epic uh is how we might translate that. So there's a lot of implications from that, and a lot of observations I take from it. And so that's all the environmentalists have is this sin-cursed earth. Our home. And in this world, what gets promoted and what gets rewarded is uh culpable is uh uh is plausible deniability. What is beast? Rabbi reads this, you hear it in the daily reading. Man as a six-day creation is in view here, and that would certainly be the case, you would see. People go nuts over a title. No please please. to do anything to change their lot. For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. But you know, at some point we'll be convinced that everything that God said was right. Symbolic meaning, I have conquered you. Don't you know that you are the body of Christ? And see, as we walk this earth, as we traverse about this world, coming with the message of the King, which is the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand, repent, believe the gospel. Someday we too will be seen as reigning with him, with all enemies. Where do you see room for Christ being enthroned on a sin-cursed earth in Palestine and Jerusalem? and Lord of Lords and take an emotion to just a lowly king, why would he do that? How has the world been to you this week? Saying, What is man? You know, the Bible does teach that, for instance, in your handout, you'll see Isaiah 65, 17. Because the environmentalists don't believe that there's going to be a new earth. Stranger don't own anything. J2 is a military term. It's not even cosmos, for God so loved the world, cosmos. Yeah, it's gonna experience the ultimate global warming. Yeah, a foreign culture, foreign gods, things that count. How has the world been to you in your life as a Christian? I wish I could change that. It's worthy of investigating. It's just we're we're aliens. The moon and the stars which thou hast ordained, hast established, has set. Yeah, even hell is subject unto him. Yeah, it wasn't acid dipped and we scraped off the old paint and did a little patch up. Woo-hoo, we're in overdrive. Can you imagine having a and again I'm going to fall back to some personal experiences, a boss at a company, he gets promoted to a position and says, yep. Because it says a phrase in Hebrews 2. You don't have to wrestle with that anymore. Is that there? You do see an implication that he's not talking about this earth here. A good spiritual detachment. He wouldn't even put his initials. So, consider this is an unusual verse. And so when we ask, well, is Jesus ruling over all, yes he is, but then look at the flip side, are all subjects to him Have you thought about that? You're going to put your full name with initial in there and your telephone and the address and you're on the 68th floor of the impressive building. You know, you had to slay a good-sized flock just to have enough vellum to write the New Testament. 15, how shall they preach except they be spent as it is written? There's no fear about it. And he says, no, we don't see that. He's currently doing that right now. Of course. What's it like to be a a stranger or an alien in another place? Many are called, few are chosen. Man, that was terrible. The bride is joined to her bridegroom. I'm very impressed with General Venn Stewart. He's contrasting himself to John the Baptist, and he then refers to himself as the Son of Man. Have you ever considered when you're setting up your email and your signature block? Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet, for in that he put, he being God, put all in subjection under him, he left nothing. He made the heaven, the heavens, and the earth. You also will have control over that. Brother Mark Leaky and I got quite excited about that verse a good portion of this past week, just meditating on that question. How how from this context? And God, in fact, we observe also that he brought this earth into existence and he can and he will replace it I don't remember now. And everyone is perfectly subject to him. Yes, that phrase, the son of man. Would you like to see some changes? Hebrews 2, 5 through 8. There's a stain I can't get rid of. Their entire hope is in that. Well then how does God's sovereignty relate to that? Yes, we mow our yards and we don't throw trash. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Sickness is an enemy to God. We will reign with him. So we shouldn't expect it. Yeah, flowers and flower pot. And the division of you're going to load up all the accolades and the honorifics. How would you simplify that? But notice also what it says here. Oh, he says the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. I got a new title. Well today I guess we've got a bit of good news here in God's front headlines. How great is God, how little is man, and yet he loves us. He gave him the control of everything. The duality of his nature. Yet we can see that things are decaying, and for the Christian, they say, yep, my Bible says it's decaying and waxing old, and what do I see? He's referring to himself. So there's different other than just men. And typically it's all in context. He shall bruise thy heel. We just seemed to have been stuck there for a while. It's four four verses. He's going to fold it up like an old garment. That's what Victoria pointed out. Of course. All is subject unto him. And I began to wonder, uh before we back up into the first chapter of Hebrews again He says he's not put in subjection the world to come whereof we speak You're a stranger. It's the root of the word anosh, which is filthy and just vile. But now we see not yet all things put under him. Those are all enemies to God. Any ideas? He just put the office. It says it in 1 Corinthians 15, 25. He seems to jump right to the new earth. My Bible's correct. You know, Pastor mentioned it, it's in 1 Corinthians 7. How excellent is thy name in all the earth. Jesus reigns. I'm not going to get in the question of whether or not there's animals there because Psalm 8 talked about all sheep of the field and beasts and oxen, but also talked about fish of the seas. Stranger? What is man, this filthy man? And they are the smoke of their tormentus sendeth up forever. Yvonne's still scratching his head. About 1 to 2%. That is still happening. It's all given to the son. All is subject to the sun. Uh it also fulfills prophecy of David here in Psalm 8 as well And when men come to Christ, they are falling at his feet. You will be fully convinced that, you know, Lord, you're absolutely right. It would be a group of them coming together to convey their thoughts to a particular body of people. No pain. You change the title, they go crazy. Or escape. New heaven and a new earth? Even the stars are not pure. Most people go in hoping that they're gonna offer them a big s pay increase and then you know they don't ask any other questions other than what's it paying. And I'll read that for you, because it's a direct quote from various from a few sections of it. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. 2 refers to the Intel side of the house. Men are rebellious against God. Yeah. Angels don't rule over the world. And so what implications does that have for Christians? Yeah. 8, Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. I could press a little harder and kill you. And I went looking back to say, well where where would I have seen that? That train left the station, huh? Because feet are not incidental in scriptures. For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come whereof we speak. And then he heals somebody. Yeah. The Son of Man here is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Chairman of the supply closet. You could call them spiritual ministers is the way I'm beginning to refer to them now. You're a sojourner. They just start to droop. He is casting them aside. He'll conquer that. The New King James renders it this way. They even refer to it as Mother Earth. The one creation that is made after the image of God, that's the one that sinned, and yet that one has rule over this creation. He was fully man but fully God, and yet sinless man as we cannot be and are not. That's about as fast as it gets in this study. Thou crownest him with glory, and honor didst set him over the works of thy hands We're in it but we're not of it. You know, what is it to be an alien in a place? Is there any phrase that you could find in Psalm 8 and verse 4 that might point you to Jesus Christ? Most scripture is broken up by sentences and in the case of Well the heel is the foot. You fold it up and you throw it away. Well, aliens can own some things. That was it. What's the shorter way to say that? What's going to happen to it at some point in time? And I'd like us to turn there for a moment because we're going to read all of Psalm 8. You were the first audience, you were a Jew in your tent, the What would your impression of this be? I think it's fulfillment of prophecy in the book of Daniel. All things will be judged and that'll be done with. They're going to be subject unto him, but they're also subject unto you They're talking about the world to come. It's going according to plan. Or escape. They're gone. It'll be all at once. There are aliens. Do we really see that? Because we know that the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Right? He's seated on a throne. Yeah, just us men, just human beings. Yeah. For in that he hath put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. They don't even believe that there's God, so they certainly don't believe there's going to be anyone that can change. It's kind of universal in that, for the most part, animals, to a very high degree, are somewhat scared of men. This is one of the few verses I can think of in Scripture But anyway, what was I thinking? 1 or 2%? It's not that, it's not the word cosmos. You know, employee. Very one of the finest leaders I've seen in government agencies. He gave him control of everything. In fact, the Bible's clear he's going to create a new heaven. We sing about his reign in various songs and hymns. Is God somehow out of control wouldn't say that at all? That is an enemy of God. I'm kind of focusing on that phrase under his feet. You're the feet. There will be a new earth where all will entirely and completely be in subjection unto him in every facet. Matthew 8. And here I think you can take that all as as far as you can go with it. There was so much in it. You're an alien here. But glory, can you imagine a world? Do you remember how the apostle said in 1 Corinthians 12, For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, 1 Corinthians 12, 13. Verse fifteen of first Corinthians twelve. Subjection. You go through your closet. What gets penalized and what gets promoted? God worked on heaven with his fingers. What is man that thou art mindful of him? He now is in charge of everything. They take part of it. How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. He has it all. Well and it's glorious that he declares, I make all things, behold I make all things new. Human enemies, the angelic world behind it all, which we cannot detect at this time. You know, we don't wantly pollute the environment. Think for a moment at verse 4. Matthew 11, 19. He's removed all those. You too will be part and parcel and involved in that subjection of the evil in this world. Yeah. You're gonna live forever. That first word man was Nosh, meaning man, the filthy one, the vile one, the Yeah. Yes. And it says that it's all put under him. Hatred and uh uh uh um uh racism and So yeah, you see a lot of things in this world you'd like to change. It's very glorious. No wonder they're willing to go to great extreme lengths to rescue it, to save it. It's temporary. What is it in Psalm 8 and verse 4 that They don't repent, they don't believe, they don't listen, they don't follow. You know, go ahead. No pain. 20, for instance, Jesus says this, that boxes have holes. They go home. Chairman of the supply closet. How has the world been to you this week? No phone number. Jesus is marching. You had a patch up on your knee. And then he would give him some roll to do or take out his eyes or whatever. So this is our passage here, and it's I'm not saying a Christian can't advocate for clean rivers and clean water. What is man that thou art mindful of him? We call them arrogant to think that they could do it all. Jesus has done a phenomenal job at the cross. You know what that word subjection means. When he says the world to come, well the implication of to come is that it's not here now. And I'm not talking about the millions that have been crossing the border for the past five minutes that I've been speaking. Titles are big things at a company. I control it all. There's just some things that we don't fully understand. Think of like a foreign culture, a foreign religion, maybe like we have the Moabites, going from Moab into Israel. That's what we see in this world. Versification came later when the early uh when the apostles and disciples wrote. They are locked up in a prison and they are totally out of control at that point. As a stranger? That thou art mindful of him, or the Son of Man His question was always, how in the world are you? Intelligence and J is means joint joint intelligence. He hasn't made everything new. Yeah, I've had those moments. God will hold them accountable. The foot gets bruised, you see And so I don't see how it fits anywhere in these passages in Hebrews 1 and 2. The first is this: you know, the environmentalists, the green peace, the green movement. I think this cat's nearsighted and can't see me. I can't give somebody just, you know, $500 a year range. He succeeded far beyond that. You know, how much less and filthy is man? Um it says of the world to come, but it's not it's not referring to that You get rid of it. It's all and everyone is subject to Jesus. Death is an enemy, and even death itself will be conquered. I used to eat dirt or something. It will be revealed. About the same as it was last week. I was quite fascinated with it. He has not put the world to come, of which we speak, in subjection to angels. It'll be mighty quick, mighty intense, and yep it will eradicate. And I said, well, how was I to figure out that you were talking about This earth, this world, this place is not Yeah, he rules over them. Why do I still keep this shirt? Again, referring to the planet. What are your observations from the Psalm? It says, Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth. Thy years shall not fail. He says in verse 10, and thou Lord, in the beginning, hast laid the foundation of the earth Yeah. That really was a disaster that I was fooling with. They that use this world as not abusing it, for the fashion of this world passes away. I think all things are subject to him, but we may not see it demonstrated They are becoming willing subjects and servants to him He's fixed it all It's not our permanent home. Thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands, thou hast put all things under his feet Folks, why do you think Jesus would refer to himself as the Son of Man? God makes a big deal about feet. And that's your first fill-in-the-blank. In fact, the fact of the matter is, it's a totally it's a different word. But thou remainest. And it's incredible because the sun, the moon, the stars, they haven't rebelled against God. Again, there's spiritual language there, but I also don't He is a king that is conquering. One of the questions I like to ask in an interview, if you're ever interviewing a company. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a man gluttonous and a wine biver You know, normally it's uh three or four percent and you kinda peanut butter that around and you kinda rank some people, some are gonna get less and some are gonna get more, but you got a standard pool of money. That's boasting rights. And we're going to look now at Hebrews chapter 2. For instance, the Apostle Paul had said Paul and You know, that's kind of a religious term. Those of you who are still old school and do email and business, you uh uh have a little signature block there and Very good. Till he hath put all enemies under his feet. We shouldn't be shocked. You can't do a lot of work with fingers. Woohoo! That passage is so misused in prophecy. You know, I have a closing thought and a closing question here. So let's uh read that, and I will read all four verses if you want to follow in your Bible. In Matthew 9, 6, but that you may know that the Son of Man You're gonna get new, something new. I will put in between between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel. Yeah, no pain. And then we read in 1 Corinthians 15, 24, the apostle says, Then cometh the end. I'm sorry, Claire, I know I'll quit picking on your head. If the foot shall say, I am not of the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? Well certainly it fulfills prophecy in the book of Daniel, because one like the Son of Man came and he's seated on the throne. I'm an employee of so-and-so. The God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Yeah. What is it to be an alien? How great is God, how little is man, and yet we behold his love for us. What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him? Do you see any room for that in Hebrews 2, 5 through 8? Or Is everything really subject to him right now? Yeah. And you're part of that. You'll be with him Could be something improved. In fact, it was one of his favorite titles to refer to himself. You knew how to look the guy up. This is an age of a time when men are accountable, and God is calling out One day Jesus will be seen fully as he is. It's talking about a new earth to come. The king has his what? He's very prophetic of the Lord Jesus and all that he taught. It's a very humble title. I I was gonna expand on Gloria. And so he says, oh, we're talking about Christ ruling over something else. Yeah. Victoria. And Ben Adam, the son of man, a more noble term for man You have nothing to say about it. Please Now, when you look at that, it says, he has not put the world to come of which we speak. The way that this text is referring to it is in subjection to. Victoria's opening the aperture sum to say, what isn't that Greek phrase pos Yes, Dr. Why do I still keep these pants? Yeah, you really kind of don't speak the same language and indeed the Christian is concerned about things and they talk of things that are Indeed, you see that human beings do have dominion over this earth He's in charge of it all. Go ahead. What kind of behavior gets rewarded around here? And you say, wait a minute, that you're really reaching for something there, Vince. He was the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Oh, they will not subject themselves. We're going to look now at Hebrews 2. And you know what? Gabriel and I were talking this morning that there are there's all kinds of interest in UFOs of late But in this new earth You're the feet of Jesus. Now, I would normally expect it to be the word I own. That's a good hope. Are there certain things you read about and see and hear that you say, boy. He's going to get a new earth. About the same as it was last week. Angels don't rule. Can you imagine You can even get into feet washing, and we ought to wash one another's feet, and I'm not talking about a towel and basin He doesn't need to take a demotion and come off of his heavenly throne where he's king of king of kings. Well, we have some proof that is given for this rule of Jesus over a new earth that's coming. In Matthew 13, 41, the Son of Man shall send forth his angels, his angels We testify that he's in charge in heaven. It's very short. And that's interesting because there's two different words for man. DIA was in charge of joint intelligence. What does that look like? Look at Romans 16 and verse 20 in your handout. Bob Cook. We're in it but not of it. Penny? Even angelic realms are conquered under your feet, under the believers. And if man is full of pollution and the stars are not clean, well the earth isn't either And yet this isn't it folks. Absolutely. Yeah, okay. The plan is going according to the way the scriptures describes, that the wicked shall do wickedly and none of the wicked shall understand. And yet we do know this. And then you think back later you go O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. They shall all wax old as a garment. Some of you have come from other other countries. He's going forth to conquer and to subdue. It's a big question. In other words, our God's big. If you back up to Hebrews 110 It would cost you the herd to basically capture the New Testament. His subjects. That's nothing. And the stars above are the works of his fingers. So we're not sure if later that will but then also soon But it says he's gonna put all things under his feet. They're not in a rulership capacity. He uses it he uses a term for man that's pejorative I loved hearing it. What else? Then the next sentence comes up, and it asks the obvious question: well They're threading, they're falling apart. What implications might that have for a Christian to know that God's going to bring a new earth? I'm going to ask a question after I read it as to what your excuse me what your observations are. It's it's a yes and no answer The wonderful thing to me that that also means that everything about me will Any other thoughts? Just that's it, nothing. It's uh other thoughts? Do believers take part in that kingdom Yeah. Titles are big stuff to people. Your day is coming. It's eight or nine verses. Yes, all right. Now you're speaking of this earth. Can you imagine an earth where everything He's calling and you're the kingdom of God. Those are two different Marys. What other implications? The world of which we speak of is that which is to come, that new earth Give them a new title. Do you think Jesus can do it all? Yes, subjects in his kingdom. This was prophesied back in Isaiah. I'm not saying that. Not just the old car rebuilt and fixed up again. We're going to cover verses And look at 1 Corinthians 15, 24 in your handout. But it was putting them under his feet. They will not submit. But one, in a certain place, testify. He signed all of his emails G2. They wouldn't even do word breaks. It's all subject to the sun. He says, I'm in charge of that, J2. He's such a nice man. Oh, that men might ask that question That's very different than what the sign on the outside may say. That God is mindful of him, that God Almighty takes the thought for such a one. It's all his. Naysayers are nations, all of them Other other ideas as to why he might use that title, son of man. They have zero effort and ability. It's a rare word found in the New Testament. Right. Go ahead, Ms. Threads are getting loose What is it to be an alien? How has the world been to us? Doesn't have to be profound, you can just point out some basic things. It's the more humbler title. He's seated at the right hand of the Father. Well whether there's something here now is this earth So we don't have to see it. You need to ask questions to see if you're a match for them Jesus will take care of that Um, given what you just read in Hebrews, that Who might the first audience think this refers to? He could have referred to himself as the Son of God, and it would have been accurate. You already saw who it was coming from. They just happen to share the same name. Right, yeah. He's got mighty big fingers I call it psychic income. Alba, you're gonna say and then Joe. The feet Don't misunderstand. There's no respect for One day it will be revealed as to who we are Bob Cook. Yeah, that's a big thing. That's a big stretch. He's making war against her. They're fearful of men. It was just literally a letter break division. That that and our relation to this world is is a spiritual detachment. The animals didn't rebel against God. It's not very long at all. Just a extra thought for you to consider. They wrote That was it I uh would like to hear some of his broadcast again. And when that kingdom is brought together, then the king is joined. God will work that But is it They love it Yeah, he can do it all. We get our That's Psalm 8, very short. They really do back off and back away. It's oikamene. What else do you observe from this psalm? It's all been given to him. He's on a throne. Otherwise They weren't caught It's falling apart. And so We believe that.