We're going to look this morning at Sarah and Hagar, and they are a picture of two covenants, Sarah and Hagar. I'm struck this morning with the passage in Proverbs 8 where The uh Solomon under inspiration writes, All the words of my mouth are in righteousness, there is nothing forward or perverse in them, they are all plain to him that understandeth. And right to them that find knowledge. They're plain to him that understandeth. There are some very interesting things in the scriptures you look at and um I've looked at this passage for years and I still marvel and scratch my head. Turn with me to Genesis chapter 15. We're going to be looking at uh Some uh several sections of scriptures in the life of Abraham. You know, he's called the father of uh of faith. He's our father, spiritual father. All the major world religions claim him as their spiritual head, as their father, the Muslims do, the Jews do, and obviously Christians do. But there's a phenomenal account that I find in the book of Genesis. And I'm going to start here, and again I've got questions, so kind of pay attention to as I read. If you'd like to follow along, you can. If you just want to listen carefully, you can as well. Genesis chapter 15, I'll begin in verse 1. And I'm just going to go through verse 6. And my question is this: what's the basic promise of God? Alright? What's the basic promise in this passage? Genesis 15. 1. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? And the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. So he had a steward in the house. uh servants in the uh early biblical time household was not unusual. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed. And lo, one born in mine house is mine heir And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be And he believed in the Lord and he counted it to him for righteousness. So my question is, what's that basic promise of God in this text? Seed for a gentleman. Okay. Uh that Abram would have a seed, and that seed would be what? be his heir. Be his heir. Not the steward of the house, not the servant in the house, but the seed would be the heir So that's how God comes to them and encourages them and says, Yup, this will be the case. Now we go to Genesis 16 I'm developing a theme here, folks. So we're building up things, one plank at a time. So bear with me while I get the scaffolding in place here. Genesis 16, I'm going to cover the first three verses And then we're going to look at Genesis, the very last two verses of the chapter. My question here is why did Sarai do what she did? See, I'm helping you, I'm giving you the question in advance so you know what to look for. Alright? So Genesis 16 1 to 3. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bare him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian. That's interesting, that word's going to get repeated a lot. whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. You see, she remembered the promise that God gave to Abram too, one born from your own bowels So the promise to Abram is that one from your bowels, Abram, would be heir. So she's sitting here thinking, hmm, behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing, I pray thee Go in unto my maid, and it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai, and Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife. Alright, so this was Sarah's logic. Technically, the Lord said from your bowels, Abram, that your heir would come. And we believed God, and this is, I think, the path we ought to take. Seemed good in her eyes. She came up with the idea, not him. That makes all the world a difference. Genesis 16, 15, and Hagar bare Abram a son. And Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bare Ishmael. And Abram was fourscore and six years, that's eighty-six years old. When Hagar bare Ishmael to Abraham to Abram. And we get going in the next chapter. When Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect, and I will make my covenant between the Lord. Between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly. Nabram fell on his face. God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations Neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham, for a father of many nations. Have I made thee? See, Abram means exalted father Abraham means father of multitudes. God's increasing the, he's upping the ante here. He's increasing the depth and the breadth of the promise. All right. So again I asked the question, why did Sarai do what she did? You're fumbling with an idea, Pen? Lack of faith. Okay, lack of faith. Okay, lack of faith because let's explore that some. Because she didn't believe God could use her. Okay. Her bowel um she her womb was closed. She didn't believe God could use her, her womb was closed, alright. So she's looking at the present physical limitations. Sure, which would be quite reasonable. Maybe she just wanted to be like a wife and be helpful. She just maybe just wanted to flat out be helpful, yes, absolutely. All right. So um uh You know, we're kind of speculating some, but it certainly played out in a story and the context is given that I don't think there's any human couple on the planet with a measure of gospel faith to them that couldn't begin to enter into that and say, Yeah, I could see how this would Maybe it would be a little strange, I think, for a woman to say, gee, you know, why don't you have this woman instead? Right? That would that's quite Um that's quite bold, I think, and uh certainly was a bold suggestion on her part. Um in some respects it's uh uh there's almost a measure of faith there to say, I think you will, but it's probably not going to come from me Yeah, very interesting, isn't it? So I uh you know God seems to have been taking too long here Uh, you know, the promise was given, and uh Abram had now been ten years in the land of Canaan, and there's no child forthcoming, even though God had Told him ten years earlier, yep, you're gonna have a seed. Ten years is an awful long time to wait, folks. You know. And then God gives a uh a curious response. We now move ahead to Genesis 17 and verse 15. And my question here is going to be, how does God respond to Sarai's plan? How does God respond to her plan? Let's read now the text and then you'll see. Maybe you can pull your answer from this text. Genesis 17, I'm going to go 15 to 21. God said to Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai. But Sarah shall her name be. So Sarai uh means uh uh literally princess. It's a beautiful name, princess, right? Every father calls his daughter a little princess. Uh but now God's going to change her name to Sarah, which means mother of princes. Mother of Princes. You're not just a princess, you're a mother of princes. There's going to be others to come. And I will bless her and give thee a son also of her. Yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations. Kings of people shall be of her. Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that's a hundred years old? Technically he was ninety-nine, but hundred is yeah, that's probably what he felt like. Shall Sarah that is ninety years old bear Come on, brother, we got your seat wide open. It's reserved. Oh. You don't want to go back here to the kids' table, don't go back to the table. We're in Genesis seventeen, fifteen. Abram fell upon his face and laughed, and she and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that's a hundred years old, and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? And Abraham said unto God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before thee. You know, Ishmael is twelve years old at this juncture. That's a pretty good sized boy. And God said, Sarah, allow me to intonate, I'm going to speculate here, but I'm going to intonate how I think God responded to Abraham here. We we tend to read it without emotional contact. But uh allow me for a moment to to to dare pretend, and I it is kind of bold, so so bear with me. This is as bold as you'll get And God said, Sarah, thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed. In other words, I've spoken this before. What is it you don't get? And thou shalt call his name Isaac. You know what Isaac means? Laughter. You're laughing? That's what you're gonna call the boy. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant. And with his seed after him. And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. Twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation, but my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year. Now I think you might see why I intimated it that way. There's a little bit of intensity, I think, in God's answer. So how does God respond to Sarah's plan, to Sarai's plan? Which, by the way, is after the fact. How does God respond? How would you categorize that response? Well he says Ishmael's okay, but that's not the one I said. Yeah, Ishmael's yeah, exactly. That's a nice way to summarize it. Ishmael's okay, all right. Other ways of Perhaps characterizing them? There it might be to like a definitively stating what he said Absolutely. He I I like that nicely put and succinctly put as well. I like both answers very much. Definitively because he is he's kind of shoring up this covenantal promise. He's gonna round out the picture a little bit more. Before he said, Out of your own bowels shall he come, and he points him to the stars, which that must have been quite the sight. You know, we don't we have all kinds of light pollution around us here. uh and I'm not a tree hugger here. I'm I I like our street lights. It keeps me from running into things. But uh when you get out to you know parts of West Texas, I'm sure you've been in parts of the world where there's no pollution that lies and you can see all the multitude of stars and it truly is amazing to see the Milky Way and for God to say to him, that's going to be your seed. And so now here God as it were, I think we use a phrase he's doubling down. Right? Tripling down. He says it's going to be an everlasting covenant with this boy that you're going to bear. In fact, I've already got a name for him. Well you you've covered covered it but uh well, but the salient word of verse twenty one is covenant. Yes. There's I'll give him twelve nations, I'll give I Isaac uh Israel this, I'll give him this, I'll give him this. What? A covenant. Yes. The covenant, which is more important than anything else. I won't Yes. I I know where you're heading, so I won't say more about the covenant. You're correct. He's reinforcing his covenantal promise. He's making it stronger and he's making it clearer So you're saying that supersedes anything else you could think that supersedes the covenant supersedes that's saying Isaac will have twelve nations, he'll have Children who have this, but this covenant is more important than all that. This is for Isaac. You know, it's interesting God didn't totally uh poo-poo Abram's plan entirely saying, Oh, catastrophe, disaster, no, the boys headed for destruction, like he could have done with uh Ur and some of Judah's sons, Ur was wicked before the Lord just slew him. Could have done that to Ishmael, could have said could have killed him right out the gate. He didn't Alright, well let's look at the counsel of the heart now in Genesis 18. And we're gonna ask another question, but I think it'll be pretty obvious to you after I uh read the passage. Genesis 18 beginning in verse 9. This is now the two angels that are appearing to Abram. As those angels are en route to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? Genesis 18, verse 9. Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life, and lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door. You know, these women kind of get their ears what's going on? They're just listening in, you know, like a good wife would do to make sure she doesn't miss all the details because that knucklehead is bound to forget something. And I'll have to remind him of it because I heard it. And she which was behind him, and Abram and Sarah were old and well stricken in age and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore, Sarah now she's inside the tent now. Sarah laughed within herself, not out loud. You didn't hear a loud guffaw come from behind the the the the camel claw. saying, After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord being old also? And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh? So this was double news to Abraham. A she's listening, B she's laughing. So, you know, men are always hit clueless, oh what just happened? Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I, of assurity, bear a child which am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? That's a big question. I think we still assume that things are too hard for the Lord. At the time appointed, I will return unto thee according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Then Sarah Denai saying, I laughed not, for she was afraid. All of a sudden the counsel of her heart was immediately made manifest, she was called out, she thought she was hidden by a tent, as well as by her Blood brain barrier, nothing came out the tongue. But the Lord heard that very plainly. And he said, Nay, but thou didst laugh. How believable does God's promise seem to Sarah? How believable does God's promise seem to Sarah? How dare you? A little far-fetched to her. Seems a little far-fetched to her. It seems impossible enough to make her laugh. It is such a ludicrous idea to her that she in fact laughs. Oh, there's so much here There is so much here. If we would just stop and kind of let that ruminate. Just just think for a moment. Imagine you two ladies getting, you know, up in years a little closer to Sarah's age and the Lord coming to you saying, yep, you're going to have a child. Exactly. Can you run up? Uh yeah, you would you indeed would laugh. uh to hear this. Who who is it that scrip scripture used the word stumbled not at the promise? Speaking again of Abraham's in Romans four staggered not at the promise. Yeah, my mind wouldn't use it staggered not. It's a beautiful. But for her it was quite the stretch. And of course God's penny I was just saying I've got a note in my Bible um what a wondrous change God worked in Sarah's heart, because if you go back to Hebrews eleven It says there that um she was delivered of a child when she was past age because she judged him faithful who had promised. At some point it came about. But uh let's see how God's promise comes true, then we read in uh Genesis twenty-one. And this is now the anchor portion of the text we're looking at today And then, of course, I'm sure you're familiar with the New Testament commentary on this passage, but I think it's helpful to slow down and look at the Old Testament data, the history that we have, and try to enter into it for just a moment. Genesis twenty-one, one to ten. And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. Duh. Are we really surprised at that statement? But we need to have it written down so that it would shore up faith in us. For Sarah conceived. and bare Abraham a son in his old age, of course her old age too. Whew That's amazing. At the set time of which God had spoken to him. And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac, being eight days old as God had commanded him. Now, that was part of this covenantal promise that God gave to Abraham back in Genesis 17. We're here in 21 So God's for sure going to carry out, he's going to dust off the scrolls as to what the covenantal requirements were, and circumcision was indeed one of them. Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born unto him. And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh. So that all that hear will laugh with me. Now she's has a laughter, it's a very different kind of laughter now. Very different laughter. I like being around little children when you haven't been around them in a long time, because they always put a smile on your face. And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham that Sarah should have given children suck? For I have borne him a son in his old age. And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. And Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian. Who's that drumbeat? How many times have we heard that phrase now? Three times. Hagar, the Egyptian. Hagar, the Egyptian, God wants us to to hear something. Which she had borne unto Abraham, Sarah saw this son mocking. Isn't that interesting? Here's this 13-year-old boy mocking a baby, probably fourteen by now And uh because uh Isaac is weaned. There's a thirteen year age difference. That's not a very kind treatment from an older brother, is it? Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son For the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac. Oh my. You know, he said no kitchen's big enough to have two women in it. So what kind of tensions do we find in Abraham's house? Jealousy. Oh yeah. Jealousy. Does that drive you women? Does that bother you? Is jealousy a motivating factor among you women? What else What other tensions are there? Fear. Interesting. Okay. Uh pulled Brown that out more for me. Oh, as if uh afraid that uh this uh Ishmael is trying to get the covenant Okay, yeah. Ishmael might mess things up here. Superiority. Superiority? Okay, so help me help me round that out some point. Well just meaning that Who would seem to be around my son, you know? We we're better than it than they are. Okay, yeah, yeah. Alright, we're better because Because why? They're the same color, got the same father. Right. Why are they better? Because he is the son of the promise. Okay. I guess. Because God made it different. Because God made it different. This is a miraculous son. Right. Okay Would there be some concern over favor in the eyes of Abraham? Oh yeah. Yeah, here's the oldest son. Oldest son, my my hunting buddy, Ishmael. Uh of course, you know Jacob and Esau, the the the dis distinction, the difference between the two And wasn't it a f uh a big difference made with the firstborn? Oh absolutely. Yeah. The firstborn son. Firstborn son, yeah. Even if from a handmaid, still a firstborn son. But God says no, that's not from my covenant or promise. Well, the reason I asked the questions I did, and the reason we're trying to explore these tensions, that I think any society, any group of people, any tribe, kindred, tonguy nation in the world could understand These sort of very basic household unit tensions that are very obvious are there because you have just read a historical parable known as an allegory. It really occurred in space-time history. There really was an Abraham. There really was a Sarai who was renamed Sarah. The Lord really did appear and speak to them. She really did bear a son in old age. There really was an Ishmael, and there are in fact multitude of his descendants, as well as Isaacs, still with us today. But you've read What the Bible refers to is allegory, and it uses a very interesting Greek word. It's the word allegorizo. It's a Greek word that has been transliterated into the English language. There's no need to try to change the idea behind it because it was the same in the Greek language as it is now. And we get that from Galatians chapter 4. So now we'll turn to Galatians 4, armed with some of this historical background I've asked specific questions in a certain way to get you to think about it. Because Galatians 4 and verse 21 we find a very, I think, shocking observation from none other than the Apostle Paul, who is busy in this particular epistle taking The church at Galatia, the churches at Galatia, to task, who had come under some bad influence from none other than the Apostle Peter and a few of his buddies. Even the Apostle Paul's sidekick, Barnabas, was carried away with some of the issues that occurred at the Church of Galatia. They were beginning to slip back into performing elements of Moses' covenant and observing elements of Moses' covenant in the new Christian church community. The Apostle Paul went ballistic on that. Later this morning you're going to hear from the book of 1 Corinthians. And there was a raft of problems at the church at Corinth. But the Apostle Paul doesn't flame them nearly as hard as he does the churches at Galatia. So what is this? What's going on here? Well in Galatians chapter 4 and verse 21, the apostle writes this, Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? Now that word law in the New Testament has many different meanings and senses depending on the context. It could mean every single word of God in the Bible. It could mean the first five books of the Bible. It could refer to Moses' covenant as it does here. Actually it refers to Moses' covenant as well as the first five books of the Bible, which we shall see. And it can mean a commandment in general. So there's different context and ways that phrase, that word LAW can be used. And I have to hammer that because there are problems in some communities with handling that phrase, that word, law. It seems so simple, but the context will clarify it. Back to our text. Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons. Now we just read this. So you know what we're talking about here. The one by a bond maid, the other by a free woman. Alright. So Paul writes to them and he's going to reach all the way back. You remember when you opened up your Bible, you had most of the pages of the book to one side, a few pages to this side. He reaches all the way back. to the life of Abraham. And he says, I'm going to show you two particular points that you Apostles and Galatians missed that Abraham had two sons, one by a bondmaid, one by a free woman. And you start to go. Well why is that factoid of interest? Why does that matter? We keep going. But he who was of the bondwoman, literally female slave, was born after the flesh. Now what does that mean, born after the flesh? Naturally. Yes, naturally. In other words, uh um now Isaac came forth physically in the flesh as well, but that's not what he's talking about. Right. When he says after the flesh, it means Sarah saw this program wasn't moving forward. We gotta roll our sleeves up, concoct some way to make this happen. We gotta drag down God's commandments to a a level that's achievable for us because after all he wouldn't ask you to do something that you can't do. We gotta find some way to make this so we can do it He who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh, but he of the free woman was by promise. And you see, that's what God has been saying to Abraham all along. I will. How many times you hear that phrase, I will, coming from the mouth of the Lord? I will do this. I will. Sarah shall bear all those wills and shall statements. I'm a retired engineer And when you get a request for proposal from the government, there's one word every engineer is taught very early in the game to pay explicit attention to, and that's the word shall and will Shall means it absolutely positively must be done or you're not compliant and you lose. Will is an expression of desire intent. They would like to do that, but they may not do it. So it means something to engineers. So when you see the shall statements and the will statements, your your little and your little engineer antennas are up paying close attention here. That's what Paul Suppose doing. He says, this child the promise was a result of shall statements. God, you shall, which Sarah thy wife shall bear unto thee. Verse 24, which things, the things he's talking about, the mere birth from one from a bondmaid, the one from a free woman, the free woman is the wife. The bond maid is the slave. She's just there to help. Which things are an allegory. Now, I didn't write that. God wrote that. There are some people who have a problem with looking in the Old Testament for historical parables and allegories. God wrote this. And they have a problem, and I've heard this said before, that unless Jesus says right up front, this is a parable, you have to take it literally. Now, yes, I do read the Bible literally, word for word Every word is significant. Every word has meaning. Words in the Bible are not there by accident or incident. They're not fluff. Every single word back in Genesis 16 meant something, and the Apostle Paul is going to haul that out. He's going to fashion a baseball bat, and he's going to start beating these Galatians over the head, saying, Don't you know this? You know, I'm telling you the truth, you really when you first mentioned the word it was an allegory. My antenna went up, I said now, wait a minute, man. Where are we going with this? Mm-hmm And then I see it right here, because it's to me an allegory is almost like a sophist sophism or something. Yeah, keep stops fables or something. Right. So I suppose to know that some kind of race is going to be cleared up. This allegory thing. Yeah. I mean, I can't even I can't even tell you how I felt inside hearing this. Oh hearing it right now. Oh it's impactful. It's deeply impactful. I would never think I would see the word allegory connected was something that we've understood from God. Yeah, right. But see God I don't I'm not trying to be over dramatic, but tell me this is like a a shock to me. Right, right, right, right. It is intense. It's uh I never forget the first time. I really It's meditated on it. Now, again, allegory does not mean a a a series of cunningly devised myths. This happened again, it's why I foot stop. This is in space-time history, but our God is incredible when it comes to delivering creating, producing, manuscripting, and publishing and preserving his word. Because he has crafted history Such that you and I can read that later and see that there's a greater message in view. It speaks to the first audience, and it speaks to the audience in front of me now, and it speaks to the audience that will be until he returns. Well let me ask you a question. Uh get myself together with this. I don't mean I don't mean you too dramatic, but because many people meet many Uh high end comp uh uh compositism of the gospel would tell you that the first eleven chapters in the in Genesis is allegory. They mean it in a worldly sense. I know they do. I know. But see, when you all when I would have thought that, I find a statement like that To the death. Right. But to see it right here to say that's an allegory, what's the? How do I know that the rest of it is not an allegory Right. So that right it gets you to thinking. Yeah, that's why I'm But it's but it's allegory according to the Bible's definition. Right. Because he starts off by saying Abraham had two sons, one by a bond maid, the other by a free woman. That's a historical fact. But you see, I think that's the difference when The world says it's an allegory, they're saying it's only an allegory, that it didn't really happen. Whereas we're saying it's history, it happened. But I love your phrase, God crafted history. He was creating that allegory from the beginning. He wasn't looking back and saying, Well here's a story and we can put a neat little twist on it. It's I need this story for an eternal purpose and truth. Well you know, now I'm in the middle of reading here, so let me hold your time because I because we because we still gotta get moving here ahead and I and I wanna be a little time limited. But yeah, I'm glad it's stirring you up because it's an intense passage Okay, he says, which thing's an allegory, and then he tells us what the interpretation is. For these are the two covenants. Not one covenant. Two, so many of our Presbyterian brethren will say, no, there's one covenant, there's a unity of covenant, and there is a unity in the sense that the Old Testament saints were saved by grace as much as we are, and that's what we're going to talk about here. But the Bible's very clear and you can't argue with it, and I've heard a pastor, Taylor, who said, No, no, it really means one covenant. The Bible here says two covenants. You can't get around that. It says two. TWO through two. The one from Mount Sinai which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar For this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. That's why God kept hammering Hagar the Egyptian. Hagar the Egyptian. Hagar the Egyptian. Because Sinai is Hagar, is Arabia, is Egypt. He said that's Moses' covenant. That's where the Ten Commandments came and were given Right? That's what he's connecting. He's connecting all those dots for you. Which answereth to Jerusalem which now is. So what city is that? To Jerusalem which now is. What is that? The Jerusalem which now is. Which one? The earthly physical city in Judea. Yep. And is in bondage with her children. Bondage to who? Well, she's in bondage to the Romans. They're in bondage to Moses' law. They're slavishly Continuing on with Moses' commandments. Now, this is written to the church at Galatia after Christ has come, died, risen again, ascended to heaven, God the Holy Spirit's poured out We got a new program going here, and yet not a new program. It's just the the unveiling and the unrolling uh of God's covenant, the un the the unveiling of God's covenant. But, look at this next phrase, but Jerusalem, which is above, is free, which is the mother of us all. That's interesting. That's the true church in heaven. Saints, you and I are spiritual midwives. God is the ultimate father, God the Holy Spirit is the one that brings forth children, but the Church of God is like a midwife in the sense that we bring forth spiritual children. We're the one to help usher in new believers into the world. It's through the ministry of the saints, through that bride of Christ that produces spiritual children. The church of God is called the bride of Christ, and you don't have a bride without children. At least not in scriptural concept. And so we bring forth spiritual children. By his spirit. By his spirit, God the Father. That's right. God the Holy Spirit works. And so that's that Jerusalem which is above, because our citizenship isn't heaven. That's us, that's our home, that's our city. Okay which is the mother of us all. And I go down to verse twenty-eight of the same chapter. Now we brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. See? We are the children of promise. When you see Isaac, you can see yourself. Your birth into the kingdom of heaven, your new birth, Jesus told Nicodemus, except a man be born again, literally born from above, he cannot see, he cannot enter, he cannot know the kingdom of heaven. Can't happen. It's a miracle, is what he's talking about. Believers, true believers, are works of grace. It's a miracle You would not expect human play to ever of his own initiative to come to Christ. If somebody of their own initiative They thought it was a grand idea. They're like Hagar. They rolled up their sleeves. They found some better way to make it happen. I'll make this thing happen. They're false sons. Just impossible. Right. It's possible for there to be false sons, but it's impossible for us to roll up our sleeves and make it happen. Exactly. As then he that was born of the flesh, but as then he that was born after the flesh, meaning bloodline Jews Persecuted him that was born after the Spirit. Who were the people born after the Spirit? True believers. Even so is it now. Do the Jews persecute? uh early Christians, you better believe it. Exhibit A, Saul of Tarsus, exceedingly zealous in the tradition of his fathers. They wanted to stamp out this business called Christianity and nothing flat. I got a few minutes to wrap it up here and I'm not going to be able to complete it. We'll pick it up next week. I just want to let you meditate on this section here Nevertheless, what's say at the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son. Woo! That's pretty strong language. For the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir of the son of the free woman. The Apostle Paul gets his advice for the church at Galatia from Sarah's own lips. A jealous wife, a woman who has witnessed an impossibility in her house, giving birth to a child whom the Lord named, whom the Lord promised, whom the Lord gave And she said, I will not have this son, though it be yours, Abraham, but it's not, but it's from an Egyptian. It'll not be heir with my son. Cast him out of the house. Has no part in my house. Get him out of here. Isn't that amazing? The ramifications of this are so huge. Yeah, I you're gonna sit there and you kinda Okay, what does all this mean? Because this is the club he pulls out. He doesn't go to Moses' commandment. He doesn't go to a psalm. He doesn't go to the Proverbs. He could have gone to any of those. Instead, he says, let me show you The first word that came was promise. Sarah concocted an idea. It's not what God had in mind. The whole argument thrusts and is thrust forward by God's promise. Do you get that? Promise. Promise. Promise. It's what God will do. It's what God intends to do. It's what God shall do. He I will build my church. The I wills in the Bible when you hear it from the statement of God Boy, you better take those to the bank and don't be like Sarah hiding in the tent laughing, yeah, sure you're gonna do that. You'll be reproved in short order. Next week we're going to look at how all of these point to Christ and His gospel, but I uh leave you that for now. I've got time for a last comment or question. Uh and I've got another page for next week, which we'll continue on. Yeah, well yeah, we just started it. We just we we got up to the platform and now we're gonna point out all the aspects of it. When God gives this allegory in Galatians, he also gives the explanation of the allegory with it. Yeah. Which is the difference between the what man tries to force allegories into scripture but it's indefensible. Whereas God has laid down just like the parables where Christ gave a fo give parables But then he would take the disciples aside and give them the meaning without giving it to the children of Ishmael who were not going to believe. Um um Peter when he referenced the fact that certain things that that Paul teaches is a l uh a little difficult to understand. That's the way I'm taking this. I don't see why he would say that now. Right. I used to could not see that well I wonder why you would think that. Well I I've seen a good example of this. This is an example of me. Now in the context of Second Peter three where he says, speaking in them of things are beloved brother Paul, uh of things hard to be understood. Right. That context is referring to a lot of end-time teaching. Because a lot of those concepts things that are hard to be understood. Yes. Yes. The book of Romans is intense and you have to take it phrase at a time and s think and slowly and and take it take it careful. Well this does come into the end times. Because any will say Lord, Lord, but they're followers of Ishmael rather than followers of Israel. They're the wrong covenant. Yep, yep, absolutely. Yep. There's a lot to this, so I'm so good. So I I I I I trust you've benefited from the from the basic platform and next week I'm going to show you six different ways that all of these things point out aspects of the new gospel. Uh uh not the new gospel, but the new covenant. The gospel of Christ. So should we put together a fund for gas money, cartoon and candles they can be here next week too? Anton, would you uh close us in prayer please Yeah. Father in heaven, we look unto thee, Lord, to hear our prayers and we praise you that you've given us your word. And um we praise And uh we pray Lord that you would help us be faithful to trust what you've given us and to not uh stagger at your promises. Yeah. And yeah, Lord, we know how uh weak our flesh is and Lord for all true believers we do cry, Lord, increase our faith. Yes. We uh ask indeed that you help us Lord to walk by faith. Help us to continue in your word. Mm-hmm. We praise you, Lord, for this time studying your word and we uh ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.