In Hebrews chapter 9. And if you will, either pull out your bulletin or open your Bible to Hebrews 9. And we're going to look at verses 2 through 5, which is where the passage is that we're going to be dealing with today. We looked at it last week, but today we're focusing on one particular verse. Hebrews 9, beginning in verse 2. Hear now the word of the Lord. For there was a tabernacle made, the first wherein was the candlestick and the table and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all. So he's giving a depiction. He's giving a description, an authoritative description of what was in the tabernacle. Which had the golden censer and the Ark of the Covenant overlaid roundabout with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded and the tables of the covenant, and over it the cherubims of glory, shadowing the mercy seat, of which we cannot now speak particularly. Alright. So this was our text from last week, and the question I put out to all of you was, do you see anything amiss? between what we just read in Hebrews 9 verses 2 to 5 and the little depiction, the diagram you have in your bulletin. It's a very common one. It's a very simple one. I wanted to go with simple They have others that are very ornate and they try to draw 3D pictures. I just want to have a simple floor plan. You see anything amiss between that diagram and what we read in Hebrews 9, 2-5 We had some online answers. It's at the mercy seat. No, that was not it. Somebody pointed out that the elements of the Ark of the Covenant are not listed in there. Oh, okay. They were, but that's not the main thing. Anybody The golden sensor. The golden sensor. Alright, so what was wrong with the golden sensor? Uh it is. It says altar of incense. That is the golden sensor. That's the thing. The sensor is something you burn coals on, and it was overlaid with gold. So altar of incense is the golden sensor. Yep One veil is in the wrong place. One veil is in the wrong place. Um okay. Um should be at the holy place and then between the holy place and the holy holies, not out at the alacor. Okay, all right. Um Yeah, that's my arrow, so I'm the one that made that mistake on that one. So I should have put the arrow the other place. So thank you for pointing that out. I'll correct my my diagram next time. I can't even do my own diagram. There were two veils, and that's an important clue. There were two veils. Okay? Anybody else? What's the mistake? Kind of implying that this the the sensor is inside the hole you'll pull this. But what I I don't think it was. Excellent. Thank you. That was a great segue. Yes, I love it. That's perfect. You gave you couldn't have given a better answer You must be a Ross. Yes, the question surrounds the altar of incense. From what we just read in Hebrews 9, where was the altar of incense, aka the Golden Censor? From what we just read. Perry said it was inside the Holy of Holies. It should have been inside the Holy of Holies. But from nearly every depiction I have seen from authoritative documents, uh when I say authoritative, I should say reliable documents, such as Rose's book of publications, from where this diagram comes They all show the altar of incense outside the Holy of Holies, and the only thing they show inside the Holy of Holies is the Ark of the Covenant. They would say that's the only piece of furniture in there And why is it that people would not want to consider that the altar of incense, the golden censor, would be inside the Holy of Holies? Why would people say it can't be in there It's a way to light it. You can't go in. You can't gig. You can't go in. How often was it to be lit on a pretty regular basis, right? So it wouldn't make sense to have something that was lit on a regular basis be inside the Holy of Holies rather than outside. But you look at the Greek language and it's kind of clear that that's exactly where it's located at. And uh and so people have been scratching their heads saying, well, in fact, Jamison Fawcett and Brown, one of the more reliable commentaries I will turn to from time to time Not before I do my study, but after, just to make sure I'm really looking for more additional scriptures they might point to that would be of interest. They go to great lengths to show that what Hebrews plainly says cannot possibly be. Because it uses this language in verse 3. After the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all, verse 4, which had the golden censer. They spend some time talking about that word had Because it implies it's got it. You buy a car, does it have you know driver assistance? Yes, it has driver, meaning it's on board. And they say, well, it doesn't mean that. They go out of their way to un undo this. And so what do you do with that? So that's what we're going to deal with today. Just exactly where is this altar of incense? And to let you know where I'm going to go with this, what we're going to find out is that in fact it was inside the Holy of Holies. And it was to be administered daily until a certain event happened and God changed the frequency. So they did not go inside every day, but it had to be inside there. I'm going to show you that today. So that's what we're going to look at. Hope you find that intriguing. Kudos to those of you who found an early edition of the bulletin where I had cheated and put the indication on. I thought it's not going to make much of a Sunday school discussion question. If the answer is already spelled out for you, it'd be like, you know, a public school quiz, right? So I didn't want to do that Well, let's look at the design requirements and the construction of the altar of incense, also known as the Golden Censor. So we have to look at the historical data and we go back to that. That's in Exodus 30. I prefer that you kind of read along in your Bible if you're able to, because I want you to see it for yourself in the scriptures so that you know where it's at. We tend to remember things when we see where it's in writing. Uh but if you didn't bring your Bible and you don't want to follow on your phone, it's provided in your bulletin insert as well. So Exodus 30 is where Moses is receiving The instructions on how to build all the stuff in the tabernacle. Exodus 30 is the part that deals with the altar of incense. We begin reading in verse 1. I'm going to go through verse 10. Here's now what we read. And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon. There were many altars made. There was a a a big bronze one that was huge, and the fire was always to be burning on that. That was not this It was just something to hold coals, an altar to burn incense upon, of shatem wood shalt thou make it. So it's fairly common wood, and it's not made of iron. And so it's not something that's going to be constantly burning 24-7. It's an occasional thing. A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, a cubit being approximately the length of your forearm, the the whole length of your forearm. So that's approximately the size of this thing, you know, a little smaller than the pulpit here. Four squares shall it be, and two cubits shall be the height thereof, the horns thereof shall be of the same. So it wasn't too terribly far off the ground. And it had little horns on it, which was common. Thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof. Thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about, so it had a little nice crown around it. It looked very ornate, not overly not overdone Verse 4, In two golden rings shalt thou make to it, under the crown of it, by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make it. and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it with all. If you remember the articles of furniture typically have these rings to the side, you put a pole through it He had four Bubas, one on the end of each pole, and they were not the Babbas, they were the Levites. There was a particular moving company of the Levites that was responsible for that, their name I forget And they would pick it up and they were the movers. That was their job. They were the moving company. Alright. So they made it was to it was it was portable. And thou shalt uh uh verse six, now here is the kicker Thou shalt put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee. Alright, so now I've looked at that word before quite a lot And the question is, it's a relative term, right? I'm, you know, before you. Uh the this is before, you know, where is this located? Which side of this Baal is the is the altar of incense. Well it says, it gives you two hints. It's before the veil that blocks the holy of holy, and it's before the Ark of the Covenant. Well, the only criteria that satisfies both is right inside the Holy of Holies. It's smack dab in the middle between the two. You kind of can't get around it. Now you may resist that. That's okay. I did too for a long time. And we'll see why it has to be inside. Before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee. Verse 7, and Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense Every morning. Look at that. He's got to go in every morning. That was for Aaron. This was the original design. Aaron went in every morning to burn incense on it. Okay? When he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it. And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the Lord throughout your generations All right. Well there God says you're doing this always. Interesting factoid. When the Old Testament uses the term everlasting, perpetual, uh eternal sometimes. Those are translations into English. The sense of the Hebrew word is like a ray of light. It keeps going and keeps going and keeps going until something stops it. It doesn't mean it keeps going, irrespective of any external conditions. So for instance the Mosaic Covenant was an everlasting covenant, and yet we know the blood of the cross has brought that, and Christ's death, resurrection, burial, the fulfillment of all the old covenant as as we're reading throughout Hebrews has placed an end to it. So it continues until something, and something here would be God, stops it and changes it. Alright? So that's that phrase perpetual incense. It's a perpetual incense. Verse 9, you shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering, neither shall you pour drink offering thereon. Well, God even had a specific formula for the type of incense he wanted. He was very particular about that. It was the making of an apothecary. They would beat these things up, they would blend it. God was concerned. You ladies understand this. You've got certain uh perfumes that you like that are acceptable Heaven forbid the husband gets you a perfume that, you know, what were you thinking? This is horrible. No, I don't like this. So there's some risky g gifts that husbands can give, and uh you make that mistake once. Um now Um you're not supposed to offer anything on it. It really wasn't designed to accommodate or to uh support the role of any kind of burnt offerings, meat offerings, drink offerings, and none of that. That was another altar. Not this one. However, it had horns and you did something to those Verse 10, Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements. Once in a year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations, it is most holy unto the Lord. You might imagine what day that would be, that he would make an atonement. The day of atonement, you know, so they would go in, there was that singular event, that one time where the high priest went in and he's going to sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat, but he's also going to put some on the horns of that altar of incense. So everything we read in the initial design shows that it's inside It's uh uh i it's it's pretty clear, verse six about the location. It's before the veil, before the mercy seat, and even more particular, God says, where I will meet with you. Well God did not meet with them outside The Holy of Holies. He met with them inside. Alright? So everything we have from the biblical data shows that so far the altar of incense is inside. But it also talks about this daily visitation. That's a requirement, right? Okay. And by the way, I have a lot of respect for people who try to integrate the biblical data. Well it can't possibly be inside because it's visited daily And God says only once in a year go holy of holy and draw out implication. That's doctrine. That's good. That's thinking. The Bible does integrate together. Okay, so that's always a good thing Now, that's the design. The Bible also records how it was built. As one who recently built an addition on the side of my house There's a far cry between what's on paper and the sticks and glass and concrete that actually goes up, right? It changes. Did it change? Well, let's go to Exodus 40 and let's see what happened Beginning in verse 1. Again, if you're following your Bible, I'm in Exodus 40. So let's see if he built it right. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the veil And thou shalt bring in the table and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it. Thou shalt bring in the candlestick and light the lamps thereof, and thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle. And he continues to discuss the other ones. Verse 6, thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. Now notice the two before us there. You have the altar of the where where's the before? Which side of the tent is it? Well, if the altar of burnt offering is before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of congregation, ignore my wrong arrow that I put in the diagram, so I should correct that. than the ark of the the altar of incense would be before that second veil. This is God's direction to him. It's now been built. We read about the construction earlier and God is now telling him how you do it If you want in your spare time, you can even go further into the era of the kings, and you can look at how Solomon built the temple, and you can look at 1 Kings 6, 21 and 22, and you can see how. uh after we were done with the wilderness tabernacle, how Solomon built it. And I'll just read that for you. You don't have to turn there. Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold. He made a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle. And he overlaid it with gold, and the uh whole house he overlaid with gold after he finished the house. Um also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold. I skipped down two verses. supposed to start in verse 20. I read you 21 and 22. 20 is the punchline. Miss that, sorry. And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, twenty cubits in breadth, twenty cubits in the height thereof, the holy of holies was a cube And he overlaid it with pure gold, and so covered the altar which was of cedar. So, um seems I have a bum reference here. You can read in 1 Kings 6, I'm in the right section, I don't think I pinpointed the correct verse. You can read that in fact Solomon built it and put that altar of incense inside. It actually was inside. Clearly, from what we've read, the Golden Censer is inside the Holy of Holies. Clearly, what we read from Hebrews 9. 6 is that it's inside. Hebrews 9. 3, if the altar of incense was inside. But verse 6 in Hebrews, which we read, actually we didn't read it, we'll go to the next verse. Verse 6 of Hebrew 9 says this. Now when these things were thus ordained, the priest went always daily, into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. They did their job. They light put the lights on, incense, all that sort of stuff. But into the second went the high priest, oh here's a tough one, alone once every year. Well, what do we do? Well we do. I mean you didn't have the common priest coming in. Hebrews 9 is an authoritative declaration written to the Hebrews who would immediately reject this account if it was incorrect As to what was going on. So how do we resolve this? How do we resolve this? Well, it turns out that the um uh That God, in fact, did change the rules concerning the lighting of the altar of incense after a particular and notorious event. And it's recorded. And we talk about it, but we miss the point of it. I say we. I have heard it discussed in Christianity. It's in Leviticus chapter 10. So you might want to navigate to that. Leviticus chapter 10 I hope you folks like this kind of sleuthing. I find it particularly interesting uh when we can kind of pull the thread through and and see if we can resolve some apparent contradictions in the scriptures, because the Bible's full of these things, but they can be resolved. Alright, so in Leviticus 10 and verse 1, 1 and 2, we read this. And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron. took either of them his censor. Now, um if you remember the uh the altar of incense was not to have any fire kindled on it, you brought coals to it. Well how do you bring a coal to it Well, not in your hands. So they typically would have bronze or brass sensors, meaning a thing that can hold coals, something that you could put in your hand. You take the coals off from that big burning uh altar outside, put them on that, and then you put some of the correctly apothecaried uh formulated incense and you went inside So they went in with their sensor. Now they didn't dump it on their sensor, right? Because there's an altar of incense inside for that purpose. Alright? And so here what they do. They took their censor, they put therein, put fire therein, put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not. Everybody knows about Nada and abaihu offering strange fire. Conferences have been titled the Strange Fire Conference, you know, and they point that out to saying, well, this is people speaking in tongues at Strange Fire. They're offering strange things. You know, it's a clever title. But anyway, so you often hear about strange fire. But what you don't get is the ramifications of that event. Or I should say what you don't hear. Verse 2, and there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. Alright, so God immediately killed them. They went in, they formulated the wrong stuff God was not too pleased with it. In fact, he didn't have a trial. He didn't call for a presbytery meeting at the next session of the general meeting. You know, twelve months from now we'll have a trial. None of that stuff. He just immediately you're dead We're not tolerating this. There are some things the God of our Bible doesn't tolerate. I would also point out the God of the Bible kills people. He doesn't have to give an explanation why. It's clear why he did it here. We then proceed to Leviticus chapter 16, and we find out that that event had ramifications. And here's the ramifications in Leviticus 16 and verse 1. The Lord spake unto Moses, and this is the key verse, and this is why I want you to see it in your Bible, because you might want to highlight it Chapter 16 of Leviticus verse 1. The Lord spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron when they offered before the Lord and died. Well, what's that talking about? Well we just read it It would be Nadab and Abahu. They offered strange fire. They died. That's exactly what God's talking about. After that event, verse 2, the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother. that he come not at all times into the holy place within the veil before the mercy seat which is upon the ark, that he die not For I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat. Alright, so God tells him, you ain't coming in here regularly. That ain't happening again. You're not coming in regularly. You're not coming in daily. God Himself is free to change the rules as he sees fit. And here he said, you're not coming in regularly. Skip down then to verse 12. Because it indicates that that altar of incense is in fact still in there and still serves a purpose because God did not remove the altar of incense. It is still there But here's the purpose. Verse 12. And he, the he in the context is Aaron, shall take his censor full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the Lord, and his hands full of incense sweet incense beaten small and bring it within the veil, and he shall put the incense upon the fire before the Lord. Again, I would assert he's definitely using that censor to bring it in and put it onto the altar of incense Alter it before the offer it before the Lord, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimony that he die not. Alright, now let's think this through Some might argue, well, he's just going in with the sensor, he's got the incense, he opens up the veil, he slips inside, and he dumps it in there. Well, number one, God didn't tell them to build a sensor and hold it there and fill the place with smoke. That's called smoke exhaustion. I mean you're gonna choke yourself if you're waiting And number two, it's definitely inside there because the purpose of the you're going to put it in an altar of incense. You're going to light it. And then if you need to, you leave, because it's going to what? Fill the room. And it's going to fill the room that it's in And in particular, it's filling the area where the Ark of the Covenant is, where the mercy seat is. So it has to be inside. That's its purpose. It's a set vessel for that particular purpose. To fill the room and to cover the mercy seat. Some might say, well, it was outside and they held it in their hands. Well then He said, don't come in always. So now we've got a piece of furniture that's unused. So I think when you put it all together, you find out that the altar of incense in fact was inside To serve the altar of incense, brass sensors were made where you brought the coals in because you didn't kindle it right then and there. You didn't bring in dead wood and make it It was already burnt, and you set it down, and you put the incense, and then you could go about your other tasks. You weren't coming and going and coming and going like a woman busy in her kitchen getting you came in with everything you needed And you did your job. And it was once in a year. So this, I believe, is exactly what's going on. After Nadab and Abaihu offered strange fire, God says don't come in at all times. You don't have that privilege anymore. That's not going to happen. Only once in the year. Only once. You know What do we do with all this? So this is my assertion that these depictions are incorrect, the altar of incense, based on the clear reading of Hebrews 9, based on the clear stated purpose in Exodus 30 and Exodus 40, and based on an example of a use case here in Leviticus It can't be any other place. Otherwise, I don't see that it serves any function. Given that these things are all types and shadows and figures, right? This is not about God's not The Karen housewife who freaks out because her couch is two inches in the wrong direction. Right? That's not what God's dealing with here. These are pictures. He's When and I use the illustration of a wedding announcement, right? You ask any bride who gives any kind of respect to the event that's about to occur where she's going to make a solemn covenantal vow to remain wedded to her husband. She wants all those details on that wedding invitation, on that little announcement to be correct. The spelling of the website for the gift registry, the time, the location, the event, the parents' names, the wording, it's all particular. And if the printer makes a mistake, if two letters are crossed, printer, you screwed up. Not paying you You failed. Let's try it again. She's going to do it until she gets it right. Because she's very, very concerned about that. The old covenant. The tabernacle was a grand and glorious picture pointing to the most epic event, the epic of all epics. known as the cross of Jesus Christ. That is the centerpiece of history. It is his story, H-I-S story, history. He's the center of it. And if you messed up anything that pointed to that, God got extraordinarily upset because it was to the glory of his son and the glory of his name that God's pointing to. So these are shadows, figures, pictures, and types. What could they possibly be talking about? We actually get some insight from a book of the Bible that you might not expect to find that kind of insight. Turns out from the book of Revelation A very symbolic book, a book that itself is shrouded in a lot of imagery, but frankly has some pretty plain passages to it. In fact, if you look at Revelation 8, we do find Heaven's depiction of this. From heaven's vantage point, what is going on? In Revelation 8. 3, we find that the prayers of the saints The prayers of the saints, Old and New Testament, are depicted as the sweet smell of incense. And I find that spectacular. Revelation 8, verse 3. Another angel came and stood at the altar having a golden censor. So here we see an angel comes and he stands at The altar. Well, what altar would that be? Well he's got his hands full of incense, so he's at the altar of incense, right? So again, indication that that's what he was used for And there was given him much incense. He didn't have a little, he had a lot, that he should offer it. with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which is which was before the throne. The mercy seat of God is also referred to as the throne of God. From where he rules. He says, I will meet with you there. He meets with us from his throne. And the smoke of the incense which came with the prayers of the saints Ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. There it is. He puts that incense in, and here it comes. That incense came out of his hand, he put it right on that, and here it comes right up before God. So this golden censor, this altar of incense, must reside in the Holy of Holies, otherwise it doesn't support the stated mission objectives. Now consider this for a moment That incense was prepared because it was beaten small. Now, I know you are praying people. Christians pray. Think back to when you personally experienced a time when God answered your prayers in a mighty way. What was the event that precipitated that prayer? I'm gonna bet it's when you felt you were beaten pretty small. God beats and afflicts, and it seems at times scourges every son and daughter whom he receives. Very small. Because that's when they pray. They pray seriously. When you mean business with God, it's a sweet smell to him. And it's only seen there, in your hidden place, when you pray, Jesus says, Enter into thy closet, and thy father would see at thee In secret. Was not the Holy of Holies a very secret place? And when he sees thee, he will answer thee openly. He alone hears them, none other. This is a place where God would meet with them. And he alone hears those prayers. We don't grieve him with our prayers. He doesn't pull up from the grand corporate desk of heaven and look over line three, Jeffrey again. Great day. Roll it to voicemail. I mean he's not doing that. This is this is sweet incense to him. Yes He desires to hear the prayers of his people. That's tremendous. To have a willing ear, a desirous mind, a comforting heart at the other end of that prayer, to hear that prayer. to him alone. As it were, they're carried by angels before his presence is how precious they're treated. They are fully atoned for by the blood of Christ. They are acceptable to Him. The horns of the altar of incense were atoned with that blood Even the very prayers of the people of God are sanctified. Even the very prayers that we can mutter and sometimes only say, oh God, oh God, oh God. Even they are made acceptable in his sight. You read in Romans 8. 26, likewise, the Spirit, the ultimate angel, also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings, which cannot be uttered. It's a language we don't even understand. He takes care of all that. So I see that there is a vital teaching That was lost if that altar of incense is not inside the Holy of Holies. It's where God's prayers, the people, the prayers that God hears of his people are located. They're sanctified. They ascend before him. They cover the mercy seat. All of it is there. And you'll see again and again throughout scriptures this Illustration of prayer. We talk about bathing something in prayer. The Ark of the Incense was bathed in prayer. It says about the time of evening sacrifice when a great many was in prayer. Right? You just see those connections throughout Scriptures. Lord, let my Prayer ascend up to thee. Well, how's it going to ascend up to thee unless it's where he's at? And it would be in that holy holy. So I I trust you I appreciate that. I uh don't like to take exception to uh a lot of mainstream things, especially you know something as fundamental as the furniture and the architecture of the Ark of the Temple. What I would consider very faithful ministries, uh I believe, consistently depict this incorrectly, but I can't get around it. I I do believe it's inside and I've laid out my case for it. I hope you appreciate that. All right, we'll close there. Any comments or questions? I kind of didn't give much Q<unk>A time today. It was really just an answer to one big question. Yes. I'll just ask a question. I I definitely see that sort of fascinating. But that perpetual then offering of the incense, morning and evening, excuse me, I understand perpetual can have an endpoint. It says throughout your generations So after the offering of Quora's son, did that stop? Was it then just once a year that incense was offered on the altar? That's the only way they had access to it That I'm aware of. Is there any indication of Scripture where God told them of that change that you know from this point forward. Leviticus 16 when God instructed Aaron, come not at all times. So that just covers the whole thing. Yeah, the Levites were the ones in charge of carrying out that duty. Right. Now there's other interesting ramifications to this. I first pulled this thread years ago when I was doing a study through the book of Luke. And I laid out the case that for Zacharias and Elizabeth, that there a case could be made that Zacharias was in fact a high priest. Because he was offering incense in the evening. And that's when it was announced to him that his wife would have child. So this morning and evening instance is actually only for a very short time. Yes. That's what I'm asserting. Right. Because otherwise you've got if if someone could show that there was a continuation of morning and evening incenses, it would have been through the censors, not on the altar of incense. as Hebrews 9 makes it clear, it's inside. And the fact that it's before the veil, before the mercy seat. There's only one place geometrically where that could be. It's got to bring up a cloud that's going to cover the mercy seat. Otherwise it's a piece of furniture with no function And Revelation says he's put in an altar. I I can't get around that language. It's kind of kind of hard to to beat. So if there was an ongoing, if they did it, it would have been on a censor They would have gone around with the censor, but not the golden altar. And I think that's why the uh book of Hebrews calls it a golden altar. It was special. It was very special Yeah. Yeah, thanks. Yeah. Do the events and description of Leviticus sixteen happen once a year Uh did the events and description of Leviticus 16 happen once a year, that when the when he goes in and makes the atonement? Yes. Yes, because it is consistent with the Day of Atonement. That was one of the other activities that occurs on that day. I'm not reading all of the context that goes into Day of Atomement because I'm narrowly focused on the the the Golden Altar. Prove it out. Go ahead. I'm okay. Prove me wrong. So eventually didn't see this other passage over here. And I'll have to correct that first Kings six passage which describes where Solomon built the um uh the uh uh tabernacle. There was the wilderness tabernacle, there was Solomon's, and then there's the depiction that you find in Revelation. One little interesting factoid for you, and I mentioned it in passing. was the holy of holies was a cube. It was a big cube. With some deduction and some calc and uh it would be deducing, you could gather that the wilderness tabernacle was ten cubits by ten cubits by ten cubits. uh vernacular, approximately fifteen by fifteen by fifteen. Imagine this room as a cube. These walls are thirteen feet, so add another couple of feet and go up as high and go back as far. That would be the size of it. And You would need a mighty big sensor and a lot of coals to fill that whole room with the smoke of incense, right? If you had a little handheld thing, that's gonna kind of take a while. But what's fascinating to me when you understand the imagery that God had, that it's a perfect cube where God will meet with his people, where he will put his name. In Revelation 21, when you have the New Jerusalem which comes down from heaven from above, what are those dimensions again? I think it's in Revelation 21. Um I think the language is uh twenty I forget twelve thousand? Is it twelve thousand? It's twelve Oof big but four square. It was definitely four square. It was definitely cute. Um big enough to reach the Yes, that's correct. Um yeah, I think it's twelve that yeah, there's sixteen of Revelation twenty-one. The city lieth four square, and the length is as large as the breadth, and he measured the city with the reed 12,000 furlongs. The length, the breadth, and the height are equal. 12,000 furlongs. That word furlong is where we get our word stadium from. The 12000 Stadia. And our stadiums were kind of modeled after the Roman stadia You calculate it out, and that cube is not, you know, it's big enough to block low Earth orbiting satellites. You could not breathe oxygen uh two-thirds of the way up. It's ginormous. But it's a perfect cube. It's a perfect cube. In other words, the whole thing is holy, holy, holy There are multiple theories that people have come up with to try to justify things that are plausible from a logical standpoint but don't have any basis in scripture. One of them that I've I've read, I can't remember which commentary it was, you ever been in a hotel room and somebody opens the curtain and the whole room is flacked with light everyone's still sleeping Um if the bale of the temple had a slit down the middle and it was pulled back, someone outside might see the Holy of Holies and die. And so there's a suggestion that the bale actually was like this inside like this. And so again, I can't remember what commentary it was, but someone suggested that the sensors inside are the the altered inside, but the priest did kind of slip between the two and put incense on it without viewing the mercy seat. That would be the Holy of Holies by going between the two layers because it couldn't open this way because of danger. So but again, there's no scriptural Support for that. Yeah, yeah. I think Leviticus 16, 10 and 16 help answer the mail because if you just simply do a Bible search and altar, incense, just a keyword search, you'll never pick up Leviticus 16 You'll never find it. And I discovered this years ago just simply by working my way through, you know, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and you hit Leviticus and it just for whatever reason struck me as like, God's changing a timing here. He's changing a rule and that impacts things. And that just fascinated me. I just kept pulling that thread and I went, wow, I think I'm on to something here I was just turning to what Gabe was saying about the whole of Leviticus sixteen. We were kind of concentrating at the beginning, but if you read down to what the priest does on The Day of Atonement. It's very clear. That it's on that day that he is lighting the altar of incense and that day he's coming before the Lord. Like you said, the smoke is filling the holy of holies From that intent. I just I'm next to you. Yeah, yeah. Well good. Huh. Second uh McKnight President Scholars uh She's she's the brain in the operation of the chauffeur I drive operation. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for this glorious illustration, the altar of incense. Yeah, pray Lord that um our prayers would be a sweet smelling savor Lord. And uh We thank the Lord that uh do have the spirit to make intercession for us of groanings which cannot be uttered. We pray that you would continue to bless our study this topic. Yeah, yeah.