Turn your Bibles this morning with me, please, to the book of Daniel. And it was pointed out that there was not a scripture text listed with the Message this morning, and I take full responsibility for that. I actually had determined what I'd be preaching this Sunday about three weeks ago. But was divided over which text, and by the time I sent off the bulletin information, I had forgotten to put any text at all So we're going to be studying today in Deuteronomy chapter 6, but by introduction, I'd like to look at Deuteronomy chapter 1. for our scripture reading. And I'll read verses one through eight of Deuteronomy. I'm saying Deuteronomy. I'm so sorry. Daniel Daniel chapter 6 will be our text, and Daniel chapter 1 will be our scripture reading. Got too much sun yesterday working in the garden. Daniel chapter one, if I've given you enough time to find it. And I'll read verses one through eight. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into the hand into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God. Which he carried into the land of Shinar to the house of his God. And he brought the vessels into the treasury of the house of his God. And the king spake unto Aphaz, the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed, and of the princes. Children in whom there was no blemish, well favored, and skillful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge and understanding science. and such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and tongue of the Chaldeans. And the king appointed them a daily portion of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank, so nourished them three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Now among these were the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah. unto whom the prince of the Eunice gave names, for he gave unto Daniel the name Beltishazar, and unto Hananiah of Shadrach, and unto Meshel of Meshach, and unto Azariah of Abednego But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the Prince of the Eunuchs, that he might not defile. himself. Let us dial for prayer as we begin. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we pray that you would grant that your word, the word of God, may have free course and be glorified this day. We pray that your Spirit would grant utterance to your word. We pray, Lord, that your Spirit would be the exegete to teach us spiritual truth today, to lead us in this study of your word. And Father, may this day your people be strengthened, corrected, edified, and encouraged in the work of God. Lord, the enemies, the foes that Daniel faced are no different than the ones that we face today. Help us, Lord, to purpose in our hearts that we will not defile ourselves, but that we will be true to our God in all things and in spite of all opposition. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn over with me now to chapter six of Daniel, and we're going to look at the First 28 verses of the chapter, verse 1 through 28. I'm not going to read them ahead of time, but we'll be reading them together as we go through the chapter. In the first verse of chapter 6 of Daniel, we read, It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom and 120 princes, which should be over the whole kingdom. And over these three presidents of whom Daniel was first, that the princes might give account unto them, and that the king should have no damage A lot has happened from chapter 1 to chapter 6 of Daniel. In chapter 1, we find that Jehoiakim, king of Israel is given into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar because of his sin. And Nebuchadnezzar takes the golden vessels out of the house of God. Vessels that had been in Solomon's temple that were consecrated to the worship of God. And he takes them with him and he puts them in the house of his own gods. But not only that, he takes of the seed royal, he takes the family of the kings, the best of the young men. And we know well the story of Daniel, Hananiah, Azariah, and Mesheel. They were taken. They lost their families. They lost their country. They lost their position. They lost their language. They lost their religion. They lost everything. It was very young men, probably 16, 17, 18 years old. When we come to chapter 6, we find Daniel as now an old man. And we find another king coming along. Darius the Mead, who's mentioned in verse 1. Darius the Mead comes up against the walls of Babylon. And Nebuchadnezzar, who had been driven into the wilderness as a wild man and should have known to worship God. Nebuchadnezzar, who had built a statue of gold to which Hanani, Azariah, and Meshael would not bow down, is now dead. And his grandson, Belteshazzar, it says son in your Bible, and that word son there is an indication he's a descendant. The ruler in between was of no consequence. Belshazzar is now the king, and he doesn't worry of any harm from Darius the Mead. Who is this guy? And so Belshazzar, while Darius is at the gates, he throws a great drunken party. And in the midst of his party, he praises the gods of gold and silver. And in his drunken party, he says, Hey, my grandfather brought some gold and silver cups out of the temple of Jehovah, there in Jerusalem. Their gold, and my God is a God of gold. Bring those that we may mock the God of Israel while we drink and feast. And while Belshazzar is in a drunken stupor praising his own gods, small g And mocking the God of heaven, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, the God Jehovah. A hand appears and writes on the wall, Mini, Mini, Kikel, Yafarsen. And Belshazzar trembles. And he calls for his wise men and he calls for his astrologers, and they can't read the writing But it is remembered that there was a wise man now forgotten in the kingdom. Now set aside, he's an old codger. But he can probably tell you what it says. Daniel is brought into the court of the king. And Daniel says, the writing is this, you have been weighed in the balances and found wanting, and the kingdom is taken from you. Now Babylon had great mighty walls. Belshazzar sat behind those mighty walls and thought, no one can harm me. But there was a weakness in the walls of Babylon. You see, every great city needs water. A city cannot survive without water. And so though the walls were great and high, there was a river that ran through the city, and there were iron grates. And gates that extended well down below the water line. No one could get in because the river and it's all blocked. And history has borne this out, has proved the word of God to be true. Darius the Mead damned up the Cesistrin. He stopped up the water. And when the water stopped flowing through the cistern, his army marched underneath the gates, right into the city, and conquered the city on that very night. Now that's quite a history lesson. Isn't it exciting? Isn't that fun? I love it. It's beautiful. On the very night that Belshazzar sees the hand on the wall, Darius comes in and conquers the city. And that brings us to verse 1. It pleased Darius to set up over the kingdom 120 princes, which should rule the whole kingdom. And over these he set up Daniel. It may well have been told to Darius what had happened the night of his victory. That this Daniel, who had been promised to be third of the ruler in the kingdom under Belshazzar, he's the one that told Belshazzar, you're done, buddy. Your time is up. The God of Jehovah has rained down judgment on you. And so Daniel becomes the prime minister. Verse 3 Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes because an excellent spirit was in him. Who was the spirit of Daniel? Was it his own? No. The Spirit of Jehovah God dwelt in Daniel. And the king sought to set him over the whole realm. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom. They're getting jealous here. Daniel's being promoted, and we're not. But they could find none occasion nor fault for as much as there's three things here. Look at this. He was faithful. Neither was there any error or fault found in him. Daniel was a man who did his job. He was a man who did it correctly, and he was a man who was honest in everything he did. Isn't that quite a testimony? And look what it says further about him Then said these men, we shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it concerning the law of his God. There's nothing that you can say about Daniel that he does wrong. If he has a penny in his hand, you know what the penny was used for. If he says he's going to do a job, he does it, and he does it well. If he says it is this way, you won't find out that it's actually another way. He's honest in all he does. The only way you're going to find anything against Daniel is Daniel serves the God Jehovah instead of the gods of Babylon. Concerning the law of his God. That's quite an amazing testimony to have. Verse 6. Then these presents and princes assembled together to the king and said unto him, King Darius, live forever. All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, the princes, the counselors, the captains have consulted together. to establish a royal statutes, and to make a firm decree. That whosoever shall ask any petition of any God or man for thirty days, save thee, O King, shall be cast into the den of lions. Look what's happening here. First of all, this is all based on jealousy and vanity. Daniel has been exalted instead of them, and they don't like it. And we can't find anything against him because he's a good governor. He manages things well. The only way we're going to find something against this, Daniel, is his God. But this law is a lie from the outset. Look what they say there in verse seven. All the presidents. Of the kingdom. Governors, princes. Whose prime minister? Daniel. It wasn't all of them Daniel didn't agree to this. They're going behind Daniel's back. They're trying to do something against Daniel here. Daniel didn't agree to this. So the law is a lie to begin with. But beyond that, it's foolish. It's stupidity. It's nonsense. No wonder Daniel is made prime minister instead of one of these fools. And we had more like Daniel in our Congress and in our House of Representatives and in Annapolis. But we've got laws very much like this, stupidity nonsense laws coming out. This is foolishness. First of all, why did the king set up 120 princes? So he wouldn't have to deal with this stuff. This law says nobody can ask any petition of anybody but you for 30 days. He doesn't want to do this. He's got 120 princes to take care of this stuff, so he doesn't have to deal with everybody's question. There's about 150,000 people in Babylon at this time. Think about this. The entire civil government will be disrupted by this stupid law. Is the beggar on the street that asked for bread going to be arrested because he asked a petition of someone else? Is the woman that goes next door for a cup of sugar going to be arrested because she asked a petition of someone else? What about the child that says, Mommy, I'm hungry? It's nonsense. It is a total disruption of the entire political system And not only is this law based on the jealousy of these men, it's based on the vanity of the king. Oh king, live forever. There's nobody like you. Let everything come to you. An interesting side note in the history behind this is that the Persians, one of their gods, was the fire god. They worshiped God. The Babylonians did not worship fire. Now it was a Babylonian king that threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into their fire of furnace. They didn't worship fire, so they threw them into the fire of furnace. And what happened? Well, the soldiers that threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in, they got burnt up. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out without any smoke on their cloak. The only thing the fire burnt on them was it burnt the ropes off the wrist, because they were thrown in bound and they were walking free, and Christ was in the fire with them, one like unto the Son of God. And so it may have been that the reason that these Persian governors and rulers said, throw him in the lion's den, because they may have heard about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and this god of Daniel Well, he protected his people through our God, through the fire. So we better use lions this time. Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about. Seeking who may devour. Ah, let's throw him in the lions den. See how this works out for you, fellas. Verse 8. Now, O King, this is the ta the uh princess speaking, now, O king, establish a decree. And sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not. Wherefore King Darius signed the writing of the decree. Now, the median of Persian Empire had a law that you can't change the law. That's a pretty stupid law, isn't it? That's pretty ridiculous. You can't change a Media Persian law. When the law is established, that's it. Remember in the story of Esther, which was also under the Medio-Persian Empire? There was a decree to kill all the Jews, and it couldn't be changed, so the king has to keep making other decrees. So the decrees, first of all, is the Jews can fight against their enemies. And then they give them an extra day to do so. Laws that cannot be changed. You realize in Waynesboro, Virginia, I looked this up, in Waynesboro, Virginia, there is a law. It is still in the books. The law in Waynesboro, Virginia is that a woman cannot drive down Main Street unless her husband walks in front of the car waving a red flag. It's built the books for who knows how many years. I don't know what she does if she's not married, but her husband has to walk in front of the car waving a red flag. Okay, now that's just one of many laws, but aren't you glad we can change our laws? I mean we have a marvelous, beautiful constitution, but the framers of our country in wisdom set our laws up so that our laws could fit our time. So that's not always a good thing. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying, because we've got a lot of nonsense laws being passed today. But the laws of the Media Persians could not be changed. It could not be altered. And even though Darius here doesn't want to throw Daniel in the line instead, he has no choice. He signed the fool thing. And so establish this king, which this law which cannot be changed. Verse 10. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed. He went into his house, his windows being opened in his chamber towards Jerusalem He kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. Isn't that amazing? Look what he did. Daniel was fully aware of the consequences of breaking the king's commandment. Daniel, pray, lion's den. No leniency No reprieve. No second chance like there was with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego on the golden calf. Give him another chance. No second chance, Daniel. This is it. It's the law. This is what's going to happen. What would we do? Not what would we do? What will we do? When the laws of our own country become such that we cannot obey God and man at the same time. What will we do as a congregation if the law demands that we marry homosexuals or go to jail? What will we do? We cannot break God's law. We obey the law of man, except when the law of man disobeys the law of God. And that's exactly the situation that Daniel finds himself in. Remember Peter and John when they're beaten and threatened and told not to not to preach in the name of Christ anymore. And their response was, whether it be right in the sight of God to obey God or you, you judge. But we will do what's right. We have a lot of situations in our land today where believers are facing this very situation: where they will obey God's law or they will obey man's law. And they suffered for obeying God's law. That's what Daniel does here. Daniel is fully aware of the consequences. Of breaking man's law to keep God's law, but he keeps God's law. Anyway, and brethren, friends, dear ones, Daniel did not begin. By facing a lion's den. Daniel began as a young man Taken from his country, taken from his people, his language taken from him, his dignity taken from him. He had everything to complain about and everything to say it's wrong, it's not right I had all these plans. I'm a child of the king of Judah. I'll eat what they feed me. I'll drink what they give me to drink. But we read back in verse 8 that Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. Friends, brethren, loved ones, if we are to stand in the hard trials to come, it begins by standing in the small trials of our day. It begins, young people, by establishing a pattern in your life of doing what is right, not what is convenient. Doing what is proper, not what is your what not what your friends are doing. Daniel would purpose in his heart, and so it began with dietary laws. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego had faced a very similar situation. They would not bow to the king's image. But not only that, Daniel had established a lifestyle, a daily practice of righteousness and godliness Look at verse 10 again. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house. His windows being opened, he could have closed the windows. He could have gone out into the woods to hide. His windows being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem. He kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. Daniel didn't wait till the problems came to start praying. He didn't wait until he was in trouble to say, Oh God, help me! This was routine. This is what Daniel did day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, from the time he was a young boy as a prisoner. Now to an aged man, he established a practice and a lifestyle of godliness And I believe with all my heart that that is why he was able to stand up to the king. No athlete begins by running a mile in under six minutes. No basketball player begins by making three-point shots. You have to build up to it, folks. I believe persecution is coming to the people of God. Are we building up for it? Are we preparing our hearts and souls today to stand in the evil day and having done all to stand? Are we honing ourselves in prayer not just before we eat and before we go to bed at night? But are we making our lives lives of prayer? Are we molding ourselves by the commands of God's word? Are we facing the The dietary laws, which would be easy to say, oh, that doesn't matter. We're not even in our own country anymore. We'll eat what they want us to eat. Are we purposing in our hearts not to defile ourselves with the little things? If we're not, we won't have strength for the big things. It'll be too late. Daniel had established in his life a pattern of praying to his God. He didn't wait till trouble came. He didn't hide his face. He had the windows open. If we deny God before man, he will deny us before his father. Paul faced death in Rome. If Paul went to Rome, he knew he'd probably die, and yet he said, I've got to preach in Rome also. He was willing to die We find that Daniel faced towards Jerusalem. He opened his windows at the four time and knelt and prayed toward Jerusalem. This was an act of absolute, unpolluted obedience to God. I'd like you to turn to a different passage with me briefly. Turn over to 1 Kings. 1 Kings chapter 8. 1 Kings chapter 8 is Solomon dedicating the temple from which the vessels of gold were stolen. That's pretty pertinent, isn't it? Because it was these very vessels that that Belshazzar was using in his mockery just a few weeks ago, a few nights ago. 1 Kings chapter 8, and I'll begin reading in verse 44. This is Solomon praying. 1 Kings 8, 44. If thy people go out to battle against their enemy, whithersoever thou shalt send them, and shalt pray unto the Lord toward the city which thou hast chosen, toward Jerusalem. And toward the house that I have built for thy name, then hear thou in heaven their prayers and their supplication and maintain their cause. Verse 46. If they sin against thee, for there is none that sinneth not, and thou be angry with them, and deliver them to their to the enemy So that they carry them away captives into the land where they are carried captives, and repent. sorry, I lost my line there. Uh land of the enemy, far or near, verse forty seven. Yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land where they are carried captive and repent and make supplication unto thee in the land of their that they are carried them captive, saying, We have sinned and have done perversely. We have committed wickedness and so return unto thee with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies which led them captive away, and pray unto thee toward their land. Which thou gavest unto their fathers, the city which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name Verse 49, then hear thou their prayer and their supplication in heavenly heaven, thy dwelling place, and maintain their cause. When Solomon dedicated the temple, he said, Lord, if we go to battle and we pray toward this house, toward Jerusalem, toward the temple, give us victory. And if we sin because we all sin, and because of our sin, you allow us to be carried into captivity Even when we've lost our country, even when we've lost our language, even when we've lost our family, even when we've lost our dignity, if we repent and pray to you toward Jerusalem Lord, hear our prayer and forgive our sins. You see, Daniel had every reason to forsake his God and bow down to the gods of the Babylonians. Daniel had every reason from man's standpoint to deny his God and bow down to the gods of Darius and worship the king. But his God said, Thou shalt have no God before me. And so here Daniel, when he's told not to pray, no, he's commanded to pray. Not only that, he's commanded to pray towards Jerusalem. I don't know if you picked it up there in the text. But it says they were to pray towards Jerusalem, towards the city, towards this house. But then it says there in verse 49, hear their prayer in thy heavenly dwelling place. Hear thy prayer in heaven, thy heavenly dwelling place. You see, God dwelt in the temple when the children of Israel were obedient, but God's presence was taken away from the temple when it was defeated. But he's praying to the God of heaven. And so Daniel is obeying the scriptures. All these years until the time of the testing comes. Daniel knelt before God. He humbled himself before God. He trusted in God to protect him from the enemies that conspired against him. And he trusted in God to protect him from the lions. But you see, Daniel did not know what would happen when he went in the lion's den. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not know what would happen when they went into the fiery furnace. We don't know what will happen when the police come and arrest me and run you off and lock the doors of this building. We don't know what will happen. We don't know if God will deliver us or if it would be God's plan for us to suffer greater persecutions. But again, are we preparing ourselves today to stand? Daniel prayed three times a day. He prayed morning, evening, and at noon unto his God. We find this pattern throughout Scripture. On the day of Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit is given, we find that the Apostles were praying, and in Acts 2. 15, they were accused of being drunk, and they said, We can't be drunk. It's the third hour. They were praying at the third hour of the day, early in the morning. In Acts 10, verse 10, on the morrow as they were journeying and drew nigh into the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. So we find Peter in Acts 2, he's praying at the third hour in the morning. In Acts 10, we find Peter praying at the sixth hour. And then again in verse in Acts chapter 3, verse 1. Now Peter and John went up to the temple to pray about the ninth hour And all three of those passages, third hour, sixth hour, ninth hour, you find Peter, Peter, and John, they're going to pray at those specific hours. Go all the way back to Daniel three times a day. That was the pattern of godly men. They prayed. Daniel stood firm in his faith and practiced before God. Verse 11, and we'll move along quickly. Then these men assembled and found Daniel praying. We've got him, folks! We set a trap, and we've got him. There's a far side cartoon that I absolutely love. It's got a dog standing behind the door of a dryer, one of those round dryer doors, and it's a big sign that says Catfood F-U-D. and an arrow pointing into the dryer. And the dog is standing behind the dry dryer door and the cat is kind of looking in the dryer and the caption is, please, oh please. He's just waiting for the cat to go and get they set a trap. Isn't scripture wonderful? The wicked are sunk in the pit they prepared. Their own foot in the net which they hid is ensnared. Remember the men that threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the fire? What happened to them? Well the fire burned them up We've set a trap for him and we've caught him praying. We've got him now. The laws of the Medes and Persians can't be changed. Verse twelve. Then came they near and spake before the king concerning the king's command, Hast thou not signed the decree that every man that shall ask any petition of any God or man will Within thirty days say thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered, Yeah, I think I think that's what we did, isn't it, fellas? The king answered and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not 13. Then answered they and said to the king, That Daniel. Don't you love that? I love the expression, expressiveness of the King James. That Daniel Which is of the children of the captivity of Judah. He's not even one of us. Regardeth thee not. He doesn't care anything about you, King. Regardeth thee not, O king, nor to the decree which thou hast signed, but maketh petition three times a day. You know what they're lying again, aren't they? They claim that Daniel did not regard the king. There is ample evidence that Daniel did. Do you think? Do you think that he would have made The ruler of the kingdom, someone who didn't respect him? Someone who didn't regard his command? Look back to verses four and five of the chapter. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom. But they could find an occasion or fault concerning the kingdom. He regards the king. For as much as he was faithful. He does what the king says to do. Neither was there any error nor fault found in him. It's a lie. King Daniel doesn't believe in you, Daniel, or doesn't believe in you is not the right term. Daniel doesn't obey you. He doesn't care anything for you. He has no respect for you. Lies. Totally false. Daniel did respect the king. Daniel didn't respect the king's law. He just simply respected the law of God more. Because there's a greater king. And so they're lying against Daniel Yin. The evidence is found in his reputation. Verse 14. Then the king went, when he heard these words, was sore displeased with himself. He's mad at himself. Ah, I fell into the trap too. And set his heart upon Daniel to deliver him, and he labored till the going down of the sun to deliver him. Then these men assembled unto the king and said unto him, Now, O king, the law of the Medes and Persians is that no decree nor statute with the king establishes may be changed. Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel and cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spake unto Daniel, Thy God, whom thou servest continually, will he deliver thee? Daniel? Can your God deliver thee? I know he's a great God. Will your God deliver thee? You see, we read in Proverbs 29-25, the fear of man bringeth a snare But whoso puteth trust in the Lord shall be safe. The snare of man bringeth a fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso trusteth in the Lord, he shall be safe. Were the apostles safe when they were martyred? Yes. Was Paul safe when he was beheaded? Yes. Was Jim Elliott safe when he was killed along with Nate Saint and the others by the Alka Indians? Yes Will we be safe regardless of what trials and persecutions we face? I'll be honest with you folks, it's easy for me to stand here today and say yes. When the trial comes, it's not quite so easy. But the answer is yes, we will be safe. Our God will take care of us if we do what is right. If we stand on the law of God and the truth of God, for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. Verse seventeen And a stone was brought and laid upon the mouth of the Dan, and the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the sea signat of his lords That the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel, I can think of another stone that was put upon the door and sealed with a signet and didn't do much good. 18. Then the king went to his palace and passed the night fasting. Neither were instruments of music brought before him, and his sleep went from him. Then the king rose up early in the morning and went in haste unto the den of lions, and when he came to the den he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel. The king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel It must be a misprint. It can't be right. Oh Daniel, does your Bible say servant of the living God? Okay, I guess it's correct then. I'm being sarcastic. Daniel does have a testimony, doesn't he? This is Darius the Mead speaking. This is a godless king. This is a king who's just made a foolish decree. This is a king who's just set thrown God's prophet into a lion's den because of his foolish decree. I think Darius is scared. I think Darius is worried about what happened to the servant of the Most High God that he threw into the lion's den. Remember the question when he threw him in? Is your God able to take care of you? Daniel, servant of the God that's greater than me. I made a decree that everybody had to worship me for 30 days. But this is the living God. This isn't my dead gods. This isn't my idols. This is the living God. Daniel, servant of the living God. You see what happens when a godly man does the right thing, follows God, and obeys. God is glorified, folks. And here a godless king is now acknowledging a living God because a godly man who started as a young boy, a prisoner. took a stand on the small things and was able to stand on the big things. And we saw the testimony of Daniel that he was faithful. He did his work well. But here's a greater testimony. He's a servant of the living God. That's the title. Not president, not prime minister, not ruler of all the provinces, not head over 120 princes. That's the title he craved. Servants of the Most High God. What's your title? Oh, here's Joe the Plumber. Bob the Carpenter. What's your title? You know, I don't want to be known as Joe the pastor. Folks, I want to be known as Joe the servant of God. Because that's what's important. Doesn't matter what title we carry in this world, are we servants of the Most High God? Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God whom thou servest occasionally. So what your Bible says. Mine says, continually, is thy God who thou servest continually able to deliver thee from the lions? Then said Daniel, O king, live forever. There's respect for the king. O King live forever, my God hath sent his angel and has shut the lion's mouth, that I have no hurt uh that they have not hurt me for as much as before him. Innocency was found in me. He wasn't innocent before the King's Law. He was guilty. He broke the King's Law. He wasn't innocent before the princes because he broke the law that they had written for the king. But before God he was innocent. Remember, I asked the question, what do we do when the law says we have to marry homosexuals? We may be guilty before the law of man. But may we be innocent before the law of God. How much greater is that? Before him, innocency was found in me. And also before thee, O King, I've done no hurt. What have I hurt of you, King? Verse twenty two. My God has sent his angel And folks, I'm about halfway through the message, and we're going to conclude here pretty soon. I can't prove it by giving you a verse that says it's absolutely the case. But from the whole contents of Scripture, I believe with all my heart that the angel in the lion's den was the same one that was in the fire furnace. It was the same one that was in the burning bush. It was the same one that was at the wall of Jerusalem, or of Jericho. I believe that this is a pre-incarnate Christ. who comes into the den of lions and shuts their mouths. Because our adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, seeking who may devour. And we use the term Daniel in the Lion's Den. But I believe it was Christ in the Lion's Den. Will Christ forsake us in our trials? Will He forsake us when the law is against us? But his law is for us. No. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Christ in the lion's den, he has shut the lion's mouth that I have received no hurt. Verse 23, and we'll close up. Then the king was exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him. Why? Because he believed his God. Because he believed his God. No manner of hurt was found on him. Remember the three Hebrew children? Their clothes didn't even smell the smoke. Their hair was not singed. There was no harm found on them. Verse 24. Then the king commanded, and they brought those men which accused Daniel, and cast them into the den of lions. them, their children, and their wives. And the lions had mastery over them, and break all their bones in pieces, or ever they came to the bottom of the den. Even some hungry lions, folks. They've just spent a night in the which they would have loved to have eaten what was in front of them. But the angel of Jehovah has stood between them and their meal. Angel's not there anymore. The angel has left, and now the lions can do what lions do. And before they ever reached the bottom of the den, they were gone. They were consumed. Then King Darius wrote unto all the people, nations, and languages that dwelt in all the earth, peace be multiplied unto you. I make a decree that in every dominion of my kingdom men ought to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel For he is the living God, and steadfast forever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be unto the end. He delivered and rescued, and he worked worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions. So Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian. God may not deliver us from a fiery furnace. He allowed Peter to be crucified upside down. God may not deliver us from the den of lions. He allowed Paul to be beheaded. But God will take care of his people. God will bless us if we follow him. But it doesn't begin when Maryland or the U. S. passes a law against us. It begins today in praying three times a day. It begins the day in per purposing in our hearts that we will not defile ourselves with a portion of the king's meat. It begins immediately. And regardless of what happens, Christ will be in the lion's den. Let us stand for prayer. Father, bless your word and your truth to our hearts this day. Give us grace to stand and having done all to stand. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.