Turn with me if you would to Luke chapter 24. Set the uh scene here It's uh Resurrection Sunday. There's two men that have been traveling from Jerusalem to Emmaus, and they have heard some rumors about an empty tomb. And they've heard some rumors about angels at this empty tomb, and they're discussing this when along comes the Lord Jesus Christ and joins with them. And it says their eyes are beholden and they don't know who he is And he begins discussing with them and and he kind of chastens them and says, Uh oh, so slow of heart to believe and he begins to share with them from the scriptures, from Moses and the prophets, uh, you know, that cr these things had to be fulfilled, that Christ must die. And they stop to have something to eat that evening. It must have been a couple hour walk to a mess. And as they do, Christ breaks the bread for them at the table, and their eyes are open. To who they've been talking to. And he disappears. And they're just like, oh, wow. And they run back to Jerusalem. as fast as they can. And they find where the disciples and the followers are, and they say, God, yeah, tell you what we've we've heard about the women at the tomb. And they've seen these angels in about the empty through. But we have spoken with with the well, we're not sure what we spoke with, but we we think it was Jesus. I mean he he revealed himself and he broke the bread. And and and as he's saying this, Christ appears. Again before these men on the road to Emmaus and the rest in the room and begin to talk with them. And they're all it says they're in this sitting here, a frightened and that don't know quite what to make out of it all. And finally in verse 39, Christ says in Luke 24, behold my hands and my feet That it is, I myself, handle me and see. For a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as they see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed not. For joy. You ever heard people say it's too good to be true? And usually it is too good. If it's too good to be true, it's not true. Well, this is too good to be true. And so after all of this and seeing the holes in the hands of his feet, and he says, But handle me, and they still Believe not. And they said, Well, have you any meat? And they gave him a piece of broiled fish and a honey And he took it and did eat before them. And he said unto them, These are the words that I spake unto you while I was with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written Well that term written. It is written, it is written, it is written. It's hundreds of times in the scripture. It is written in the law of Moses and the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me And then open to either understanding. I mean you've walked with them for a couple of hours, you talked to them, you broke bread with them, you've seen the holes in his hands, his feet, he says, hand away, and they still don't understand. And then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. And he said unto them, thus it was written that then thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise again the dead the third day. He said all things must be fulfilled in verse 45. And that's basically we're going to be in verse 45 looking at this. All things must be fulfilled which are written of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me And then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. For they had believed not, as I mentioned before. Paul runs into the same thing in 2 Corinthians 3 in verse 15. A similar problem with others, who had read Moses but understood not the significance of Christ. And for he says here in 2 Corinthians 3. 15, even on this day when Moses is read, there is a veil upon their heart. They don't understand the significance of Christ and what has happened. I also want you to know that says Paul says when it well first Christ is saying that it's written, and then we have Paul writing uh thirty or forty years later, and Paul is writing and he says, even on the day when Moses is read, Moses' actual words were available. I want you to know that And we hold him today too. His actual words were available. If someone could have challenged it, well we don't know what Moses already wrote, it's not written down. We don't have copies of it anymore Not authentic, not good copies of, but Christ had no problem with these. And Moses' words are actually available. And read them. This is not some murky, marred, mutilated, mangled manuscript. These are Moses' words, written in the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. That's a question now that we must ask ourselves then. We've got more testimony about Christ than they had back then. We have less reason to not believe and not to understand. So has your understanding been opened to the significance of what's in the scriptures? I mean you could have handled his hands and his feet and seen the mangled holes in them and spoke to Christ personally for hours and not have the understanding. understanding of the significance of what Moses has written and the prophets and the Psalms. So has your understanding open to the significance of Christ? Or is there still a veil upon your heart today? That's a possibility. And we know from getting out in the world, we run to a lot of people. The veil is still upon the heart. And I would just suggest you this morning that if you think to yourself, has my understanding that opened? Has my heart still got a veil on it? Here's the clue. Do you have an appetite for the Word of God? Right. Do you hunger and thirst after the righteousness of the kingdom of God and his righteousness? Because if you don't, there's a bail. There's a veil on the heart. You do not have the understanding. These are words that we should truly love. You get a letter from someone you're in love with, man, you you want to read it again and again and you love what you read and you're interested in it. You have a hunger and a thirst for the next letter that's coming So you get through with Matthew, then you want to read Mark, and then you want to read Luke, then you want to read John. I mean, it just doesn't stop if there isn't a veil on your heart. If there's a veil upon your heart, your heart is wrapped in darkness. And you need to be enlightened. before you'll have understanding of the significance of what Christ did for us. The Lord Jesus said to a group he was talking to the the Sadducees, we all know about why they were sad, you see. They didn't have an understanding. We've probably heard that and my wife gets tired of it. So if she's listening or watching this right now, sorry dear. But it's a way to remember the Sadducees They were sad, you see. And Christ says to what's the problem? He says you do therefore err because you know not the scriptures, neither the power of God. Mark twelve and twenty-four How could they say they didn't know the scriptures? They were the Sadducees. They were in control because they didn't know they didn't love the Scriptures. They didn't hunger and thirst after the Scriptures And they did not know the power of God. What does it mean not to know the power of God? It means that God has not removed the veil from their hearts. And what does it take to remove the veil of darkness from a heart? It takes the power of God to enlighten the understanding, as it did to Saul of Tarsus. He's on the road of Damascus. He's out there, he's threatening and breathing out threatenings. He's arresting people, he's torturing people, he's putting people to death. And this is a heart that has to be changed. And what will change it The power of God, and Christ says to these Sadducees, you know not the scriptures of the power of God. It takes the power of God to give you understanding of the significance of what Christ has done for us on the cross It takes the power of God to enlighten the Saul of Tarsus, the chief of sinners, 1 Timothy 115. It takes the power of God to enlighten the chief of sinners, and it took the power of God to enlighten my heart And your hearts. And other hearts that people are praying for. We can bang them over the head of the Bible all day long. Sometimes that's what I want to do with some of 'em. Hit him with the book, hit him with the book one of our fathers walked in the room and he and he found his kid hitting the other kid with a fible on the top of his head. He said, What are you doing? He said, You said hit him with the book, I'm hitting him with the book Why is what you feel like sometimes. It's the problem is you're trying to get it into their heads and it needs to go into the heart. Understand this, it took the power of God to create everything out of nothing in six days. It takes the power of God to do that. To take nothing and make it something. To take nothing and make it everything in six days. And so the scripture says, all the inhabitants of the earth It says in Daniel 4 and 35, are reputed as nothing. And so when God looks upon not all the inhabitants, but just some of the inhabitants, they're less than nothing. If all the inhabits are reputed as nothing, then this small group is less than nothing. And still, the power of God looked down mercifully upon the dark hearts of some of you since He looked upon dark nothingness as he did upon the heavens and the earth when he created him. And for some of you sitting here, you remember the day when God looked upon your darkness of your heart veiled and your nothingness, and God spoke to your heart and said, Let there be light. And you were enlightened And you love to talk about that when you're not talking about the Lord Jesus. Or perhaps some of you remain in darkness without understanding today. Today we're surrounded by people whose hearts are veiled in darkness. We're overrun by them. We're governed by them. They have no understanding. Their understanding is darkened. Ephesians 4. 17. Their understanding is dark and they're not the deep state that everybody's talking about. They're the spiritual dark state. That's what they're in. And they're in need of Christ to open their understanding and to enlighten them. The world that is full of Sadducees, who'd have thought that group would have multiplied so fast? The world's full of Sadducees who believe not the writings of Moses. That's what Christ said to them. You believe not the writings of Moses. That's your problem. Mark 12 and 24. You know not the scriptures. You don't believe the scriptures We read in Acts 23 and 8. Well what did the Sadducees believe? Well they believed there was no resurrection, straight one. They believed there was there were no angels, right too. And they didn't believe that Christ was the Messiah. You're out. This is what they did. They didn't believe in the resurrection. You hear people say that all the time. Well you only get one shot in life. You only go around once. You gotta get all the life you can get out of it. Here's what bucking looks gotta start taking Get through the bucket list. That's what they want to do. You live and then you just die and there's nothing after that. They don't believe in a resurrection. They're saddues. You hear people like that all the time No resurrection because they don't want a judgment because that's what follows a resurrection. That's a serious flaw in a character of anyone who says they don't believe in a resurrection. I wouldn't buy a house from them Use that one sometimes, huh? That's a serious law on your character. They don't believe in the resurrection. And they don't believe there's angels. You talk to them about angels and then suddenly people say, well there might be UFOs or some sort of aliens out there. I don't believe in angels. That's like believing in Tinkerbell. You know, that that that that's that's like believing in the Tooth Fairy. I don't believe in angels. That's a serious flaw, too. And somebody said, well, that's a major doctrine. I mean, we don't have to get all upset about people that don't believe in angels. Really? Well if you don't believe in angels, then there were then there were no angels at Sodom and Gomorrah to lead Lot and his family out. If you don't believe in angels, then that's in Genesis 19. If you don't believe in angels, well then there was no angels during the past that were brought Israel out of Egypt. In Numbers 20, verse 60. If you don't believe in angels, then there was no angel that rolled back the stone at the empty tomb to show us that the tomb is empty. I mean if you don't believe in angels, you miss a lot of important things No angels? Serious law. Christ is called the Lord of the Angels. The Lord of hosts. We're the host, the angels. He's the Lord of the hosts. He's the Lord of the Angels. I mean, you can't get rid of the doctor of the angels. Seriously. Unrepentant sinners always got things they don't believe in the Bible. They've always got a reason why not to believe the Bible. Oh you can't believe the Bible still about any. It doesn't pretty quick things that they these rioters that are out there. I'm not talking about the protesters now. There's some protesters there that are involved too, but the rioters, the ones that are destroying the churches and graffiting the churches St. John's in D. C. and St. Patrick's up in New York. I mean, the riars, they can give you all kinds of reasons why they they believe in a utopia because they're going to give you one. Heaven here on earth, but they don't believe in heaven. But they give you utopia, heaven here, and earth. But let me tell you some other reasons why they don't believe what Moses wrote. Well they they don't believe in bearing a false they don't think it's wrong to bear a false witness Because they're not going to give you utopia. They're bearing a false witness. And and they they don't believe that there's anything wrong with coveting, because that's what they're doing when they break in these stores, you know, through the cities of Los Angeles. Have you looked the stores we're breaking into? Rolex watch. I mean come on. Uh they're bringing all these expensive stores and and destroying them and burning them down after give they want on 'em. So but so these these people, the the these writers down there, the the Antifa group by the way if you look real close, most of them are white. people that's what they get all those black ones so you can't tell? They're out there riding. And and they're they're burning down black store owners' businesses And it's black people being shot in the streets by the Antifa leaders of these riots. And they don't and these what do they believe? What don't they believe? They they don't think there's anything wrong with coveting Freaking that store. Who believe there's any raw with stealing from the stores and and taking the life of the person who owns the store, who's guarding the store Killing is okay. Take the Lord's name in vain, the graffiti on the church walls before you set fire to Saint John's and other churches And the vulgar science accompanies people. I mentioned the whole Ten Commandments. There's ten things right there that the Sadducees of today don't believe in. And today the rioters, I'm not talking about some of the protesters who've been duped. there but the rioters the ones who are doing all the damage down there who were who are you killing police officers black police officers Yeah. White police officers. They don't care. They don't want a police force anymore. So who do you call? Ghostbusters? They don't believe in the Holy Ghost. That's what they should be calling on. That's who they should call. So the they uh what we're seeing in this country right now, the the writers and most of the media, they are without understanding They're without enlightenment. Romans 1 and 31. They're telling us right now that what America's got is a skin problem. Dear friend, it goes a lot deeper than the skin. It goes to the heart of the matter. It goes to the heart. The problem is the heart matter. Sad. And most of those hearts have been filled for fifty years. from the public school system is the doctrine of evolution. That's right. I called it evolution. That's right. I mean I was reading the other day, uh, there's this white bird, there's a white-throated dipper. It's up in Norway And it flies like other birds. It looks like a l it looks like a large brown robin, but with a rather orange breast, it's got a white breast. So it flies out and then it lands along the river or shore somewhere. And it walks out in the water and then it dips and goes under the water. And it can swim underwater like a penguin. I mean it it's wings that fly. A penguin can't fly with his wings, but these can it can fly and it can swim under the water and it swims down the bottom And then it walks along the bottom of the stream, picking up larvae and different things at the bottom. And then he he swims back up. He can swim against a very strong stream. And he's got his wings are phenomenal. You can row with them, swim with them. He comes back up and he comes out. He's not like these these type of seabirds that dive in, grab a fish, and come right out. He goes to the bottom of the ocean or the bottom of the streams of these rivers and he walks along the bottom. And the evolutionist teaches our children in school that he evolved. Really? What do you think hadn't that bird when he wasn't quite evolved yet the first time he went to the bottom or tried to walk in the bottom? He drowned. That's right, thank you very much. He drowned. So much revolution. Now what happens? They don't evolve. Evolution rejects God's word. Boy, if you haven't got a chance, write it down later on. Acts 17, 24 through 7. God that made the world, they don't believe. that. But God that made the world hath made of one blood all nations of men. I've been in a lot of hospitals My thirty some years of ministry I saw a lot of blood in Vietnam. It was all red, it all looked the same. And if I needed a transfusion or mercy, I didn't care if he was I even carried myself North Vietnamese at the time. When I needed blood, I was going to take it. Because all nations are of one blood. Now if you go down to the Smithsonian Institute Whoa, filled with lies. You go down there to the Smithsonian Institute and what we see down there, I went in there, I I showed my granddaughters, you go in the back of the the History Museum, the American History Museum and and they've got all these animal stuffed animals, rhinoceroses and cause but in the back they got they've got the the uh images of chromagnaman neandoth and homo rectus and homo sapiens and you know what I know When you start with the ones about four million years old, they say we're four million years old. The Bible says we're about six thousand years old. Ten thousand at the most. I like the six thousand. It works better when you add up the ages, names of everybody knows the genealogy. But here you go. You've got the and I looked a crow magnuman. Think about this. Mm-hmm. When you when you think you you watch a Geico commercial, the cave men, what do they look like? Long, scraggly hair, hairy faces. Well that's what Samsonian does too. Dark skin. Yep And then you go up and to Magnum man and you go up to the Neanderthal man, Harry, Scraggly, you know, and and uh uh all the the the features, you know, and of another dark-skinned man, maybe a little later And then you get the Homo erectus and maybe a little later. And then you get the Homo sapiens. Oh, Caucasian appears. Bull loading. Adam and Eve had a a deep gene pool. And I think when Adam and Eve had children and they had more than just Seth and more than Cain and Abel and then had lots of daughters too. I think every time they had a child, Adam and Eve said, I wouldn't want to be this time Green eyes, blue eyes, brown eyes, straight hair, raw hair, curly hair, black skin, white skin, or yellow, slant and eye. They had to be surprised every time a baby was born because they had a deep gene pool. But Darwin said that we evolved. It's in his books, Origin of Species, that we evolved from black to white. Shame on him And shame on the Smithsonian Institute. And that's the problem America's got today. We've bought into this stuff of evolution. God, it says, hath made of one blood all nations. If you don't believe me, when you read through your Bible, Hey, there's Ruth the Moabitus, another nation. Simon the Canaanite, oh my goodness, Canaanite, another nation. Nebuchadnezzar a Babylonian, Naaman Assyrian leopard, the Ethiopian eunuch. I go on and on. You know what? They didn't all look alike. They didn't all look alike. And I don't think there was one Caucasian in the bunch. And I could have gone further. I mean really what's wrong with people who don't have an understanding of what the Bible teaches and if they have read it, they don't believe it, and it hasn't changed their heart, their heart's enveloped in darkness? There's still a veil on their heart. And the writings and the words of Moses. Who wrote Genesis, by the way? They don't believe it. Understand this. When you look at Ruth the Moabite and Simon the Canaanite and Nebuchadnezzar the Babylonian and the Ethiopian eunuch and name that understand this, God so loved the world. I don't think God loves what's going on in America today. And he can certainly go back to history of America and find things he didn't love. And in every country God so loved the world that his saving grace, Viz His word, touched all nations and all people of all one blood I have found, however, that the that the Bible does discriminate. It divides people into two categories. It does. There are the saints and the ain't. There's the faithful and the faithless. There's a sheep and the goats, there's a wheat and the chaff, the believers and the non-believers, a follower of Christ and one who's not following Christ. And that's the only distinction it ever makes. Yet today scriptures openly trashed, folded, spindled, and mutilated. Some of you remember those terms. Well that's what they've done to it in a spiritual manner, if not physically. You know, assume we may need to get along in this life safely. Seal Carey Bible. These are a hand Bible, Old and New Testament. You know when these are first created in the days of Tyndale. You know why they were created in the days of Tyndale? To conceal and carry, that's why. I mean you want to walk in the big Bible? Do you know a king King Henry would have done to you if you got to be heading his wife or whatever. I mean I mean that it was a concealed carry Bible. That's right. You don't need a permit. I'll tell you, our president's not perfect. And he's done some things I wish he hadn't done. But the biggest thing I think they came out against it for was when he hold up the Bible, a big Bible, which was his mother's Bible as I understand it. In front of St. John's after they'd just destroyed it with graffiti and set fire to it True. Somebody came along and wrote on the overall the graffiti a Bible verse in Matthew, Father forgive them, they know not what to do, and they got attacked by the crowd. I mean what did it matter? Oli Graphia could write one more buttons. They didn't want that. Yeah, we need a concealed carry Bible, maybe a little more than that. Like for instance, a heart like Moses. We need people governing us. We need people who are fathers of households. We need people who are running companies who have a heart like Moses. Deemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than all the treasures in Egypt. Hebrews 11, 26. That's what we need. Changed hearts. Let me tell you right now, are you it said he esteemed the riches, the reproach of Christ, greater riches, the reproach of Christ, he esteemed that greater riches Are you prepared to suffer reproach for Christ? Oh, it's it's coming. We're seeing it in the streets right now. It's coming. Do you esteem the reproach of Christ that is coming or it's already here? Do you esteem the reproach of Christ greater riches? Your checkbook's a good indication of what you value in life. Did you know that? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You young people, you get married in a few years, when you will just love that guy or that girl and she thinks she's great and she's going to church and she's quoting Bible verses before you marry her. Ask her if you can see her checkbook. See what she writes in her checkbook every Sunday of the week Yeah, there you go. That'll tell you more than the six months you dated them. There you go. Suffering as a follower of Christ is on the way. And I think in some areas it's already here. So I ask you this morning, do you treasure the opportunity to suffer for Christ? To be a martyr. This is a small group. I fully expect some in here is gonna suffer dearly. Maybe with their wife. Some of you young people Rough rough times are coming. It's even rougher if your heart's veiled and you don't have understanding what's going on. It's even rougher if you don't have a guardian angel around you that God promises us Rough times are coming. Do you treasure the scriptures? You're going to need them. You need to treasure them. Rough times are coming. Not as rough for me or Pastor Joe or Vince or some of you who love the Lord and love the Bible. For us, we treasure the opportunity to suffer for Christ. We're not begging for it, we're not going out looking for it, but if it comes, we're all right with that. But some of you hear maybe you're you're not ready for that Do you treasure the scriptures? There's a lot of people out there and they say, well, the Bible, it's full of scribal heirs, you know. Can't be trusted. Full of scribal errors, really? All scriptures given by inspiration of God. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. If God can't preserve his inspiration, why trust him to preserve his congregation? I mean really, if you can't, if he can't, if he can't preserve some black ink on papyrus If he can't preserve some some paper, a manuscript, one lambsk, he can't preserve something like that How is he going to preserve his soul? Yeah. There you go. Think about it. I mean he can't preserve something little like this. Then he can't preserve an eternal soul, can he? I mean it's it's it's painful to think that he can't preserve a piece of paper. Understand this. Lord God, there's nothing too hard for thee. That's what the Bible says. Jeremiah's writing in Jeremiah 32 and 17. Jeremiah is writing about the creation of the heavens and the earth, and he says, Lord God, there's nothing too hard for thee. Can he preserve his word? Well, we don't think so. We think there's probably scribal errors, and there's been some mistakes and But Jeremiah says, God, there's nothing too hard for thee And Gabriel will talk to the Virgin Mary. And she's just taken aback. Like, how can this be? I know not a man. I'm going to have a baby. I know not a man. Why, Joseph's not going to hear about this? I mean, really, no one's going to believe me, you know. And Gabriel says with God, nothing's impossible. Luke 1 and 37. So can God preserve his word? Why not? Mm-hmm. And how about when Christ was speaking in Matthew nineteen and twenty-six? He's talking about how difficult it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. Well nobody's got to worry about that here. But the question was brought up. And Christ says, you know, he describes how difficult it is for a camel to go through the needle. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. I really believe that. I know the story with the camel on his knees and dragging through the doorway. That doesn't sound so difficult. Because they said, well yeah, that can be done. It's been done. We dragged the camel through the s the small archway and the walls or whatever of Jerusalem. But but they said they said it's impossible. And Christ said with God all things are possible. Can God preserve the scriptures? Yeah. Yeah again Inspiration without preservation is pointless. Why inspire something you're not going to preserve for future generations. It's pointless to have inspired words not preserved. It's contrary to the holy attributes of God, the things that we attribute to God. It's kind of a big word, attributes. It's contrary to the things that we attribute to God, like his holiness and his righteousness. How can God hold souls eternally accountable to all his words if his words are not available. What would it that wouldn't be a righteous God. That wouldn't be a holy God to hold you accountable for something that yeah well it disappeared about a thousand years ago. Sorry about that. He said it it would be forever. And ever, his word In the beginning at Moses and the prophets, Christ expounded on them all the scriptures, the things concerning him. This isn't the same chapter, Luke 25. and verse 27 he does that. And then he does it again later on in the chapter. But how can we know? Christ said that all the things that Moses and the prophets wrote about the Christ that was coming uh th they were to be fulfilled. How can we know the accuracy of Christ fulfilling all things concerning him? He's found him all the scriptures, the things concerning him. How can we know that the things he's telling us that concern him from the Old Testament are now being fulfilled in the New Testament? If we don't have both the Old and New Testament before us to read ourselves and see, did he fulfill all these things? How do we know the accuracy of Christ fulfilling all things concerning him if we haven't got both the Old and the New Testament minutely? preserved to this very day. Right. When you hear Christ talking to Satan, you know He wants them to turn this rocks into bread and jump off the temple. And that's just the beginning of all the things, but what Christ says, Christ says to him what? It is written. And to say, oh no, no, it's flawed and the scribal errors. No, that's not gonna buy it. No. You find that Christ, when he talked about the scriptures, when he talked about about the scriptures, quoted them, and said it is written hundreds of times. You know, when he does all this, Christ never treats the scriptures as if they're iffy or flawed or defective or wanting in any manner. His problem in his day was you're not reading it. You're not believing it. It's not flawed. There's no scribal errors. It's not uh not inaccurate. Do you never read that for me? He goes, well the reason the scribes and Pharisees feel right, they got a flawed manuscript. It's a shame we don't have the originals or really good, healthy, accurate copies of them. Never say that The Bible says the word of God shall stand forever. Isaiah 40 and verse 8. Well, but there's you know it's the Bible telling you it's gonna stand, it's the Bible telling you it's perfect, it's the Bible telling you there It is God's word. It's a Bible tip You know, you can't trust boy the archaeological discoveries that come out all the time are constantly defending the scriptures. You know what they found here a couple years ago? That the Babylonians Babylonian cuneiform. They were going through it and they found the mention of the name Daniel in it. Wahoo, Daniel! And immediately they could never find Daniel anywhere. Couldn't find Daniel anywhere. And so they said the story's made up about Daniel, the lion's standing. and and all these different things about Daniel and and and he says this you know the the name's not found anywhere in history. As soon as he found the name Daniel in the Babylonian cuneiform here in the in the year 2000 I think it was 2010. I'm not positive I just write the year down. As soon as they found the name down. You know what they said? Oh, Daniel. It's a common name. Common name! Oh Daniel. Danielle L Elohim. A common name, Danielle. It's a common name. You know what they didn't tell you in the rest of the uniform? They also found Shadrach, Meshach, and the Benebu's name there too. Wow! Now those are common those are names you hear every day, aren't they? They're not common names. I mean that the the archaeology just shows you time and time again the trustworthiness of the scripture. The word of our God shall stand forever, Isaiah 14, verse 8. The truth of the Lord endureth forever, Psalm 117. and two. Yeah, but what about when King Jehoiakim he cut it with a knife and a penknife and he cast it into the fire? Jeremiah 36, 22 through 20. Yeah, I remember that. He he cut it with a penknife and he threw it in the fire. He destroyed it Keep reading. Jeremiah rewrote it. I mean you can't destroy God's word. You you look at Stephen's sermon when you're about to stone him. Remember that About the stone seed and they were angry with him. He was telling the Pharisees and the priests and the elders what the scripture said about Moses and how it related to Christ. They were murderers. I mean they were getting angry with him before they dragged him out and they stoned him You know, when you're quoting the Bible, there's two things you better do. You better quote it right, and you better believe that it's accurate. And you better believe whatever Moses wrote, he's quoting something Moses wrote. That's what uh Stephen was doing. And you better believe it's been translated right, or otherwise these Pharisees And these elders and the scribes who stoned Stephen, you know what's going to happen? They're going to say, oh, what manuscript are you reading? That's not there. They didn't do that. They knew it was there. It's what made them so angry. And you go back in the scriptures and I can quote the verses here. Well, you read that in Acts 7, the sermon that Stephen preached. I'll just give you three examples. But Stephen mentions intricate, minute details of the lives of people in the Old Testament that you couldn't know if you didn't have the Old Testament recopied, recopied, recopied up to the days of Stephen. You know, he's talking about 1,500 years. If they're not copied i i minutely, intricately, accurately, you better not quote them. But he did. And you know what we learned from Sermon Stephen, prior to being stoned? We learned of the meticulous purpose of God. Stephen mentions the intricate minute details of Abraham. Do you know when Abraham moved into the promised land? Well, it says in Genesis 11, when his father was dead. Wow. That's a pretty small detail. I thought he just moved out of the Earth Caldeas and moved in and took his time getting there, but no, he he didn't go anyway away. But when his father was dead Genesis 11, 32 through 12 and verse 1. And Jacob, when he heard there were jobs in Egypt, that's not what it says. When he heard the economy was good in Egypt, that's not what it says. When he heard that life was better in Egypt, that's what I said. It says when he heard there was corn in Egypt. Corn, one word. You can't change one word of the scripture without messing up everything else. That's Genesis 42 and verses 1 and 2. And how about this one? Moses was in his house as a little baby and he was cast out. It says in exit Exodus 2 and verse 2. When was he cast out? Stephen knew. He'd read the scriptures. He trusted the scriptures. Moses recorded. Or rather, yeah, Moses recorded. He was cast out When he was in his terrible tools and they couldn't take it anymore, right? When he became a teenager, they cast him out. Don't understand that one. It says it cast him out when he was three months old Not twenty-four months old, not a hundred and twenty-four months. Stephen trusts it. And if he's got it wrong, he's got a reminder, he'd better get it right. And you know what? And these guys when he gets it right, just made them matter. The writings of Moses had been preserved for 1500 years or thereabouts up to the days of Stephen. And we still have them because we go back, the Dead Sea Scrolls have got the actual scrolls that were being read in the days of Stephen and the Lord Jesus Christ. So we got we got the writings of Moses preserved for thirty-five hundred years. Wow. New Testament's 2,000 years old. I wonder if that's as reliable. Well, if you got the Old Testament 3,500 years old and it's reliable, why can't we trust the New Testament, which is a lot younger? Christ taught, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not, Matthew 24 and 3035. May God open America's understanding today to hear his voice and not harden their hearts. She was 315. I don't want to make America great again. I want to make America grateful again to God's word. I want to make America grateful again and make America holy or we'll never be great Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word that you have preserved it through pen knives and fires and malice and forethought and attacks in every generation. You preserved it for thousands of years, and Lord, we're thankful that you You have saved the souls of so many sitting here, and you have preserved them through all they've gone through. And in heaven will preserve for thousands of thousands of ten thousands of eternities, forever and ever and ever. Oh God Thank you for your promises to preserve your word and to preserve your saints. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.