I'm going to read from our passage today and then get into our discussion question. Just reversing the order a little bit rather than just launching straight into the question. Kind of get into the passage first and then do our discussion. So if you'd like you can turn to Hebrews 6. I'm going to read 11 and 12 first. I want to take a bit of context, and then I'll do 19 and 20. Hebrews 6, beginning in verse 11, hear now the word of the Lord. And we desire that every one of you, meaning all of us right here and those who hear, do show the same diligence, to be diligent in this thing. To the full assurance of hope unto the end. This is the goal. He wants us to have a full assurance of hope. That you be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit The promises. So the goal is a hope that's assured to inherit promises. Now our text today picks up again on that theme in verse 19. It says, Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul. An anchor? That's interesting. both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that within the veil whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. We keep hearing Melchizedek and I had hoped actually to just launch right into Melchizedek, but I couldn't give short shrift to these last two verses, so I wanted to focus on that. The context had to do with assurance of hope. But what does an anchor have to do with a priest behind a veil? That just struck me. That's really some mixed metaphors. There was a lot of furniture in the tabernacle, but An anchor inside the veil? That just didn't make sense. I hope today that to unpack that for you and maybe it'll change your thinking about the imagery a little bit here. First of all, our discussion question I do try to give these some thought, right? And there's no wrong answer in this today. Imagine you, yes you, you personally, you individually, imagine you, Miss Saba, are planning a big Once in a lifetime, all expenses paid, you're paying them. So in my little scenario for you, money is no object. Okay? So don't talk about you're broke and you can't do it and you're maxed out in your credit card You're planning a big, once-in-a-lifetime, all expenses paid, family reunion. And you've decided to host the event. It's off-grid It's just it there's no grid connection whatsoever, Wi-Fi, internet, you know, uh electricity, it's all self-contained on some small distant Caribbean island. It's really going to be spectacular Alright? Now, none of your guests have actually ever visited this place before. It's a new thing for them. We're not going to say Jamaica's, oh yeah, if I were going I've been to Jamaica, so I know how to prepare for it. No, this is going to be a place they've never seen before. Some all Caribbean island, maybe out in the South Pacific, right? SmackDown in the middle of the Pacific. Let's make it even more difficult. But you get the idea. How are you going to get everyone there? What kind of prep work are you gonna do? I have a plan. Go ahead and get them. Hire a plane? That's a good idea. Yep, get a plane, go fly to every family member. No, they will uh They will come to a spot. Okay. And then I'll pick them off off. Now here's your goal. All right, that's one good approach. I like that. What are some other ideas for getting people there? How are you going to get everybody there? What kind of prep work? Buy a buy a a plane ticket for some, buy a train ticket for some, buy a bus ticket for some, and for some buy gasoline for their car. Okay, as needed. Whatever you need, buy individual things or you know I can ever notify these people? Yeah. Have a plan and then reach them on that plan and then have them recite that plan back to you to see if they're missing anything. Okay, all right. Start with a good plan. All right? All right. Any other thoughts? Li Ying, how are you gonna get everybody there? Agree with all of the all of the above. Yeah. Ask them to uh conform. Okay. Yeah maybe two or three days before the the the travel days, then you'll know who will become uh coming on time, something like that. If they show some hesitation, you contact them by calling saying, yeah, what's the problem? Have you with something? Yes, okay. So you've introduced and it's so I like your approach there. Everything you heard sounds good. Let's do it all, right And uh but you also have another element which is contact them to see who's not coming. So uh Penny, you're shaking your head. Go ahead. How would you get everybody there? I would start with a spreadsheet where I introganize certain things and I would have my list of themes and my list of phone numbers. And I would think about their work schedules and pick a date that I thought and I would start by back or short for confirming that this date would work for everybody. And then I would tell them, okay, I'm your mom. You need to lock in that date Do not make any other plans because this is my one time to get all my kids and grandkids together. And for me and for your dad, you need to be there. And then once I had that locked in, then I would start all these travel arrangements. So you're going to use political capital to convince them to come? Absolutely All right. So that's good. Now I uh implicitly I'm glad Yi Ling uh Li Ying uh mentioned that to see who's coming or not. The goal, by the way, is zero no-shows. The goal is zero no-shows. Mom, how would you do this? How would you go tackle this? I'm with King. That's the first thing I'll do. Okay. Jeff? If the goal is no shows, you've got to tell them what's going to happen. You know, they they they're not gonna wanna come if they have no idea what they're coming to or for. All right. Okay, so they have to kind of know what they're gonna be walking into. Advertise. Advertise. Okay. Very good. All right. Uh Joey? medical problems that would be also available. Oh interesting. Yep, so you're trying to think ahead, what about medical problems? What about people who can't see the plane or the train ticket or how to get the right so how are you gonna yeah all right. If you're taking a group to a place that they've never been, you've got to know what the place is because you've got to prepare for them to come Alright, you've got to know it yourself. Yep. Check it out and see what is and what is not. Alright, we'll circle back to Joey because everybody answered before Joey. Well from a copywriter's perspective, the easiest way to get people to come is to provide incentive. Expand on that a bit. What incentive would you give? Remember, you you've got plenty of you're not a college student at this point, you've actually got plenty of money in the bank. Something that makes it worth their while. It's gotta be worth their while. Something's gotta be in it for them. Have an award. Have an award for everyone that shows up. For everyone that shows up. Alright. Now if you've ever actually tried to plan an event, you know that there are some that can make it, some can't. Some have a last-minute thing that pops up. But the goal now is zero-no-shows. Jeffrey, how would you get everybody together at your big family reunion at the Caribbean island? Pick them up. Send the chauffeur. Send the chauffeur Right. Some might complain, well, I'm gonna have time off I got my I got a job, I got you know, still I got bills to meet Pay 'em. Pay 'em? Fine, I'll pay you some money to get there. Anton, how are you gonna get everybody on your Caribbean island once-in-a-lifetime vacation? You gotta convince them that it's good enough Convince 'em it's good enough. Yeah. Whatever's going on. Yeah. You will be healed. You will be healed. A healing ceremony. Well now that'll work Now we're getting somewhere. Now you might have my attention. Oh you might have all the seniors beating everybody with their canes to to get to the plane. Get out of the way. I'm first on this plane. activities that appeal to everyone. Like if you've got young families, if you've got a nanny there that that can help watch the kids and you've got things that teenagers would like. you know, beautiful beaches that adults would like to relax, feel some different things that different groups enjoy. You know, I think my little illustration hopefully isn't too veiled because obviously the U in this scenario is the Lord Jesus Christ, the destination is heaven. And this is precisely what the Word of God is doing. It's appealing to you for this once-in-a-lifetime family reunion. And his goal is to get every single one of his family members to that spot. And they will come. How does he do that? How does God do that? Well, our text actually describes this a little bit. It describes how he's going to get us there to this grand family reunion that, oh, by the way, does have healing never ends, is all expenses paid, and will be the best event of your life. How does God do that? Well this is what we call an anchor in heaven I had this imagery last week where we were dealing with that uh uh we we read about the immutability of God. It says that uh it's a strong consolation and so forth, uh that that it's a sure word. That word sure, which uh hope we have uh it's sure and steadfast in verse verse 19, looking at our text, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast. That word sure means infallible. It means not failable. It cannot fail. So it is a very certain thing. Even as this event that you're talking about that you're giving a lot of thought to, and I've you know given you just Not even half a day's time to begin to prepare through it. God's been preparing for this event for thousands of years. This has been a very long-term event, and we've got God's brain behind it. to make it all happen. Yeah, he's even bringing some family members in who have not been born yet. He's getting the whole family there. And so it's sure, it cannot fail. And he uses this imagery of an anchor, and in the ancient symbols on coinage, one of these symbols for hope was an anchor. in the Greek times. It's very interesting that that was the symbol that they would use. And our hope can't fail. But as I thought about an anchor You know, an anchor is something that's in a boat. It tends to go off the back of the boat, it goes to the bottom, it gets down in the bud, and it's down. to the bottom of the water. But here it says we have a hope as an anchor, like an anchor, but then it talks about something within a veil. Now in the tabernacle there's a lot of furniture. There wasn't any anchors in there But I want you to see that there actually is an anchor inside the holiest, the holies, that there is an anchor in that holy place, and you're tied to that And that anchor is slowly but surely pulling you there. It's getting you there. Like Jeffrey said, just go pick them up. That's kind of what God's doing. He's just kind of picking you up He's just lifting you and moving you along. You talked about different interests. We have to have different activities. God's got one activity set, worship God, but he's changing your heart to enjoy that activity. You're getting there. Then we read here about this infallible hope, and it says this hope is inside the veil, and so I have to ask the question, well What did Jesus, because we're talking about Jesus here, it said he entered into the veil. Well what is that veil? Historically He's not writing to Hebrews, he's writing to Jews, and veil meant something to Jews. It wasn't a wedding veil. Some women have a wedding veil, they have it over their face. When it's time to kiss the bride, she pulls it off. Hopefully the groom doesn't go, oh, wrong woman. But it pulls the veil off and And lo and behold, you have the bride. That's not the veil concept in the Hebrews. The veil is featured with the tabernacle. Your handout, I've got Hebrews 9, and we'll take a look at Hebrews 9, verses 2 and 3 We're going to look at this veil, we're going to look what's behind it. First of all, historically, we read this, and it's a nice summary. I could take you to Exodus, read it, many verses, but I'm just going to have The penman from Hebrews summarize it for us. It said there was a tabernacle made. There was a first tabernacle, wherein was, and here's what's inside that one, and we'll read later later that that was It was a veiled area itself. The first wherein was the candlestick, also known as the menorah, the the the the six six, seven? How many bowls were there? Seven? Yeah. There's a three, three, and the one in the middle. and the table and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil, see there's two veils. Now we're talking about the holiest of holy. The tabernacle which is called the holiest of all. Alright, so that's the description of it. And then the interpretation begins in verse 11 of Hebrews 9. We jump ahead to that. And it says, but Christ being come and high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands. That is to say, not of this building, you could say not of this creation, not of this construction, neither by the blood of goats and calves. But by his own blood he entered in once. He entered in once into the holy place. He went through a veil, having obtained eternal redemption for us. Now he didn't talk about veil in Hebrews 9 How it relates to Christ, that shows up in the tenth chapter, so we jump ahead to that. And Hebrews 10, 19 says, having therefore brethren boldness to enter into the holiest, where the presence of God was, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He has consecrated for us, through the veil. Now here it explains it to us. That is to say, his flesh And having a high priest over the house of God. You're familiar with the Christmas song, Veiled in Flesh, the Godhead. See, he was veiled in flesh This was God Almighty inside a veil, a veil of flesh. We really didn't see the fullness of God Almighty in Christ. He had laid his glory down. His honor, his dignity, his omnipotence, omniscience, omnipresence, still there, but he laid his glory aside. Just a touch of it shown at the Mount of Transfiguration when His clothes became white and glistening. He shone very brightly. But his flesh was that bale. He entered into that, but then he entered. Into heaven itself to appear in the presence of God for us. There's a lot of imagery and metaphors being mixed in here The very presence of God lay behind that veil. Even so in Christ, the very presence of God was inside of him. When Jesus ascends above, now he's in heaven our hope of entering heaven became even more certain. He is in there. The God man is in there. There's a man in heaven, the God man, not a man of flesh like you and I have, but a transformed flesh, a remote resurrected flesh, a resurrected body. And so our hope, like the anchor for the ship, is firmly entrenched in heaven itself. Jesus is at the other end. He is that anchor. And it's not moving. He's there. He's lodged there. He's pulling us forward. Listen to this language as God describes it in Colossians 1. It's an excellent correlation to our passage at hand. Colossians 1. 21, it says, and you that were sometimes at one time alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now has he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. You've made been made perfectly acceptable to go to this remote desert uh Caribbean island. You're unreprovable. There's nothing that TSA or anything can do to stop you from getting on. They're not going to say you're not inoculated, you have the wrong Passport, none of that. It's all taken care of. If ye continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the Hope is our word again. Help us our hope of the gospel, which you have heard And so when you hear anchor, folks, what I'm suggesting is that you don't think of a large metal object stuck in mud I want you to think of a rope tied to the very throne room of God itself. And you're attached to that. And the rope's getting shorter every day. It's inching you along. It's inching you along. You're being pulled. You're being brought into that. that kingdom, into that dominion, into the very presence of God itself, which hope we have as like an anchor. The soul of Scripture says you're saved by hope. That is the hope of the gospel. That is that line. That's that cord. And it keeps going. It keeps going. So I want you to think of Jesus and our rope of faith tied through the skies, firmly tied on the the pillars of heaven itself. That's that hope we have. Then we have this business about a forerunner, and this is a very interesting one as well Uh Pastor Joe mentioned about going to this fictitious island I was speaking of, although certainly there are nice Caribbean islands I'd like to visit. That if you haven't been there before you might want to go so you know what it's like. You want to go and do a little prep work. Okay, where's everybody going to stay? Where are they going to eat? Oh, we're going to need to bring tables, food, we've got to have the generator, whatever we got to have Well, Jesus likewise is called our forerunner. And whither the forerunner is for us entered even Jesus. That's what we read there in verse 20. This is another one of those unique Greek words that's used. It's not found in any of Paul's epistles or anywhere else in scriptures, and it refers to a scout. Usually somebody that's sent ahead in the military to search an area out and perhaps prepare a place. Okay. The generals are going to camp up here, we're going to put the cannons over here. It's kind of laying out a plan. It's that's the concept of the Forerunner. He's uh He's kind of preparing the way for others. A good example, although he's not explicitly called this, but a good example of a forerunner, spiritually speaking, would be John the Baptist. If you listen to this language in Matthew chapter 3, we read in verse 1 and then in verse 3, it says, In those days came John the Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea. For this is he that was spoken of, verse 3, by the prophet Isaiah, saying, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. He's crying out, prepare. He's a forerunner. He's demanding preparations be made. He is that forerunner. Now folks, this is a passage that really struck me this week as I was contemplating on this whole business of a forerunner. Only time the word is used. You can't find other places in scriptures. You have to look for the theme. You have to look for the concept. And I went with the concept of preparation, because the scout's point is to go out, to prepare, to look And to report back, to make a plan. Do you know Jesus is in fact our forerunner? He's our forerunner. Look at this in John 14. Just listen, and the key word is prepare. Look at what he says in John 14. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. Jesus is concerned that your heart be not troubled. A troubled heart Rob's hope. A troubled heart is the opposite of hope. A hopeful heart is a joyful heart. An unbelieving heart. It's a troubled heart. Let not your heart be troubled. Look, you believe in God. Believe also in me. You see, there's a connection In my father's house are many mansions, is much room. If it were not so, I would have told you. Look at this. I go to prepare a place for you. He's our forerunner. Penny talked about making sure there's lots of activities for the different age groups of interest, parasailing. You know, whatever, beach activities for kids, a healing service, Miss Sava's talking about, you know, we're gonna we're gonna have interests For everybody. I like the healing service part by the way. I think that's great. That's that's the first thing I'd hit up so I can enjoy all the other stuff. It's interesting the ones that think about healing are the ones that are hurt. Absolutely. And that's the hope of heaven, right? It's got a supply for everything. Well his legs are in pretty bad shape after his last marathon, so you bought a you about a wanted to do it. And he says, and if I go and prepare a place for you, notice he says twice. If I I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again And receive you unto myself. That's the place that where I am, there ye may be also So I've got several observations on this really interesting concept of Jesus being our forerunner, the scout that goes ahead, that prepares, that gets it ready. If there's the forerunner Folks, of necessity, there is a follower. Forerunner doesn't go just for himself. He's going because he has people in mind. Then he's got this spreadsheet, she's thinking about everybody on that spreadsheet. Hint, there's people not on the spreadsheet, she ain't thinking about. God has a list of people he's thinking about. And he has got custom fit everything specifically for you designed in mind. His spreadsheet's a little bigger than yours, Penny. But he's thinking about it because he knows that you in particular will follow. And he's concerned about that. Number two, if God has ordained that men follow Christ into heaven, why not you and I who believe? He's ordained that some will, and if some will, why not me? Why not I? Third point, being the ever-living and omnipotent God man, Jesus has in fact accomplished and is accomplishing much. as a forerunner. This is something that I have had in the back of my mind for some time. How long did it take God to speak this universe and everything you see into existence? How much time? From scriptures. What does it say? How much time will you take God? Six days, seventh day he rested. Six days. Well God can chop some wood, let me tell you. And it didn't take him all day for a day. It didn't take him for all day. He spoke, boom, it happened. Yeah. That's a mighty awful lot of work in six days. How long has he been in heaven preparing a place for you and I? That's a mighty long time. That's more than six days. How glorious. How phenomenal. How off-the-charts fantastic can that possibly be? It says, eye is not seen, nor ear heard, nor either entered in the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. Now unto him who is able to do us exceedingly above all that we ask or think. Exceedingly above. You can't think big enough. as to how glorious heaven will be and what Christ has entered into. For forget financial problems. For forget health problems. Forget energy problems and walking. I'm talking beyond titanium knees. Forget lack of interest, dullness of mind, weariness. There is no barriers. I can't heaven is presented to me really as an as a life with no barriers, no barriers of entry for walk. for flight. One of the favorite studies I did that I still remember this day was looking at that phrase in the book of Revelation were called sons of light. Sons of light. Light doesn't get tired, from what I observed. When a light ray shoots out, it keeps going. And it goes just as fast. In fact, Einstein said it's a constant. You ever see little kids at constant energy? It'll be beyond that. Just astounding. Somebody had a hand up? I was thinking last week and I often think about this when you mentioned um about uh God in the beginning. When I was reading in uh Genesis 1 again And it said it said he created the heavens and the earth. And uh the spirit was hovering over the waters And then he spoke to the and divided the day and night. But he says in the beginning he always was, he never was not. And you always try to think of where well where did he come from? He didn't come from anywhere. He's always been there. In my mind, I'm telling you, that is you can't hardly conceive it. As a divine being is beyond our comprehension. Yes. And there's nothing illogical about an eternal infinite one. Right. I can go down the logical path, but that's not important. That's a good meditation. Yeah, the book of Genesis just starts in the beginning, God. It presumes and assumes that he already exists and there's no explanation. Some say, well, what was there before heaven and earth was? There was no before, before heaven and earth were, because God created time itself. When matter is created, you also have to have time. Einstein taught us that. You have the two together. There was no before. There was no clock before God spoke. Because he spoke and because he did it in six days. Joe said it didn't even take the whole day. Jim said it could have been zero days. God is establishing history. I declare something called a day one. I declare something called a day two I declare something called a day three. He's laying the groundwork for even the philosophical concept of history as to what you can even do with that. God's already laying all the basics in place. It's just astounding the more you look at Genesis. We can un can only understand what we have a frame of reference for. We don't know what it is to breathe water because we've never been fish. Yeah, and so our frame of reference is time. But God has no time. Yes, he has no time. He's beyond time. My last point about this business of the Forerunner in it for us, as John prepared Jesus' ministry of service, even so Jesus is preparing our future service. He's got all the events lined up He knows everything we're going to do. He's got it all laid out. It'll be the chief joy and the chief satisfaction we'll have throughout all eternity. It's found fabulous. The last point I want to talk about is this business of a high priest. The next fill in the brank, uh our blank high priest, our national high priest. I called him a national high priest. The high priest was a very important figure. to the Jews. He was a very honorable figure. We've studied previously, but many things were tied to him. He was a lifelong office. It was not by vote. He was born into it. And it says here that Jesus was made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. So Jesus now has a new title. He's high priest. But he's one that's never gonna go out of office because he's not gonna die. So because he's not gonna die, he's an eternal high priest. And it's after the order of Melchizedek. I keep pushing Melchizedek down the road because the seventh chapter explains him much more greatly. And Much is being drawn out of this 110th chapter of the book of Psalms for these points to be made here. Jesus has already been introduced as the high priest. We read about him in the second chapter, verse 17, the third chapter, verse 1, the fourth chapter, 14 and 15, the fifth chapter in 1, 5, and 10 He's constantly been referred to as a hyper So I want to review right now some key parts of the high priest's role, and I'm going to have some readers. I'm going to just go left to right. I'm going to start with Gabriel. One of the first things that the high priest did, now he's our high priest Okay. So let's look at what the earthly high priest did so we can appreciate what Jesus, our spiritual high priest, our eternal high priest, does. So First thing he does is make atonement for the nation. We read that in John 11, 49. This is the explanation by a former high priest. Maybe we want you to read it. John 11, 49-52 And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. And this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. You know, we could go over the atonement that the high priest in the Old Testament made, and it would be specific to the nation of Israel But lo and behold, when Jesus, the Passover Lamb, comes before God's anointed and ordained high priest before the Jews in his day, lo and behold Caiaphas himself Though an unsaved man, though a wicked man, yet God using him to declare exactly what's going to happen, that Christ would die for the nation. Well, that's exactly what an atonement is. He's a substitute. He's really illustrating the concept of the substitute perfectly here. The Jews, hating the Romans, Romans, knowing the Jews, despise their rule. Jesus coming along, claiming to be great. People assuming, and he was great, healing a lot of people, drawing a lot of attention, a very populous figure. The Jews concerned, those who did not believe, you're going to disrupt this place and the Romans will come and take us all away. Because the people are trying to make you a king. And if we the Jews are seen as putting forward a king, what does that say? We don't want your rule over us. Like Taiwan erecting their own emperor would send a message to China, we don't want your rule. Or any other of the independent-minded areas of a very large superpower state. Nothing new. Jerusalem the same thing. Jerusalem had been the capital. And lo and behold, the Romans are well aware of this. And the high priest senses this tension, that there is a tension between the Romans and this character named Jesus Well, he can't defeat the Romans. If only we could kill Jesus, the problem would go away. And why? Because I want to protect the nation. You see, it's a beautiful concept. His motive and his means were wicked. But by Christ dying, he makes an atonement. It's his death. Not ours that is satisfied. And the threat is not the Romans. The threat is the law and the wrath of God against sinners such as you and I. So one of the things that the high priest would do was make atonement for the nation, and this Jesus did with his own blood and through his own death. The second is he offered the Passover. And Anton, if you could read those two verses, Exodus 12, 26, and then the Uh pause a bit and then uh we'll go first Corinthians five. And it shall come to pass when your children shall say unto you. What mean ye by this service? That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians and delivered our houses. So there you see the concept. The whole Passover rite, Passover ritual was instituted. as a memorial. And the point was that it was to be spoken about. It was not so much the event so that every year, if you put blood on your doorpost Good karma would happen and your doorpost wouldn't fall apart in the year or your garden would be blessed. No, that was not the point of doing that service. It was that it would be spoken about. God's always interested in his word. There's got to be a message that's repeated. That's the point. And he wanted, in particular, the children to inquire about this. He wanted this memorial to be done so that children would look and at some point a conversation would occur between parent and child. And that was the opportunity for Parrot to say, we were bondmen in the house of Egypt. The Lord delivered us. He is our Passover. That was the point of the event, Christ being our Passover. And lo and behold, we read the next verse of 1 Corinthians 5. 7. Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. So lo and behold, and of course you know that Christ is that Passover. He was sacrificed for us. He delivers our houses. And hence my illustration of a family reunion. It's the families of God. Next is the high priest pleaded the Jews' cause before God. He would plead the cause of the Jews before God. Joey, would you mind reading Romans 834 Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. He's making intercession for us. You know, let's imagine in my illustration you're being taken to a small Caribbean island and you happen to have a governor on that island who's not too keen on having a lot of foreigners here. Those of you who have ministered in foreign remote islands understand the cultural barriers that can show up. We Jamaicans don't do things that way. We do it this way. We don't like things like that. I know in Hawaii They had sort of a I don't know if it was an epithet or a curse word or whatever for those who were from the mainland. They liked them for their money, but beyond that, you know, come here, visit, drop off your money, go home. really want you here. How are you gonna get the head of the island, the governor of the island, to like you? How are you going to get the God of heaven to like me? Well, we have our forerunner who's preparing the way. And one of the things he's doing is he's making intercession for us. How often? Daily Because we have daily issues and daily sins. Praise the Lord. Jesus makes intercession. You have an intercessor. Who's perfect. And so that's a tremendous, tremendous benefit. He secures a visa on our behalf. He secures a visa on our behalf. That is acceptable. Got all the right print, the right stamps, the right dates. All the little fine points are taken care of. That's great. Um, Pastor, would you read? John 6, 45. The next thing the high priest does is he teaches the people the law of God. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the Father cometh unto me. Yeah, so uh one of the illustrations given here was that you know we're going to tell people, hey, here's what's coming, here's the events, it's gonna be fun, you can educate them, notify them it's coming. Even so, Jesus does the same. He teaches us. The law of God. We are taught his laws. We are taught his ways. We are being brought into conformity with these things. And the last, I'll read this, is that he executed judgment He executed judgment. Actually, Jim, why don't you read that? Uh John 5, 26 and 27. Or has the Father had Hath life in himself, so hath he given to the Son of the to have life in himself. And that Given him authority to execute judgment also because he is the son of man He has the authority to execute judgment. I would say over the past couple of years I have a heartfelt change towards that word, judging the people of God. For a great many years in my Christian walk, I feared the judgment of God. It was a fearful thing. And rightfully so, when you're cognizant of our nature, our disposition, our sins of omission and commission, and his holiness and who he is, and his ability to see through all things and just Closing the window shade really doesn't block out God. But I've come to turn around a bit more to desire. The judgment of God. Because the judgment of God works both ways. Condemn sin But it also defends his people. And so all the false accusations and the false ideas, have you ever Found yourself in a situation where you've done something wrong, maybe you've said something, husband or wife, inadvertently messed up dinner or whatever. And the complaint comes, and you want to respond back, but my intention was, and you had good intentions, but things just went sideways. Yeah, Benny's shaking your head. Things just go sideways in spite of best intentions. God knows our good intentions at times. God knows we're covered by the blood of the sun. God knows our situation. God knows the false accusations against us. And the solution is not electing the right candidate, but certainly I want that. And the solution is not to have better laws, and certainly I'd like that. The solution is not to fill in the blank more money, better health, whatever. I'd like that. But Oh God, judge thy people. Would the judge, the righteous judge of the universe, show up? and bring all the lambs and his sheep, and set them on his right hand, and put all the goats on the left, and that he would judge. These are wicked, depart from me, ye that work iniquity. These are blessed. Come to the place prepared for you. Inherit that ordained for you from the foundation of the world. So my point today, folks, is that you have a hope that's anchored in heaven That rope is the hope. The hope is heaven itself. It's tied to Jesus. That rope is getting shorter every day, meaning it's pulling you closer to it every day. He's there preparing a place for you, and prepare he will. It is his job at this present time, and he's doing a mighty fine work of it So be encouraged, saints. It's only getting better for you every day. You're getting that much closer to that Caribbean vacation, and you don't have to come back to work. I I was thinking when you were talking about a very excellent illustration talking about the the rope pulling, um, about how if you've ever seen a picture of a windlass that pulls that rope and it creaks and it groans and it pops every time it's turned, but the rope is slowly coming toward the animal Anchor. And yeah, that that's the way life is. You know, there's a lot of creaks and groans and pops along the way. But it's always progressive. Yep. Amen.