Turn with me this morning to First Kings chapter one. Just to uh give the backdrop here of what's going on. David's son Adonijah is in rebellion like his son Absalom was. He's wanting to take over the crown. He's gotten together some of David's closest men, like Joab, who was a captain of the host of Israel. And Abiathar, or some call Abiathar, the the priest of Israel. And they're just outside uh southeast of Jerusalem. uh not very far, uh maybe a couple hundred yards, and they're celebrating that he's the new king. That's Adonijah. And meanwhile, David's on his deathbed, so to speak. Abishag, the young maid, they've brought in to keep him warm. We've talked about that a little before. Um don't expect me to visit you on your deathbed if you do the same, all right, as David. That was but uh we're not talking about that today. But anyway, so we're we're picking up here in verse uh thirty-one where Bathsheba comes back in the room. to King David, who's lying on his basically his deathbed. And I don't want you to forget that Abishag is there with him. Verse 31, then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth and in reverence to the king. I had a hard time doing that. And said, let my Lord King David live forever. And King David said, Call me Zadak the priest. And Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king. And the king also said unto them, Take with you the servants of your Lord, that is David's bodyguard, and cause Solomon, my son, to ride upon mine own mule. And bring him down to Gion. That's the pool of Gaion. There was an upper pool and a lower pool. If you came out of the West Gate or the gate to Damascus or the Jaffa gate, a little bit more to the southwest So they're going to go out to the the the pool of Gion. They'll be southwest of Jerusalem, and southeast of Jerusalem is Adonijah. They're within hearing distance of each other. If you've ever been downtown at Camden Yards when a home run is hit, you can be six, seven blocks away and you hear the whole place roaring and screaming. Believe me, Adonijah is going to hear When Solomon arrives outside the gate of Jaffa or the Damascus Gate, and he's going to hear uh from them as well. I just want you to realize that they're in pretty close locale. So he said, take it my own mule and let's bring him down to Gion. And the priest and Nathan the prophet anointed him there king over Israel. And blow ye with the trumpet or with the shofars. And say, God save King Solomon. Or Hosanna to King Solomon. To come up after him that he may come and sit upon my throne, for he shall be king in my stead. Appoint him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah. Baniah, the son of Jehoiada, answered the king and said, Amen, the Lord God of my Lord, the king, say so to. And as the Lord hath been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, as Beniah continues to speak, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David. And so Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Beniah the son of Jehoiada and the Karahites and the Pelothites. That's David's bodyguard, all right? They went down and they caused Solomon to ride upon King David's mule, and they brought him to Gion. And Zadek the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon And they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, Hosannah, or God save King Solomon. And all the people came up after him, and all the people piped with pipes And yes, as you'll find out next week if you read on, Adonijah heard the exaltations of the and the shouts and the hosanas for Solomon, probably about six blocks away. It wasn't that far if you look at a map of Jerusalem. And so let's look at this this morning. In verse 31, Bathsheba comes in to David with Abishag there, keeping him warm, and she bows with her face to the earth. And did reverence to her king and to her husband. Wow, what a respectful wife she was. When we are saved, the spirit of adoption makes us the children of God. Romans 8:15. It also makes us saints. We see that all through the New Testament. Paul writing to the different epistles and referring to the saints at separate churches We don't have to wait till we're canonized by the Catholic Church. We are saints the moment the Holy Spirit touches us. And this woman, Bathsheba, she was a child of God. She was a saint to bow and do reverence to her king with Abishag there. And 2 Peter 2. 9 says she's also of the royal priesthood. If you're sitting here this morning and you were saved, you too are a saint. You too are the royal priesthood. You are a children of God. And I can sit on you this morning if I want to. We've got Prince Charles here, Prince Charles Braun sitting in front of me, and Prince William Bowles over here, and and we we've got Queen Kathleen over here and Queen Candace over here. We are royalty. Was that way in the Old Testament? The same way today. We need to understand that we are royalty. And ladies, what Bathsheba did here is astounding. The reverence she could pay to an imperfect husband. Abishag's right there. But she paid, she bowed to him, she gave reverence to him. She uh Uh she was like like a queen should be of royalty. Uh when we could go through the whole church here, I I just like those things that rhyme, like queen Queen Crystal McHenry. You know, they just all rhyme I do that. But we're royalty. And she acted like royalty here. That had to have been tough for her. And sometimes, ladies, I know we don't act like royalty with our in Perfect husbands. And husbands sometimes we don't act like royalty with our in perfect wives. But we have a world watching us. And we need to do that. And maybe men do it, but I've often noticed that the ladies, when they're talking about their husbands, they'll roll their eyes. They'll give a glaring stare when he says something. There'll be a smirk or some cold tongue remarked at their husband. That isn't Christ-like. That's not what royalty does. And I have to wonder sometimes if if that isn't a shadow of what really happens behind closed doors when the ladies go home, if they're that open about their attitude towards God. Their husbands. And she says here, let my Lord King live forever. She might have whispered, Abishak and die any time. But she said, let my Lord the King live forever. You feel that way, ladies? You hope your husband just out Lives you. I mean you just want them around forever. And husbands, that's the way you feel about your wives. You you love them and and you you don't want them to pass on before you. I say to my wife all the time, first one out of your winds. You know? Doesn't have the pain of losing a loved one. Last one outs a rotten egg, we should say we're kids. Husbands, do you want your wives to live for forever you want or you I remember one woman said to me one time at a at a funeral after the husband had died she said well the warden's dead She wasn't a saved lady. But what an attitude. She died. Hereby Shiva earnestly, earnestly desires his life to be prolonged. If forever, and if you're saved, your life will be forever, maybe not down here, but your life will be forever. She had a heart for her imperfect husband And she could have said, as soon as he dies, my son Solomon is king. I've got a real advantage. I mean David, you know he's got these other concubines, he's had these other wives, I may be the number one spot wife, but I don't feel that way. I don't you know and and when he said Boy, Solomon loves his mommy, and I'm going to be in the I'm going to be in the chariot seat. I'm going to be on top of things then. This would be a real advantage to me if if David, my husband, doesn't live forever, that Solomon begins reigning But she says, Oh King David, may you live forever. Oh ladies, we have to work on our love for our husbands, all of us. And husbands, we find you the King David. He listened to every word Bathsheba. had to say, talking about what Adonijah was doing, what Joab was doing, and what would happen to her, her son, if he was not if David didn't do something to put this rebellion down. He listened to her every word Wow, to have a king like that. A husband like that. Husbands? Do you listen to your wife's every word? Husbands? Are you accused of having selective hearing? Oh come on. Sure you are. I'm accused of that Are we guilty? Hmm. My wife takes the newspaper out of my hand, closes the computer, it's in front of me, wants total attention. Because sometimes we have selective hearing. We don't want to hear about the little things. The scrape that the children got today, or the or the diaper that that fell out of the bag on the floor in Kmart and was so embarrassing. We don't want to hear about the uh the the the cost of the price of money and bread going up and how she's gonna make the budget work and and how she's tired today or she's achy or not feeling on her top of her game You know, we we had selective hearing. We went by botherwater. We had a tough day too. But Bathsheba's husband, King David, he listened, it wasn't selective hearing. The king listened to everything his wife had to to say. We got some work to do, don't we? And if you don't think that's important, let me say this to you I have a king in heaven, the king of kings, King Jesus Christ. And I want you to know something, whether you believe it or not, I hope you do believe this. It's helpful if you do. He listens to every word I say. Don't you want a king like that? Not a king of kings in heaven that's too busy or he doesn't be but bothered with the little things? He listens to every word we say. We're supposed to be Christ-like if we're Christians, so we ought to listen to our Our brides, Christ listens to him. We're the bride of the church. We're the bride of Christ. He listens to our every word. We need to be listening to our brides also. Every word. Not selective hearing. I do not want a savior in heaven who has selective hearing when I got problems and he says, Well, I don't have time for you. I got something going on over here in Sudan or Somalia. It's really urgent right now to have time for your little things. David here, he gives her his full attention She is the weaker vessel. She has concerns, and he will take care of her concerns to protect her and to provide for her. She's a weaker vessel. First Peter 3 and 7. She is the weaker vessel. I thought about this yesterday. Never thought about this before. I don't know if Rob has or not. We got cameras all over the church. And we rarely look at those cameras. I mean what we have sometimes we see a strange woman in the parking lot and it's usually deer or a policeman out here or donut truck or something. But I thought about those cameras What would those cameras, those church cameras placed around the church, show of our husbands and our wives and how we treat each other? I wonder if I was to tell Rob Uh won't work. Go back last Sunday, Rob. And I want you to look at how many husbands were carrying their wife's burden out the car or was she carrying everything out there? I want to see uh how many husbands opened the car door for the wife And helped her get in. How about when we had the dinner downstairs? How many husbands on the cameras? We got two cameras down there. Could you see sliding the chair under her seat and sitting at the table? Going to get her dessert You know, from one of the tables and bringing it back to her. Maybe sharing his piece of pie with her off the same plate, laughing and smiling. We're not going to do that But the Lord is watching you how you treat your husbands and your wives. Now you have to go down and everybody's just select the table right under the camera so nobody can watch you, right? Maybe that's why it's their first table to fill up. I don't know. I never thought about this, but I wonder how many hugs the cameras would show. And wife. Where is the reverence? The bowing, the love that Bathsheba showed to an imperfect King David. And so after she speaks to him and he's heard her every word, he's been intent on listening to her, he's not marginalizing her, he's not selective hearing, he calls, it says in verse 32 and 33, he calls for Zadek the priest. Nathan the prophet and Benaih the son of Jehoiada. And they came, and the king said unto them, Take with you the servants of your Lord, take my bodyguard with you. And cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule. Here's the king on his deathbed. He's in a very weakened state. I would think he'd want the bodyguard around him in case some enemies decide to break into Jerusalem and try to kill him. But he says, I don't need a bodyguard anymore. I'm gonna be with the Lord soon. Just send Solomon needs the bodyguard. Send him down here. Leave me without a bodyguard. And when we were reading this morning in Song of Solomon, it says that he had sixty men with swords drawn around his bed. Or around the bedroom entrances, the doors. Go back and look at that in Song of Solomon chapter 3, verses 6 through 11. These were his private bodyguards. He said caused Solomon, my son, to run upon mine own mule. There was a royal mule. You are to be a royal wife, a princess, or a queen, and you are to be royal husbands, a prince, or like kings, but he had a royal mule And the royal mule, nobody rode on that but royalty. Nobody rode on that but the king. On very special occasions, you go like the story of Esther and Mordecai. When it came to the king there in the days of Esther, he said, Somebody saved my life. How was he rewarded? He was never rewarded. He said, Well then what can we do for this man? And they said they didn't know it was Mordecai. You know, Haman comes in and he says, Well, I I think we should get the the royal mule that belongs to you, King, and your royal apparel and put it around him, and we should run him through the streets on your mule, you know, and shouting and uh you know just what a wonderful thing he has done And that's what happens to Mordecai. Mordecai gets to ride the royal mule. Nobody rides a royal mule. They said if you got caught grabbing the wrong mule or riding the royal mule in the days of Esther, you'd have been executed It's kind of like stealing a car and taking it for a run, you know? Your brand new car and someone does that and you don't they don't you get don't give them permission The mule was a token that the crown was to be transferred to Solomon. Riding on his mule was the crown has been transferred. Transferred. He is a new king riding the king's royal mule by David's consent and ride him on down to the Gion The waters of Gion, or the fountain of Gion, the pool of Gion, where lots of people were anyway getting water to take back and forth to the homes and they would recognize the royal mule, they would recognize Zadok, they'd recognize Maniah, they would recognize uh the the the royal the prophet Nathan And it would cause quite a stir, and they would immediately realize that he, the kingdom, the king, the crown, has been transferred to Solomon. What's all the shouting a few blocks away with Adonijah? Look what we've got going on here. Adonijah is not on the king's mule with the king's prophet Nathan. And so they bring him down to the pool of Dion. And there was shouting like a home run at Canban Yards. It would have been heard for blocks and blocks. And the thing I want you to see is that David he releases his bodyguards, he releases his mule. He gives all these instructions because what Bathsheba has told him, he's in the latter hours of his life, but he's thinking about his future seed. Solomon and Solomon's children. He's thinking about the future royal seed. Is it any different with Christ on the cross? as he's been crucified and as he's being tormented and he's already been beaten and everything else. Was not Christ thinking about his seed royal, the royal priesthood? Those of you sitting this morning that that are are alive in Christ, born again, regenerated. Christ was thinking of you, his royal seed, by name. He he knows his sheep by name. And a king of kings could think about more things on that cross than David could on his death But there is that similarity here. And David continues in verse 34 and he says, I don't want to lose Solomon. As Christ doesn't want to lose and says he will not lose one sheep, he says, let Zadek the priest in verse 34 and Nathan the prophet anoint him their king Over Israel. This was a double anointing. It was not just the anointing of Zadek the priest, but also he brought in Nathan the prophet. They're both going to anoint Solomon. It is a double anointing that he might have a double portion of the Spirit of God, that the that the world might see, that Israel might see that this is a serious occasion. Elijah himself prayed in 2 Kings 2. 9 when he was with Elijah. He said, Oh, if you're going to leave me, if you're going to leave me. And we know that story, he does leave Elijah And they said, Oh, there goes the chariots of and the horses of Israel as his father father. He looked at them as a father on the image. He said, But before you go, give me a double portion of the spirit of Elijah. And this is what David is saying. I want Nathan the prophet and I want Zadok the priest, both of you to anoint him. My son's gonna need a double portion of the spirit It signified the tremendous need for the man in a position of power in the office of king that he needed God's gift, God's spiritual gift And he needed God's grace to fulfill that office as king. He didn't just need a little bit of God's gift, a little bit of God's grace. He needed a double portion. And so the two of them anoint him And it's no different than the royal priesthood today. We need, and what's going on in this world, what's going on in America, and and uh we talked about Paris France and Sunday school lesson and what's going on all over the world, that we need a double portion. Of the Spirit of God and of the grace of God. In fact, we read in Romans 6:23 the gift of God, which is eternal life through Jesus Christ, and also the grace that came by Jesus Christ, John 1:17. We need that in our lives to fulfill our royal duties. And we have royal duties to fulfill. If we're royalty. And it starts with a home. How do you speak to your husbands and your wives and your children? I used to say to people, what's your home life like? And they tell me they tell me how bad their home life was. I said, So how long did you stay there? He said, Well until I finished college. I said your home life wasn't that bad I signed up at 17 and joined the Marine Corps. And then I still couldn't get far enough away from home. So I I I volunteered three times for Vietnam. And when I came back from Vietnam I volunteered again and went again. That's what my home life was like. Don't tell me your whole life's great and you stayed home until you were 23 in college. I got stuff I've never told you. And so they anoint him the two of them And in addition, David instructed them, blow ye the shofar, or blow ye the trumpets, the ram's horn. You've seen some of them sometimes. on TV you'll see the r the rabbis are on Passover, that that curled ram's horn and they blow it. You know, it's like a trumpet that hasn't five or six notes on it, but they can get notes out of it. By the way they purse it with their lips and their tongue and so forth The trumpets were blown to make sure that everyone around the Gion pool and south of Jerusalem would know that what was going on at the pool of Gion was a solemn. Glorious public occasion, not like what the banquet that's going on in the celebration is going on over just east of us a little bit By Adonijah. What we are doing today is a solemn occasion. It's a glorious occasion. It's a public occasion. It's not a banquet, a feasting inside. And I think maybe today we need to blow the trumpets again. We need to blow the shofars again to realize and the public to know that there's a solid occasion. We need to go down to Washington, D. C. And shout as these people did. And we need this, as they said here, God save King Solomon. We need to say, God save Senator Slees God saved Thomas and immorality. God save Harry Reid. God save Nancy Pelosi. God save Chuck Silver. God save the Republican Rhinos. And blow a chauffeur. What would happen? We showed up with about 535 chauffeurs, and each man blew one and shouted out a name that needed to be saved in Congress and the Senate. We need that. The salvation of our leaders. Solomon's cry for his salvation. Oh, it did not happen quickly, did it? I mean you read through the story of Solomon, the concubines. The wives, strange wives, wives of other deities and other gods, and his life was a mess. You only get a a feeling that maybe he got saved when you see that God inspires them through the Holy Spirit. And it's not just one little prophecy like Caiaphas, or one little moment like King Saul falling down on the ground and prophesying. When we see that he writes the All through the book of Proverbs and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the wisest man that ever lived. When we see that he writes the book of Song of Solomon for a responsive reading, when you see he writes the book of Ecclesiastes, and he's even called in chapter one, the preacher How many wives? How many congregations? He's called the preacher, the son of David, of Israel, of Jerusalem. And you still think you scratch your head. What is going on. All the stuff we know about Solomon, and we just get those those little clips. Nehemiah 13, 26. It rehearses the horrible sins that Solomon was involved with. With women, strange women. And it says, Did not Solomon sin? That's what it says in Nehemiah 13, 26. Yet Nehemiah thirteen twenty-six continues, There was no king like him, beloved of his God. That's all I want. I may not hear where I may not hear, well done thou faithful servant. I hope so, but uh what I do want to hear when I get When the judgment day comes and when I when I die on this side and my eyes open the other side, what I want to hear is, I am the loves of God. It's the only need. Doorkeeper in the heaven. Doormat in the heaven. It doesn't matter to me. And Solomon Did he sin? Oh my did he sin, Nehemiah 13 says. But there was no king like him, beloved of his God. God never loved another king like he loved Solomon In fact, he sends Nathan the prophet, he tells Bathsheba, and he tells David, his name will not be Solomon in God's eyes, his name will be Jedediah, which means loved of God. And I tell you all this because we all know Solomon's cancerous, destructive lifestyle. What he did. We don't want our kids to follow Solomon for almost everything we know about him, but we do want to follow him on this. I don't want you to give up on your children because if you had, Solomon might not have got saved. This is God's life teaching fathers. This is God's life teaching mothers. Do not give up on your children. They can get saved late in life and still make a big, big difference to the world. And Solomon does. With Proverbs and Ecclesiastics and Song of Solomon. And David goes on and he says, He shall be king in my stead. Rule over Israel. And Baniah the son of Jehovah, Jehoiada, he answered the king. Remember, they're standing at the around the bed of the king. Nathan the prophet, Zadok the priest, and Beniah. And it's Beniah, not Zadok the priest, it's Baniah. not uh Nathan the prophet. It's Beniah that says, the Lord God of my Lord the King, say so too, he says. I mean, this is one, this is a language of a fervent faith that we find in Beniah. Amen, he says, Lord God, say so too. Or God has declared it so too in His Word. And God had declared it in first Chronicles twenty-two nine. It was prophesied that A son yet not born, and Adonijah and Absalom were already born when this is recorded. A son yet not born to thee Solomon is his name. I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel. And so what Beniah is doing here, he is saying, the Lord God He says so too. He says it also. I know in his word. 1 Chronicle 22, 9. He's just following God's word. When Beniah says, God says so too He knew God's word. He knew the prophecy that Solomon would be the king. And so what Benaiah is doing here, he's just quoting the word. He's saying we've got to follow the word of God. It's not just what you say, David, but God has said it so too. Are you following God's word this morning? Not because the majority of the people are, but because it's the wisest thing to do. And the safest thing to do. God's word is so important. Is there a big movement out to burn all the Buddhist books and the Qurans? I mean what happens to you if you if you stomp on a Koran in in school or at a college or in public in the streets of Baltimore? You know, if you rip it up, you go to jail. There'll be riots. You'll pay dearly. A Bible? Nothing will happen to you. I I I thought about this Do we follow God's word? Well, we'd better, because it's gonna it's gonna turn out the way God has predestined it anyway. It's going to turn out that way. God's sovereignty trumps man's strategy. God's sovereignty trumps Adonijah's strategy. God's salary trumps man's strategy. Christ's word trumps the creature's word. And we're just creatures. Adoniger's just a creature. Christ's words trump a creature's word. I hate the saying. God plus one of them is a majority. No, it's not. God plus none is a majority. We've got to change that bumper sticker God plus one's a majority. No, no, no, no, no. God plus none is a majority. You know, I would have expected this Satan to come from Nathan, as I said, the prophet, or from Sadek, the priest. Why does it come from a warrior like Beniah? And you can go back to Benaiah and you look about he's one of the mighty men, 1 Chronicles 27 and 5. He's the one that slew a lion in the pit in the time of snow. He's the one that took on the two giant Moabites and he killed them single-handedly. You know, where does this warrior come from? That always says he's got this heart of God. Amen. And God said it, and so too it should be done. Where does this come from? You don't find the would you like to know where it comes from? And Banay is flying the line by the way of 2 Samuel 23, 21 In 1 Chronicles 27-5, we find out where this religiosity, where this fervency, where this man of God, why was Beniah in charge of the bodyguard of King David? Because 1 Chronicles 27, 5 said that he was of the family of the priests. He was a priest. He wasn't offering the tabernacle. He wasn't offering sacrifices on the altar. He'd been called to fight. He was of a family of the priests. Jehoiada was his father was also the long line of priests. He was of the royal priesthood. That's beniah. Are you of the royal priesthood? Well, I may not be the royal priesthood, but I'm saved. No, no, no, no, no. If you are saved, you are of the royal priesthood. Well, I'm saved, and that's all that matters. No, if you're saved, you act like royalty, alright? They will know we are Christians by our love. Bathsheba showed love to an imperfect husband. Is there that evidence in your life that you are of the royal priesthood? In verse 37 we read, As the Lord hath been with the Lord thy king, Vinayah is still talking, as the Lord has been with my Lord the king, even so be with Solomon. Make his throne greater. Verse 38. It did. Solomon built the tabernacle. He built a temple. There was peace in his time. In verse 38, Zadek the priest and Nathan the prophet and Beniah, the Karahites and the Pelothites, the Karahites and the Pelothites, when we go back and look at that, yeah, time days, 2 Samuel 15 and 18 They were from the city of Gath. Remember Goliath, the giant from Gath? These uh Kerathites and these Telothites, they were Philistine converts And they were on fire. Not like the cold-hearted Pharisees who were were Jews from the get-go. These guys were of apostate, heretic, heathens who were impressed by the death of Goliath, perhaps, impressed by the times when David is being chased by Saul to the land of the Philistines, whatever it is He's got like 600 converts from among the Philistines. And I'm going to tell you some converts are they're on fire. You find someone's been raised in the Baptist church all his life Maybe they'll be on fire, maybe they won't. Presbyterian church, you know, the Lutheran church, whatever. But you find something that's been raised that comes out of we've got a family, uh, the Mormon Church. You find something that comes out of out of mo uh mo the out of the the current reading the Quran and raising to get saved. You hear them on the radio sometimes. Man, they are on fire for Christ, aren't they? Because they weren't raised that way. They were raised in apostasy and heresy, and they're on fire. And that's what these hear. These Philistine converts are so convincing of David that he can get in this bed at night, surround himself with Philistine converts, and sleep like a baby. Because he knows that they are royal priests. Royal seed. And so in verse thirty-seven, as as they continue here, David's personal bodyguard, these these uh Karahites and Pelotites, these Philistines, they're the ones that are marching down to the uh pool of Dion uh with Solomon, the personal bodyguard. And Zadek the priest says in verse 39, he took the horn of oil out of the tabernacle. Oh, stop and think about this for a second. Zadek goes up into the tabernacle. Now Baniah He might have been able to do that, but he doesn't. And the prophet Nathan might have been able to do that, but it's just as that went into the tabernacle. And he gets the oil. that was used to anoint the tabernacle, that was used to anoint the altar, that was used to anoint the labor. It was used to anoint the vessels and Aaron the priest, and he brings it out to anoint Solomon in verse thirty nine. The oil is holy. This is sacred oil. This signifies that Solomon was to be king by divine holy appointment. That they'd bring the oil out of the tabernacle and pour it upon his head. Adonijah. He had the priest with him. Abiathar, or Abiather, however someone pronounce it different. He had that priest with him. But but Abiatha, he didn't anoint Adonijah king. Oh no. There's time for that later. Adonijah, the son rebelling against David and his crew, they begin their their royal See with a feast, a banquet. We don't need the crowning. We don't need the anointing. No, we don't need that at all. We're going to put on festivities and bring the people in and get them to like us And there's gonna be, you know, we're not we don't need festivities is what we need, not solemnity. Solemn things can come later. We need to celebrate now and coronate later And they would discover, as King Solomon would write in Ecclesiastes 9. 11, O Adonijah, the race is not to the sweat. You thought you could put it on the skip the coronation, skip the inauguration, skip the anointing. You just want to party, party, party. The race is not to the swift. And we find here in these last verses that they blew the trumpet for Solomon, and all the people came up after him with great joy. Why? Because they were following the words that said that he would be the king. 1 Chronicles 22:9. That he would be born, that some would be established to throw in the kingdom. These people are following him because they are following God's word that he's to be the king. It's not just Zadok, it's not just Nathan, it's not just Beniah, but the people, they grab it, they grasp it. They're going to follow the word of God. They're going to follow the anointed king. Do you know what the name Christ means? It means anointed. Christ is not just king of kings, he is the anointed king. And we need to follow the anointed king, not Adonijah. But the anointed King Christ, because it says here, when they did, there was great joy. Your life not so joyful today? Follow the King, the anointed king. And you will have, if not today or tomorrow. In eternity. Great eternal joy. Let's pray. Father, we look to you this morning. And sometimes we look at these passages at the beginning of the week and we wonder, what am I doing here? Where does this apply to anyone in the congregation? Where does it apply to my life? We pray and we pray and we read and we read. And Lord, you you shall You share with us. And today you promise us great joy. And it may not come in our lifetime. Jeremiah was a sorrowing prophet. Christ was a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. But today, where is Jeremiah? with great joy. Oh Lord, give us, some of us will experience some great joy here, but Lord, all of us of the royal priesthood will experience great joy. In eternity. Lord, may every every soul here be not left behind. Be found in eternity with our anointed King And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Ask if our elder, Tim, if you close the prayer today, please.