Last week we were covering the allegory of Sarah and Hagar, and from that we discovered that there was an interesting statement that occurred in the book of Galatians. So we'll just refresh our memory and go back to Galatians chapter four. Turn there with me, if you will, to Galatians four and verse twenty-one The apostle under inspiration writes this divinely inspired insight into this account from that we read last week that spanned a number of chapters in Genesis 16 through 21. But here in Galatians four twenty one the apostle says, Tell me ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons the one by a bond maid, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh, but he of the free woman was by promise, and then this is the shocking statement he makes, says, Which things are an allegory. These are the two covenants. And then he goes to describe those two. He says the one from Mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar. For this Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. And answereth to Jerusalem, which now is and is in bondage with her children. But Jerusalem, which is above, is free, which is the mother of us all. And we're not going to review all of the aspects of that account last week. I trust many of you have had some familiarity with it in the past, and perhaps your memory was refreshed with it last week. But I find that in this account The apostle uses that word the only time used in the Greek New Testament, the word allegory, and from that I believe that we can divine a whole lot more than just the aspects of what he put here, although these will serve this observation of this being the two covenants serves as kind of the spine, the central part of the concept. There's six pointers to Christ and his gospel. And I want to keep it interactive so I'm going to have some questions. Now we just read Galatians 4. Hopefully you were paying attention and not trying to figure out where your seat was. Which Sarah is a picture of which covenant? In what we just read Sarah is a picture of which covenant? He said these are two covenants, so Sarah pictures which one? The new covenant. The new covenant, that's correct. What else is that covenant known by? Grace. Covenant of grace The new covenant, the word covenant and testament are synonymous. And Hagar would be a picture of which covenant? The old covenant, also known as the law, also known as You're holding him. Moses' covenant, yes. Yes. So this that's the distinction that's going on here. And in that we find that Sarah typifies and is a picture of the covenant of grace Hagar is picturing the covenant of works. Now we read about this distinction a little more clearly, and you can turn now to Hebrews chapter 12, 18. This is a pretty significant passage in the scriptures. concerning these two covenants. And a little bit more contrast, a little bit more flavor is given to the distinction between these two covenants. Hebrews 12, 18 says, For year not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness and darkness and tempest, and the sound of the trumpet and the voice of words, which voice they that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more, for they could not endure that which was commanded. And if a beast so much as touch the mountain it shall be stoned or thrust through with a dart And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. Now what's he referring to there? We're in Hebrews twelve, eighteen to twenty-one. What was that a reference to? I I'm kind of this may not be what you're talking about, but the uh In Exodus, the mountain coming close coming. That's correct. Yep. Okay. Yep and what happened on that mountain? What was famous about that mountain? The giving of the law. Yeah, the giving of the law. That's where the old covenant was instituted. Who gave it? Did Moses give it or did God give it? That's a kind of a self-answering question. Yeah, he came down with two tablets of stone. Moses didn't go up with a port of stone. And carve it out in stone himself. The finger of God wrote it in stone. And it was an exceptional event. The whole mountain was on fire. It was shaking, it was quaking, and it wasn't just for a few days, it was for forty days and forty nights while Moses was up there receiving the commandments, not only the ten, but a whole lot of other commandments In fact, there are several chapters where Moses is up there in the book of Exodus, receiving the commandments of God. So the apostle here, whoever wrote Hebrews, many agree it's Paul, some have made a case for Luke. God sees fit to not mention the earthly author. The apostle says that you're not come to that mountain. You Christian, you New Testament, New Covenant, Covenant of Grace Christian, are not brought to that mountain Elijah tried to flee, he went to that mountain, but the voice of the Lord said to him, Elijah, what doest thou here? He says in verse 22, But ye are come unto Mount Zion. unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven And to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant And to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. And then he tacks on a very interesting statement at the end. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. He says, don't you dare try to go back to that other mountain. That's not for you. You're brought to Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem. Get your eyes off the earthly Jerusalem. You're brought to the heavenly Jerusalem. So an innumerable company of angels. I have a brother in California when people ask him what church he goes to. He says, I go to the church of the firstborn Not a written in heaven, oh where's that? I just told you it's written in heaven. He's just quoting from Hebrews here Yeah, this is uh the language, and there's also a language of Hebrews 12, and there's similar language that's equally powerful in the book of 2 Corinthians, and you can turn there with me if you'd like. I'm in the third chapter of 2 Corinthians 3. And some of this language the apostle plainly uses shows a very sharp, a very distinct contrast between the two covenants. Now, I know there's more questions behind that. I'm not advocating unbridled uh lust. I'm not advocating adultery. I'm not advocating lying, stealing, cheating. I'm not advocating having a false God. People will quickly run to that, as the Pharisees did when they sought to stone the apostles. and of course others who came and said, we're not under that covenant. But just listen to God's language, because God wrote that, I didn't. In 2 Corinthians 3 he says this, beginning in verse 2, Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men. Forasmuch as you're manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God. Not in tables of stone, that's a pretty clear reference, but in fleshly tables of the heart. You see, this is where the gospel comes in the New Covenant. It is a work of God on men's hearts. It is not a law stated on the wall, conform to it Which purpose was to condemn sin in the flesh, and we'll see more about that later. It's written in the heart so that there's a change, there's an interest, there's a difference He goes on in verses four and six and through six, that's trust we have through Christ to Godward. Not that we're sufficient of ourselves to think anything As of ourselves, our sufficiency is of God. Now this is the part I want to get to, but I don't like jumping in the middle of the sentence. So here's the phrase. Who also hath made us able ministers of the New Testament, same word, New Covenant Not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. I would go on and read other passages in this section. It goes all the way down through the end of the chapter, in fact, and even in the next chapter, describing And illustrating these differences between the two. He calls one a ministration of death, Moses' commandment. And then there's Christ, which is a ministration of glory, of righteousness that exceeds, and so forth. So Sarah typifies and is a picture of the covenant of grace And Hagar is that picture of the covenant of works. Alright, well that's kind of the framework. That's flushing out a little bit more what we read last week in Galatians 4. 21. But we can We still have to stop and ask ourselves, how is it that the apostle arrived at that conclusion? Well, yes, we can always punt and say, God told him, and certainly God did. But he did study the Old Testament scriptures quite a lot. After all, he studied at the feet of Gameliel. Eyes closed, spiritually, he didn't fully grasp what he said, but he knew the material. God opened his heart, all of a sudden it says that through the abundance of revelations, he just had so much illumination given to him. That a messenger of the devil, the throne in the flesh, was given to him to keep him humble. He was just blown away by the things that he was receiving out of the scriptures. How did he arrive Sarah and Hagar has this picture. So I'm going to pull those threads a little bit more, alright? I don't think I'm speculating, but I'm going to pull the threads a little more. So my question is this: who came first? Sarah or Hagar? Who came first? Let's just drop into first gear. Just real simple, basic things. You have a puzzled look on your face, Penny. Am I asking too obvious of a question or do you think I'm being profound? Sarah came first. Sarah came first, yes. Sarah came first, obviously. Uh they were married and they were just traveling along, and if you remember some of your history about Abraham, it wasn't until he made this little sojourn through Egypt that because of this strange episode where he you know decided to say she was his sister, no the the king of Egypt reproved him for that, and then it turned out that the Lord had blessed not only the king of Egypt, but also Abraham very greatly. And he had gotten him many servants in Egypt. Egypt was a good financial deal for Abraham, if you will, and that's where Hagar was picked up. We know because she was called the Egyptian So Sarah was first, Hagar was second. I mentioned some time ago that we don't go by the rule of first mention in the scriptures, meaning the first time something's mentioned doesn't define its meaning forever. And that's true. You have to compare, you have to bring all the evidence together. There there may be some illuminating key from the New Testament that unlocks something you have in the old, and you can't dismiss that. Many times it's given to us in a historical context. But there is a sense in which there is a rule of first interpretation, meaning pay attention to the order. There is nothing insignificant or inconsequential about the Word of God. It is very fitly chosen. It is no coincidence that Sarah came first and then Hagar. Because after all, Sarah could have had a handmaid. Before she was married to Abraham, they could have come at the same time, as was the case of Rebekah. She had a handmaid when she went and married Isaac. But not so here. Turn back to Galatians, I'll see where I'm trying to go with this. Because again, the apostle makes a point about this. He uses that to make a point. You would think, well, who cares? Of course the wife's first. She better be first, or she's going to knock somebody out. All right, Galatians 3. 16 says this. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not unto seeds, as of many, but as of one, and to thy seed, which is Christ. Well, we can trace that promise to Abraham and his seed. Not to Abram, but to Abraham. Remember his name was changed. That goes all the way back to Genesis 17. And then he goes on to say this, verse 17, in this I say that the covenant that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, now I see those two as synonymous. A case can be made for uh a different way, but it still doesn't validate the point. Which was four hundred and thirty years after now that's his phrase that you can't miss The law, Moses' covenant, was what? 430 years later. Promise to Abraham. Strange dream occurred. Right, this horror of deep sleep fell upon him, and he said, Your people are going to serve in a nation that they don't know in hard bondage. I'll deliver them after 400 years. And that's exactly what happened. Moses came along was the deliverer. Time drew nigh. He kind of jumped the gun a little bit. And then later the Ten Commandments came. He's up on the mountain. It was 430 years after this promise was made to Abraham. Again, he's paying attention to the sequence. That promise cannot that law, that old covenant cannot disannul that it should make the promise of none effect. What's his point? God's promise came first, and then the law came. Sarah came first, and then Hagar came. That's his point. There's a promise first. Now, there's a law that came. Well, does the law change those promises of God? And the way I put it is God's not stupid to make a commandment that's gonna and a law that's gonna violate something he just said a mere measly four hundred and thirty years ago. To God, that's not even a full rotation of the clock. Um So, no, God's not going to violate anything he says in his promises with the law of God. Ephesians says this, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ, according as he has chosen us in him. When before the foundation of the world. You see, God's choice made a huge difference long before your choice came along. It came first. Again, he's making a point about the promises, the ordination, the divine direction of God. That always comes first. God is the mover of the universe. He is the prime shaker. And anything that happens after that is all a fallout of what He has ordained. Alright. Again, I was kind of in first gear there. I wanted to anchor that in, so you didn't kind of think that Hagar might have come first. No, I didn't. There was always a promise first. Another question What was Hagar's purpose in life? Just after the flesh, what was Hagar's purpose in life? To bring forth a channel. I don't think she was picked up in Egypt to be a childbearer. I mean of the the Yeah, even while you're here, why don't you pick up a few women, you know? I kinda don't think that was the idea. Yes, I know where you're at. You're in second year. I'm still back here in first year. I think she was mistreated. She was in many ways mistreated, but was that her purpose That that was the result. Yeah, it's the result. It's not the purpose. I don't know what the purpose was. Okay. So if you well you do, Mrs. Ross. So uh you you have a you don't have a handmade, but you have a uh uh uh a a a hand master, I guess you could call him, or a a yard boy, I'll give it a different name. Right? What's the yard boy's purpose? To do the yard work. To do the yard work, yes. And um uh and and so uh does he do the yard work at his discretion or your direction Both. Well, you give him free reign and we'll we'll just hope that part of the lawn doesn't die. Why couldn't somebody else have done what Hager did? I mean, was she particularly chosen? I don't understand why she was particularly chosen. Yeah. That's getting into the question of the mind of God in terms of ultimate uh choices and and things, but it seemed right in the eyes of uh Abram uh and Sarah at the time. Sure, she'll she'll be our handmaid. I need Some help. After all, were these young people or old people? Older. Yeah, uh Abram and Sarah were older, right? We certainly know they were older. So Sarah's purpose was basically, I mean excuse me, Hagar's purpose basically was to serve Sarah. That was her role in life. She was there. If Sarah said, go make some breakfast, Hagar would get up and go make some breakfast. And and if she said, Well, you know, there's some chickens that need to be plucked out, or she'd go deal with the chickens, or go take care of some weeding over here or Or it's time to air out the tent and you know whatever Sarah directed that was Hagar's job Well, you know, simply talking about it in that vein, as you said you sometimes felt sorry for it. But doesn't God say He creates some for noble purposes and some for ignoble purposes Mm-hmm. So he does purposely done that way. Yes. And God oftentimes uses human beings to portray vignettes of his greater spiritual gospel truths. Either way noble or ignoble goes back to that. He's sort of the creator and can kind of do what he wants to. Yeah, we really kind of can't complain. I haven't seen it work yet. Well it turns out that in Galatians, while you're there in the third chapter, move ahead to verse nineteen, because the Apostle Paul asks this question, wherefore then serveth the law? What's the purpose of the law? Because remember we said Hagar is a picture of Moses' law. What's the purpose of it? Now we just said that Hagar was there to bid and do the serving of Sarah. Skip down to verse twenty-four where he Pointedly answers the question. You can read a lot of explanation to get to it, but his punchline is in verse 24. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith. But after faith has come, we're no longer under schoolmaster. So the law here he's using additional analogies and additional metaphors. What's a schoolmaster? Any ideas? This isn't hard folks, I'm trying to keep it simple. A teacher, right? But I like that phrase school master. Yes, an authority. Okay, so what would uh let's pull that out, what would a school master do? What would a headmaster of a school do? What are some of the range of duties a headmaster of the school would do? Oh boy, you went jumped right to it, didn't you, Gabriel? Discipline, yeah. Which doesn't mean uh flogging shall continue until morale improves. Uh discipline means uh to disciple, it means to show that which is right and that which is wrong It's a form of teaching. We are disciples of Christ, and so he is doing that to teach, to instruct. This is the right, this is wrong. The headmaster also governs the curriculum. Mm-hmm. They govern the curriculum? That's right. Yeah, they just don't throw any old thing in front of them uh to instruct them or to teach them. And there's a lot of analogies as to where all of this is going, but the Apostle Paul makes it very clear that um That the law, the old covenant, was a school master. It was instructive, you needed to receive that instruction. It was kind of Christianity 101, if you will, uh when you're uh in the world without Christ, Gentiles by nature, alienated from the covenant and the grace of God, you know nothing about what is right or wrong Well, I tell you, those Ten Commandments are a ten-pound sledgehammer on your head that says, Son, you're doing wrong, you keep doing that, you will die guaranteed. God is not mocked. What a man sows, that shall he reap. And death is the daily reminder and consequence that God doesn't kid. He means what he says. The wages of sin is in fact death. That's a schoolmaster. It's a schoolmaster. But it has a purpose. It was designed by God to do one primary job. Teach us how to leave it. To bring us to Christ. To bring a man, a woman, a child to a point of desperation, where they discover that they are a sinner desperately in need of a savior. and they paint out a picture of righteousness so glorious that by the time they quit trying to fit themselves in that picture, when Christ comes, he who gloriously fits that picture, and then some, and he shines forth as oh yes. Yes. I'll have Jesus. We'll talk about the movie a little later, Samuel, so hold that thought there, all right. All right. Who was in bondage? Who was in bondage? Sarah or Hagar? We would say Hagar. Now Sarah was bound by a marital covenant to her husband, but that's never referred to as bondage. Yeah, I'm glad some women didn't raise their hands. I don't know about that. Um Just as Hagar was never free, and Sarah was never in bondage, so Work's religion remains in bondage. While Jesus' children are free. Those who are in a works gospel are in bondage. to continue to do what they're doing. They have to keep doing it because the basis that on which they stand is their own performance according to some standard, I would assert, that they're trying to mimic that's trying to make their standard like the Ten Commandments, but they really don't have the Ten Commandments as their standard because they can't do it. They have to water it down. They have to drag it down to some level, kinda like, you know, these obstacle courses uh for the special ops forces. You know, if you've got to climb a fifteen foot fence, it's fifteen foot fence. If women join, we don't drop it to twelve feet just because we think it's a better idea. It'll help them along a little bit. No, the enemy's got fifteen foot fences, learn to climb it or die. Do it or die. And that's not a knock on the women in special forces. I think there's certain roles for them in intelligence, though I certainly wouldn't strap a gun to them and put them in Um bad. Yeah. Um uh hand, yes. Um going back to the comparison of two mountains in in Hebrews twelve. One of the elements there in that list is we're come to the souls of just men made perfect, and the law made nothing perfect. But the bringing in the very grace. That's correct. Right. Because the standard and the basis of the children of God is Jesus Christ. People say Vince, you're a hypocrite. You do this wrong, you do that wrong. Correct, you are, you're right. But until you find hypocrisy with Jesus Christ, you don't have a thing on me. Amen. You don't have a thing on me. Uh while returning to Galatians three ten, Jim you had a comment? The fact is because we're free, but we're free from the price of what the cause of sin. Yes. You know, that's what we're free from, the penalty of sin. Yes. Yeah, we're free from the penalty of sin. Yes. So that's where you can say what you're saying because we're free from that penalty. Yes. Right? Yes. Yeah. Uh the children of God have liberty, only use not your liberty as an occasional, but by love serve one another. You see So when my children were very young, there were certain rules and restrictions placed upon them, and there were violations if they disobeyed. Uh it ranged. There was a whole lengthy I had more than ten commandments. I did Moses. I had like twelve or thirteen or fourteen of them. I had a long list of it. And I'm speaking facetiously. But um And while they were young, they understood and knew that when violations occurred, they would be brought to the tablet of stone. Their offense would be pointed out. The punishment was clearly stated. It would be meted out. We would pray and think about it and you know seek not to do it again and off they go in their merry way. And in due season it produced fruit. Guess what They came to years of discernment and discretion and age. And those habits of restraint those habits of shying away from things that were wrong, whether they understood it or not, had been exercised. The self-control uh uh module in them had been attuned and exercised. The the holding back of the tongue uh exercise had worked itself, though they knew not why yet to do it. But it had been exercise. They had some exercise in that, and they at least knew to do it. In years to come when they could understand the reasonableness of it and to understand why that was there, I took that sign down. They didn't need that sign. Does that mean they were then free to go back and start hitting and kicking their brother instead? Absolutely not. Do I expect them to do that? Absolutely not. But I'm not putting them under that anymore It's no different than the covenant of grace and the covenant of works. You see. Galatians 3:10 says this. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. You see, this is that works religion. They of Hagar, the earthly Jerusalem. As many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, cursed is everyone That continueth not in all things written in the book of the law to do them. This is Moses' covenant. You had to keep all of it perfectly, continuously, simultaneously, or you were a violator. And that covenant was very, very good at spying out violators. Guilty guilty. By visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. I will not hold him guiltless that taketh the Lord's name in vain. Guilty. Guilty. Thou shalt not. Thou shalt not. Thou shalt not. A bunch of knots in there. Israel was a child. They had to learn. Even so you were a child. You had to learn. There had to be some basic 101, gospel 101 basics. This is how you live in the house of God. You know, that reminds me of now, as you speak about that, now when sin is committed. Mm-hmm You c your the heart is convicted. Right, that's the difference. See what's interesting is Moses' covenant could not judge according to the conscience. Moses could not pop into somebody's tent and say, aha, uh uh Brother Fred, you are coveting your neighbor's wife. I can see it on your forebrow Aren't you coveting? He couldn't penetrate, he couldn't see that there was coveting in his heart, for uh he was commanded not to covet, but he couldn't condemn him and take him out and stone him for adultery There was a different mount years later where Jesus stood and said, I say unto you, if a man looked lustfully after a woman, he's committed adultery with her. Where? His heart. See, that's the difference. That new covenant penetrates into the heart. My young children didn't understand the reasonableness of the commandment. When they grew up, they began to realize this is very reasonable. This is not any radical thing. This is ought to be done. Continuing Galatians 3, it says in verse 11, But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident, for the just shall live by faith. The law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it's written that Accursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree, that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. Alright, time's getting away from me here. Oh, one last verse to this point. If the Son therefore shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. If the Son shall make you free, you're free indeed. It's a blessed thing. And yet if you're still struggling with, well, do I obey or not? You're maybe still under the schoolmaster a little bit. You still need to think through and you need to be brought to Christ. You need to understand who you are And I've told my children this and they've heard me say it. Say, Gloria, Turia, Gabriel, remember who you are and whose you are. Your what you do is reflective upon the family, upon your name. And so it is with you, Christian. Whoon? Remember who you are and whose you are. Remember that. You know, Vincent, I can remember um a time when you speak about this very quickly when the law was very heavy. Mm-hmm in my house and the first thing he thought of was the consequences. Absolutely. Praise God. Yeah yeah. And then but after a while when something happened, my mother could only Just look at me. Yes. Or just say something. Oh beautiful. Oh my god, it would just tear you apart. Yes. And then you get to the point where you fear the rejection and the fellowship. Yeah More than the punishment. See, the love of Christ constrains us. That's what holds us in. Alright, whose son was of a miraculous birth? Sarah's son, obviously. Hagar was after the flesh. There wasn't anything miraculous there. It's like the New Revised Standard Version edition of Isaiah seven fourteen, so a young woman shall uh conceive and bring forth a child. Whoopy-doo, young women bring forth children all the time There's nothing surprising or shocking about that, but that a virgin would conceive and bring forth the son is a miracle. Sarah's son was a miraculous birth. We saw that earlier. We underscored that. She laughed about it. She said, this is ridiculous. You must be kidding. I am going to have a child. Perhaps you haven't seen me lately. Perhaps I haven't been in the senior Olympics area. Children of grace are also a miracle. They are born of the Spirit of God. They are absolutely a miracle. That's the only miracle I assert to you that's happening today. There's a new blood-bought child of God. Turn to John 1. John 1 in verse 11 That's what people say when they knew us before we beg we were born again. And then uh once we are, they said we're a miracle 'cause that that can't be that same Jim Lloyd out. Right. Because we know brother, you and we pull out the film, we'll play the film, brother. We'll see the difference. It'll be real easy. You and me both, I'm telling you. John 1 11, He came into his own, and His own received him not. But as many as received Him, to them gave He the power to become the sons of God, even to them uh believe on his name. Now, a great many, and I'm sorry to say, Baptists, will put a period on John 112. I love my Baptist brethren, don't get me wrong. But is there a period there? On the end of John 112. There's a semicolon. Alright. We hadn't even finished the thought. Would you like to be quoted with half a sentence? Yeah, I I might turn out to be sound like a wife beater or something if you cut my sentence in half. It's like no, he's making a stupid joke. He can't cut the sentence in half, right? If you were to just put a period there at the end of verse twelve, it would sound like, well, I, you know, God gave me the power, the ability to become a son of God. I just have to believe and through my act of faith I will become a son of God. I I've just got to We just gotta dim the lights a little bit. We can I've got a dimmer switch over here. We can dim the lights. Victoria can play just as I am and you know, softly and slowly, and we can you know, really move people emotionally. All 23 verses. All twenty-three stances just as I am. We're gonna get somebody up here now. I feel it! I missed my calling. I think you're gonna be a Baptist preacher or a two-bit dictator down in some third world country. Not sure which. Um That word power is not the word dunamis meaning ability. That word power is exusio, which means authority. He gave them the authority. They have the authority to become the sons of God. The authority came from God. You're given divinely the ability to become a child of God. And that's what he says in the very next verse. If we just read past the colon. Verse 13 says, which were born, we're talking about a new birth. Not of blood, not your Jewish parents. Nor of the will of the flesh. Flesh has a will, but it has nothing to do with your salvation. Nor of the will of man. He underscores that even further, so that we don't miss it. But your birth, your birth is of God. It's a miracle. Just like Sarah's birth was a miracle. He had to declare it was of God. She thought it was so ludicrous and she was so ecstatic when it happened that she was very happy to receive and give the name of Isaac to this child. So were you and Isaac. Right. Let me ask you a question because I was kind of confused with that. Don't you have to accept that? What you just say? I mean I have to accept it, right? You must embrace that God Almighty gave you life. So I don't I mean he just how does he do that? It's a miracle. Yes. Through his work. I don't have to agree with it and say Oh you will Thy servant shall be willing in the day of thy power. Psalm hundred and ten. I know where you're going. Yeah, I know where you're going. Because that's what everybody seems to think. Right. You know he agreed it, and then he still thinks It that means they have to accept that. Yeah, yeah. Now how can you get a they have to accept that out of what you just raised? It's not an offer, it's a declaration. Exactly. This is not an offeration. Salvation. Right. How is he offering you? You know, that's a declaration. Right. It's a declaration. It's a herald. Exactly. Yeah, we are ambassadors for Christ, not diplomats. Right. Diplomats compromise Ambassadors go forward with a message. This is the message. As it were, take it or leave it. Next, this is the message. Jonah had a real simple message. You have 40 days, God will destroy you. 40 days, you're gone. 40 days, that's it He didn't cut it, he didn't sugarcoat it? Yes. One day I found out that I had been born. I didn't choose to be born. And I didn't know I'd been born until I found out that I'd been born. Uh I learned I learned that I was born. That's how I came into being. And uh in in some ways it's the same with uh with our salvation. Did I believe first or did God draw me first? Well obviously God drew me, and because he drew me, having begun a good work in me, he will perform it. He will finish it. Yeah. But um I found out that I'd been born again. Right. I didn't choose to be born again because I found that I'd been born in the flesh. Not that I chose to be born, but I realized, ah, yes, I was four. That's right. It's an old illustration. It's actually a Baptist illustration, but I think it's a good illustration where the sign on the front of the door says, Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And when you walk through the doors, you look behind says, Chosen from the four The message has come. The message is the message is not election is not the message per se. That's the explanation to remove pride from men. Yes. Go ahead and then I've got one last question and we'll keep on. Nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man. I think it's synonymous. I think it's near synonymous. I think he's just footstopping the point. Oh So that there so that there would be no mistake. I think it's a two strands of a chord that are making it clear through every tribe, kindred, tongue and nation to where this would be rendered that there would be no mistaking. Okay, okay. And and will being mentioned double will, man, will of flesh, will is implied in the last phrase, even though it's not in the text. And the but by the will of God. And not even by the will of another man. Right. In other words, you may have a son and I'm on the will the truth to draw him to make sure he's going to be saved. Right. So that's a good point. It could be an external will somebody forcing the present. Okay. Lastly, what happened to Ishmael shortly after Isaac arrived? He was downgraded. Very good. I like that. Yeah. His bond ratings sank. This is no downgrade controversy. He was downgraded, yeah. It was a little bit more and downgraded. What did banish he and Hagar both? As Hagar and her son were cast out when Isaac came, so Moses' covenant ended when Christ came. That entire covenantal structure. Holy days, feast days, sacrifices, offerings, atonement. High priests, blood of bulls and goats and rams, continual blood. First Covenant is a very bloody covenant. Lots of blood. Lots of blood New Covenant doesn't have a lot of blood. Why? Because all that blood shed before was there to point to one ultimate Amen. Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lastly, we'll go back to Hebrews chapter 7, and then uh we'll have to wrap it up here. Hebrews 7. And um we get to Hebrews 7 and verse 18. And this is, I think, something that is hard for Christians to accept and embrace and understand uh it certainly was exceptionally difficult for some of the apostles as was the cause for much of the the epistle of Galatians to be written because Peter, James Barnabas appeared to have been led into some significant error about falling back under that old covenant again Hebrews 718 says this, verily, truly, there is verily a disannuling. of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. That's interesting that word disannulling is that word in Hebrews 9. 26. He put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So it's the same concept here with uh Sarah, putting away Hagar. There's a disannuling of it It's been put away. Now, the one that put it away is God. Vincent isn't putting it away. Paul's not putting it away. Paul doesn't have a new perspective that's different from the apostles. God is the one that's putting it away Because it was a handmaid to serve grace and do its bidding until the promised seed should come. And when the promised seed came, the schoolmaster's task was done, it's away, remove it. Now I don't try to get into too much quibbling over end-time teaching. Well, let me finish the next verse. For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which we draw nigh to God. Um there are some end time positions which are radically uh wrong and I will militate against those. I am unashamedly um gospel millennial, meaning a millennial, meaning there is a reign of Christ now that occurs in heavens. He does reign. He's not going to get a demotion. He's now Lord of Lords. He's not going to come down and just be an earthly king that happens to be a super king on the earth. No, he's Lord of Lords and he's not interested in demotion And when he comes again, it's three simultaneous events, Judgment Day, the Resurrection, and the destruction of the universe, and we have a whole new heaven and earth I would question my brethren brothers and sisters who hold that when Christ returns, He'll set up an earthly millennial kingdom. Pray tell, what would that look like? Well, there's going to be a temple. All right, we're rebuilding a temple. And what prayel would they do in the temple? Offer sacrifices? Would they have priests? And who would be the priest? Because Nehemiah had to reject a number of people from being in the Levitical priesthood to receive the government take, you know, their tithes and offerings went to feed the priests and the Levites to do the work in the service of the temple. And he says, No, we can't take you because we can't trace your lineage. Well Titus did a very good job of ransacking the records In Jerusalem, so that they cannot trace their lineage. How would you know who is really a priest? Are they really going to sacrifice a heifer? Have we really not learned anything? You know, after you're married, you might have leftover copies of your wedding invitation. You may still have a website that's up. Are you going to send that out again ten years after you've been married? 15, come to our marriage. Aren't you already married? You you broke that you can't you have to re reinitiate your wedding registry? What's going on? You would look at see people as nuts doing that. And so I fear that there is a gross misunderstanding of all the implications of what the Apostle Paul is talking about in Galatians 4. When he speaks about there's a disannuling of that commandment. We don't go three times a year to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices and ordinances. That's not going to work for Gentiles. We are nowhere near that And so I have some final questions. Go ahead, Joe. Last comment. that believe what Israel is doing over in Israel today with the uh at the ball, the whaling wall, that they're waiting for Christ to come back That's not the Christ that we're talking about. Right. They they have they still think that cr that they he that he's never come to earth. So but why is it I can't figure out why is it so much misunderstanding of that? It's not They celebrate the walking record, they have a zeal that no one's a very good thing. Every president that goes over there he takes goes to the whaling wall and rubs it and his head bobbing up and down to be show he's a good man. That's for political reasons. Right, that's political reasons. Absolutely. Which is in bondage with your children and now is. But everybody's going to be in this great Christian country, this great Christian land that we live in. My final questions, and you don't have to answer out loud, whose son are you? Child of Hagar Childless error. Do you trust in your works or in Christ's works? What's your confidence? When you're down, when you're struggling, when you feel a failure? In what is your confidence? Are you proud of your lineage, born of holy parents, with the right religious history? The Jews had the right religious history, did they not? Or are you a son of Jesus born from above? There you go. What is your attitude towards grace preaching? Do you cry out, unfair? Hunter. Well if you said that then anybody could be saved. Or do you cry out hallelujah? Jim, could you close us in prayer? Lord Jesus, we thank you, praise you so much for this new morning, this new resurrection morning that you've gathered us together, that we made Worshiping you as a a body of believers that we seek your face and your will and your way in our congregation today and our gathering today that you may be glorified. We thank you for a Bible class and uh many things that came about that uh with questions and answers that should suffice those of us that look for the Bible for answers. So we thank you, we praise you, and we give you glory this day. And uh you and you alone be glorified. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen.