And I'm going to read uh the entire chapter. And as we said before, it's so easy in the during the scripture reading to let our minds begin to wander to other things. But let us pay close attention to the Word of God. I have nothing inspired to say today. But when I read this book, it is the very inspired word of God. Luke 13. There were present at that season some that told of the Galatians whose blood Pilate mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all Galileans, because they suffered such things. I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all they that dwelt in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish He spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree and planted in his garden, and he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. And he said unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years have I come seeking fruit on the fig tree, and find none. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? And he answered and said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it And if it bear fruit, well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could not could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God. And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation Because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work, in them therefore thou come In them, therefore, come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. Jesus answered them and said unto Jesus answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, dost not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall and lead him away to watering? And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loose from the bonds on the Sabbath day? And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? And where unto shall I resemble it shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. And he went through all the cities and villages teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say unto you, will seek to enter in and shall not be able When once the master of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and ye began to stand without and to knock at it, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us, and he shall answer and say unto you, I know not whence ye are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know not whence ye are. Depart from me, all workers of iniquity. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yoursel go into the kingdom of God and you yourselves thrust out. And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. Behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. The same day there came a certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart from hence, for Herod will kill thee. And he said unto him, Go and tell that fox, behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou which killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee How oft would I had have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings. And ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. And verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me again until the time when thou when when ye say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Let us bow again briefly as we approach God's word, beseeching him for the fulfillment of his promise, that his spirit Will be our teacher and our guide. Gracious Father, we thank you for this glorious book that is before us We thank you, Lord, that it is forever settled in heaven. We thank you that you have exalted your word above your very name. We thank you that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. We thank you that not one jot or one title shall be lost till all is fulfilled. Father, we thank you that we see the fulfillment of that truth even in our day, as thy word has been preserved to us. And yet, Father, our hearts are stony. Our minds are blind to truth. Except that the light of the Spirit of God illumine your truth within us. Except that you open your word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive your word. It is to us a closed book And so, follow this morning. May the paraclete be the exegete. May the Holy Spirit be the preacher of your word to our hearts in Jesus' name. Our text this morning is those two verses, verses twenty-three and twenty-four. And one said unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be saved. Be able. We need to consider the context here. In the first verse, we find that one of the Galileans tells Christ of when Pilate mingled the blood of the Galileans, that wasn't the Galileans, I'm sorry. A man told Christ of the Galileans who Pilate had mingled their blood with the sacrifice. And scripture does not give us further information on that nor does uh the histories of the day illuminate it. However, Josephus does tell us of an instance When Herod Articius, Archelaus, I'll get it right. Herod Archelaus did a very similar thing. The Galileans were a seditious people. They were troublemakers. And of course Christ himself was a Galilean. But Herod Archelaus had gone into the temple and slew three thousand men, and their blood ran down with the blood of the sacrifice. So that was not the exact instance Being spoken of here with the Galileans, but it was similar. That type of thing would take place. And so here we have religious people that have come to the temple to worship and Here comes Herod's men, and they come in and slay them, and their blood runs with the blood of the animal of sacrifice. And Christ says to them, Do you suppose that they must have been the worst sinners they could be That those Galileans that were slain, their sin had to be worse than any other Galilean. Do you think they were worse sinners than anybody else? And Christ's response says, no, I tell you, nay. Except ye repent, you'll all perish in the same way. You see, it's not a matter of he's a bad sinner and I'm a not so bad sinner. Or this one, this one has done all kinds, he's a murderer, he's an adulterer, he's done that, and I just tell a little white lies. Yet Christ says, I tell ye nay, I tell you no, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then there's a second one there. The pool of uh Saloon was the pool at which the blind man, when Christ spit on the ground and made clay with the spittle and put it on his eyes and he told him to go wash at the pool of Siloam. That was the pool. And apparently there had been a tower there. And the tower fell and crushed 18 people. And Christ says, do you think those 18, they must have been worse than anybody else? Oh, I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. It's not a matter of big sin and little sin. It's not a matter of Being religious or being not religious, all men are called to repent. And then in verses 6 through 9, Christ gives them this parable of the fig tree, and it's a fascinating account. This fig tree was planted, and for three years the owner of the fig tree had come and looked for fruit, and there was none. And so he says to his foreman, Cut it down. It's worthless. It's not producing fruit. It's cumbering the ground. It is drawing away the nutrients. And the moisture from the ground, there's no reason for it to remain. Cut it down. And his servant says, let's give it one year. Let me dig around it. Let me dung it. Let me fertilize it. Let's have some more patience. Yes, it's been three years. Let's give it a little more time. And then if it doesn't bring forth fruit, then we'll cut it down. Of course, the fig tree. The fig tree is a picture of the whole religious Jewish system And the nation of Israel that had received blessing upon blessing upon blessing. They had been the recipients of the law. They had eaten the man in the wilderness. They were God's people, and yet they bore no fruit. And you see how this parable fits into this whole teaching because the Jews were religious and the Romans were heathen. The Jews were religious and the Greeks were idolaters. And Christ is speaking here to people who were the descendants of Abraham, and he was saying to them, I tell you, nay, it doesn't matter what your religious background is. It doesn't even matter what your family is, because later on he says people will come from the north and south and from the east and the west. The gathering in of the Gentiles, I tell you, nay. Except ye repent, ye shall likewise perish. And it's beautiful that right in the middle of this context, we have this woman who is a daughter of Abraham. And for 18 years she's been bent over. She could not stand up. Some of us know a little bit about that because we've got a lot of bad backs in our congregation. But this woman, her back was so bad she could not straighten up. And it's the Sabbath day. And Christ says, daughter. You're healed. You're loose. Satan has bound you for 18 years, but you're loose from your affliction. What a marvelous thing! What a glorious miracle Christ has done. And there should have been Great rejoicing in the synagogue. There should have been joy there because this woman had been delivered. And instead the ruler of the synagogue It's the Sabbath. How dare you break the Sabbath? And Christ points out to this member of that Jewish religious system, this religionite If you want to call him that, you have more compassion on your donkey. You have more compassion on your ox. Because on the Sabbath day you will loose your ox from the stall and take your ox to the water. And this daughter of Abraham has been afflicted under your religious system for a thirteen years. Indeed, I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Back in the previous chapter of Luke 3 and Luke 3 and verse 18 or verse sorry and verse 8 and 9, bring forth therefore fruit worthy of repentance. And begin not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children under Abraham And now also the axe is laid under the root of the tree. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Indeed, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Now that's the background That's the setting. Not all in one day, as we all see in some chapters of the Gospels. This was over a period of time as Christ's journey and teaching. But that's the context in which we find this 23rd and 21st verse, where the question is posed, are there few that be? Saved. I've talked to some of you recently about some of the megachurches, and I don't mean to be critical and bringing it up from the pulpit. But We tend to look at a church of thousands of people with a big, beautiful place and so on, and they're empty shells. It's not because they have thousands of people, because it is the truth that man hates the truth. And God's truth is with the remnant. It's not in the masses. The truth of God dwells without the camp. And here we have this fig tree that has been tended for three years and literally for centuries. And it bears no fruit. And you can dig around it, and you can dung it, but it's not going to bear fruit. We must be careful. We must be ever cautious Because there indeed are few that be saved. And so the instruction that Christ gives is strive to enter in at the straight gate. Let us look at the verse in more depth now. There are few that be saved. Isaiah saith, Paul told us in Romans 9. 27, Isaiah also crieth Concerning Israel, though the number of Israel shall be as the sands of the sea, a remnant shall be saved. And in Matthew 7, verse 13 and 14, some of the verses we considered in Sunday school this morning, we find the same words again: Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is gate. And broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat, because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth to life, and few there be that find it Turn over with me to Hebrews chapter 3. And we actually looked at this passage, I think, the second week of the year, so we won't spend a lot of time on it. But uh I would like to just review it quickly. Hebrews chapter 3, and I want to start in verse 7 Here the author of Hebrews is recounting the deliverance of Israel, God's chosen people from Egypt. And in Hebrews 3 and verse 7. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation, in the day of temptation, in the wilderness. When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years, wherefore was I grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their hearts, and they have not known my ways So I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Take heed, brethren. Lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin For we are made partakers of Christ that behold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end. While it is said, Today if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation For some, when they heard, did provoke, albeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them whose who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness, and to whom he swear that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not, so we see that they could not enter in Because of unbelief. Six hundred thousand men Followed Moses out of Egypt, followed a cloud, and followed a pillar of fire through the wilderness, eight manna. And of those six hundred thousand men, two entered into the promised land, Joshua and Caleb. Along with that company of 600,000 men was two million give or take women and children And of those two million, only those who were under 20 when they left Egypt entered in. Now that's a solemn, that's a solemn warning. Are there few that be saved? You see, my friends, my dear ones, it is possible to walk along with the company of faith It is possible to be within the religious assembly and even to pick up bits of manna here and there. And yet To do so in unbelief. With whom was he grieved forty years? You see that they could not enter in because Of unbelief. And so indeed, there are few that be saved. You see, repentance is not going to church Repentance is not being baptized. Repentance is not being raised as a child in Sunday school. Repentance is not having Christian parents. Repentance is the transforming work of God that takes place in the heart of man. And as the Spirit of God convicts of sin and draws us to Christ through the Word. And how easy it is to be part of the crowd. And that is what Christ was teaching here. You talk about these Galileans that their blood was mingled with a sacrifice, but You're no better than they are, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. You talk about these eighteen whom the tower fell on, but I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And the whole religious system that received the law has become so tied to legalism and checking all the right boxes and not healing a woman on the Sabbath day that you've totally missed the Messiah. You've totally missed the truth. And though God in His grace and mercy digs around the tree and dungs it yet more, it will take a miracle. Were there ever? To be any change. Well, brethren, I don't, and I use that word brethren brethrenly deliberately, I don't go to this passage today To try to make you feel like you're not saved if you are, or to try to strike fear in your heart. But rather, we must examine ourselves daily. Our soul is that which is eternal What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? And yes, we have concerns and cares about these things But I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so the instruction. Boom boom. The instruction is to strive to enter in at the straight gate. My allergies are bothering me this morning. Sorry. Strive to enter in at the straight gate. And that word straight means narrow, tiny. It's a straight gate. It's not the broad road that thousands are walking. And you can you can turn the TV on and don't recommend it, but you can turn the TV on and see some big rally and some uh sports arena somewhere, I don't know where they have them, but and uh they'll give some kind of invitation and you know you there's no room to walk for people rushing down But where are they? What has become of all these people on the mission field? I had had other missionaries that would tell me just about every week how many people they had saved. We had eight people saved last week. We had nine people saved last week. And yet after 15 years of labor, they had a church of 30 and 40 people. Well, if it where are they? What's happened to them? You see, there's a broad road that leads to destruction, and there is the way that the crowd and the multitude is going Sheep to the slaughter. But there's a narrow gate. Strive to enter in at the straight gate It is the gate that is at hand, and it is the gate by which we must enter Again, the passage that I read earlier in Matthew 7, Matthew 7, verses 13 and 14, enter into the straight gate, for wide is the gate In John ten in verse seven, Jesus said unto them again, Verily, verily I say unto you and you can Finish the verse. I am the door of the sheep. And again, go to our context here. The Messiah is in front of them. The door of the sheep is right there, the straight gate. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. He is the narrow way. is right in front of them. And yet the ruler of the Pharisees is so concerned because the life, the truth, and the way has healed a woman on the Sabbath day. I am The way that leads to heaven is narrow and difficult. And so we're to strive to enter in at the straight gate. What's it mean to strive? I've got a whole page of notes on striving somewhere. Here it is. Sorry about that. Strive to enter in at the straight gate. That word strive is a word that means agonize. In fact, the Greek word almost sounds like our English word agonize. Strive to enter in at the straight gate. It also is a word that's used to speak of the discipline of an athlete. I used to be an athlete, now I'm old and fat. But the athlete disciplines himself in what he eats. He gets the proper sleep. His life is driven towards his athletic performance And so we're to strive to enter in at the straight gate. We're to agonize to enter in at the straight gate. And if we go through scripture, I think we can find a lot of illustrations of this. Remember David? When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day. Remember Peter when he sinned and he went out and wept bitterly. Remember Job there in the belly of the whale? I will be sorry for my sin. Ah, we are to strive To enter in at the Strait Gate. Where to agonize to enter in at the Strait Gate. One who strives has deep remorse over his sin, and that remorse produces repentance. The striving to enter in at the straight gate pictures one who commits his entire being to seeking after Christ. Seek the Lord while he may be found. No man that striveth for the masteries, or every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate in all things. And so we are to discipline, we are to agonize our souls. Now, what's that sound like? Sounds like works, doesn't it? It sounds like we are doing something. And so we must recognize that we will never strive to enter in at the straight gate unless the Spirit of God is striving within us for truth. Truth, to strive to enter into the straight gate is to hunger and to thirst after Christ, a hunger and thirst after righteousness. And so Christ says, continuing there in verse 24, I say unto you, many will seek to enter in and shall not be able. And those words are confusing, aren't they? How could it be that one would seek to enter in and shall not be able? Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Him that cometh to me, I will no wise cast out. It sounds like they're being rejected. It sounds like we have a contradiction here in Scripture And yet, if we look at the context of Scripture and at the further in the chapter, we find there in verse 25: when once the master of the house has written up, has risen up, And I shut the door, and ye begin to stand without and knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us. And he shall answer and say unto you, I never knew you Say unto you, I know you not. Whence are you? Then shall you begin to say, We have eaten and drunken in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. But I say, I tell you, I know when not when she are, depart from me, you workers of iniquity. See what has happened here is there's a whole crowd. You've preached in our streets. We've sat down and ate together. We came out of Egypt with you. We ate the manna. And yet they perished through unbelief. I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Ah, my dear friends, we have Have the life-giving truth in front of us. And yet I would warn our young people It's got to be your own. It can't just be what you're taught. I would warn our adults, it is so easy to sit under the pre Preaching of God's Word and not know Christ. And I say this from personal experience, because I grew up in a Christian home. I was carried to church when I was a week old. I attended Christian school. I surrendered my life for the mission field. I attended Christian college and graduated from college. I went through the process of ordination and I answered all the questions correctly. I had done everything that you're supposed to do. I had been on deputation commissioned for the mission I had been a missionary for two years, and suddenly I found myself overcome Come with doubt and guilt. And I began to examine my soul and to examine the Word of God And I found to my horror horror can't say the word. I found to my great grief That I had been marching through the wilderness with the crowd, eating bits of manna, and yet I was lost. I tell you, nay, dear ones, accept you repent And you shall all likewise perish. Ah, brethren, we love one another here. We have such sweet fellowship. In this church. May God grant that we will enjoy that fellowship together for all eternity. Let us stand for prayer. God, our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that your word is able to pierce to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joints and marrow. May your word do your perfect work in our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.