Turn your Bible with me, please, to the book of John, chapter 13, and we'll start our scripture reading in verse 31. As I mentioned, this message this morning is actually in many ways a continuation of the message that we had On Communion Sunday, the message we entitled Betrayed. And there we looked at Judas and his betrayal of Christ and how each of us have betrayed Christ as well. We betray him every day. But this morning, we're going to consider Christ's words here in the upper room shortly before his betrayal John chapter 13, and I'll begin our scripture reading in verse 31. Therefore, he when he was gone out, Jesus said Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come. So now I say unto you, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus said unto him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in me, believe also in God. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also Whither I go, you know, and the way you know. Let's pray Gracious Father, this morning, open your word to our hearts. Open our hearts to receive your word. Father, bless your word to us. May the Holy Spirit be the preacher here this morning. May your Spirit preach truth and comfort to hearts. That is beyond the capacity of man's lips to proclaim. Father, I pray today that you would empty me And then that you would fill me. And then use me, Lord, for the edification of your people, not of any merit in man, but all merit in Christ. And Lord, may man not take note of man's words. But Lord, may your words be inescapable to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Christ was speaking here of his death He had told the Jews, I'm going away, and you're going to look for me, and you won't be able to find me And then here in the upper room, speaking to the disciples, he tells them the same things he told the Jews. I told the Jews they would seek for me, but you too will seek for me. The first verse we read, there in chapter 13, verse 31, says, Therefore, when he was gone out, the he is Judas. This was where we left off in this discourse two weeks ago when we considered the Lord's table. Judas now is going out. And there in verse 33, Jesus says, little children. And this is the only place in Scripture that Christ calls the disciples little children. John, in the book of 1 John, which we are studying piece by piece, will nine times use this exact same phrase that he learned from Jesus But this is the only time Jesus calls the disciples, his little children. And it is not without significance that he's waited until Judas goes out. Because Judas was not included in that tender term, little children. Jesus says he's going away. And he says there in verse 4 of 14, whither I go ye know, and the way you know. Where is he going? He's going to his father. And how is Jesus going to his father? He's going to his father by death. And when Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no man cometh to the Father but by me. He is declaring to his people I am the way, and my way is the way of death. And you will never come to the Father except through death. For it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. And yet in the middle of this discourse, the the chapter divisions were not there. This is one communication. Jesus says, Peter, before the cock crows three times, you're going to deny me. Or before the cock crows, you're going to deny me three times. Peter has just said, I'll go to the death for you. In the Matthew passage, Peter says, they'll all forsake you, though all are offended because of you. Yet will I never offend. And Christ says, before this night's over, you're going to deny me three times, but let not your heart be troubled. You believe in my Father, believe also in me And you'll notice there what Christ is saying in verses 32 of chapter 13 My Father is glorified in me, and I am glorified in the Father, and I'm ready to go back to the Father. And how is it that the Father is glorified in the Son The Father is glorified in the Son through death. The Father is glorified in Jesus Christ because he gave his life a ransom for many. And so, Peter, you're going to deny me. Peter, you say that you're ready to die for me, but you're not ready yet. Peter, you say that though everybody forsakes me, you'll never forsake. And Jesus says, You're going to forsake me three times tonight, but don't let your heart be troubled. Because I'm going to my father. And in my father's house are many mansions. There's a lot of space there, Peter. I have room for you. And I'm going to make that place ready. I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go How is he going? We used to sing the old song, The Way of the Cross Leads Home. He's going to his father by means of death, by means of crucifixion He is making the way. He is conquering the death of the soul, which is eternal destruction, eternal separation from God and he is opening the way of paradise for his people. Let not your heart be troubled. I am going to die. And you can die with me. For you see, Peter, when he makes this bold declaration that he will never deny, he's not yet crucified with Christ. You see, he's still in his old man. He yet needs to die in Jesus Christ. And so if you look at your bulletin, the title that we have for this message is, Are You Dead Yet? And dear ones, beloved of my heart, I pray for every one of you every day. I call your names before the throne of God. And I ask you, are you dead yet? Have you been crucified with Christ? Judas He's left. He's not even here anymore. He was like the seed by the wayside that received with joy and sprang up and then withered away. He's gone. He's not included in the little children that Christ is speaking to. And Peter, he's been with Christ for three years. He has walked on water But he's not dead yet. He's not saved yet. He has not yet died in Christ. And so the whole context here is a context of love. He says, A new commandment give I unto you, that you love one another as I have loved you. Now, how can that be a new commandment? In 1 John, John says, I write no new commandment to you. And in Leviticus, we find the commandment to love one another as yourselves. So how can it possibly be a new commandment that Christ is giving to them here when he says, I give unto you a new commandment? It is a new commandment for this reason. In the Old Testament, we are commanded to love one another as we love ourselves Love one another. Love your neighbor as they love yourself. But here Christ is giving a new commandment, and the new commandment is this: love one another more than you love yourself. For Christ will say in chapter fifteen, Greater love hath no man than this. That a man Lay down his life for his friends. And what is he talking about in the context of our chapter? He is preparing to lay down his life for his friends. And Peter in the Matthew passage says, so all forsake you, yet will I never offend. I'm better than them. I'll show you how strong my faith is. I'll show you what a great believer I am. No, Peter. You'll deny me three times. And so in verse thirty-five, Christ declares to them: By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. But you have love one to another. You see, the demonstration of discipleship would be their love for one another, would be their bond for one another. And where do we find them after the crucifixion? Well, we find them together in the upper room, pray. And that's when Christ appears to them, when they have learned greater love. In Galatians chapter five, verse twenty two But the fruit of the Spirit is love. And we dealt with that five or six weeks ago. That the first fruit of the Spirit is love. And what is the fruit of the Spirit? Well, it is that which the new man Simon Peter said unto him, and this is where your notes there begin. Uh I put a handout in. Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered and said unto him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. But thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter says, Lord, I'm ready to die for you. And Christ says, no, Peter, you're not. I'm ready to go where you want me to go, I'm ready to do, but Christ says, no, you can't follow me now, but someday you'll follow me. Peter is still more ready to die. I'm sorry. Peter is now still more ready to deny than to die. Peter is more prepared to deny Christ when someone sees him by a fire and says, Oh, you're from Galilee. It's not much of an accusation, is it? Peter is still more ready to deny when somebody says, Your speech betrays you. You're one of them. But remember the context. The context is that of I love you so much that I'll die for you. Why is Peter more ready to deny Christ than to die for Christ? Because Peter still loves himself more than he loves Christ. Peter's love for Christ is still deficient. Peter's love for Christ has not yet come to maturity. He is still more ready to say, I don't know the man. And to do so with an oath than to say, if it costs my life, I want Christ. If it costs me persecution, I want Christ. And so Peter is still more ready. To deny than to die. Verse 37. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee. I love you more than I love myself. My love for you is greater than my love for myself. I am ready to die to myself and live into God. That's what Peter was saying. Christ says, no, no, you're not ready. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy light for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me twice. Peter, you're not ready to die? Peter, you're not ready to give your life for me. Turn over with me in your Bibles to the book of Luke and chapter 22. I'd like us to consider briefly Luke's account of this same discourse. Luke twenty two and verse thirty one And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both to prison and to death. And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day. before thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. Now notice in that context that Christ uses Peter's old name, Simon Simon. He doesn't call him Peter there, the new name that Christ had given him, but he calls him by the name Simon. And notice that Jesus has an unfailing plan of election for Peter. Peter, you will be saved. You will come to that love. You will die for me. But not yet. Satan wants to have you, but I have prayed for you. The measure of faith that has been has been given to you, but my grace will not fail to bring you to the point of dying for me. Now, Luke uses that word in quoting Christ there, where Christ says, When thou art converted, and this is what I've Given you on your sheet today, some some verses I would like us to consider. The Greek word there is epistropho. It's a word that means to turn, to be converted, to be turned about, or to return. Peter, when you're converted, when you have been turned around, when you have truly been transformed, when you have become a new creature. Then you'll strengthen thy brethren. Remember Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Remember the context we're looking at there in John 13. I give you a new commandment. Don't love your neighbor as thyself, love thy neighbor more than thyself. And so consider the uses of this word epistrophe or converted. In the prophecy of the ministry of John the Baptist in Luke chapter 1, verse 16, and many of the children of Israel shall he turn unto the Lord their God. They were going one way. And John the Baptist preached the gospel of repentance. And they turned around the opposite way and went towards their Messiah. And then in Luke 17, verse 4, we find the context of when we're offended by a brother. And there we read if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, he turn again unto thee. Saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. There's a transformation there. The brother was offending, the brother was angry, the brother was going against you But now he has repented. Now he has turned. Now there is a difference. Now he's going the other way. Forgive him And isn't that a glorious picture of the believer? For I was the enemy of Christ. I was fighting against Christ. Ah, not as physically as Paul was fighting against Christ. But friendship with the world is enmity with God. I was going the opposite way. Christ in his mercy arrested me on my Damascus road. He turned me around. I repented. And he forgave me. And then this word is used in relation to the Jews who would not and could not believe. John 12, verse 40. He hath blinded their eyes And harden their heart, that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted. And I should heal them. Here are the unbelieving Jews. There is no conversion for them. There is no epistrophe for them. Their eyes have been blinded that they may not see the light, and they will never believe, for they cannot believe. They've not been given that saving grace. They will not be returned. And in the word Converted, as we've seen already, is linked with repentance. In Acts 3, verse 19, this is also in your sheet. Repent ye therefore and be converted. That their sins may be blotted out when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. But then the last verse I've given you there on your sheet. In 1 Peter 2, verse 25, Peter himself uses this word twice in one sentence. First Peter chapter two, verse twenty-five. For ye were as sheep going astray. But are turned or converted, it's not there in English, but are now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your soul. It doesn't make as much sense in English to have it there twice. But in the original this word is here twice, and so what it would read was We were as sheep going astray, but are epistropho, now epistrophe, unto the shepherd. We are converted, now converted. We are turned now turned And in the Greek, when something is doubled, it is doubled for emphasis. It is like a verily, verily, look at this. This is important. And here, Peter, who says, I will die for you. Christ says you're not even yet converted, Peter, and Luke. Peter, you're not ready to die for me yet. You can't follow me now. You will follow me later. You will follow me someday. But Peter, you're not ready yet. But when you're converted, when you're epistropho, Peter, when you've been turned, when you've been changed, then Comfort your brethren. And now, now the converted Peter Now the Peter that has been changed. Remember when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took note of them that they've been with Jesus, that something dramatic had happened to their lives. Now Peter, in the book of 1 Peter says, For ye were as sheep going astray, but you've been turned around. And now you return to the shepherd and to the bishop of your soul. Peter got it! And so I asked you again, are you saved yet? I will never deny you. Peter, tonight you'll deny me thrice. I will never deny you. Peter, tonight, before the cock crows, I'll die for you. No, Peter. Not yet. Not yet. You see, we began in verse 31 of John 13 with a man exiting the room. Judas had seen the miracles. Judas had been in the company of the saints. Judas had spent three years hearing the preaching of Jesus. He wasn't saved. Have you truly been saved? Or are you just witnessing a miracle along with 5,000 that were fed to go their way? Have you received the blessing of miracles in your life? And I'm not talking about charismatic nonsense called miracles. I'm talking about have you seen actual miracles in your life, but you're one of nine lepers that will go away unsaved instead of the one leopard that returns. All ten lepers had an amazing miracle, but only one was saved. And so I must ask you, are you saved yet? Has God done a great miracle in your life? But you've never died in Christ. You've never been saved. Two million souls left Egypt. Two entered the promised land. Dear ones, my heart is full My heart aches for the people of God, for the precious sheep I pray for you by name. I pray for your children. And I ask you, are you saved yet? Have you passed from death to life? And dear friends, I asked you that question because I've shared with many of you my own testimony. That for many years, though I had all the trappings of religion And though just about every verse of scripture I can quote today, I had memorized before that day. The day came when I realized that I was a leper healed physically but not spiritually. When I realized I had traveled in the company of the disciples. But I was not yet dead. Though I was among the twelve, and I would have said, I'll never deny you. Oh, yes, Lord, I'll follow you to the death. But the Lord said to my heart, You won't follow me yet. But the day is coming. Turn over with me to the last chapter of the Gospel of John, chapter twenty-one. And keep in mind the context of this conversation. The conversation that Christ is having with the disciples is: I'm going to die. You're supposed to love. Love your brothers more than you love yourself. But how can I ever love my brothers more than myself? You will never love the brethren more than yourself until you learn to love God above everything else. You see, by this shall all men know here, my disciples, that you have loved one to another. Why do we not love the brethren? Because we don't love the Father. Why do we not love one another? Because we don't love him. Because you see, if we truly love God, we will love one another. That's what Christ is saying. This is the obvious here, my disciples. That you have love one to another. And so in John chapter 21, when Christ is meeting here with the disciples. Down in verse 15. So when they had dined, Jesus saith unto Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas. Lovest thou me more than these? You see the connection You see what Christ was saying there in chapter 13, that now he's finishing the sermon in chapter 21. In chapter 13 is before the crucifixion. It's before the denial. Chapter 21 is after the resurrection. Peter, do you really love me more than these? Do you love me more than you love these disciples? You're to love the brethren. You're to love the brethren more than you love yourself. And you're up to love me above all. Because if you love me above all. You'll love the brethren as well. Lovest thou me more than these He that's Peter saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him, Feed my lambs. What do we read in chapter 13? I'm sorry, what do we read in the Luke account? When you're converted, You'll comfort your brethren. Now Christ says to Peter, Peter, do you love me more than these? Then feed my lambs, feed my little ones. And we're not going to go deep into this text. But we understand that the love that Christ is asking for there in verse fifteen is not the love that Peter says he has for Christ in verse fifteen. It's a different love. It's a much weaker love. And then in verse 16, he saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me! And he said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. You see the connection. Peter, if you really love me, if you love me above all, feed my sheep. And again, it's a lesser love that Christ asked Peter therefore. And in verse 17, he saith unto him the third time: Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And here Christ uses the same weaker love that Peter is talking about. And Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And I love Peter's answer. And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest I love thee. Oh Lord, my boasting's gone. Lord, I'm not going to stand here and say, though all forsake you, I will not forsake you. I'm not going to say that I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death. Lord, simply know that I love you. Ah, not with the love that you deserve. Not with the love that you should have, but Lord, you know all things. You know my heart. You know that I love you. Look at verse 18. Verily, verily I say unto thee, this is Christ speaking: When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest where thou wouldest. But when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. Peter said, Lord, I'm ready to go to prison for you. Now Christ says, Peter, you're there. Peter, when you were young, you went wherever you wanted, but when you're old, you're going to stretch forth your hands and won't be handcuffs, because they didn't have those yet. But they will bind you and they will carry you where you would not. Verse 19. This he spake, signifying by what death he should glorify God. Hallelujah! Peter found it. Peter, are you dead yet? Yes, Lord, I'm dead. Yes, Lord I have passed from death to life. I am your child. And here Christ says, yes, Peter, you're ready. Peter, the day will come when you'll stretch forth your hands and be bound. And Scripture does not tell us how Peter died. Tradition teaches us that Peter was crucified, but not as his Lord. Because when Peter came to be crucified, he said he was unworthy to die as Christ died. And so at his own request, he was crucified upside down. Now that's tradition. We believe it's probably true, but we don't find that account in Scripture. This spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said unto him, Follow me. Dear friends, are you saved yet? I was baptized long before I was saved. I was a church member long before I was saved. I was called to be a missionary and a preacher long before I was saved, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, God told Jeremiah. I was ordained to the gospel ministry a few years before I was saved. I preached the gospel of repentance to others, but I had not yet found true repentance in my own heart. Like Peter, I had spent time with Christ, but I was not yet dead. Dear friends, are you dead yet? I stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word and for your truth. We thank you that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Or we thank you that you work in mysterious ways. Lord, we read in your word, behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, today is the day of salvation. And Lord, we know and we believe that that day of salvation comes for all the elect. Lord, may we not be deceived by our own hearts, for the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. O Lord, may we diligently take heed to our soul. Lord, may we seek thee, not relying on our scripture memory, not relying on our goodness, not relying on anything that we've done. But finding salvation in Christ alone. Father, help your dear sheep. Bring them along. Save them in time. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.