Oh Father, one of our dear brethren often begins his leading of public prayer. By calling upon us all to have a moment of silent prayer and confession of sin. And oh Lord, that is good and well, for your word tells us if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And so, Lord, we do come before you this morning as we are preparing for worship and confess that we are sinful men. Confess that we have spent the week walking through this world. And even though we refuse and hate the things of sin. Yet we know it is reality that as we walk to this world, bits and pieces of it cling to us. And so, Father, this morning we pray that you would cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That you would remove from our hearts all the distractions and disturbances. And O Lord, as we look into thy perfect law of liberty, may we see what manner of men we are. And may we not look into it as into a glass and go away forgetting what manner of men we are. But Father, may we be transformed and changed by the washing of water by the Word. May we through the exercise of the study of thy word be made more like Christ and less like the old man. Father, we pray for any that participate in our services that may not know the saving grace of Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that they may truly, through thy word, find Christ to be the Redeemer and the Savior of their soul. Father, bless our worship today. We pray for those that are not with us because of some long-term illnesses and some recent injuries. Father, help them. Lord, I pray for my brother who has just had surgery, my dear friend. Father, I pray, Lord, for our far-flung congregation. that do not have the privilege and blessing of being with us here for in-person fellowship. Lord, may they truly know fellowship with thee and fellowship with us as we worship together this day. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me as I read our call to worship this morning. Reading from the sixteenth and seventeenth verse of the book of Romans, chapter one For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. Amen. Amen. Yeah, that was uh Romans 1, 16 and 17. It's a classic Reformation passage and In fact, we'll be singing songs that are in tune with some of the famous from the Reformation period as well as uh having our sermon related to that as well. We're in number 270 in our glue songbook today, number 270, a familiar tune, The Church's One Foundation. Number 270 The church is one foundation, and we will sing all six stances. Such church in one foundation in Jesus Christ and Lord Jesus. Water and work from there we came and saw her We let from every day I get one more beat Virtual Social. One more one day, twine girl, one more weight was that age was holy to So when thus formed the storm conference, my spirit will fit our stone. My grandstones are keeping what long. But church shall never everish her own to be then to God sustain and Livroil and grid to relation and through all the war She was the postal And she wanted to go with. Will come through the wall, for happy was the cool week, for giving things that we need. Like the glory, God might Please be seated. At this time we'll have our instruction from the Belgian Confession. This time we're in the uh twenty uh ninth article and we open up a new article. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. We are beginning the 29th article this morning, first portion of it, which will be quite interesting and uh helpful. I believe to the congregation, this is regarding the marks of the true church and wherein she differs from the false church. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that we ought diligently and circumspectly to discern from the Word of God which is the true church. Since all sects which are in the world assume to themselves the name of the church. But we speak here not of hypocrites who are mixed in the church with the good. yet are not of the Church, though externally in it, but we say that the body and communion of the true Church must be distinguished from all sects Who call themselves the church. This is a fitting um article, especially with the time of Reformation. which was a season when um the church, many of the faithful, had looked at where they were, the conditions specifically in the midst of the Roman Catholic Church and had to pull away from any of the ungodly practices, ungodly behaviors, back to what does the Word of God actually say? And as far as our worship goes Uh how can we keep it so that it's faithful to the Scripture? This is the focus of Article 29, on the differences between faithful and unfaithful churches. There's a mention here of hypocrites that are in the midst of the true church, and that's a reference to the unbelievers that we find even in the midst of faithful churches. They're saying we need to make a distinction Not necessarily of those hi hypocrites, the the unbelievers that gather in the midst of faithful churches week to week, but rather there needs to be a distinction between what actually is a faithful church and what is not If you've truly been born again, you're a member of Christ's body. But how is it that you can distinguish between the local churches around you? Which one is true? Which one is false? you know, to the world and even many that might profess faith and simply have a profession of faith and that alone, um, all churches are the same They'll just think, well, churches can be a little bit different. They do different things. Your church does this, my church does that. But at the end of the day, all of them are fine. All of them lead to God. There is no issue there But you know, we read in the scriptures that the devils also believe in God and they tremble, but they aren't saved. They aren't serving the Lord faithfully. So we have to go a little bit beyond just knowing that somebody claims to be a church that believes in God. Some will choose their church based on feeling. Well, this church has sermons that make me feel good. They give me a good inspiring message that helps me feel happy through the week. Or this church, I I'd rather go to this one because it has more people that are my age, so I can come and have fun with them. A lot of people choose it based on that, or some will choose based on their tradition. Well, this is how my family has always grown up. Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, or this, I I have no need to look anything else. I'm just going to keep to my tradition But that's not how we ought to select a church. And obviously you can know that not all of them are correct because many of them contradict one another. So they can't both be accurate. The true distinction can only be made from the Word of God. That's our source that we go to to see is this church uh worshiping faithfully or are they not? Is what they're teaching faithful or is it not? And that's what we read of in our article here. It's we read in the article today we believe that we ought diligently and circumspectly to discern from the Word of God which is the true church. You know, false prophets and false teachers are a real thing. We're warned about it in Scripture. We have to be able to discern what is a false prophet, who is a false teacher. They don't come to you saying, hey, I'm a false teacher. I'm going to lead you on your way to hell. Don't follow me, but here's what I teach. No, they don't. You have to be discerning. In the scripture we read, But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies. If you paid attention to that scripture, that 2 Peter 2. 1, it says that there is false teachers that come from among you. There are those that profess to be believers. There are those that profess to be followers of Christ. There are teachers, they have their own disciples, they have their own congregation, there's somebody following them. They'll claim to be Christian, and they might even hold to some faithful doctrines. So we have to be careful. They might look like they are a real Christian to the undiscerning eye. And Christ himself warns. He says, Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they're ravening wolves. Our defense and discernment to be able to spot these false teachers, false prophets, false churches is the Bible, the Word of God. We're to test all things by the scriptures And you know, we read of a a group of people in the book of Acts that Paul ministered to. He said that they were faithful. We read that the Bereans were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. The Bereans tested what they heard according to the scriptures. Is that thing that an individual is telling me, is teaching me, is that accurate and in line with what the scriptures command? If it's not, we have to push it out. And you should test out your church. You can do it here, but also, especially if you're listening online, try out your church uh see if what they do, the things that they're upholding and teaching, do they line up with the Word of God? There's many things that will easily show that a church is unfaithful. The Bible says that Christ is the only way to the Father. But if your church says, well no, there's many ways. That's all right. You choose your own. You can know. That's a false church The Bible says that only men are qualified to be pastors or elders or deacons. But if you have a church if you have a woman in your church that's leading it Well, that's very easy to show, to see. That's not faithful right there. The Bible says, make no graven images and do not bow down to them. But if your church is one that's full of icons and you uh pray to these individuals that are in the icons and light up candles and worship them, well you know that's false. There's a lot of things that you can just easily turn away from By reading through the scriptures and seeing, is this what God commands? 1 John 4. 1, we read, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are gone out into the world. So it's your responsibility to test to test your church, test what you're hearing, and see if it's faithful And Lord willing, in the next several weeks, as we continue looking through the 29th article, I trust you'll see some more faithful applications to this. Thank you. Thank you, Anton. So let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Gracious Father, good and kind, we come to you alone who hears and answers prayer. We come confessing our need of thee. Lord, as the old hymn says, I need thee every hour Lord, we are fully dependent upon thee. We depend upon thee as much as we depend upon oxygen to breathe. And Father, we thank you, Lord, that as we come before you in prayer, we are not informing you of our needs. We are not informing you of our heartaches. We are not informing you of our sicknesses. But Father, you know what things we have need of before we ask. And we thank you that we are not coming to a judge who will discern us in a way or is this one worthy to receive an answer? But rather we're coming to a heavenly father who delights in hearing and answering the prayers of his people. Father, we thank you that we're not coming to a God of wood or stone that has hands that move not and eyes that see not. But we're coming to the all-seeing, all-knowing, all-wise, and all-capable God. And Father, we come not simply hoping that you will do thus or that. But O Lord, we come believing that you were able to do anything, for there is nothing too hard for thee. And so, Father, we bring before you this morning big request. We bring before you this morning major health issues and concerns. And oh Father, you told us that if we have just the faith of a grain of mustard seed, a mountain can be moved. And Father, you know our heart. And we pray, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. And yet, Lord, you know that we sincerely Truly and from the depths of our being, believe that there is nothing too hard for thee. Lazarus was dead. And Jesus said, Come forth, and he came forth. And so, Father, if you so ordain, you are able to heal the most gravely ill among us. And so, Father, we pray that you would do that very thing. But Father, we find in thy word that so often you use means. You fed 5,000, but you started with a little boy's lunch You gave sight to a blind man, but you applied clay and spit to his eyes. Lord, you slew a thousand men, but you used the jawbone of an ox in the hand of your servant. And so, Father, we pray that either by flat-out miracle you would heal, or Lord, that you would use the means that you choose. We pray for the healing of your people. Father, we pray above all for the spiritual needs of your people. Lord, as our brother so clearly and directly presented to us in The Sunday school lesson today is not enough to clean up the outside. It's not enough to wash the outside of the cup and the plate. But O Lord, may you cleanse the inner man. Lord, we pray for the dear children in our midst this morning and the children of this congregation that are far flung. And for our grandchildren, O Father, may they not just conform themselves to the attitudes and thoughts of their parents. But O Lord, may you cleanse the inner man. Lord, our grandchildren are young and they are precious, and we delight in them But they are in need of redemption. They are born in trespasses and sin. And oh Lord, we would do for our children and grandchildren anything for their salvation. But Lord, we cannot accomplish that which is needful. It must be of thee. For Jonah learned in the whale's belly, salvation is of the Lord. And so, Lord, may you save. And Christ in coming to seek and to save that which was lost, may He save those that we love. Father, we Pray for our dear friends in Jamaica. Lord, we pray for their spiritual well-being. We pray, Lord, that you would bring into the church such as should be saved. But Lord, we pray in particular at this time for their protection. Lord, as the 25 to 30 year cycle of hurricanes seems to have rolled around And Lord, there is a major storm that may soon hit that island. But we call upon the one who said, peace be still, and there was a great calm. Lord, may you protect them and watch over them. Father, I pray for the church properties there which could be utterly destroyed in a hurricane. Lord, they belong to you. Father, we pray for our nation. Lord, we pray thy will be done. We pray that you would bring reason to the streets. Lord, we pray that those that are not truly voicing their opinions, but rather are set about for evil, that they would be stopped Lord, we thank you that we live in a land where we can peacefully demonstrate, where we can hold up signs and declare what we believe is right. But Father, we fear that there is an element within this nation that is simply trying to destroy and to tear down. And Lord, we pray that you would protect this nation from that for the sake of thine own elect that dwell in this land. Lord, as we prayed so often, you would have spared Sodom for the sake of ten righteous. Father, I pray that there would be enough of your children in this land that it might be spared, O Father. Lord, we pray for Mission Bible Church. We thank you for the sweet fellowship that we have in this place. We thank you, O Lord, for the Dedication to the Word of God that you've put in our hearts. Father, we thank you that your Spirit has in times past moved mightily in our midst. And Lord, we have known sweet fellowship with thee in thy word. And Father, I pray today, Lord, it is assigned to me in this hour to open the Word of God. But Father, there is nothing I can accomplish. Lord, I pray that your Spirit would imply truth to the hearts of your people May your people be strengthened in thee. May we all be convicted of our lack of love for thee, for our lack of dedication to thy truth. And Father, as the old preachers used to pray, may we be improved by grace this day. This day, through our fellowship in the Word, may we be made more like Christ. and less like this world in which we live. Father, help us to occupy to you. Come. And we pray, even so come, Lord Jesus Father, we pray these things through the blood and in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Please turn to Psalm chapter 2 for our responsive reading. Once you've located Psalm 2 in your Bibles, please rise. We will responsibly be reading all twelve verses of Psalm two. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree. The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Be wise there, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice. with trembling, and altogether Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way. When his wrath is kindled by the Lord. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Turn in your songbooks to our sermon psalm number 78 in your songbook and we will be singing the First uh oh. Psalm seventy-eight one of these in here. It's an adaptation of Psalm 91, and we will Sing the four stanzas and conclude with the amen, which is the same note at the end, repeat it twice. Almighty, safe in the secret place of the most high Is Is my rescue, so Lord is my fortress. In my trusting trouble is die under his wings. Under his way, safe in the revenue, trusting his truth and Norweb can be We are not praying for the terror of men night, nor for the arrow that has to say. Lord the destroyer and waste this by day under his wave. Under his ways, stay in the refuge, trusting his truth and No will can be Seek the both high for the short habitation unto the home of for refuge now why there shall no We don't be fully normal to idle under his wings. Under his wings, lay in the refuge highly, trusting his truth for him. And no need. He will exalt thee and answer thy prayer. He will be with thee to honor and give thee, like without many salvation to share under his. His wing under his wing safe in the Trust me as brutalness, no evil can be dying. Thank you so much. Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the sixth chapter of Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter six. I probably have not sung that hymn under his wings since I was five or six years old. It's one of those ones that has just totally escaped my mind As we were singing it, I remembered my grandmother singing that hymn. Grandma Granny died when I was about two years old And it just suddenly hit me. I remember Granny singing. I stayed with my granny while my mom was teaching kindergarten when I was two. And that impresses on us the value of these young children who squirm and make noises during church. But we do not know what they perceiv what perceived. And um we like a noisy church here. Some churches are noisy because people are hooping and hollering and not really paying a whole lot of attention to what's going on in a lot of cases, sadly. But there is a great blessing to a noisy church because children will learn to sit quiet in church in time, but it we do not expel them from the church because they happen to make noise, rather. The voices of children cooing and making noise during church is a marvelous blessing. And we thank the Lord for it. Okay, that's Sermon 1. Now let's go to Jeremiah chapter 6. And I'm going to start reading in verse number one and read through the 19th verse. And we're going to focus our attention today on the 16th verse of the chapter. This chapter is a vital historic piece of God's word related to the Reformation. Beginning in verse 1, O ye children of Benjamin Gather yourselves to flee out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoah, and set it up for a sign of fire in Beth Hakseron For evil hath appeared out of the north, and great destruction. I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and delicate woman. The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her. They shall pitch their tents against her roundabout. They shall feed every one in his place. Prepare ye war against her. Arise and let us go at let us go up at noon. Woe unto us, for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out. Arise and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces For thus saith the Lord of hosts, or for thus hath the Lord of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast a moat against her, a mount against Jerusalem. For this is the city to be visited. She is wholly oppressed in her midst. As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her wickedness. Violence and spoil is heard in her. Before me continually is grief and wounds. Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee, lest I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, they shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine. Turn back thy hand as grape as a grape gatherer into the basket. To whom shall I speak and give warning that they may hear Behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken. Behold, the word of the Lord is unto them a reproach. They have no delight in it. Therefore I am full of fury of the Lord. I am weary with withholding. I will pour out upon the children abroad, and upon the assembly assembly of the young men together. For even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the age with him that is of full days, and their houses shall be turned unto others and their fields and wives together, for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord. For from the least of them, even unto the greatest of them, every one is given to covetousness. And from the prophet Even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely. They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace Peace when there is no peace. Were they ashamed when they had committed abominations? Nay, they were not at all ashamed. Neither could they blush. Therefore, they shall fall among them that fall. At the time that I visit them, they shall be cast down, saith the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way? And walk therein, and ye shall find rest to your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein. Also, I set a watchman over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. Therefore hear ye nations and know. O congregation, what is among them Hear, O earth, behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but Rejected it. Let us pray. Father, now as we approach thy word, may your spirit grant utterance May we today find glorious truths in thy word. And O Lord, may we not simply hear them, but may they be applied richly to our hearts Father, may these passages today cause us to take warning from the Spirit of God. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Today we celebrate the Protestant Reformation. Five hundred and eight years ago, on the thirty-first of October Martin Luther, a Roman Catholic monk, nailed his 95 theses to the door of the Wittenberg Castle. This was not an act of rebellion, and Luther himself did not anticipate what would be the results It was not unusual, it was not destruction to nail questions to the door of the chapel. That was sort of like the town bulletin board There were many nail marks in that door. And Luther's 95 Theses or 95 Questions were simply a set of questions about the state of the church. And the intent was for the small group of men there to discuss these things and to debate them. But the 95 feces that Luther nailed to the door of the Wittenberg Castle challenged most of what the Roman Catholic Church was doing. And Luther was saying, this is what the church does and says, but this is what the Bible says. What are we doing? Which we believe. In God's providence, Luther's 95 theses were nailed to the door at a time when the printing press was just coming into use. Was that an accident or was that a miraculous providence from God? And so Luther's 95 theses were found, and the printers were looking for things to print. And he said, Oh, this is interesting. And so within a week there was a thousand copies. And then other printers began to find this. And it was translated into other languages. And within a matter of months, these ninety-five questions had spread all across Europe. A miracle. And men began to say, wait a minute What the church is doing does not agree with the Word of God, or rather, should we say the Word of God condemns what the Church is doing. And so today we celebrate the Reformation 508 years ago. But you realize that the Protestant Reformation was not the first Reformation. Let me give you a history list. God created Adam and Eve in the garden. They were holy and righteous, but they sinned and departed from God's one single law. Thou shalt not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Things got worse in the second generation because the first murderer was born. Generation by generation, the iniquity of man waxed worse and worse. Until God cleansed the earth of the flood. Noah and his sons came out of the ark. Noah and his sons were the first reformation. God re-establishes truth And yet we find that Noah's son Ham, who had seen God's judgment on all mankind, Sin vilely against his father and against God. And so just as you have Cain the first murderer in the second generation from God established in his truth So again, you have Ham in the second generation from Noah going in the way of sin. God called Abraham to come out of the land of the Chaldees And God said to Abraham in Genesis 17, the first verse, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be thou perfect. God reestablishes truth with Abraham. Abraham's twelve grandchildren were vile and wicked men. Among Abraham's grandchildren were adulterers, liars, thieves, murderers, and idolaters. The third generation from God re-establishing his truth God called his people out of Egypt and was visibly present with them in a pillar of cloud and in a pillar of fire by night. God was with his people, but they continued to rebel. Can you imagine seeing a fire Lighting the sky at night and knowing that that fire was the presence of Jehovah, and then in the morning, you're complaining about the manna. And yet that is what the wickedness of man's heart led them to do. God's people continued to rebel, and the history of Israel is a history of they soon forgot his works. They waited not for his counsels. Psalm 106, verse 13. The evil of the nation of Israel, the children of God Grew and grew till finally the nation was split into two kingdoms, the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. We read in Jeremiah 35, verse 15, I have sent also unto them all my servants, the prophets Rising up early and sending them, saying, Return, ye now every man from his evil way, and amend your doings and go not after other gods to serve them, and ye shall dwell in the land which I have given unto you and to your fathers. But ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto me. Jeremiah 35, 15. And so the wickedness of the children of Israel became so great that before long the ten northern tribes disappeared into history and they will never be seen again. God's blessing continued on Judah, the southern kingdom, but they soon forgot God. And finally, we have four hundred years of silence. Think about that 400 years from Malachi to Christ, when God did not speak to his people. Think about the multitudes born between the last prophet and the coming of Christ, when there was no one that Scripture records to proclaim truth. But then God sent his only begotten Son. But Christ gave a parable in Matthew 21, verse 37. But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and let us seize his inheritance. You would think when God finally sent his son that man's rebellion would cease. But oh no. The early church was faithful unto death for a while, but the Church of Rome emerged with all of its pagan idolatry. In 1054, there was another separation. It's called in history the Great Schism, where the Eastern Orthodox Church split off from the Roman Church. And the the split of the Eastern Orthodox Church from the Church of Rome was based was largely based around the Church of Rome's declaration declaration of the infallibility of the Pope. The Eastern Orthodox said, no, no, a man is not a infallible. A man is a man, and there should be no man sitting on what they call the throne of Christ. And so the Eastern Orthodox Church a thousand years ago split off from that. They said, no, that's wrong. But where is the Eastern Orthodox Church today? They too slid in to the same decline. Isaiah fifty-nine paraphrases this Judgment was turned away backwards. And justice standeth afar off. Truth was fallen in the streets. That's my own paraphrase. If you're looking at your King James, you know I've I've changed the wording there deliberately. Folks, that's where we are today. 508 years ago, there was a great reformation. There was a great return to truth. But today, the modern church is little better than the people of Noah before the people of Noah's day before the flood. We are little better than the Israelites dancing at the golden calf. We are a little better than the Jews that rejected Jesus Christ, if not worse. And we are very similar in modern Christianity to Rome before the Reformation. In fact, there is a movement within Protestant churches referred to as the Return to Rome. Dear friends. Dear friends. that have gone in that direction. Returning to our text, and I will get to to our text verse, verse 16, but returning to Jeremiah This sixth chapter of Jeremiah was one of the major passages held by the reformers and pointed to as a condemnation. of their own day and why they felt like they had to leave the Church of Rome and establish themselves as true and faithful to the Word of God. Look at verse 1. O children of Benjamin, gather yourselves together to flee out of the midst of Jerusalem. What had taken place? You had Jerusalem like the Church of Rome that had gone into all manner of wickedness and idolatry. They had rebelled and departed from God. But within Jerusalem There was little Benjamin, one of the smallest tribes. And Benjamin was a remnant. God was ready to bring judgment on Jerusalem. But he says to Benjamin, you guys leave first. Get out. Before I judge it. And that is where the reformers found themselves. We have to get out of Rome. We have to leave it. Church back in the 40s. He said, we cannot stay here any longer. We have to get out because they're denying the virgin birth. Because they're denying the inspiration of scripture. One of the Methodist bishops has said that Christ was the illegitimate child of a German soldier. And so faithful believers said we have to get out. And that's what's happening here. Benjamin come out from them. Look at verse 3. The shepherds. That's Jerusalem's shepherds. Jerusalem's pastors. The Roman Catholic priest. The TV preachers of our own day. The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her. In other words, the shepherds are going to attack Jerusalem. You see, the truth of God is under attack from pulpits. It's under attack from church organizations that are saying, oh yeah, we can marry two men. We can accept a homosexual in the pulpit. We can accept women in the pulpit. You see, we'll make up our own rules The shepherds were attacking with their flocks. They shall pitch against her roundabout. They shall feed every one in her place. Look down to verse six. Jehovah begins to speak. For thus saith the Lord of hosts Hew ye down trees and cast a mouth against Jerusalem. This is the city to be visited. She is wholly oppressed. In other words, God says, cut down the trees and build battering rams. Build a ramp to get up over our walls. God is done with Jerusalem. And God is commanding that they attack Jerusalem. Even the evil men. Folks, that's the Roman Catholic Church. I'm not trying to just beat up on the Roman Catholic Church today, but it's the truth. God's not in it. Amen. And God is against it. But Benjamin had to get out. Verse 7, the fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her wickedness. Verse 13. From the least of them, even to the greatest of them, everyone is given to covetousness. Folks, we don't pass a plate here. There's a plate in the lobby, and if people want to give, they give But in the Roman Catholic Church you can get charged for just about anything. And the TV evangelist saying, keep those tithes and letters coming. You know, send me a hundred dollars and I'll give you a piece of my tithe that's been blessed. Send in your prayer request with a check and we'll put it here on the table and pray over it. It's all about money. It's all about covetousness Folks, God's work done God's way will never lack God's supply. God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. If he wants it, he'll pay for it. But we find the modern church today filled with covetousness. Continuing there in verse 13, and from the prophet even to the priest, everyone dealeth falsely. Verse 14, they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, peace, peace. Oh, come confess your sins. Oh, well say something about Mary and it'll be all right. I'll forgive your sins. Peace. Peace. Martin Luther said of this verse that the Roman Catholic Church says peace, peace, but the gospel says cross, cross. Isn't that beautiful? That was Martin Luther. They say peace, peace. The gospel says cross, cross. And Luther went on to point out that they say peace, peace, and there is no peace. We say cross, cross. And there is no cross because the cross is done. The cross is finished. There was a cross for Christ, but no cross for me. Because Jesus took my cross himself. And then verse fifteen. Were they ashamed when they committed abominations? No, they put on a miter and all kinds of robes. Nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush Therefore, they shall fall among them that fall. At the time that I visit them, they shall be cast. down, saith the Lord. Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, did I not go to the Mass? Lord, Lord, didn't I give a lot of money? Lord, Lord, didn't I do all these religious things? And he will say, Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. That's right That brings us to verse sixteen. Thus saith the Lord. Stand ye in the ways and seek, and ask for the old paths. Where is the good way, and walk therein? And ye shall find rest to your souls. But they say, We will not walk therein. You see, folks, throughout history, from the Garden to Noah, to Israel, to Christ. The Reformation to today. Every generation has stood at the crossway. Stand ye in the ways. Stop what you're doing and look around. You know the worst thing you can do when you're lost is keep driving. You know, pull over and look at the map, folks. Standing in the ways. Take heed, my people. Let's stop for a minute and consider this thing. You know, if you if you keep running down the road when you don't know where you're going and trying to look at the map while you're driving, you're going to run into the back of somebody. You've got to get off the road and look at the map. Stop what you're doing and look at the Word of God. And that's the first thing that Christ said to his people. And I will use the term Christ because as we're going to see, it was Christ here in the Old Testament. Stand ye in the ways, stand at the crossway, and realize that there is a way that seemeth right to a man, but the ends thereof are the ways of death. But there is a narrow way that leads to life. Stand in the ways. The imagery here is a man at a crossroads. Jerusalem has chosen their own way, we find here in this chapter. Little Benjamin, the little remnant, is still faithful. Christ said in Matthew 6. 24, no man can serve two masters. Either he will love the one and to hate the other, or he will hold the one and despise the other. He cannot serve God and man. In other words, you can't serve this world. You can't be the Joe Olsteens that are that are saying, oh, well, everything's good. Peace, peace. And ignore the Word of God. You can't stand on your ritual and on your ceremony And be true to God. You cannot set up idols and have both idols and God. It does not work. You cannot serve both. You're standing at the crossroads. Are you going to follow God and his word? Or are you going to follow the lust of the flesh? Are you going to worship according to God's word? Or are you going to have a smoke machine and a drama because it feels good? Are you coming to church to be entertained? Or are you coming to church in humility? A confession of sin, calling upon God to teach you from His Word and enable you to worship Him. Because you cannot worship God without the assistance of the Holy Spirit. It cannot happen. You cannot take a bag of garbage and say this is worship to God. God will not accept it. But God has respect for lowly. And so, first of all, our text tells us to stand in the ways. Paul said to the Galatians, howbeit when ye knew God, this is Galatians 4, verse 8, howbeit when ye knew God, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods. But now, after ye have known God, I'm sorry, I've misread verse eight, howbeit when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which are by nature no gods But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements whereunto ye desire to be in bondage Ye observe days and months and times and years. How do you desire to be brought back into bondage? Oh, come confess your sins to an earthly priest who does not know God himself, and everything will be okay. That's the confessional. Oh, pray to Mary for forgiveness. There's one God and one mediator between God and man. Well, pray the rosary. Attend the Mass which crucifies Christ every time they have a Mass. By their own words. Honor the Pope, because he sits on the throne of Christ. Folks, Christ does not have a vicar on earth, and Christ does not need a vicar on earth. Amen. He is seated in the right hand of God the Father. How dare any man claim to be sitting in his seat on earth? It's blasphemy. Blasphemy. Blasphemy. And as I said, that was one of the major issues that caused the Eastern Orthodox Church to split off at the Great Schism. And yet they went the way of all flesh themselves. And it's happened since the Reformation. So, first of all, our text tells us to stand in the way and see. Stand in the way and say, just stop. Look around, folks. Look at what's happening in our own day. That we might find the right path. And that's the second thing. It says, stand in the way and see. And ask for the old paths. Ask for the old paths. Some of you know I I I'm a hiker, I love to hike. Back, I guess it's been close to 10 years from now, there was a lady hiking on the Appalachian Trail. She was was not solo hiking. She was hiking with another lady, but the other lady for some reason had to go care for a sick relative. And the one lady decided she was going to stay in solo hike. And so she got off the Appalachian Trail and got lost. Disappeared. It was two years later before she was found. Some men who were surveying for a power line found her tent. She had starved to death in her tent. She had had her cell phone, but she was out of cell phone range, and then her cell phone after two or three days had lost battery. And she died. Folks, ask for the old paths. She lost the path. She had nobody to ask. She was alive. We need to ask our older brother, where's the old path? Where's the way that others have walked before us? And folks, that's what the reformers did. We have what we call the five solas of the Reformation. And I'm going to go through them very briefly this morning. Sola scriptura. Sola Grazius, Sola Fide, Sola Christus, and Sola De Gloria. By Scripture alone By grace alone, by faith alone, through Christ alone, for the glory of God alone. Those five tenets of the Reformation. Folks, they are old. First of all, by the scriptures alone, you realize that the third verse of the Bible begins with and God said, let there be light. That's the old path. Not what some Pope says ex cathedral and claims to be inspired. Not what some Johnny Cum Lately prophet says. I don't know if you all followed this, but back about three weeks ago there was a big prophecy that Christ was coming back, that the rapture was coming, and that um You know, you've got to do this, you've got to do that, you've got to be ready. We all know about the camping fiasco several years ago. There have been false prophet after false prophet after false prophet Folks, the word of God says, no man knoweth the day nor the hour. You see, we've got to stick to the old paths. The old paths say that homosexuality is an abomination. The old paths say that the one that takes a life, his life should be taken. And that applies to abortion as well. Dear lady, if you have had an abortion, you have killed a living human being. You see, we've got to stick to the old paths. The Word of God is that map that we stop at the crossroads and say, which way do we go? Just a few chapters, books later, and Jeremiah 1, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Isaiah 55, 11, so shall my word be that goeth from out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. And then Romans 10, 17, the keystone of the Reformation, the just shall live by faith. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The just shall live by faith, not by the word of some new prophet or some pope. Secondly, sola gratia, or by grace alone Genesis chapter six, verse five. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great upon the earth. Verse 7, and the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast and creeping things Genesis 6 verse 8, the old path, but Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. I am not saved by doing any works. I am not saved by counting rosary beads. I am not saved by receiving divine unction. I am not saved by anything that some man tells me to do, but by grace alone. If you've ever gotten an email from me, my email signature is by grace alone. The Lord taught my heart that long ago. And folks, the Lord taught my heart that when I was doubting that my soul was redeemed. And I came to realize that it doesn't matter what I do, none of that is going to earn me any merit with God. It is by grace alone. Noah was not better than his generation. Noah found grace In his generation. By scripture alone, by grace alone The just shall live by faith alone. Number three, the old path is the path of faith alone. Consider this The whole history of the redeemed is a matter of faith. Hebrews 4, or 11, verse 4. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. That's the second generation, you understand? Abel, the second generation from Adam and Eve. By faith, Enoch was translated that he should not see death. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Hebrews 11 6 Hebrews 11, 7, by faith Noah. Verse 8, by faith Abraham. Verse 20, by faith Isaac, 21, by faith Jacob, 22, by faith Joseph, 23 Free by faith Moses twenty-nine, by faith they passed through the Red Sea. Thirty, by faith the walls of Jericho fell down. Thirty-one, by faith Rahab the Herod, Harlot, perish not within the believe not Where do you find works in the list? Oh, they all did good and therefore they were saved. Oh, they all gave money and therefore they were saved. Oh, they all believe what this prophet said. The Lord's coming back next week, you better be ready. No. It's by faith alone. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The first of the solas was sola scriptura, by the word of God alone. Secondly, by grace alone. Thirdly, by faith alone. And fourth, and I believe most important, by Christ alone. Neither is there salvation in any other. Folks, Christ is the old path Genesis 3, the first book of the Bible, and verse 15. And I will put enmity between thee and the woman and between thy seed and her seed. Doesn't say her seeds. It doesn't say the multitude of her children. It says seed singular. I will put enmity between Satan and Jesus Christ. And we find in Isaiah 63, verse 9, in all their afflictions He was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them. Folks, who was it in that cloud of fire and cloud of pillar? I believe it was the second person of the Trinity. You know, Christ and his father are one. But the angel of his presence, who was it by the wall of Jericho? It was Christ. Who was it that parted the Red Sea when Moses lifted up the rod? It was Jesus Christ, the same one who would on earth later say when he came in flesh, peace be still. He's the one that had power over the elements of this world. Jesus Christ is the old path. And then we come to John chapter 3, verses 14 through 16. We don't often read verses 14 and 15. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life What was the significance of a serpent in a pole in the wilderness? How could that save people from their snake bites? Because that serpent on the pole in the wilderness was a representation of the very presence of Jesus Christ with his people that saves mankind from the snake bite From the bite of the serpent. And where do we first find the serpent in Scripture? In the garden, tempting Eve. You see, that serpent has bitten every man, woman, and child of earth. We have sweet little precious children with us today. I have a new precious granddaughter that brings great joy to my heart, but she was born bitten by the venomous serpent of sin But salvation is by Christ alone. Not by a pope, not by a priest. not by a saint, not certainly not by Mary, for there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. I have a dear friend who It's going the wrong way. And I saw on his Facebook uh three or four months ago, so and so is sick. May the saints pray for them. And then finally, Sola de Gloria For the glory of God alone. I I do not condemn reformed churches where the pastors wear robes, nor those that that wear a clerical collar. I have never worn them. I did wear a clerical collar once, but it was it was a charade, it was a joke. But why do we find priests in these robes with gold thread and and the the bishops' hats and all this formality and they they walk around with these long flowing robes and they carry their tapers and they swing their censors and all this form and regality. Right? They wear cloth regality, that's where it comes from. Why do we find preachers even in Protestant churches that wear these fancy suits that make them look like they just came out of a disco or these velvet velvet ridiculous outfits These things that draw attention to the flesh. I know a faithful brother who's a pastor who quit wearing red ties in the pulpit because he felt like people were looking at the tie and not listening to the word See all these things, this show of man, which does nothing but bring glory to man. How many church buses have you seen or church signs with a pastor's name and big letters down the side of the bus or big letters across the church. What difference does it make what the pastor's name is? Who is Jesus Christ? What difference does it mean matter to know the pastor's name? Do you know the name of the Son? Who is to get glory in our church, the pastor? Or God. He must increase, and I must decrease. Please forget my name But know the blessed name of the Saviour, Savior, and never forget that name. For there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Is our church bringing glory to men? And I'll I'll get started here on w on the worship services, and it's not nothing but people trying out for a rock band. That's who worship leaders are. You know. And that's why they need a smoke machine and all kinds of light shows and and fancy. No. Unadorn worship An unadorned preaching of the Word of God. I wear a suit to preach, because I am speaking before and on behalf of the King of Heaven. And I wouldn't visit the president in rags, so I don't go before God in rags. But all the glory And all the attention is for God and God alone. And so, ask for the old paths. But the old paths are described, where is the good way? Folks, it is so good and so pleasant to worship God in spirit and truth. It's a good way. It's not a way that you have to hold onto your wallet because you don't know what the money's going to be asked for next. It's not a way that you have to walk on your knees or bring your beads or go talk to the priest first. It's a good way. Walk therein. And ye shall find rest to your souls. Remember the verse They say peace, peace, when there is no peace? Folks, the person who has to count beats never has peace. The person who has to confess demand never has peace. The person who has to give their money never can give enough. The person who tries to work can never know they've worked enough But folks, in the good way, by scripture alone, by grace alone, by faith alone, through Christ alone, for the glory of God alone, there's peace. You're lacking peace for your soul. Do you know that all is right between you and God and the Father and you and God the Son? Is your life torn up with a lack of peace? Ask for the old paths and walk in them. It's a good way. And there alone you will find peace for your soul. And that's what Martin Luther found 508 years ago. He found peace. To his soul. They say peace, peace when there is no peace. The gospel says Christ, Christ, a cross, cross, because Christ is our peace. Let us stamp a prayer. Father, we thank you that we are the inheritors of such blessing. We thank you, Lord, that that 508 years ago there was a new stand for truth. We thank you, Lord, that even in our own nation there have been been two great awakenings where you again We're gracious to turn men back to the truth. But Father, today we stand in the ways. Today we we see what the church, so-called, is doing. And Lord, help us to choose the path of thy word. Help us to choose the path of grace, faith, Christ, and all for the glory of God. Father, we pray that you would protect us. For Father, the wiles of the devil are all against us, all around us, but help us to stand for the old paths. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. We turn to our closing song number twenty-six. Our God Our help in ages past. Our hope for years to come. A great tune from Isaac Watts, number 26, the first tune, the one at the top. is the one we'll be singing traditional tune for that wonderful song. Number 26, top left of your blue song book, and the uh seven stanzas we'll sing. Oh God, I'll be just our four years to come. I shall be back and our eternal. Under the shadow of thy truth, thy saints have secure So Christian is thy normal, and our infants is so Lady Trois Gar up in the spelling solo spray space for the fruit. Our thousand meeting thousands my sight are like a Sure comes the wind start light. God is the lights of passion but we call their lives and cares for care we can I thought had lost his following news My rolling street where it's gone He thou art both and alternate. Then thank you, thank you everyone. Thank you, Penny, or Borneo