Our gracious Father, we sincerely thank you that we can worship you this morning. And Lord, we pray that our worship would indeed be in spirit and in truth. Lord, we believe from a close and extensive study of thy word, that it is incapable for the unbeliever to worship. Worship is the activity of a redeemed soul crying out to the Redeemer. And so, Father, we thank you this morning that we can truly worship you. Because we are redeemed. Because the blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. And yet, Lord, we do live in these bodies of flesh, and we live in this sinful world which clings to us And so Father, this morning we confess before you our sinfulness and our daily sin afresh and anew And Lord, may we indeed with the Apostle Paul declare, I die daily. Father, this morning we pray that your word would have free course and be glorified. We pray that the Holy Spirit of God would continue that great work of Christ in purifying to himself a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle. Lord, we thank you that we stand before you without spot and without wrinkle because of the cleansing of Christ. But Lord, we pray through the time in the Word this morning. through our fellowship around the preserved Word of God, may more spots and wrinkles be removed from our daily walk as they are removed from our being eternally. And Father, we pray today that Jesus Christ would indeed be exalted and glorified in our midst. O Lord, teach us to pray. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Um our call to worship this morning is maybe somewhat different than a lot of them, but I'm going to read for you From Luke or Matthew chapter 6, beginning in verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us This day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And then we turned our opening song today, number 667, to God be the glory. Familiar tune. And a good opener, that's the purpose of worship services. We ascribe worth to him and to him alone. 667, to God be the glory, and we sing all three stanzas. To God be the glory, great things he has died. So long he knows that he gave us his God to yield his life and our comments forsaken and open time. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the Oh come to the Father through Jesus the Son, and give him the glory, great things he has done. The virtuous of God to every daily words of God That romance from Jesus for us, praise me, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let me hear his voice, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, and the people rejoice, welcome to the Father who Jesus does. And give him the glory. Great things he has done. Great things he has taught us. Great things he has done. And raise our rejoicing through Jesus' son. But your desire and greater will be our wonder of God. Heart transport when Jesus we speak Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth Oh come to the Father who teaches the son and give him the glory great things he has done. Amen. Amen. Uh as you're being seated I would point out the alterations that you find in the stanzas, for instance, the third staff, and open the light gate The original hymn that Fanny Crosby wrote was that all may go in, and then it's been altered here that we may go in. Atonement is for God's people. Uh otherwise uh you have people who don't believe that can in fact go into heaven, and that's just not even a possibility. And there are like such things you find throughout the Trinity Hymns. It's good to see that theology can get tuned up in the hymns from time to time. So I just wanted to point that out to you Brother Anton, if you'd give us a confessional reading? Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin This morning we will be reading from the 26th article of the Belgic Confession. This one is regarding Christ's intercession again. And uh Christian, in what do you believe? If we should seek for another mediator who would be well affected towards us Whom could we find who loved us more than he who laid down his life for us, even when we were his enemies? And if we seek for one who hath power and majesty, who is there that hath so much of oath as he who sits at the right hand of his father? And who have all power in heaven and on earth, and who will sooner be heard than the own well beloved Son of God For today's reading, we consider these two ideas, if I could sum it up that way, two attributes of Christ as our mediator. And the first is his committed love to us. And the second is his power as the mediator, his effectiveness and his power as our mediator. You know, we think of Christ as our mediator. He stands before God on our behalf. He vouches for us. He makes our way to the Father so that we wouldn't appear in our sins. He provides righteousness to us. But consider, if Christ was unloving, if he didn't have a committed love that he has, he would cast us away at the first issue, at the first sin against him, he would say, Well no, I'm done with this. And if Christ lacked power, if he lacked the ability to perform as the mediator, then despite his greatest efforts He wouldn't succeed in mediating. And we would have to be worried. Is he sufficient? Will he really do it for us? And so we think of these two things this morning. And uh praise the Lord, Christ is both. He's uh sufficiently loving and he's sufficiently powerful as our mediator. Christ's love is not a fickle love. He's committed to his mediation on behalf of his elect. You think about when it was that Christ made this commitment to love the elect, to be the mediator of theirs. And we read in the scriptures that he's the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world. This is something that he is already committed to from the beginning. And in Romans 5. 8, we read that God commendeth his love towards us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He didn't agree to mediate on behalf of us because we paid him enough or because we've done well enough for us and so he thought, well, we're good enough individuals, so he'll mediate. No. But rather it was while we were yet sinners. And you know, marriage between Christ and the church is not like modern relationships. In modern relationships, they'll basically test out what it would be like to be married to an individual by living with them before actually committing to them. They'll live with them, they'll do everything that a married couple would do, but at the same time they have no commitment There's no till death do us part. It's just uh well, we'll hang on in this thing. We'll be living together until either I find somebody better or until I'm fed up with you and I don't want to do this anymore, and then I'll leave. But um, you know, statistically, people who live together before marriage, they're more likely to divorce than those who don't Because when they enter into the marriage they already know. If the person hasn't lived with the individual, they know it doesn't matter what I see, I'm committed to this and I'm not getting out of it And so it makes sense since one is functioning on commitment, the other one is functioning on uh current state of happiness. That's always a scary thing And that's how all the other religions are. You have to keep your God happy by doing enough, by laboring enough. But our God is very different. Christ's mediation is different. He died for us while we were yet sinners. He vouched to cover us, and in due time he reveals the light to us. And he sends the Spirit to teach us, to transform us. He's committed to His people. You don't find that kind of love in any other religion. And concerning Christ's power as mediator, ask yourself. Who would you want to be the lawyer before the Lord? Who would you want to stand before the Lord on your behalf? Who is more suited than the Lord Christ Himself? Who has more influence on the Father's decisions? And I just want you to listen to the description in Hebrews chapter 1. It's a pretty common passage, but just listen how the Lord describes Christ. It says in Hebrews 1 that God in these last days spoke unto us by His Son, whom He hath appointed heir of all things by whom also he made the world, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power When he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on High, being made so much better than the angels. as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. God speaks in the scriptures that Christ is his beloved son in whom he is well pleased. And in this reading of Hebrews we heard that he has appointed him heir of all things. He's the one that's The recipient, the one to rule over all these things. He's reigning at the right hand of God. There's no closer that you can get than through the Lord Jesus Christ. And we read of the angels how mighty they are, and yet it's written of Christ that He's made so much better than the angels. So Christ is able. He's the only mediator that's given between God and men. And so may God help us and keep us from foolishly looking anywhere else than Christ, our Savior. Thank you, Anton. It's been well pointed out that the false gods, the gods of the heathen, are always angry about something. You know, they uh have to be pleased and appeased. But Jehovah, the one true God, is the only God who appeased himself with the sacrifice of his own son. And what a what a glorious Savior. Let us go to prayer together. Our gracious, loving Heavenly Father Well, we thank you that your ear is open to the prayer of your people, that our God, who watches us, the spiritual Israel, neither slumbers nor sleeps. That our God is never on vacation or chasing or pursuing, as the accusation was made against the false gods of Baal. But rather our God is attentive to our cry Lord, we thank you that you have instructed us and bidden us to come boldly to the throne of grace. And Lord, we come to that throne this morning that we might receive help and grace to help in time of need. Father, you know our needs. You know what things we have need up before we ask. You know the end from the beginning, for you are the alpha and the omega. You know what we truly need for Father. Our perception of need is defective. Lord, you know what we will need this afternoon. You know what tomorrow will bring forth. And Father, we we thank you. And indeed we we echo the psalmist, such knowledge is too wonderful for me, it is high, I cannot attain to it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? And so, Father, we do not come to inform you of our needs, but rather in obedience and in faith believing we lay our needs before you. And Lord, they are many, and they are grievous. Father, we have Uh many that are not here this morning who would desire to be here, but physically they are simply unable. And Lord, over the almost six years now of the Glorious gathering that we enjoy. We have seen the aging process on some of our brethren. And Lord, we pray that you would grant them relief from pain. We pray that you would grant them good mobility. We pray that you would overcome the daily weaknesses of the flesh that would hinder them Or Father, indeed, you promised that you would give us the desires of our heart. And Lord, that doesn't mean you give us all the things we want. It does mean you give us godly desires. And Father, these that are unable to meet with us in person because of the infirmities of the flesh, their desire is to be here. And Lord, that is the godly desire which you have placed within their heart. And so, Father, we pray that you would grant, even if the week is bad, that Sunday may be good. That on the Lord's day they might be able to have the strength and the vigor to gather with the people of God. For indeed, uh though it is wonderful that we live in a day and age when we can worship in dysphoria Yet there is something to be said for meeting in person with God's people and sharing the fellowship. And so, Father, may you strengthen those that are weak in body. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you own the cattle on a thousand hills and you supply all of our needs. And as we prayed in the call to worship prayer this morning, give us this day our daily bread. Lord, you do provide for your people and you know the needs. Lord, you know that there are financial needs within our congregation. You know that there are needs for employment and needs for better employment There are needs for business to come in through the door. There are needs for deals to be concluded. There are needs for wrongs to be rectified. And so, Father, you are aware of all these things. And Lord, we lay them before you this morning. In faith believing. that we have been young and now are old, yet have we never seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread. You promised that the righteous would dwell in the land, and verily they shall be fed. You have told us to observe the lilies of the field that sow not nor spin, and yet you clothe them. And the birds of the air which Do not gather into barns. Some animals do, but the birds of the air do not. And yet you feed them. And Lord, the point of those illustrations is that we simply trust you. And so, Lord, may we cast our care upon you, for you care for us. Father, we pray for our unsaved loved ones And Lord, there is a longer list of unsaved loved ones on our prayer list than there is a list of those that are in need of physical healing. Lord, we cry out to you for our children, both the young children that are here with us today, and the seed of our body, the children that are not walking with thee. And Father, we pray that they would be returned to the faith of their fathers. Lord, we pray, Father, for The parents of many. There are many parents that are listed on our prayer list that do not know you. Some may claim to know you and indeed have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. And Lord, we prayed that the saving grace of Jesus Christ would truly break through that heart of stone and grant them a heart of flesh to believe. Father, we have brothers and sisters on our prayer list. And Father, we pray for them as well. Aunts and uncles and others, Father. Lord, we thank you for the faithful witness of many in this congregation. who uh are are lights in a dark world everywhere they go. And Father, we pray that you would bless that witness, bless the tracks that are passed out. Oh Lord, we read in thy word of the unseen growth. And Father, we may never know where that gospel was led to a taxi driver that was met for just a few moments, or someone else that was encountered. We never know where a track may land. But Father, we pray that you would glorify Christ in the salvation of the elect through that gospel witness. And Father, make us bold to witness for Christ. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We thank you, Lord, as we saw in Sunday school this morning, that it is indeed a deep mind. I would venture to say that most of the adults in my hearing this morning have read your word from cover to cover at least once. For Lord, we are a people that are hungry for your truth. And yet, Father, how often it is a chapter that we've read maybe a dozen times in our lifetime that will suddenly spring forth as a seed that has been in the desert, a seed that has been in dry ground, but a seed indeed in ground. And when the water of the Holy Spirit is applied to that seed, it springs up in great abundance to the hearts of your people. So is the Word of God. And we thank you for that. Bless your word to us. Bless your word this morning as we open it together. Father, we thank you for Mission Bible Church. We thank you for the great privilege we have to gather as the people of God. We thank you that all that are given to Christ shall come to him, and those that come to Christ will not be cast out. We thank you for a good and sound understanding of what that text says. Father, bless your church across the world. Father, we pray for the persecuted church, those that endure great hardness and hardship to worship the King of Heaven. Bless them this day Father, we pray for our nation. We thank you, Lord, that we were not born in North Korea. We thank you that we were not born somewhere in Russia. We thank you that we were not born in China. Lord, you have placed us in a land where we have great liberty and freedom to worship God, to call upon Jesus Christ openly and publicly. But, oh Lord, how the church in North America has squandered that privilege. How we have failed to treasure it. Father, have mercy on our country. We pray, Father, for a true revival in this country. For Lord, our hope is not in a president. Our hope is not in a military. Our hope is not in a Congress. Our hope is in the Lord. And so, Father, may you begin to purify. For Lord, it begins at the house of God. And so work within your people, we pray. It is time for repentance to begin at the house of the Lord. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to Psalm seventeen for our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm seventeen in your Bible, please rise. We will responsibly read all fifteen verses of Psalm seventeen. A prayer of David. Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of fain lips Let my senses come forth from thy presence. Let thine eye behold the things that are equal. Thou hast proved mine heart. Thou hast visited me in the night Thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing. I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept thee from the paths of the destroyer. Hold up my goings in thy path, that my footsteps slip not. I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God Becline thine ear unto me and hear my speech. Show thy marvelous loving kindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust in thee. from those that rise up against them. Hide me under the shadow of thy wings. From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies who compass me about They are enclosed in their own fat. With their mouth, they speak proudly. They have now compassed us in our steps. They have set their eyes bowing down to the earth, like as a lion that is greedy of its prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places Arise, O Lord, disappoint him, cast him down, deliver my soul from the wicked, which is thy sword. From men which are thy hand, O Lord, from men, which have their portion in this life, in this belly thou fillest with thy hidden treasures They are full of children and leave the rest of the substance unto vain. And altogether, as for me, I will behold thy face and righteousness. I will be satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this Holy Word. The last verse is a glorious ending prayer of David. You can almost hear him say in boldness, but as for me, I will be satisfied when I awake in thy likeness. That's his goal. What a marvelous goal it is. We turn to our sermon psalm. It's number 626 An adaptation of the 128th Psalm. Number 626, bless the man that fears Jehovah. It's to the It's also sung in this hymn book in a tune called Jesus Calls Us, but you'll recognize the tune of Galilee. It's a very good tune, fine, fine reform tune. Number six twenty-six, all five stanzas in the Amen. Unless the man that here shall want me ever in his place, by thy toil thou shalt be prospered. And be happy all thy days. Yet thy wife thou shall have gladness, she shall fill thy home with good. Happy in her loving service and the joys of motherhood, children, sons and daughters. Shall about my table meet all the plants' strength and beauty full of hope and promise we've got a little bit of No one can that behovah shall be pressed at the temp for Jahova Rasaya Until thee is blessing then thou shalt see thou kingdom prosper all thy days till I shall cease thou Shall see thy children's children are like thee, Ordin. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Indeed, uh there are those who have physical children, but the spiritual descendants of the message of the people of God. Is that which brings forth seed that will never perish? Amen. Turn to your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Joshua and chapter 15, the 15th chapter of Joshua in your Old Testament. And I'm going to read verses 13 through 19. The context is the dividing of the land. God had promised to Joshua and to Caleb that they would see the promised land and enter therein and have possession there because they were faithful. And so when we come to the 15th chapter of the book of Joshua, the land is being divided. And I begin our scripture reading this morning with the 13th verse of the 15th chapter of Joshua. And unto Caleb, the son of Jehuna, he gave a part among the children of Judah. According to the commandment of the Lord to Joshua, even the city of Abab, or Abba, excuse me, the father of Anak, which city is Hebron And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Shishai, Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak. And he went up thence to the inhabitants of Deber, and the name of Deber before was Tirjassefer. And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjassephur and taketh it, to him will I give Aksa, my daughter, to wife. And Athniel, the son of Kinez, the brother of Caleb, took it, and he gave him Aksa, his daughter, to wife. And it came to pass, as she came unto him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field. And she lighted off her ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou? Who answered, Give me a blessing. For thou hast given me a south land. Give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs. Let us pray together. Gracious Father, now as we approach this somewhat obscure passage of thy word May your Spirit teach us biblical lessons and truths and make great application to our hearts through the story of Aksa. Bless thy word to thy people this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. How many this morning have thought anything about AXA before? How many this morning would pronounce her name with an A-C-H and have a hard K sound, AXA? I actually went on Blue Letter Bible where they can pronounce words and made sure I was pronouncing her name correctly. It's not one we think of very often, is it? Axa had already received a blessing from her father. Her father had given her a goodly dowry. He had given her a field. And as she is coming to her husband to be, now she asked her father for something more. And if you notice, the title of our message this morning is Asking God for More. And so I would like us to go through Axa's request to her father Caleb And compare it to our approach to God. And then we're going to have some other illustrations from Scripture and some application. The first thing I notice you is that Acts of makes her request out of a genuine need. There was something that was needed more than what she already had. She asked for water. She says, Thou hast given me a blessing. Give me a blessing. Thou hast given me a south land. Now give me water. Give me a spring. Remember the account in Genesis of the Garden of Eden, and we find that there was a river that ran out of the Garden of Eden and watered it. We understand water is needful. Water is needful for life. If you're going to grow crops, you've got to have water If you're going to raise livestock, you've got to have water. Goats and sheep can live on a minimum of water. Goats, goats I know can, I don't know about sheep. They can live on a minimum minimum of water, but they still need moisture in order to survive. And so she has this land But if the land is to be productive, she also needs water. And so she says to her father, give me water. Give me water. David described the state of his soul as being in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. And so she asked for water. But notice that her request was not to sit beside a lake on a dock on one of those swingy things under a thatched canopy and enjoy the shade. She's not asking for water for leisure. I mean most of us, you know, we have real estate people in our congregation. Land before it's hide water brings a better price. Why? Because it's nice to start on your porch and look out across the water. It's It's beautiful, it's pleasing, it's sometimes a little bit cooler beside the water. But she's not asking this for leisure, she's asking for for water, for more work You see, if she has this water or this water added to her land, she can work and make the land productive. She can grow crops. She can have livestock. And we read of the virtuous woman in Proverbs 31 that she considers a field and buyeth it, with the fruit of her hand she planteth a vineyard Aksahir is not asking for water that she might be at leisure. Rather, she's industrious She has this feel, but now she asked her father for something more that she might be more productive. And that's very instructive for us As believers, when we ask God for something more, is it simply, you know, Lord, I would like to have more leisure? Or are we requesting of our Heavenly Father something that will make us more productive in the service of God? Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lust, we find in James chapter 4 and verse 3. We also find in the account that she had tried to work it out herself before she went straight to Caleb. If you look at the passage there in verse 17. And Othniel, the son of Kinez, the brother of Calab, took it, and he gave him Akshah his daughter to wife. And it came to pass as she came unto him. That's as she came unto Othniel. As she came to her espouse husband, that she moved him, Othniel, and asked of uh asked him to ask of her father afield. She had gone through the steps that she could handle already. She's asking her spouse husband, Ofniel, to go and talk to her father about some water. She's leaving her father's house to become Othniel's wife. She's tried to persuade him, but that didn't work. You know, many times in our prayers Uh there's a lot of feet we can put to our prayers before we really go to the Lord about it. You know? There's a lot of things that we can handle ourselves, but it's a lot easier to say, oh God, just take care of that. You know, uh get a big snowstorm, you don't feel like shoveling your snow, so you pray that God will send out the sun to to melt it away before you have to. I think most of us have done that. But sometimes we just got out gotta get out and start shoveling the snow. You know, there there are some prayers that we can actually take care of on our own. She has tried to get her husband to go and it appears that Othniel did not want to offend his new father-in-law. No. He promised me you. There's a field that came along with you. I've just conquered Kirjash Sheriff, or have you pronounced it? I'm sorry about you know I always have trouble pronouncing names. I've just done this Let's not bother your father anymore. For some reason, Othniel did not want to make the request. And folks, there's a lesson to be learned there too. Our most important prayer request may seem insignificant to others. Let that sink in. The prayer request that is closest to your heart may not seem significant to anybody but you. And that can be very discouraging. Don't be offended if others don't seem to remember your prayer request. And we try very hard, and and Brother Vince is very good at the end of our prayer session on Wednesday to cover any prayer requests verbally that have not been mentioned But folks, if you make a prayer request, particularly an unspoken prayer request, and it seems like no one else remembers it, don't be offended. God's people are prayer And we're praying together. But the thing that is most important to you may not seem important to anybody else. And that seems to be the case here. She goes to Othniel and he just ignores it But this was very important to AXA. Don't be discouraged if others don't seem concerned about your needs. Others may not see or agree with your need. But others are praying. Ye have not because ye ask not. And so first of all, Axel's request was from a genuine need. But we find also that her request was made with humility. Look again at the passage in verse 18. And it came to pass that she came unto him, that that's unto Atniel, that she moved him to ask of her father afield And she lighted off her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou She comes to her father and she gets down off the donkey. Now that's very significant in the Oriental culture. We find in Genesis 24 that when Rebecca is riding her camel in the train of camels coming uh to the wedding, that she sees Isaac walking in the field. And she puts a veil over her face, a sign of humility, and she gets down off her camel in Genesis 24 and verse 64. And then again, Abigail. Remember Abigail? Her husband was the churlish one. I think I may have preached some time ago on Abigail's husband. He was a churlish man. But when Abigail comes to David in 1 Samuel 25, 23, it says that Abigail lighted off her ass and fell down before David on her face and bowed herself. And so when Abigail comes to her father, she gets down off her donkey. You know, we had the phrase, get down off your high horse. Well, it's talking about humility. You know. When we come before God, we come humbly. We come as paupers. We come as beggars. We come before the Lord with humility. In Psalm 183, verse 6, so the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. James 4, verse 10, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. 1 Peter 5, verse 6, humble yourself therefore under the mighty hand of God. that ye may be exalted. And of course we have the illustration of the publican and Pharisee. The Pharisee, I thank God that I'm not as other men. But the Pharisee, the publican, sorry, stood afar off. One stands on the corner, the other stands afar off. And you know, why is it that we kneel for prayer? Well, it's a sign of our humility before God. We're coming to the kingdom of heaven. And it doesn't mean you can't pray standing. But we kneel before God. We close our eyes so we might not have distraction We bow our heads in humility before the King of Heaven. I remember back from my days in Sunday school when I was three or three and four years old. Our eyes we close, our heads we bow, ready to talk to God just now. That was drilled into my Sunday school class. And the the Sunday school teacher would recite that for two and three and four-year-olds every time we went to prayer. Our eyes would close, our heads we bow, ready to talk to God just now What is that doing? It's teaching a child humility and solemnity in prayer. And I believe we have an example of that here in Asha. She gets down off her donkey. She could have stowed it down on her donkey to ask, but she came humbly before her father. And so when we come before God, we're not coming to make demands of God. Yeah there there is a uh that um uh in in the Pentecostal there's there's that name it and claim it uh aspect. Oh you God you've got to do this because of your promises. God doesn't have to do anything for you. So we come before him in humility. The third thing we find about Axel's request is that it was a reasonable request. She doesn't ask her father for the ocean. She says, you know, give me springs. She does not ask her father to make a new river appear in her field. She doesn't even ask her father to dig her a well. She doesn't say, hey, my father Caleb, would you dig me a well? No, there was already a spring in existence. And she says, you know, could you give me that spring? She's not asking for more than she needed. God can, will, and does do miracles But folks, not every prayer needs to be answered with a miracle. You know, when we when we come before God in prayer, we're not asking to be made wealthy. We're asking for daily bread. We're not necessarily asking God to do some great miracle for us when God has placed means in our day and age To answer the prayer. I don't trust the medical profession. Most of you know that I'm walking around on a knee that's not quite right But that doesn't mean that we don't pray that God would use means He's placed in our hands to do His work. God has given our day and age means there was already a spring in existence. God did not need to create water to answer Axh's frequent need. Give me the spring. It was a reasonable request. And again, the the verse I quoted earlier Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask it amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lust. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God Therefore, whosoever will be the friend of God will be the friend of the sorry who will be the friend of the world is the enemy of God. It was a reasonable request And folks I'm gonna I'm gonna go down a a pet uh a pet peeve that uh that uh has come to meet. Christians have no business praying about ball games. Christians have no business praying about the worldly things of this world. Now, uh when I was in high school In a Christian high school playing sports against other Christian high schools, we would pray to beat another Christian high school in a basketball game. What a foolish and worthless prayer. See, she was asking for a reasonable request. She was not asking about something that didn't matter. But rather, it was a reasonable request. And folks, thankfully, this was not in the church that my father pastored or the church I grew up in. But there was about I was thinking all week I shouldn't tell people what church there was a church close to us there in Harper County And the church just about split because they had been praying for three or four weeks over a prayer request that was brought forth in prayer meeting And I don't know the exact names, but I think it was Bob and Betty that were getting divorced and someone else was pregnant. And one of the ladies from the church had asked for prayer for Bob and Betty that were getting divorced And for this older lady that was pregnant. And it turned out these were soap opera characters. The woman was watching soap operas day after day, and she had gotten so caught up In what she was seeing on the soap opera, that in prayer meeting on Wednesday she had asked for prayer for these people by name and it ended up on the church's prayer list And finally when the pastor started checking up how he could visit these people, he found out it was and the church just about split over because half the church was defending her, and the other half the church thought it was that she should be excommunicated. Axha comes to her father with a reasonable request, a request that should be made. A request that was made, not for some great miracle, though we pray for miracles. I don't mean to go against that at all. But there were means at hand to answer her prayer. And she prayed that she might receive of those means that which was needed. 1 John 5, 14, and this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he heareth us whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petition that we desire of him. Number four, Access request was made of a receptive and loving Father. She asked her father. And her father, when she comes, says, What wouldest thou? What do you want? What can I do for you? We come to a God whose ear is open to our cry. She says there verse 19, Give me a blessing, for thou hast given me the south land. Give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper and the nether. springs. We come to one who wants to hear our prayer. If this had been someone else's daughter, Why should I give my land to someone else? She comes to one who is open to her prayer. Prayers in time of trouble. Psalm 38, verse 6, and following. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease. And there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Lord, all my desire is before thee. And my groaning is not hid from thee. Folks, you think God hears that prayer? Absolutely. Absolutely. Those of us that are parents know what it is at two or three in the morning to hear a baby cry. You come boat out of sleep. And rush to see what the needs of the child are. Here, Axha is coming to her father She's coming to one whose heart is towards her and whose heart yearns for her good. And when she asks him a blessing, he is delighted to give her a blessing. Remember Jacob on the plane wrestling with the angel, and he said, I'm not going to let you go till you bless me. I'm not going to let you go until you bless me. We also find in that same passage that Jacob prayed, I'm not worthy of the least of thy mercies. And that goes back to humility. She comes to one before whom she has right standing. It's their father. And she's the daughter. She has standing before the one that she comes. Now are you the sons of God? And it doth not appear what you shall be. We have standing. Folks, the unbeliever does not have standing before God. The unbeliever cannot come to God in that kind of prayer. He does not have standing. The prayers of the righteous are his delight. He hears our prayers. It's her father, and she engages in this request. A loving father gives according to his love. She says, Give me a blessing. And he gave her the upper and the nether springs. Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth And to him that knocketh it shall be open, or what man is there of you, whom if his son asked bread, he will give him a stone Or if he ask a fish, he will give him a serpent. If ye then be evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children How much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask us? She had right standing to make her request, but also she had a promise to support her request. And this is very beautiful. She has a promise to support her her her request. Look with me back to the previous chapter, chapter 14, and verse 9. Chapter 14 of Joshua and verse 9. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereupon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever. Because thou hast wholly followed the Lord And reading from Deuteronomy, the original passage, Deuteronomy one, verse thirty-five and thirty-six. Surely there shall not one of these men, uh men of this evil generation See the good that good land which I swear to give unto your fathers, save Caleb, the son of Jephumah, which shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he hath trodden upon and to his children. God had promised the land to Caleb and to his children. And then again in Numbers 14, 24. But my servant Caleb, because he hath another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I give un give bring into the land into which he went And his seed shall possess it. And so multiple times we had the promise that Caleb's seed would possess the land. Now, Othniel is given land because he conquered Kirjacephar. But Athniel is not of the seed of Caleb. Atniel is Caleb's nephew, the brother, the son of Caleb's brother. She's a seed. She has standing because she's his child. And she has promises to support her request because God said it. I'll give you the land. Folks, is that not a picture of us in prayer? We have standing before God because as we're children, and we have the promises of God on which to base our request. She came to a loving father. Proverbs 27: The just man walketh in his integrity, his children are blessed after him. Psalm twenty five, twelve and thirteen. What man is he that feareth the Lord? Him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose, his soul shall dwell at ease, and his seed shall inherit the earth. But the last thing I want us to see about Caleb's daughter before we go to the application is this. Her request was answered in abundance. She got the upper end and other spring. He could have just given her one. But he's able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. Well now I open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing that she cannot receive. She gave him the upper and the nether Springs. Psalm 31, verse 19. Oh, how great is thy goodness which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of man. First Corinthians 2, verse 9, but it is but it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. Now Let's look at some biblical illustrations and make application. Turn with me to 2 Kings chapter 4 2 Kings chapter 4. And there we find the widow of one of the prophets, one of the sons of the prophets. It appears that her husband had left her in debt And now the creditor is coming, and the creditor is going to take her sons to be slaves to pay this debt. And in 2 Kings 4 and verse 1 Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant, my husband, is dead, and thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord And the creditor is come to take my s take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me what thou hast in thy house And she said, Thy handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil. Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, empty vessels Borrow not a few. And then verse six, and it came to pass when the vessels were full, that she said unto her sons, Bring me yet a vessel And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed. She had an eve. And now she has many pots of oil, but she says, Bring me another vessel Bring me another one. And his son said there is no more. And the oil stayed. Folks, there are times when it's appropriate to ask for more By contrast, we find Elisha's rebuke of Joash, king of Israel, who quit too soon. This is in 2 Kings 13, verses 18 and 19. And he, that's Elisha, said, Take the arrows, and he took them. That's Joash. And he said unto the king of Israel, and he said unto the king of Israel, Smite the ground, and he smote thrice and stayed. And the man of God was wroth with him and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times Then hast thou smitten Syria till thou hast consumed it, whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice. He was given instruction from God through the prophet, and he quit to so Folks, there are times when we need to ask God for more. And we need to be more active in the service of God. And then of course in Isaiah 38, the most familiar one probably is the story of Hezekiah. Isaiah 38, verse 1. In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, came unto him and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, set thine house in order, for thou shalt die and not live. And Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall and prayed unto the Lord. And he said, Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee how I have walked before thee in truth. and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore Then came the word of the Lord unto Isaiah, saying, Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David, thy father, I have heard thy prayer. I have seen thy tears. Behold, I will add unto thee fifteen years. Folks, Hezekiah prayed for more. And I know my father prayed this prayer after his second heart attack. Lord, give me more. And he claimed actually Psalm 101 verse 2, I will walk within my house with a perfect heart. Uh Hezekiah's heart was perfect towards God, and my father said, I will walk within my house before with a perfect heart. And he meant physically I'm going to walk in because God's going to heal my heart. And God did for a time. And then choose to choose to take him. But folks, Hezekiah prayed for more. Lord, extend my life. Folks, we have a lot of sick folks in our congregation. And it is well and good. We have been blessed with physical life, we've been blessed with eternal life, with spiritual life, but it is well and good and fitting to ask God for more in this world. Hezekiah asked for more. And then Abraham in Genesis eighteen, verse thirty-two And he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry. I will speak yet but this once. Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy for ten's sake. Abraham asked God for more mercy. And it started off with 50. God, if we can't find 50, what about 45? And if we can't find 45, what about 40? And all the way down to 10. God, if we can find 10. Abraham asked God for more mercy Folks, we need to ask God for more mercy. He has had mercy upon us sinners, but folks, I need more mercy every day. I need more mercy every day. I need to die daily. Asking God for more. And then we find Gideon asked God for more confirmation. In Genesis 6, verse 39 and 40. And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with a fleece Let it now be dry upon the fleece, and upon the ground let there be dew. And God did so that night, for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on the ground God had already confirmed to Gideon his will. But Gideon said, God, give me more. There's many times when we run into this. Or we have prayed over something and God has answered, and yet we say, God, I need more proof. God, I need more direction. I need you to convince my heart. Lord, remove my fears and stay my heart on you. God, I'm asking for more. Getting digital set. And then probably the most important one of all is found in 2 Kings chapter 2. And verse 9 and following. For here we find that Elisha is asking for a double portion of the spirit of Elisha. Elijah. And of course we know Elijah's spirit was not his own. It was God's blessing on him. In 2 Kings 2, verse 9 and following. And it came to pass. When they were gone over, that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elijah said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. Oh Lord, make me a more mighty preacher. Than any that have ever come before. Lord, may thy spirit be mighty upon me. And he that's Elijah said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be unto thee. But if not, it shall not be. You've asked a big prayer request. You've asked for a double portion of the spirit of Elijah. And Elijah's answer to his young preacher boy Elisha was this. If you see me when I'm taken to heaven, it's going to happen. But if not, it's not going to happen. Why is that important? Elisha could never fail in his duty and receive the blessing. If Elisha steps away from Elijah for 30 seconds, Elijah would go like that, and he doesn't get anything. What Elijah did was bind the upcoming servant of God to the work. He tied into the job. If you see me go to heaven, then you will receive the answer to your prayer. But if you depart, if you fail in your duty, you'll receive nothing. And so Elisha asked for more. And he received because he was faithful to the work of God. Now, we are instructed very clearly in Scripture to be content with such things as we have. The Old Testament speaks of godly contentment. Godliness with contentment is great gain. The New Testament speaks repeatedly of contentment. Contentment is submission to the will of God when God doesn't answer our prayers the way we want them answered. All right. I have prayed for this and prayed for this and prayed for this. And God has said no. No. No. We are to be content with the will of God. But folks, I believe Scripture proves to us that we're to ask for more. Oh God, teach me more from thy word. Oh God, give me a greater burden for prayer. Oh God, give me opportunity to witness. Folks, I hope you pray, God, make me a godly man. God, rid from me more of this world, make me more like Christ. And folks, I tell you, I need that prayer every day. And so we are taught in Scripture to be content with the will of God. But there are times when we need to ask. From there. Understand from there. Father, we thank you for your word. Father, we thank you that so often these more obscure passages can have great lessons for our soul. Lord, teach us to pray. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 531 is our closing song in our blue songbook, 531. Come, my soul, thy suit prepare. One of the few hymns that John Newton wrote, 531, a good tune about prayer, tune of Hendon. You'll recognize it as we start to sing it. Uh five hundred and thirty-one all six stances. My soul I should prepare Jesus' love to answer prayer in self. As the pray, therefore will not stay, therefore will not stay. Thou art coming to our king Lord's position with the praise for his grace and power so None can ever ask to move, none can ever ask to must with my burden. I beg for me of this God since thy blood for sinners said my God Conscious free from Hill, set my conscious free from Hill Lord, I come to thee for rest. Take possession of my breath, there I want more right maintain and with our rival. And with thou rival rain while I am on the Of my spirit here as my God, my God, my friend, lead me to my journey. Me to my journeys and show me what I have to do, every of my strength reach. Let me live a life of it. Let me die by people. Let me die. Oh man, oh man, please be seated.