Eleven thirty two. And we're really kinda uh hovering over this verse a while because in one verse it gives us four Old Testament characters, each of whom has some very unique history, and some of whom are so obscure you've probably never even heard of them unless you've read through the book of Hebrews. Or the book of Judges. In Hebrews 11. 32, the penman under Divine Inspiration says this, and what shall I more say, for the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak. We're going to be talking about Barak today, and of Samson and of Jeptah. Of David also and Samuel and the prophets. So actually there's six of them. Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jeptah, David and Samuel. And then a whole group called, quote, the prophets. A lot of people covered in that, but today we'll spend a little time with Baric, who's In my opinion, a head twister. He's really unusual. So the question was this. Who is the most impressive military general in your opinion? And why And if military history isn't your thing, maybe some leader or ruler who wrought a great deliverance for the country. I would like to read the online contributors first. One had a one-word answer. Ike Anybody know who we're talking about when we say Ike? Yeah, you know, Ike Eisenhower, Dwight D. Eisenhower was a one of the few five-star military generals who later became president and was a huge uh force in uh the American Allied forces over in Europe, uh and General MacArthur in the uh Pacific Truly he was a uh a notable admiral, another one, uh not Admiral General, another one of of course a Storman Norman, uh Norman Schwarzkopf of Desert Storm fame who uh in a very short order uh rescued Kuwait uh excuse me uh the uh uh UAE from Kuwait rescued Kuwait from Iraq, gotta get my countries correct, and uh blasted across the government. A more obscure one I'd never heard of before was a fellow named General Cleburn Mm-hmm. You know who he is. Well first you do. Uh he was um an Irish immigrant and uh was uh Civil War general who was just very brave to attack uh either a uh uh embattlement or a uh full frontal assault against a fortified position. Just incredible bravery And quoted, well, if we're to die, let us die like men. Certainly those are individuals you would say would stand out in your mind. Any other Thoughts. You said you had some. Yeah, um Thomas Jackson, Stonewall. Stonewall Jackson. Very very godly man. um who ironically most of his battles were fought on Sundays and he hm hated that fact and yet he saw it as providential. He saw his position as a general as providential uh was known for spending many hours in prayer uh before every battle. If you ever have a chance to visit his home, I recommend it. Not a uh well-known fact, but there were uh good Christian men, unfortunately, on both sides of the battle civil war, and uh certainly I knew about the Confederate ones uh a lot having come out of Texas Um anybody else? Joey, you've got to have some favorites. I've got three. I'll take them. Uh so Rob Ree. Yep. First one. Then George S. Patton. Then not a very well known. Terrible Terry Allen Don't know about it. He was a major general under Patton and in my opinion probably the best general we had in World War II. Um lived, slept with his men. They referred to him as Terry, didn't we call him general. a soldier's general and led many of the very important battles of World War II, especially coming up through Africa. I was gonna say Africa was his forte. Yeah, very unlike the generals of today of the Pentagon who get promotions because they uh secured a uh multi-billion dollar contra weapons contract and haven't seen a bullet fly past them in who knows how long. That's not true at all generals at the Pentagon, uh, but service and battle is certainly one of the marks. Well, we're talking about military history because Barrick is a figure that shows up militarily in the history of Israel. Our story begins in Judges chapter 4. So turn to Judges chapter 4 if you're able to And uh ideal if you use your hard copy Bible. If you don't have one, we've got one over there. Maybe Miss Saba can hand one over to uh Auntie. Uh Judges chapter 4 is the uh book right after the book of Joshua. The first five books of Moses, then you've got Joshua and his conquest. And as I mentioned last week, Judges is just a strange book. It's a very unusual period of time. Israel had just been basically given the land by the Lord through Joshua and his army. And so initial conquest has been made, the initial kings, the strongholds, the cities, that which could truly prevent them from occupying the land has been dealt with. Now we're talking about another generation later, where the generation that saw the works of the Lord, saw his miracles, saw the battles, they're gone. These are the children and the grandchildren. And there's a nasty, ugly cycle. And you'll see it as we begin in Judges chapter 4. We see it here starting up again, Judges 4. I'm going to read uh verses one through three and then we're gonna kind of pause at various points as I make comments and get to questions. I'm gonna get to a question at the end of the tenth verse and I'm gonna ask you what strikes you as odd about all of this. So Judges chapter 4, verse 1. And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord when Ehud was dead. And the Lord had sold them into the hand of Jaban, king of Canaan. that reigned in Hatzor or Hatzor, the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dealt in Herosheth of the Gentiles And the children of Israel cried to the Lord, for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel. This whole battle scene takes place kind of in the northern part of what would eventually become all the borders of Israel. It's the land of Nephtali. If you look on a map and are trying to locate it, you would look for the Sea of Galilee. There's the Sea of Galilee, the tiny one to the north, and then further is the Dead Sea, which is the big fat one that everybody can recognize. If you take the Sea of Galilee, that southern tip, and go west, you'll hit Mount Tabor and the area of Nephtali. And that's the area where all of this occurs. And Jabin's headquarters is at Hatsor, or Hatsor. Archaeologists pronounce it Hatsor, so I'm just going to use that for now. And that is north of Mount Tabor. And between where Jabin's at and where Mount Tabor is is a valley. That's where he's got 900 chariots of iron. Chariots of iron do very well in valleys, on roadways. They can protect and control movement in and out. So this is a formidable force of the old world. didn't have all of Joey's tools. If they did, they would have loved it. They would have been able to decimate pretty quickly. Then we get to verse 4 now And here's a key one to pay attention to. And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time. And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah, between Ramah and Bethel in Mount Ephraim, that's a little further west of Mount Tabor, and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment. And she sent and called Barak, the son of Abinoam, out of Kadesh Neftali, and said unto him, Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded? saying, Go and draw toward Mount Tabor? And take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Nephtali and the children of Zebulun. So this is the call. This is the word of the Lord that comes to Barak. Then we get to verse 7. She's continuing some instruction of the Lord. She says, and I will draw unto thee To the river Kishon, Siserah, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude, and I will deliver him into thine hand So this is the promise, the prophecy of God from her to him. And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go. But if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go. And she said, I will surely go with thee, notwithstanding the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honor. For the Lord shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah rose and went with Barak. Un Tekedish. And Barak called Zebulun and Nephtali Tekedish, and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet, and Deborah went up with him. Alright, so this is how the army forces of Israel are mustered up. There's a lot of things there. What strikes you as odd in all of this account that we've read so far? A a female judge which is a good idea. You know, it's totally different from the New Testament structure. So you have a woman who's a female judge. She's the judge. That's very unusual in the Old Testament. What else is she? She's a prophetess. Normally when you hear about the prophets, it's coming from men. God would normally work through men. In the days of the prophets, God was free to call whomsoever he would, but more often than not he would call a man. What else is unusual about this account? Pay attention to verse eight again, look at that. He's afraid to go without a woman by his side. That reminds me of some of the little Curious phrases I heard at the workplace, the best man for the job is a woman. My sister's gonna beat you up. Yeah, my sister's gonna beat you up. Wait till Sisera hears about this. Um now was it because he wanted a woman? Why do you suspect he wanted her to go with him? Anybody? He recognized that God was with her. He recognized that God was with her. She was a judge. Judges tend to be reasonably wise individuals. They can make good common sense of things. What does she say to him that strikes you as odd? What does she recognize The key is verse nine. She said, I will surely go with thee. Well, okay, she's answering the mail. But but what? You're not going to get the glory. There's going to be another woman who's going to win the Yeah, you're not going to get the glory because it's not going to be for your honor. And this is an interesting point. And I think this is a verse worth highlighting in Judges 4, as you contemplate Barak. Now remember, he's held up in the hall of faith, and I don't want to sound blasphemous. I don't want to be like Job's friends who maybe have theological truth but misapply it. But I do want to be kind of transparent in the teacher's mind as he processes this passage. So here's this gray figure held up Let me just change the names for a moment. General Patton has been told by a Supreme Court judge By Sonia Sonomayer. I know I'm anachronistic here. I'm out of time zone. There was not that female judge at his time. Ruth Bader Ginsburg maybe to get a little closer to it. She was probably old enough to have at that time period. And she says, you have to go and good old Eisenhower says, well, I won't go unless you go with me. Isn't that wouldn't you wouldn't you find that unusual? What what would the news media do with that? You know, um I can just only imagine the kind of shaming that would go on in that whole process. We continue reading because the story now takes an interesting twist, and it's done this way to try to inform us of what happens a little later. We read in verse 11 now, the story continues as the scene now pans back to a different part of the battle. Here we read this. Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses, so the Kenites were those who descended from Moses' wife's family. And uh they were confederate with the Israelites, right? They they liked the fact that they were the Jews were delivered, uh Moses married into the family, and so, hey, we're you know, we're already over here, great, we've shown up with you Heber, however, had severed himself from the Kenites and pitched his tent into the plain of Zanaeum, which is by Kedish. Alright? So he has separated himself, and they showed Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoim, was gone up to Mount Tabor. So now you have a A traitor. Somebody who had claimed that they would come alongside of the Jews. It's interesting the Kenites are the first tribal nation that was promised to Abraham in Genesis 15 of the Canaanite nations whom God would give him. It started off with the Kenites and the Jebusites and so forth. The Kenites were the first ones listed that God promised to Abraham Abram at the time that he would conquer and inherit. We keep reading, verse thirteen, and Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron. It keeps emphasizing that force strength. And all the people that were with him. From Herosheth of the Gentiles into the river of Kishon. So here we see this is how Sisera is being drawn. You remember what the Lord said in verse 7? that he says, I will draw unto thee to the river Kishon Sisera. So Sisera is up to the north where Atsor is and he's gonna draw him down to this river. How's he gonna do it? Well you just saw it right here. God used a traitor in the midst to give him secret information and boy If a military commander gets some secret information from somebody who's a betrayer, boy, they just salivate over that. I don't need to rely on my scouts. I've got good detailed information. I know exactly where he's at He's already planning the scheme. I'm going to catch him by surprise. I'm going to get him all there. He knows how he's going to do it, and he's going to bring all the forces to bear. But the Lord's bringing him into a trap. It's all a trap. God's behind that. I find that interesting Now we're going to focus on verse 14, because this is another interesting one. Our focus isn't Fisrah, but it's Barak, and in verse 14 we read this. And Deborah said unto Barak, Up! For this is the day in which the Lord hath delivered Sisera into thine hand. Is not the Lord gone out before thee? So Barak went down from Mount Tabor and 10,000 men after him. Alright, what's unusual about this? You're a military commander. What would be unusual about this? Seemingly intentionally walking into a trap. Uh seemingly walking into a trap. He doesn't seem to know that. But yeah, that that certainly would be, I mean, sounds like being sent right into harm's way. What else is uh it's a good point I hadn't thought about that. What else is unusual about this? Do Would General Eisenhower take direction from some judge living in Fairfax County, Virginia? Did did General Patton get his advice from Some guy's wife in France, who happened to be smart. Did did General Cleburne get his instruction from Gal living on a farm back in Tennessee. Who gave the command here to get up and go attack at that precise time? It's Deborah. Now she's a prophetess. But she says, if you go, it's not going to be for your honor. I I'm kind of having trouble putting Baric, who's in the Bible, listed in the Hall of Faith, right up there with the likes, at least from our perspective, of a General Eisenhower or a Cleburne or who is the judge you I mean the commander you mentioned? Uh Terry Allen. Beside the likes of Eisenhower and Cleburne and Terry Allen. I It's kind of like he's got mommy in his hand going along to battle, right? He just doesn't fit our image of a great commander. She seems to be the military director, not him. And from our perspective, it seems like she's sending him into a trap. But we read in verse 15 And the Lord discomforted Sisera, he destroyed him and all his chariots and all his hosts with the edge of the sword before Barak, so that Sisera lighted down off his chariot and fled away on his feet. That must have been a pretty big route to abandon your chariot and deciding that running on foot is better. But Barrett pursued after the chariots and after the host. Now remember he's on foot or horses. He doesn't have chariots. He's pursuing Unto Herasheth of the Gentiles and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword. There was not a man left. He totally destroyed the Gentile army. So now he sounded like a mighty pretty mighty warrior. How be it, Sisera fled away on his feet unto the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabon the king of Hatzor and the house of Heber the Kenite Well, Sisera is on the run. He's fleeing. He he's going to run, and lo and behold, here comes the tent. I mean, we're talking very early days here, folks, of the Kenite village, and lo and behold, it's his old friend Heber. And he goes there. And Heber had a wife. Now this Hebrew is the betrayer, keep the identity straight here. He has a wife named Jael. You can remember Jael because it sounds like Nail. You're going to see why that's important in a minute. Verse 18 of Judges 4. Now, again, I'm going to ask what's unusual about this. I'm going to read 18 to 23. And Jael went out to meet Sisera. So this is the woman, this is the wife of Hebrew, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me, fear not. You know, she's come here, I'll give you a place of refuge. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle. And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk And gave him drink and covered him. And again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be when any man doth come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? That thou shalt say, No. Then Jael, Ebrah's wife, took a nail of the tent, took a hammer in her hand, went softly into him, and smote the nail into his temples and fastened it in the ground. Wow! What a way to go Take a one-foot-long tent peg and drive it right through the temples. For he was fast asleep and weary, so he died. And behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples. So God subdued on that day Jaban, the king of Canaan, before the children of Israel. What's unusual about this account? And again, we're focused on Barrett. What's unusual about this? Penny, you're laughing. Everything. There's nothing normal that he comes to her trusting her. She brings him more than the axe in the song of Deborah says she brought him milk and butter on a lordly dish, like she's just waiting upon him She tucks him in in the middle of battle. There's this general gonna stop and get drink and take a little nap in the middle of battle. And then she takes her tenth egg and kills him. This little point. A woman, uh you could say a a housewife, a betraying housewife, but faithful to the Kenites, faithful to the cause of Israel is the one who kills the general of the army who has been oppressing Israel for 20 years. I'm struggling to see where I can rally behind Barric and put a poster with him on my wall and say, woo-hoo, he's the guy You know, I might put Deborah up there if I were a daughter, if I were a woman, put Deborah in jail up there, right? The two rescuers of Israel, the The smart one, the guide, the head shed, the one who's leading and directing, connected to God, jail, the brave woman, did what she could, used uh uh repurposed tools as military weapons and destroyed the leader of nine hundred chariots of iron. You know, if you're gonna have a parade down the middle dusty road of Israel in their tents as to who the heroes were. I think these two women would be in the front parade and, oh yeah, there's this guy Baric in the back. Yeah, he he he did pretty good too. I'm just struggling to see where all the glory is was with Barak. I really was. Could not Barak's glory be godly humility? He was told ahead of time, you're not going to get the glory for this. But in 14, when Deborah says, go up for the this day the Lord is delivered, and he obeyed. You know, Patton was known for his pride. Montgomery was a very proud man. MacArthur, you go you go through the great generals of history and they were very pompous pride men. But here's A general who I'm not going to get the glory, but the Lord's going before me. So I'm, you know, the Lord's going uh going on the 14. The Lord is going out before thee so Barak went. You know, very unusual for a general to say I don't care who gets the glory, this is what the Lord wants. So I'm going to obey, I'm gonna go. You've uh jumped right ahead exactly the application I want to make, but you're I'm sorry. Oh no, don't apologize, you said it better than I could, but But that's where my mind went as I began to capture the notes, which was You know, he he's actually carrying out God's battle commands without complaint. Well no, let's don't apologize. Because I really was struggling. This guy is not getting any glory from man's perspective. But he does go. He does carry out the command. We don't read that he's a notable individual other than, hey, God has called you. The guy could have been a goat herder for all I know. We don't know what his background was He was just some fellow that was called and he answered the call. And frankly, when he asks for Deborah to go with him, that's kind of a wise thing to do. He's a nobody. Here's the Lord's prophet. She's a judge. She's smart. I'll take her. He doesn't care. You know, it's only in recent memory. that I have been aware in the United States government where you find very smart and powerful women who are being promoted to very significant positions in the federal government That's unusual, but it's humbling. It's humbling to say, okay, she's smart. She's capable. Sure. She can do the job. Why not? I'm not talking about church government, and this is not a passage that we ought to go to, which many of the uh male-led elder rule uh antagonists will take, they will all point to Deborah to say, see, she was a prophetess, she was a leader, blah blah blah, and they will highlight all the things I just did and use that as justification. To then thrust that into the New Testament to say, oh, we ought to have women elders when there is clear and direct commandment from God. We are not in the days of the prophets. We don't have those. Those days are ceased. Now we have the whole testimony of Scripture. And so that tells us women are not second-class citizens in the house of God. You can have very wise women God give us more. It's it they tremendously wonderful. And I think women are frankly if uh if uh In many respects, it would be far better to have a woman as a preacher. She's more eloquent. She's uh uh has a a smoother way of delivery oftentimes and can really relate stories well. And I've heard some some women teachers who insist, no, I'm here only to teach the women who are very capable. Why would God put a man in here? Because Ribeli's capable. We're not all that smart at times, right? We can shoot ourselves in the foot. We can really go and do backwards. But we have clear instructions in the New Testament You know, Barack's militia at the end of the day, and it was a militia, it was just a called-up group of people, hey, come to battle. At the end of the day, he won a great battle against 900 chariots of iron You know, there's the direction, there's the call, there's the idea. Um George Washington never signed the Declaration of Independence. You know why Because he was out winning it. He was out fighting the battles. He was the one doing the heavy lifting. And that's exactly what Barack did. He had to go, Barak did. He had to go out and actually win these battles. And he succeeded against chariots of iron? Are you kidding me? Your your aim has got to be precise. You gotta hit the driver. You gotta, you know, kill the horse. None of that is easy to do And so he's up there in the top 20 list of Bible heroes, right alongside Abraham, Noah, and David You know, even Job and Daniel aren't in the book of Hebrews 11. They're not even in that chapter. I could find much about them to glory in. So Baric's glory is the fact that he had none. He was obedient. He had none. He he You know, if if if I didn't see myself as a military commander, it's uh I I need some smart people on my team. You seem to be smart, you seem to have the word of the Lord, would you come? She's like, but you know, you're not gonna get any glory in this. Uh okay The Lord's will be done. He's faithfully carrying it out by faith. He's concerned that the glory of God be at stake rather than his own glory. And therein, I think, lay the faith lesson. It really is Because there's nothing admirable about the guy from the human perspective, right? And as you ablely summarized, uh you know he he really and it's interesting if you go back to verse uh uh verse uh uh where she says it shall not be for your glory. Uh verse nine She says, she doesn't say the journey you take will not be for God's honor. She doesn't say that. She says the journey you take won't be for your honor. You're not getting glory out of this. And he says, okay, I'm up to it. I need some help. So in that respect, okay. Yeah, I kinda see. I kinda see who is the uh what what the faith lesson is from all that. You know, and just to kind of wrap it up, you know, here, because there's there's not much more beyond this, um, you know, he uh He wasn't the judge. He's not the prophet. He didn't order men to the D-Day attack. He didn't kill the general, the opposing force. He got no credit and no glory among men. Nobody asked him to be their leader afterwards, like Gideon. Hey, would you rule over it? Nobody asked him to do that. You know, and it was Deborah and Baric who co-authored a song afterward, and he gets a few bit-piece mentions in it. Uh it it really is is interesting. His approach still accomplished God's purposes to deliver Israel. I have a couple of uh miscellaneous applications here just in thinking through it and trying to white weave it out the the rest of scripture. You know, men men, talking to the men here It is okay to listen to wise counsel, even if it's from a non-traditional source. I'm just going to kind of put it that way. If the advice aligns with Scripture, you can confidently follow it. You know, from time to time, I believe, providentially, I have heard some very good advice from the lips of unbelievers. I have had the privilege to work alongside some very capable individuals, and they were trying to do it right. by men, and I think they had a touch of the fear of God in them. I don't know if they went to church. They certainly didn't speak about it. I knew off times they would work the weekend. I had no ideas that they truly were Christians, but I've heard some very excellent advice, you know. Prove all things the scripture says. Hold fast that which is good. And it may come from a non-traditional source, even a wise, godly woman Some of the best advice I've heard concerning at the time how to pursue a young woman that I had met at a Bible conference came from the lips of an older married woman who said, here's the approach you ought to take. And it was very good counsel, and I appreciate it. So that's uh a first application. Uh the second, getting back to our account. is uh kind of touching on what what Joey was mentioning a little bit that he seemed to be sent into a trap. I mean here chariots are in their domain, they're in a plane They're by a river area, there's a you know, th they easily have a strategic advantage. They've had time to get around it and uh but Barak did not shy away from a lopsided battle, even after God said he would gather all the enemy to meet him. You know, that's a pretty hair-raising thing. You got this, I'm gonna put them all together for you. I'm gonna put it all in one place All at once? Uh yeah, uh how about a little bit at a time? You know, God says I'm going to draw them all together, and then you get to go take care of them He didn't shy from that. You know, actually if you stop and think about it, that was pretty pretty impressive that he still went, there wasn't a Ounce of complaining. He didn't go back to Deborah and cry. He didn't ask for butter in a lordly dish. He actually went. So, you know. Tiger tanks. Yeah, he's facing the tiger tank straight on. Reminds me of uh my uh my dad's oldest brother Uh my great my Uncle Alvin. He served in World War II. He actually was in Africa, and he was one of the first ones out. He was sent as part of the Army Cavalry He said he's on a horse and here comes Rommel's tanks over the hill. He literally faced Rommel's tanks on a horse. He said he spent more time. taking that stupid horse to get water than he did in fighting. He says half the time you want to shoot the horse and hide behind it. I mean, he literally faced that kind of a situation. And um he um didn't like me shooting off fireworks on his property, his uh ranch down in South Texas on the fourth of July. He didn't want to hear that. Just had enough of battle Quite a lot for a young eighteen, nineteen year old to face out of uh South Texas who himself had not a father and served as a father figure for the family, providing for Richley. Uh really is uh was a great, great man You know, he didn't shy from this lopsided battle, but folks, I have to inform you of something. If you'd like, you can turn to Revelation 16-14, and we'll pull that up on screen for those online In Revelation chapter sixteen and verse fourteen, I'm here to inform you that you and I have a similar prophecy at the end of time. Believers, we are in a spiritual warfare. Do you know that? You're in a battle. Whether you like it or not, you're a spiritual member of God's militia. And we read that there is a gathering that God is working. In Revelation 16, 14 he describes this opposing force. They are the spirits of devils, working miracles. Which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty And he, that is God, gathered them together into a place called, in the Hebrew tongue, Armageddon. You see, the believers are called to this great battle at the end of time. The devil and his forces are going to all Link arms hand in hand and unite against God's people, God's cause, God's message, and God's Christ. To destroy the people of God. And it will seem like we're surrounded, outvoiced, out-opinionated. Everyone will be thumbs down on the Christians. But God's the one gathering them And they shall fall, because God Himself will appear as our victorious deliverer, and he will rescue his people from their hand So there is a common theme that occurs throughout Scripture, God gathering a great overwhelming force against the people of God, but they're brought into a trap. They're snared and they're doomed. And so we see little echoes of that, even back in the days of Barak. Well, I hope that's something for you to meditate on here about this most unusual character of Barak from the Old Testament. Anton, could you close us with prayer? Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. We thank you for gathering us. Thank you, Lord, for preserving your word to us and uh Lord that we could even learn much of it, even from the Old and New Testament, uh pointing back to these uh men that have been faithful. We pray as well that you would keep us faithful, draw us closer to you. Help us, O Lord. Not to regard the things of the flesh. not to regard the glory of man, but a simple obedience unto you, O Lord. What a great demonstration of the work of your Holy Spirit. Please continue to guide us, Lord, and we pray that you would even bless our season of worship together as the preaching of your word and move upon our hearts we ask. In Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thanks all and the participation is always good. Thank you