Good morning and thank you for coming to the Memorial of Life for Mr. Craig Hodson. Since most of you may not know who I am, please allow me to introduce myself My name is Vince Kluth, and God has been pleased to allow me to serve him in numerous capacities, from Bible teacher, evangelist, church planter, church treasurer to husband and father. I've known Craig and Mary since their family about 1990. When Craig lived in Hakami, Mexico, I often watched the children on Friday night so Craig and Mary could escape for a date night. I learned a lot about how to raise children when you watch children from age, I don't know how old was Karina, thirteen or fourteen on down to an infant I got uh quite the indoctrination there. And they would come and rescue me and uh un untie me from the bed wherever I got uh trapped in. Craig was the uh best man at my wedding as well as at Mark and Cindy Leakey's wedding and Craig spoke at my wedding. I was actually struck when that wedding ring left his hand from the casket and returned to Mary at this point. That's a testimony. This man believed his covenant with God. I never saw him really look at another woman. He was faithful. Thirty-six years. That alone speaks to audience. We labored together at critical times to help establish Grace Baptist Church when Pastor Bob Harmon arrived Although I certainly didn't do any of the heavy lifting. And frankly, I'm sure all of you think you're Craig's best friend because he made everyone feel that way. So I'm very honored, very honored to be able to serve his family and you today. Last Sunday afternoon, I expected to enjoy some late evening family time with an early trip to bed and a few pages of a good book. I live in Durhamwood, Maryland. I'm three hours away. I told my wife when I got home Sunday afternoon that it had been a really good day. It had been a long time since I'd had a really good Sunday, a good day of Bible teaching and fellowship. Time spent with fellow believers, it was really wonderful, but I cannot tell you what a grievous disappointment it later came to me. For many years now, I had looked forward to the day when my family and all the Hodgsons could get together again and spend some time catching up out here and sunny Southern California. I left California in two thousand and relocated to the East Coast. But ever since I heard that I would not be able to see Craig again, my dear brother in the Lord, my dream event was only going to be partially realized. Frankly, I just can't believe I'm here, and neither can you Yet it's precisely for times like this when the Christian faith stands out as the brightest hope for all mankind. Many Bible passages have been running through my mind, but for this next half hour I draw my main theme from only one verse of Scripture. It is found in the twelfth chapter of the book of Luke. Be ye therefore ready also, for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. Knowing how Craig passed from this world, I feel if I don't warn others to make ready for death, God might cut off my branch and graft in another. I must speak to warn all of you and to point you to the Savior. It seems America has had many Christian voices in the past, or so I'm told, but I think I've never seen such a day as today. There's so much falsehood and deception in the news and in the media that even the world has taken up Pilate's retort: what is truth? This country never seemed so empty, and men and women never looked so blind to the things of God as they do today. I almost can't blame them. Because today's religion has not made people heavenly minded. It glorifies success, printing testimonies from big shot businessmen, actors, and athletes This man's a huge testimony to me. Religion is promoted by the same technique used to sell cigarettes. Just pray a little to soothe your nerves. Books are written to show how Jesus is just a regular fellow. And his Sermon on the Mount is to be applied in reverse. Not the meek or blessed, but the self-important. Not they that mourn, but they that smile and smile and smile. Not the poor and spirit are in God's kingdom, but those accounted as somebody by the secular press. Not they that hunger and thirst for righteousness are filled, but they that hunger for publicity. Frankly, I also wonder about them that believe, at least intellectually, that God exists and that the Bible tells us about Jesus. That if they die without regeneration, without being born again, they cannot see the kingdom of God How is it such can believe these things, and how men can still stay away from Christ when evil calamities are brought near is a mystery to me. I hope the words of the Lord Jesus find their way to your hearts as they have to mine. I hope you hear his voice today saying, Therefore be ye also ready. It's interesting because in that same section of Luke's gospel, Jesus said, quote, In the days of Noah, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the flood came and took them all away. It came suddenly. The judgments of God come suddenly How a man can keep away from Christ, the only mediator between God and men, when in the stroke he's gone to eternity and dies without hope? Beyond me. I'm reminded of a few words from the Apostle Paul in the New Testament in Acts chapter 20. Speaking to his elders, he says, Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men, for I have not shunned to declare unto you all He also adds, therefore, watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn every one night and day with tears. So why am I concerned? To speak to you? To warn you? Because it's an established pattern in the New Testament, and I am a servant of the Lord. I must warn you today. I must plead with you today. And it's because I love my dear brother Craig and the Lord's ministry, he's so lovingly nurtured in this area that I come to plead with you. Actually, I felt like going into my office, locking the door, and trying to figure out What this divine act of providence means. We all ask, why? But the answer of Scripture is be still and know that I am God. You may ask, well, where's the love of God and mercy in this? Well, I thought about that a lot. You know, it's not uncommon these days for everyone in the whole house to be shot. It's a mercy that we mourn only one. Or that this happened when the children were a little younger. I remember a Saturday back in 92. When a horse came running like mad past Craig's house down in Mexico, downhill towards the barn where Craig was inside. Karina was sp I mean some child was supposed to hold him tethered down And the thing came loose and flapping behind the horse, running tell Mell down the hill and Craig's inside the barn, and that crazy horse took a hard right turn directly inside the barn. I heard glass crashing, I heard sheet metal banging, I heard Craig hollering, and he came out, unscathed. Somehow he got that horse under control. Or when his propane truck caught on fire while refueling at a gas station, as he was turning off the ignition, he says, you know, don't do that because this truck backfires. But he thought that after he turned the ignition off. It took him three canisters of foam spray to bring it under control. Why not then? Because it wasn't his time. Some of you dear people here may feel, if only I had done such and such, he'd still be alive, he'd still be with us. And you play that in your mind. No, don't go there. Again, the answer of scripture is that it is appointed unto men, wants to die. And after this the judgment. I don't expect to find out why God allowed this to happen. I'm pretty sure I'll never know. So when I ask myself, what would Pastor Craig have me to say? What would Brother Craig have me to say? What would faithful preachers, yay, what would the Lord Jesus have me to say? I ignore my emotion and instead decided I've got to come here and cry out, therefore be ye also ready. Make ready before the close of this message. And ask yourselves this question: Am I ready to meet God right now? At this moment? If not, when will you be? God doesn't tell us to be ready if He doesn't give us the means unless it's something within our reach. Is not the word nigh unto thee? Perhaps some of you are thinking that I'm trying to take advantage of the death of this good man to frighten you, scare you. And I haven't any doubt that Satan is planting such ideas at this moment Others may say I'm preaching for effect. Yes. That's what I'm doing. I want to affect you. I want to awaken you from sleep as I warn you. Prepare to meet your God. For in such an hour as you think not, the Son of Man comes. It is from pure love to you and friendship to Craig that I put you on notice. The thought that I'm trying to frighten you for selfish motives is from the pit of hell. I read a preacher's illustration of a man who made a deal with death. And the deal was that death should not come on him by surprise. Death was to give a warning of his approach. Well, years rolled on, and at last death stood before his victim. The man stuttered and blurted out, my death, you haven't been true to your promise. You haven't kept the deal. You promised not to come unannounced. You never gave me a warning Oh come now, came the answer. Every one of those gray hairs is a warning. Every one of your age spots is a warning. Your eyes growing dim are a warning. Your lower back pain is a warning. Your relatives dying around you, young people, is a warning. See there? I've warned you continually. Then death did not delay but swept his victim into eternity. How many of you this past year have heard those warnings? Sometimes death takes us by surprise. That's the way it took our dear friend. Little did he know as he walked out of his house and into his degre into his garage what was to be the real end of his journey. About that time, as I was telling my wife of our dear good Lord's Day last Sunday night, he was then struggling with death. That was about the time he passed in the Glory Lamb. It was a frightful death by surprise. But glory be to God, beautiful salvation. Star of hope in that time of gloom and darkness and death, Craig Hodson was surely ready. He was just ripened for the kingdom of God. Think of it. He gave often and freely to meet the needs of others. He was kind to all, going about doing good. And, like the vineyard owner's son, the lord of the house came and was slain by the evil, unthankful occupant. Is that not a fitting picture of Christ? Indeed, that particular parable is mentioned three times in the gospel accounts I don't think I ever knew a man who had grown more in Christ than this dear friend has in the past decade. I don't think there's a man walking the streets of Hakumba, Hakame, or Pine Valley that has so few of enemies as Craig Hodson. He's a man whose love carries into another world. When the death angel summons came, it must have been terrible, it must have brought cruel pain. But it lasted only a few minutes, and he was in glory, because he was ready. Only a few minutes, and he was all together in that world of pure light. Perhaps shouting out loud, hallelujah, what a savior. I doubt whether so many have faithfully served God's people More than he. Or ever there was a man who worked as hard as he. He told me once if he ever sat down on the couch for more than five minutes, he'd fall asleep. With his soul now gently resting in the bosom bosom of Father Abraham, how sweet shall his rest be But dear people, while we mourn here, are we ready? We may mourn for him, and we should. We may mourn for the cruel, senseless calamity that's befallen ourselves. But what is our loss is Craig's gain. It's better for him there than it is here. It's better to be absent from the body than to be present with the Lord. Will you join him in that blessed haven of rest? Are you ready? Pastor Henry Mahan, a preacher Craig and I learned much from, once said, You have a life to live. A death to die, a judgment to face, a God to meet, and an eternity to spend. These are sure things. It's very little significance how we die or where we die if only we're prepared, if only we are ready. We don't know what may happen any day It seems to me we ought to be ready any hour. We know not what may happen any moment. Oh God, let us be ready. It seems to me utter madness and folly to delay this business another minute Look at those twin towers on 9-11 in New York City, when nearly 3,000 were ushered into eternity unexpectedly. Little did they think their time was so near at hand. Little did our friend Craig think that he was going to be ushered into eternity as he stepped into his garage. It would seem that people ought to resolve never to step out of their house again until they're ready to meet God. That no one should lie down and go to sleep tonight. Until he knows he's ready to meet his Maker. Let me speak to those who call themselves Christians. Daily beloved, are you ready? Because my question should deeply penetrate all our hearts. Are you resting in His righteousness alone and not another's righteousness? Can you say with the Apostle Paul, what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ? Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness which is of the law. But that Which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Can you really say that? And then if we're ready, we can shout. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Suppose we go on and live 30 or 40 years It's not a handbreadth. It's like a vapor that appears and disappears. What is your life? It's even a vapor that appears from untime, vanishes away. Suppose we die in some lone mountain, Christian, like Moses on the top of Pizgah, like Jacob in the midst of his family Like Joshua with the leaders of Israel around us? Or suppose God lets us die surrounded with the comforts and luxury of home? Suppose death comes unexpectedly like it did on Stephen in the book of Acts, the first New Testament martyr recorded. But only if we're ready, who cares how our time comes? If I'm ready, I would just as soon die like Stephen or Moses or Brother Craig or like Jacob with all the sons around him, but only If I'm ready for my glorious inheritance beyond the grave. That's the main question. It's not how we die, it's not where we die. At worst, it's the violence of a martyr's death And then we enter into eternal bliss forevermore. Millions of years in this world will not yield the joy of a single minute of heaven. Let me speak to the mighty men in our midst. Oh great one, shall you have a place in that heavenly kingdom? Will not each one of you ask this question right now? Am I ready? Am I truly ready? I believe that men in this historically Christian land have had some warning Some had a John the Baptist to warn him, as King Herod had. Some had an Apostle Paul, like King Agrippa and Felix had. Some had friends like Nathan sent to warn him, as King David had. Some had faithful servants who warned of the great risk, such as King Ahab had in the prophet Elijah. Well, Almighty One, I think this is a day of warning to you. Are you too proud? Too important? Too busy with your money and your riches to repent and believe the gospel of Jesus Christ today? For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What shall he give in exchange for his soul? Because if you reject God's riches in Christ, God may say to you, Thou fool, this night, thy soul shall be required of thee, and then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? If you repent and bow the knee, God will give you eyes to see, ears to hear, forgive your sins, give you a new heart, and translate you into the everlasting kingdom of his dear son. Kiss the Son lest he be angry and you perish from the way. My friend, I'm an ambassador for Christ. As though God did beseech you by me, I beg you, and Christ said, Be ye reconciled to God. Now let me speak to anyone else who dodged those warnings. Think of those people who went to work on their job in the Twin Towers. Men, women Women dropping their children off in nursery, little did they think the sun rose upon them for the last time and they'd never see it set again The sun will go down tonight and it's headed that way as I speak. Some of you here may never see it rise again. Dear people, are you ready for the call if it comes to you between now and the morning? I urge you to hear the Savior's voice. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Let me kindly put these questions to everyone here today. Can you say I am saved by the grace of God alone? Can you say I have eternal life through Jesus Christ, my Savior? Can you say I'm born again by the Spirit of the living God? If not, dear ones, let me ask you, if this very hour He should call you to stand before him. What would you say? Scripture says you can't answer him one of a thousand. Don't look for refuge in three common deceptions. Death has very many deceptions to it. Some think, well, preacher, yeah, you know I got stuff going on. Next Sunday I'll go to church We may have an auto wreck on the way driving home. Anybody hear about accidents on the roads around here? You could trip on the back steps, leaving this place, break your neck, and be ushered into eternity. You may have some hidden disease of the heart, an artery bulges and pops open. This could be your last day. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. We don't even know what will happen before tomorrow. Get right with God now and then go for worship, teaching, and fellowship. Now is the day of salvation. Another deception, many people think, that because their parents lived a great many years, they're going to live a long time also. I'm a young person. Death isn't near. It's not near my door. Many are deceived that way. I live on a road that's about a mile away down from a high school. And they have a memorial listed in memory of a certain girl who passed from driving while drowsy. She was just half asleep. She strayed in the other lane, was killed by head-on car wreck. She didn't think her time was near. Another deception. There's a false gospel deception. It goes something like this. Well, there's plenty of time to be a Christian. There's time to pray to God before I die. I was deceived by that once. I figured I'd wait until I saw Christ sitting on a throne in Jerusalem, and then I'd get right with God. Surely the news would cover it. What a train wreck of an idea that is. Craig never saw his end coming. There's no time to repent and believe then. That's not the time. For him it was nearly instantly. There's no time for prayer and chaos as that. I wouldn't put it off The Word of God comes now, dear ones, at this moment to you. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That's the first duty of life, not the last. It's more important that you seek the kingdom of God today, even now, at this very hour, than anything else in this life. It's more important, frankly, than going home this afternoon to attend to Earth's greatest affairs. More important than if you win the lottery. Go inherit all the land of this world. Suspend your business as necessary. Lay aside everything until this greatest issue of time and eternity is resolved. Prepare to meet thy God. Prepare by coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. Wouldn't you not rather be in the place of Craig and immediately enter into glory after a terrible moment by the hand of a depraved mind? Wouldn't you not rather choose that than to live on another twenty-five or hundred years And die without Christ and be cast by surprise into outer darkness where there is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, and where the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night I would rather a thousand times have been in that garage last Sunday and taken an awful leap to meet the God man face to face. Than to have the wealth and the reputation and the publicity and all the power of this world and die without Christ and without hope. Yes, this is a time to shed many tears, and I think a great many tears should be shed, especially for our sins of the past year. Every sin is highly offensive to a holy God. Jesus said, every idle word that man shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. If you hear God speak, you won't leave this building until you've tasted repentance and the joy of sins forgiven. How? How you may ask? Jesus made it very clear and simple. Repent and believe the gospel. I may be speaking to some this morning who are hearing me from the last time. Tomorrow I return home to Maryland, Lord willing. Dear people, family, friends, co workers of Craig Hobson I speak as a dying man to dying men, prepare to meet by God. I beg of you, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him. And to our God, for He will abundantly pardon. You don't return to Mary, you don't go to a statue, you don't go to an institution, you return to the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says, if you shall seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him. If you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul, that means seeking God with the whole heart, no holding back. You've got to abandon your God of sports. You've got to abandon your God of politics. You've got to abandon your God of status and reputation, fashion of the day, selfishness, whatever comes between you and Jesus Christ. You must worship and live for Him alone. Whether you know it or not, I've given you over 30 Bible passages which you're able to save your soul. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. You've had the word witnessed to you today, in spite of the weakness of this messenger. Take heed, though. God takes his Son, Jesus Christ, and His Word very seriously. And I quote, For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth. There remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye Shall he be thought worthy who has trodden underfoot the Son of God and has counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has done despite unto the Spirit of Grace? For we know him that has said, vengeance belongeth unto me, I will repay, saith the Lord. And again, the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. You'll probably never be more concerned or so clearly warned than today. Do not delay. Please stand with me for closing prayer. O Lord God of our fathers, may you have compassion, Lord, upon every soul assembled here. May eyes be opened and souls see the glorious beauty. The fullness and sufficiency of Jesus Christ our substitute. May the divine warnings take hold upon every soul, for the fear of the Lord is the fountain of life to depart from the snares of death. May we, Father, may we profit by this grievous calamity, and may many be raised up in eternity to thank you that this meeting was ever held. Let none, O Father, find rest until they find their rest in thee. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You may be seated.