Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of 2 Corinthians and the sixth chapter. 2 Corinthians chapter 6. And I'll begin our scripture reading with the 14th verse of the chapter. And I'm going to read through verse 1 of chapter 7. 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers? For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. And touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness In the fear of God. Let's pray. Father, open our eyes to see thy truth Open our ears to hear thy gospel. Bless thy word to us this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The text I would like to take this morning is that 14th verse. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. God, in his word, from the very beginning has established distinctions. The distinctions we find in God's Word began before the fall. God divided the light from the darkness. God divided the seas from the dry land. And so God is a God of distinctions. God is a God of separation. But then following the fall, we find God setting distinctions for his people. Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 3 and 4. The children of Israel were warned that they were not to marry the people that were not the people of God. Neither shall ye make marriages with them. Thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. God has established a distinction, a difference. And then in uh Deuteronomy, chapter twenty-two, verse nine and following Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with diverse seeds, lest the fruit of thy seed which thou hast sown and the fruit of the vineyard be defiled. Thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass together. Thou shalt not wear a garment of diverse sorts. And so God has established these differences. The Levites were told that they were to be separate from that which was unclean. And in Ezekiel 26, the priest Are condemned because they failed to put a difference between the clean and the unclean, the holy and the profane. And so this is a well-established principle in the Word of God. There is to be a distinction. between the people of God and the world. And so we come to this passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 And Paul says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. So let's pause and talk about the yoke. What is the yoke that's being spoken of here? Well, this word yoke that Paul is using here is only found in this passage of Scripture. And the word is in the original a participle. In other words, it's an ING word. It's an ing word. Literally, we could say, be ye not unequally yoke ing together with unbelievers. It's also a present word. It's talking about right now. Don't be in the process of yoking yourselves together with unbelievers. So again, the question: what is the yoke? Well there's two ways this word yoke is used. Here in scripture it's used agriculturally and in the co what we call the uh the the common Greek, not the biblical Greek, but the Greek that was spoken in those days Um from the historians we find out it also is a military term. A yoke is that halter That is put upon the animal. And we read there in the Old Testament they weren't supposed to yoke the ox and the ass together. The yoke binds the animal to the task. It is the instrument through which the animal pulls the load, but also the yoke is the instrument through which the driver steers the animal. And when you had a big burly ox in the yoke and a little donkey beside him It never works out well. They can't pull evenly. They can't plow a straight furrow because you've got two dissimilars working against each other. I remember in Jamaica there was one cart that I would see in in Savannah Lamar where we did our shopping. And they had a great big mule and this teensy little donkey. We're not even talking a small donkey. We're almost talking a miniature. And it was comical to see this thing going down the road. And you knew that little donkey, he just prancing along on a pony. Because he's not doing a thing. He didn't have to work. Now, in order for the yoke to be successful, the two in the yoke have to have commonality. And when they don't, it doesn't work The other reference that is not in the Bible, but is in contemporary Greek writings of the time is a military reference. In other words, if you have a very strong defensive line, but one spot that's extremely weak, the line's going to fail. Because that weak spot is where the enemy is going to attack. And also the military reference that again is not in scripture, but it's in the in the historic Greek writings Is that of a military group that's mixed? You've got some patriots. They believe in the cause and they're willing to die for the cause. But mixed into the military root group, you've got traitors. You've got those that care nothing about the battle. And when the battle gets hot, those that are supposed to stand and fight are going to turn and run And the whole unit is going to be overcome. Now Paul says to the believers, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. The the James and Fawcett and Brown commentary referred to it as yoked with one alien in spirit. Yoked with one alien in spirit. Now what is it that Christians are to do? Remember the words of Christ? Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall receive rest to your souls. But on the other hand, Paul said, stand fast in the liberty whereof Christ hath made you free, and be not again entangled in the yoke of bondage. So for the child of God, God has taken off the yoke of sin and given us the yoke of his blessing. And so, as we begin to approach this passage, let me say right off the bat that it is impossible For me to make every application of this passage that could be made. And I would encourage you, as we go through some principles about an unequally yoked, to examine your own heart and say, Lord, where am I yoked? To the wrong thing. And we're going to consider some from the passage, and I'm going to point out some obvious ones. But God sees your heart. We see your face. And so I'd encourage us all to to examine our hearts and say, Lord, am I in some way yoked to sin or yoked to an unbeliever? But the first thing we find here is this yoke is a spiritual yoke that's been Obviously, none of us come in with one of those big wooden yokes that we've seen somewhere in a museum. It's a spiritual yoke that's being talked of there. And if you look back to verse 14 It says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness. And that word fellowship is almost the same word as communion. It means to commune with. It means to be in unity with. What fellowship does righteousness have with unrighteousness? Oh, I'm half-righteous. No, you see, if you're half righteous and half unrighteous, you're unrighteous In all. And so as believers, we cannot try to be halfway. We cannot try to be, well, I'm righteous on Sunday. But the rest of the week. I'm unequally yoked to my sin. Christ declares John declares to us all unrighteousness. Is sin. And the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. What was the condemnation condemnation that God or sorry the commendation that God gave to Jesus Christ? Well, thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. We find God's saying of the Son in Hebrews 1. And so what communion does light have with darkness? The scripture is filled with passages relating to light and darkness, and I've already mentioned That at the creation, God divided the light from the darkness. There's no twilight here. There's no dusk. We either are filled with light or we're filled with darkness And the scriptures warns us, if our light be darkness, how great is our darkness. This glass of water only has one drop of poison. Is it a glass of water or is it a glass of poison? glass of poison. And so spiritually we cannot be yoked to that which is sin. Because just as the ox and the donkey trying to pull together, the sin is going to be the driver and not the spirit of God. Remember when the children of Israel were still in bondage in Egypt, and God sent darkness on the Egyptians. But the children of Israel had light in their dwellings. God made a difference. God made a separation. And so What fellowship can light have with darkness? And so the right off the bat we understand that this is talking about a spiritual problem. And the language of our text is is be not unequally yoked with unbelievers, with those that do not know the Lord. And so not only is it a spiritual issue, but it's a religious issue. We are told not to be unequally yoked with unbelievers. In verse 15, what concord hath Christ with the Lyle, or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God So first of all, when we talk about not being yoked together with with uh unbelievers in the sense of this being a rogue of uh unequally yoked religiously There's a lot of very religious unbelievers. Oh yeah. The world is filled with people that are very earnestly religious. But they are not believers. And we are not to be yoked with them, because that is an unequal yoke What concord a Christ with Belial? The word Belial there is the same word we find in the Old Testament, talking about the sons of Eli that were sons of of Belial. The word belial is used as one of the names of Satan, of the evil one. What concord hath Christ with Satan? You can't yoke those two together. Paul in Galatians 1 said, Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached. Let him be accursed. And entically the man that is a heretic after the first and second admonition reject. And in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 11, but now have I written unto you not to keep company with him that is called a brother. Uh with any man that is called a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, which uh which some with such and one Thou shalt not eat. Paul there talks about those that are called brothers, but they're fornicators, they're extortioners, they're railers. Don't even eat with them. Now, consider this. How many religious infidels in our world today would call themselves Christians And how Satan is the great counterfeiter, but we're not even to eat with them. John, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits. Second John, receive him not in your house or bid him godspeed. Let me tell you something. When the Jehovah's Witness comes and knocks on your door, don't open the door Don't let him in. If you have the spiritual wherewithal, and again, you know, if you don't have the spiritual wherewithal, ignore him, but if you are able to witness to him, do it on the porch. Right. But don't let him into your house. You see, today there is a great call for ecumenicism. Oh, we're all the children of God, and we've all got to work together for the glory of God. But can the infidel work for the glory of God? And can I work for the glory of God if I've got this thing around my neck and he is the donkey holding the whole works back? And so we must have this separation. And not to get into a long story, but uh the uh I I just just learned of one of the Anglican groups that actually had left the main Anglican church because of homosexuality. Because the main Anglican denomination was uh Ordaining homosexuals and having homosexual marriages in their church. So this group in two thousand nine said, Oh, we can't do that, we've got to pull out. But you know what they just did? They just join in a fraternal relationship with the United States Council of or Congress of Catholic Bishops. Okay, so remember the story the the man out of whom a demon was cast and he went and swept out his house and came back and he took seven more demons to himself. You see, the whole thing was corrupt to begin with. And so we have to be separatists. And the end of the passage says, Come out from among them, and I will receive you. And so we cannot be yoked to the religious unbelieving man But also, if we're going to be true to God, we cannot be yoked to disobedient believers. We can't be yoked to religious unbelievers, and we can't be yoked to disobedient believers Because there are many who are truly the children of God, but they're not walking according to God's word. Mm. And so we have to be separate. What agreement has the temple of God with idols? And so In Romans 16, verses 17 and 18, Paul says, Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, and avoid them And again in 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 16, now we command you, brethren, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the traditions which he have received. Verse fourteen of the same chapter. And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man and have no company with him that he may be ashamed. Verse 15, yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. And so there are those that are indeed believers. And we do not count them as enemies. But at the same time, we can't have a religious service with them We can't link ourselves to them for the cause of evangelism. Rather, we're to love them as brothers, but we're to admonish them. And to point out their error. And so we find that this matter of yoking is a spiritual matter, and we can become unequally yoked religiously. But another way in which we have to be careful with unequal yoke is we can become unequally yoked socially. The text says: ye are the temple of the living God. And what fellowship, what communion has the temple of God with idols? We can link ourselves socially to friends That know not the Lord, and the unbelieving friend begins to steer every conversation. The unbelieving friend begins to choose the activities. The unbelieving friend becomes the driver, and rather than us being a light To lead them to truth, they become the darkness that sucks us in. And it becomes an unequal yoke to us. We are the temple of God. We must not limit we or we must limit what takes place in God's residence. That's right. We're the temple of God. We must limit what takes place in God's residence. He dwells within us. And so In Proverbs 1, verse 10, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. My son, walk not in the in the way of them. Refrain thy foot from thy Path. Be careful of your friends. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. He's not yoked with the ungodly. Paul says in 1 Corinthians, I wrote unto you an epistle not to company with fornicators. And so we have to be careful how our friendships can lead us into an unequal yoke. Remember Samson? Samson was a Nazarite from the womb. Samson was chosen by God. Samson was stronger than any man. I believe he was also a very handsome man. Man. But you know what Samson's great downfall was? He can't make you friends with the wicked. He he chooses the wife of the wicked. He hangs around with Delilah. He yoked himself with unbelievers. And it led to him being yoked to a mill without his eye. But not only can our friends become an unequal yoke, our family. That's right. Our family can be an unequal yoke. And I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the marriage issue because we understand from scripture that believers are to marry believers, and I already read the one passage there from Deuteronomy where they work to give their daughters to the heathen to be their w wives, and they weren't to take their daughters or th their sons to be son-in-laws, etc. Or not to make marriages with the unbelievers. And I and I know that there are many people who are indeed believers and they have an unbelieving spouse and and scripture does not ordain departing from that marriage, but rather praying for the salvation. of the unbelieving spouse. And so I'm not I'm not talking about that when I'm talking about an unequal youth. That's something that's established. And we find many times that it is indeed the means of salvation to the unbelieving spouse. But your family will always be your family, but there's times when your family is not your family. Right. And see, we are part of the family of God. And we may have blood relationships with others, but there comes a point when they really can't be our family. And that doesn't mean we reject them, doesn't mean we shun them, but it does mean that we may have to limit our exposure to them. It does mean that we may have to limit the amount of time we spend with them, especially that they not become a bad influence on our children. Sometimes cousins playing with cousins is not a good idea. And so as the children of God, our unbelieving family in the flesh can come become to us an unequal yoke. Look down at the passage there in verses 17 and 18. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be unto you a father, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. God says Come out from among him. You'll have a family. But not the family that you were born into. He that loveth father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all and have followed thee. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, thereeth no man hath left house. Or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my gospel's sake, for my sake and the gospels, but he will receive a hundredfold at this time. The family of God is the family of the believers. And sadly there are times when we have to limit our exposure to our flesh and blood family because they become an unequal yoke to the believers. But the fourth way that we can be in an unequal yoke is we can get into an unequal yoke recreationally. And I I I mentioned at the outset that I'm not I can't there's not time for me to touch on everything, but I think we can all start making applications in areas of our lives. Folks, I'm not opposed to recreation. I love recreation. And Christ ordained recreation. He told the disciples, come yourselves apart and rest. And I I always like that that verse is actually Mark 6. 31. And I always like to add Mark 6. 32 to it, because in Mark 6. 32, or 6. 31, Christ says, Come yourselves apart and rest. In Mark 6. 32 they entered into a ship. And uh I used to joke about that with scuba diving. Okay, the Lord said come apart and rest, so I'm gonna enter into a ship and I'm gonna go gonna go diving. God ordained recreation and we do need to recreate But at the same time, our recreation can become an unequal yoke to us if our recreation becomes worldly entertainment. Worldly entertainment. Looking back at our passage there in verse 14 Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness? Is your recreation light? Or darkness. Is that which you really enjoy doing edifying to your soul, or is it something you have to pray and confess about when you're done? You see, we can get so yoked to the entertainment of this world, to the world's sweet candies, which are poison to the soul. And so Christ said, love not the world. That's right. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And see what that passage is telling us? That we can begin off loving the world. Sorry, begin off loving the Lord. But then yoke ourselves to the world's entertainment, and the world's entertainment won't make you love the Lord anymore. Rather, the world's entertainment will push the love of the Lord out. Now see if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him because light and darkness don't mix. The sun rises and the darkness leaves. But when the sun sets, the darkness takes over. And so if we allow ourselves to be yoked to the entertainments of this world, they will soon overcome the light of the love of God within us. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Paul spoke of the wicked But his words were a warning to the righteous. In Romans 1, verse 32, Paul said, Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death. Not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Now Paul was talking about the wicked who do the wicked themselves, but they have pleasure in them that do wickedly. But the sad thing is a lot of believers have pleasure in them that do wickedly. Oh, I don't do those things myself, but boy, I like to hear about what he's doing. I don't do those things myself, but I like I like to watch what he's doing doing. I'd like to know about it. I gotta I've gotta know what the stars are saying. I I I've gotta know what the football team is doing. And folks I enjoy football I do. But oh, how those things can become an unequal yoke. And so, first of all, we can be yoked to worldly entertainment, but secondly, we can be yoked to obsessive entertainment And I mentioned football already. Add in your sport, add in your recreation, add in your hobby. Add in whatever it is that begins to take away from your time in prayer and take away from your time in the word, and it's now an unequal yoke. And so excessive, excessive entertainment, or obsessive, whichever way you want to put it. Paul said again, 1 Corinthians 6, not we're in 2 Corinthians 6, in 1 Corinthians 6, 12, all things are lawful to me. But all things are not expedient. All things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. You see, there's a lot of recreation that is fine in and of itself as long as it doesn't begin to control us. I have no problem with a with a travel camper, except when it's used on the Lord's Day. Right. You follow the difference there. You know a lot a lot of people they get this big camper and it's a beautiful thing and it's a wonderful thing for them to enjoy with their family, but then before long uh you won't see them on Sunday when it's camping weather Because they're off with the family. Oh, but the fish bite best on Sunday. Of course they do. But the game is only played on Sunday. Um I I enjoy the little little Hot Wheels matchbox cars. You know, I had them as a kid. I still I still uh my family jokes that I don't collect them, I just got about a thousand. Okay. But you know when the Hot Wheels Convention is? It's on Sunday afternoon. Sunday from nine to three up in Hershey is the hot every year is the Hot Wheels Committee. I've never been. Because That's not where I belong on the Lord's day. It's something I can enjoy, but when it becomes to me an obsession, when it becomes to me that which yokes me to the things of this world and breaks the yoke that Christ has put upon me. Mm-hmm. Then it becomes unequal yoke. But then finally, we can become unequally yoked financially. It can become unequally yoked financially. In Exodus thirty-four and verse twelve, take heed to thyself that thou make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land. Don't make a covenant with them. Now, it doesn't mean we can't invest. Remember the parable of the talents The rebuke of the servants that had buried the talent in the gown was, why didn't you give it to the merchants that I might receive my own with usury? There's nothing wrong with investments. And yet we are not to get yoked to unbelievers financially. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 1. I read briefly some verses from this passage earlier, but turn with me to the passage, Proverbs chapter 1. And I'm going to read from verse 10 down through verse 19 and make a few comments. Here Solomon says, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. If sinners say, hey, come, come, join in with us. Don't do it. If they say, Come, let us wait for bl uh let us wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause, let us swallow them up alive as the grave and whole, and those that go down into the pit. We shall find all precious substance. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Another way that words the wicked say, hey, we can get rich here. We can build something here. We can get rich. Cast thy lot with us, let us have one purse. In other words, come invest here. Hey. Come invest with us. Hey, you know what? I've got this business opportunity. And if you if you want to get in on the ground floor of this thing, and yeah, it's legal But is it moral? Yeah, it's legal, but is it something that's going to cause you to love the Lord more or to love him less? Is this financial arrangement going to be something that is going to enhance your spiritual walk or detract from it? Is this something that you're going to be able to tithe on? Isn't that a good measure? Remember the scripture, uh bring not the price of a dog to the house of the Lord? I used to tease my brother about that because he was raising pups and selling them. I said, hey, can you tithe on that? But you see, we need finances We've got to have food, clothes, and a roof over our head and transportation. But don't get in a business partnership with the unbelievers. Don't invest in that there are green funds, folks, and I'm not talking about green trees, but there are places to invest our money. It doesn't put our money into alcohol or tobacco or abortion clinics. And so we have to be very careful because the world says, Cast thy lot with us, and you'll make a lot of money. But the world's making a lot of money on iniquity. And so we find first of all that a yoke is a spiritual matter. It's something that ties our soul to another. And as the children of God, we cannot tie our soul to an infidel. We cannot tie our soul to unbelievers. We cannot link ourselves with that which is iniquity. And we find also that this yoke goes into our religious relationships But there's a lot of people that call themselves by the name of Christ, and they're anything but believers. They're unbelievers. And they're even believers That we love them. We don't call them our enemies. And we admonish them to repent. But we can't link ourselves to them because they will pull us us down spiritually. This yoke goes into our friendships and even into our families. Or we have to decide, is this someone who is going to cause me to walk more with the Lord, or is this someone who's going to draw me away from the Lord? And we find that this matter of yokes goes into our entertainments. How we can get yoked in to that which is evil and even in to our pocketbook. But go with me down to verse 17 of the passage as we begin to wrap this up. Back in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 17. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye separate. I've seen the text on the wall of churches behind the pulpit. Come out from among them and be separate. And so you know my father's background where he was in the old Methodist Episcopal Church before there was a United Methodist. And all the way back in the late 40s, they were, actually before World War II, they began, but in the late 40s, the declension from truth and the denial of sound Bible teaching had begun. And he had to make the painful decision to walk out, to leave, and started a new church that the Lord blessed abundantly, but he had to come out and be separate And so we're told to come out from among them and be separate, but then to touch not the unclean thing. Doesn't that apply to our families? to our friendships, to our recreation, to our finances. Touch not the unclean thing. That's nasty. That's dirty. No, we tell a child, put that down. Don't walk there. Don't get yoked. Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. You see, my friend, if you may be rejected by your business partners, by your company, you may be rejected by your friends, you may be rejected by your your families but God will receive you. And I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters. Saith the Lord Almighty. You know what the world has a lot to say about this, don't they? The world has a lot of advice for what we ought to enjoy. What we ought to see, what we ought to wear, what we ought to look like, what we ought to enjoy, what we ought to earn, etc. But it's the Lord Almighty that says, I'll be a father to you, and you'll be my sons and daughters. First one of chapter seven. Having therefore these promises. Wow. What are the promises? No good thing will I withhold from him that walketh uprightly. No good thing. Oh, but but you'll enjoy this. Oh, but you need to go here. Oh, but you'll make all this money. Oh, but this no, no good thing. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit. Remember where we began? Yoking is a spiritual matter Perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Folks who look around at our nation and we say, Oh, this place is a mess. And it's this one's fault and it's that one's fault. No, it's our fault. It's our fault. It becomes back to the church. If we are truly to be a light in this world, we cannot be yoked to the darkness Father, we thank you this morning for your word. We thank you, Lord, that if the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. And having been made free from sin, let us not be yoked again with the yoke of bondage. But O Lord, what a joy to take your yoke, to take the yoke of Christ upon us and learn of Him. For you are meek and lowly of soul. We shall meek and lowly, and we shall receive rest to our souls. Father, bless thy word to our hearts. Cause us, Lord, to be light of the world. And Father, may our light never be darkness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.