I have to, by way of introduction, just give you a little idea here about these verses 15 through 22. Some commentators believe that those verses don't belong there, that they should be uh early on in the book of Samuel, maybe as far back as 1 Samuel rather than 2 Samuel But they're found in the manuscripts there, and I believe they they belong there. The reason they feel that way, and just to draw your attention, is that the story that we're about to read in verses 15 through 22 deals with David going out to battle And he and his men, and they fight the other four brothers of Goliath. There was five giants born of the giant, it says, in Gath. And these five giants born of the giant, these five were they were five brothers. If this is taking place where we come to the scriptures here in 2 Samuel 21, David's close to 60. The giants are close to 60, and Abishai, who saves David's life, is close to 60. It seems like that's pretty old for being out in the battlefield, all right? So what I'm comfortable with and what the other commentators uh share with us, I want to share with you as well, that this takes place earlier, and we we have it here in the scriptures. If you go back to verse 14, chapter 21 and verse 14 And it says the bones of Saul and Jonathan were buried. And then go down to the bottom of that verse. And it says, and after that God was entreated for the land. Moreover, see verse 15, moreover, or in addition, God was also entreated for the land when the Philistines went to war against Israel and David went down. So it's just it's just reflecting back on there are numerous times when God was entreated for the land, and as it was here when he buried Saul and Jonathan's bones in verse fifteen, moreover Or in addition to uh the Philistines, when they had war with Israel, this was the time when David's actions and the actions of men killing the other giants, God was entreated for the land again. So I I think it belongs there. It's just um Uh when you read it through real quickly sometimes you wonder how these old guys gonna got out there and done battle. Well it was reflecting back to some other times when God was entreated uh for the land. So let's look at these verses now this morning and you're gonna recognize some of the names. and realize, if you would please, that this these battles took place. We don't know when they took place. We just know that they did. Um probably sometime within a few months or years of Goliath dying, the brothers got an opportunity to go after David again. They certainly wouldn't have waited forty years to go after David. They'd have been too old. So in verse fifteen of chapter twenty-one, moreover the Philistines had yet war again with Israel, and David went down, and the servants with him, and fought against the Philistines, and David waxed faint And Ish Ibinab, that's Ishbai, he is from Nab, that's Binab from Nab, Ishbai Binab, which was of the sons of the giant Now not the son of Goliath, because Goliath was also the son of the giant. These are all brothers here. And Ish Abinob, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass That is the head of the spear weighed about seven pounds. So this is a big guy with a big spear. And uh he being girded with a new sword thought to have slain David. So he's got this new sword, he's very confident, he comes in and he has struck David, and he believes that David is dead. But Abishai, the son of Zaruiah, secured him, that is secured David, smote the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore in him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle. that thou quench not the light of Israel. That was a close call, David. We don't want this to happen again to you. And it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob And then Sibekai, the Hushethite, slew Saf, which was the sons of the giant. So here's the second giant by name. We got Goliath, we got Ishbai Banab, and now we got Saf. That's the three of the names of three of the giants. And they slew Saph. And there was again a battle in God with the Philistines where Elhana, the son of Jeorzam, the Bethlehemite, must have been a close friend of David's coming from Bethlehem. He's a Bethlehemite He slew the brother of Goliath, the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. And there was yet a battle in Gath, where a man of great stature that had on every hand six fingers, on every foot six toes, four and twenty in number, and he also was born to the giant. And when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shimei, the brother of David, slew him. These four were born to the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants. So here we had the death of the four other brothers of Goliath. And uh we want to look at that this morning. Um bury you one another's burdens. Uh I I always think I could come up with a better sermon title. Uh probably about Noon tomorrow, actually I'll have a better sermon title for this, but uh we'll we'll see some of the reasons why we have chosen this at least. So moreover, or in addition, God was entreated, and the Philistines made war again with Israel, and David went down and the servants with him. These servants were with David. They were going into battle. They're going into battle with some big problems, with some big individuals, with some new weapons. This is This is not something that they thought lightly of here. And they're going into battle and it says the servants were with him. They were with David. They're on the same page. They had the same vision They knew the Philistines' intrusion had to be addressed with force. They understood that this could not be ignored. It had to be done, and they were willing to fight against the Philistines. These Philistines, and we read here today, of four separate battles that take place. They they are just they just don't give up. I mean the enemies of God just don't give up. They're just never content with the situation as it is Uh we were wondering what's gonna go on in the streets of Washington DC uh during the inauguration and yesterday. And I believe this is just gonna go on. There's a there's an element that just hates uh the goodness and the righteousness of of the what is going on in this or what we hope was going to happen in the next couple of years and they're just not content. And we find here that the Philistines they were not content and because they were not content they didn't stay quiet And because they didn't weren't content, it is they quiet, they were not uh they weren't an agreeable people. They were not a tolerant people, we're told to be a tolerant people. But the enemy Satan's side is never agreeable. They're never tolerant. They're never quiet. They're never content. They're never compliant. And they're never charitable towards the things of Christ. And that's what David is dealing with here. They hate the king of Israel, especially the anointed king of Israel, which is David, and of course he represents the anointed, the king of kings to come, and they have this real animosity here. And so we ought to recognize as we look at this, and when we go through David's life, I mean there is battle after battle. There's hardly a chapter where there's not a war. From from his day one until the day he dies, there's so much fighting And that's pretty much the life of a Christian. There are battles and struggles, if it's not with neighbors, co-workers, family, our own sin nature. uh there is just always something that we are struggling with. Uh had nothing seems to change and it's not. We're we're never as a Christian, if you really when you commit yourself to Christ you don't get the rose garden back. You don't get the Garden of Eden back. You're placed out on the battlefield. That's where you are. And uh as as followers of Christ, there's no vacation We are just we're just always going to be in a fight somewhere. Some of you if you hang around and get here early, or if you stay around late and you talk with other families, you find out that The struggles you've got going on in your family, you know, with an aunt or an uncle or brother or sister, y it it's it's pretty common. You know, Christ said when he would come, he would divide brother from sister and father from daughter and and mother from son in law and it uh it's it it's just the way that's the way it is. And we have the life here of David too, how it's just one battle after another. No vacation as it were And so here we find these challenges coming on David. And we find these challenges, and our challenges as well, as we grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord, our challenges seem to increase in size We get bigger problems, and we also find that the numbers of our problems seem to increase. We we thought as we got saved and we we got rid of this sin problem and that sin problem, that things that get smoother towards the end of our lives And there's we may take care of some of our sin problems, but then because we're living for Christ, we're agitating the devil's crowd. And so we get other problems. The boss doesn't like us, a relative doesn't like us And so our problems become bigger and they become nor more numerous. And so here's David out in his first battle And uh this long giant comes over with a new sword and smacks him with it, and David waxed fate defending, defending, blocking and blocking and dodging and with this fella. He said he waxed faint. And it must have happened as he s as the Ishvaibanath, the giant, struck him that he went down And uh he thought he killed him and so he was feeling pretty good about himself. That new sword worked really good. He starts to walk away and And what happens here? Well, it's by enough he was the son of one of the giants and the weight of his spear and the seven pound head of it, and maybe it it made a good s a good strike against him. And he thought he was so well equipped for the moment he thought he'd done his job, you know But we're going to find here in a couple of verses that David wasn't dead. David had gone down in a faint. And this giant was just very, very overcompetent. With his new sword. I want you to think first off that we we discuss here these four giants. Goliath is a fifth. Remember you go back to 1 Samuel 17 and 40, when David went out to fight Goliath He went and he picked up how many stones? Five smooth stones. These giants were known throughout Israel. Big guys like that, they kind of stand out. They're like a big basketball team or something, you know And uh they they stood out. David thought when I kill Goliath and I'm gonna kill Goliath. He told Goliath, I'm gonna kill you, and I'm gonna cut off your head and I'm gonna feed your body to the vultures. I mean David was pretty confident He could take the top off a dandelion from probably a hundred yards, took out a lion, took out a bear, and so he had four extra stones with him. In case the brothers get irritated as he's cutting off the head of Goliath, he'll just turn around and take them out as well And that's that's why the five stones are mentioned. Numbers are really important in the Bible. You have to believe these numbers. They're not just K Sarah Sarah tossed out in the scripture, even a number. is inspired of God. It's in infallible as inerc. And we ought not to be playing with the numbers. Can you imagine if Noah played with the numbers of the dimension of the ark? Now Noah I want you to make it so wide and so high and so long And he said, well, you know, we're running out of lumber. I'm going to shorten it up a little bit, maybe not make it as high, maybe not make it as wide. And it was in my lifetime, the last couple of decades, they've got these water tanks now. They actually built the structure of the arc in the dimensions. Uh not not as big as the original one, but they made a uh a model in the dimensions. They put in a tank uh down at the uh naval academy and they found it's the most stable ship in the world. I mean the dimensions were great. If if Noah had changed the dimensions, they might have lost himself and all the animals. The words are important. The numbers are important And in fact, we now build these large oil tankers along the dimensions of Noah's Ark for width and depth and so forth. Numbers are so important. And uh when when Joshua was told to march around Jericho seven times, and then you can attack. What if you decided, yeah, five or six is good enough? Well attack on the fifth day or the sixth day. No, God said attack on the seventh day. Well on the seventh day we've been marching around once a day. On the seventh day, let's march around once a day on the day. No on the seventh day, you're going to walk around seven times. Numbers are important. Don't change anything in the scriptures. And so we got this fellow here, Ispaibanath, and he comes in and he's gotten rid of the old sword. He's got a new sword. And you know the new sword is always better, right? Tell that to the people who bought the Etsel years ago, you know. Um sometimes being new isn't the best. And neither is it new when some people say, I've got a The sword of the Lord, the Jerusalem blade, I just got a new one. You know, some of these newer Bibles aren't as good as the old sword I I love the I love the King James Bible. It's not just because it sounds like Shakespeare, but I I love the translation. I love the way it's laid out. I love the poeticness of it. You can sing the psalms in it. You can do responsive reading to the congregation. It's written in such a way, not only they translate it well, but they translate it so that a congregation can do responsive reading Some of the translations about the day you can't even do responsible reading. They're so broken up. So this giant he comes in with a new sword and I I just I'm just concerned about the Bibles our people use sometimes. Some of these new Bibles. Um for example, uh the New Living Translation, if you've got one of those or the new international version. However, they we've been telling the NIV people we don't like uh what you've done with this Bible. In fact we had people in our Bible pressing uh group that was sat on that committee and they came back and shared with us what was wrong with it. And it took us over thirty-five years for them to make the change in Isaiah 7. 14 where it says, I will show you a great sign, a virgin shall give birth. They didn't have virgin there They had young woman or a maid. And we said it's virgin? I mean she was a virgin. How can you do this? And then so then they'd put a they put virgin with a big asterisk there and you'd go and read the asterisk. This is probably a one young woman or a maiden I mean this this is what the new the new swords were doing, these these the new swords. In fact, uh they changed the NIV, I've got my NIV Bible, it doesn't have Virgin in it, but if you've got one it's been written since two thousand and eleven they finally changed that. But they got other things they got to change that I'm not happy with yet either. Uh how about the revised standard version? Same thing. The the new revised standard version, same thing. The American Standard Version, same thing. The New American Standard Version, yep, they've done the same thing. The voice, the message, the good news. And I can go on and on. What they've done is they've assaulted The sign, you know, when Isaiah said, I will show you a great sign, you know. That means like a miracle. A virgin should give birth. And they say, I'll show you a great sign. A young woman should give birth. I gotta ask you Have you ever heard of a young woman giving birth to Mrs. Pike, she's a young woman, she gave birth. Is that a miracle? Is that a great sign? No. I mean people give young women give birth all the time. Is that a Is that a great sign? Isaiah 714 doesn't make sense to say, I'll show you a sign. A young woman or a maiden shall give birth How's that a sign? Now if it's a virgin that does it, that's something else. And all these new swords I mentioned to you, the RSV, the NRSV, the ASV, the they all remove virgin Or they asterisk it and they say, and you go down and you look at the asterisk or the footnote and it says, this is probably a young woman or a maiden. You know, that that's bothersome to me. Um and and I I remember when I was studying this years ago, because there was different manuscripts and different things, and I remember um Seminary professors, they'll teach like this to you. They'll tell you, well, there are different manuscripts out there, you know? There are different manuscripts out there. And some of the manuscripts it doesn't say. Alma or virgin. You know, I mean it's not there. And I looked this up and I I I read some of these manuscripts. I got to look at them, I finished my Greek, and I found one manuscript, and they were right Version wasn't there. Manuscripts are often kind of dilapidated and ripped up. And there it was. Behold, shell. Oh, what's in here? Oh, well, you know what was in there. Behold, a virgin shall. But they'll tell you, some of the manuscripts don't have virgin. Some of the manuscripts, they don't even have Isaiah 7. 14. And you know why? Because the whole page is gone. Some go some of the manuscripts don't have Isaiah 714. You know why? The whole book of Isaiah is gone. And these young seminary kids they they go to seminary and they're impressionable by this lofty professor with the grey hair and the the pipe hanging out of his mouth, you know. And he says, There are actually manuscripts that do not have. Isaiah seven fourteen There are manuscripts that have Isaiah 7. 14, but there's no mention of the virgin in them. No mention of the virgin? Well, I wonder where that is. It's dishonest. That that is dishonest. And I hesitate, I don't hesitate to tell you some of the professors They don't know either. They never went back to the manuscript to look and find out there are holes in it or there are pages or there are books missing from it. They they just believe what they are parrying to the next generation of students. And so don't tell me sometimes that the new sword is better. If Bible's got a new sword, it's going to cost him his life And when we have these new swords out there, they are assaulting the sign of Isaiah 714 and they're by replacing the word version or putting an asterisk on it and so forth And what happens when you get these newer translations, they muddy the waters and they raise questions about the trustworthiness of any translation. There are good manuscripts out there There are some good translations out there, but they muddy the waters and they also they not only render less effective their own translation for removing virgin. But they make everybody doubt the other good manuscripts that are there. So here he comes with his new sword. And he thought to have slain David. Got the new sword and maybe it felt a little different in his hand, and maybe swung it not quite, didn't quite catch the edge of David's helmet and caught the Broadside the sword, but he went down, man, he's out, and and oh he's dead, and I can move on. He thought to have slain David, but his thoughts weren't fact. His thoughts weren't facts. Alright? Satan's crowd thought to have slain Christ, didn't he? Christ is on the cross, he's bled, the spear is under his rib. He looks he's dead and and they put him in the tomb and Satan thought to have slain Christ. Now Christ was dead But guess what? Satan hadn't slain the Lord Jesus Christ. You're reading the scriptures, Luke twenty-three and forty-six, that he gave up the ghost. Nobody took his life from him Satan says, I killed the Savior, I killed the rich. No, he didn't. He gave up the ghost. When it was his time, he in fact he says in John ten and fifteen and eighteen, I lay down my life for the sheep, no man taketh it from me Satan did not kill Christ. The crucifiers didn't kill Christ. The nails in his hands didn't kill Christ. The man who shoved the spirit in his room to see if he was dead or not. He didn't kill Christ. Christ would have hung on that cross until the year 2017, and he wouldn't have died if he didn't want to. He's God. Come in the flesh. Nobody can kill him. He gave up the ghost. and died. But Satan and no man killed him. But that's the facts. We look at the facts. I wonder sometimes if you rely on your thoughts or do you rely on the facts? Evolutionists they rely on their theories and their thoughts, you know. They don't rely on the facts We have to rely on the facts, and the facts are in the scriptures. Well you don't you the sun paper, not always the facts National Geographic, not always the facts. Newsweek, Time Magazine, New York Times, sometimes it's fake news. Here are the facts. The facts prove, and we have here the facts prove that Abishai he didn't look at the thoughts of Abhishana uh Abhishna Ishpi Banab and think that David was dead. He looked at the facts. He knew that David wasn't dead. He secured him. Pabbi gave him some water, lifted his head, got him back on his feet. And so in verse 17, Abishai the son of Zariah Secured David. He smote the Philistine. He kills the the Ish Bibinab, who is you know kind of braggados. I did it. I finally did it. I finally made him pay for what he did to my brother Goliath Abishai is the nephew of David, by the way, and he steps in here and he and he bears a portion of David's burden. David's down, David's down and almost out. And he picks him up. He bears the burden of another one, of a family member, in this case here. He is he becomes he's in the same sense, the same spirit as David. He wants this giant killed. He wants Philistines put out of the country of Israel. He's of the same spirit of David, and we see David go down, he's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Proverbs eighteen and twenty-four Moses had a friend that stuck closer than a brother. His name was Joshua. Elijah had a friend that stuck closer than a brother. His name was Elijah. Paul had a friend that stuck closer than her brother. In fact, he had several of them, Priscilla and Aquila. He said, My helpers in Christ, Romans 16 and 3. Pilgrim, are you somebody's helper? Like Abishai here? Or do you perhaps have a helper? Someone that sticks closer to their brother to you. Do you stick closer to their brother to someone else? We need to be helpers and helpmates of one another. Helpmates or helpers. They defend us. Do you have some others that's got your back? He's in your corner? Do you have someone that that supports you when you when you need a support? Do you have someone out there that shares your burdens of your life? that can supply you with your needs when you're short, who can encourage you and edify you, and someone who prays with you and someone who prays for you, that edifies you, so there aren't so many of those dark, drab days out there in your life We need to be able to do that for one another. We all need someone like that, but you know something? As much as we all need someone to come alongside of us, we need to be coming alongside of somebody else too. And that was Abishai. He was a he was a great a great helpmate and a great helper. Of course, the chief helper is the Lord is my helper, Hebrews 13 and 6. Well, you you don't get any better than that. The Lord is my helper. Now this this conflict here with uh Ishbaibinab, I have to look at his name sometimes, it's kind of hard to remember it. Ishbibinab, I used to call him this Ishi. You know. Uh maybe he saw this guy this galute coming over the hill nine foot and maybe six inches tall and you go, Yes. Is this what I gotta fight today? You know, Ish by And that was a name, Ishbai from Nob. So Ishbai. But you know this was this is what was going on here. And uh Th the th the Lord was was it advised help as well, but they almost lost David. It must have been a really close call for them to say, you're not going out in the battlefield like this It's like the quarterback of a football team, you know. Uh or or they they've got these contracts. If you're a quarterback for a football team Or if if you're a center in a basketball team or if you're some uh a pitcher for a great baseball team, they have contracts and and you're not allowed to like ride motorcycles and go skydiving and they got under contract. You can't do this You're too valuable to us. And David, you're too valuable to us. You could quench the light of Israel if something were happening. If you were to die, where would we be? Where would you be? Where would you be if you died today? Where would you be They're thinking about where they would be if David died, but we should think about where we would be also if we're to die. I mean what do you gotta think about that? Not everybody that dies is in a better place now. Did you know that? Boy. I've been to a lot of funerals. And that's a that has anybody ever heard that? Well, at least he's in a better place now. Wow. That that better place was really crowded. They never say heaven. Where would you be? We have to think about that. You know, it's it's good for others to admonish us sometimes, and here they came, they admonished uh David uh that he would fall, it would diminish the light in Israel. And and we need to admonish one another sometimes that we not fall into sin, that we not fall into situations that will diminish the light. of other believers around us that will discourage other believers around us. And and we've we've seen that happen. Some we thought was a really strong Christian or Christian or a really man of God and they fall into some filthy sin And the older Christians go, oh well, but for the grace of God, you know, goes I. That's a that's a mature Christian. But the young young Christians go, whoa I thought he was really solid. Oh man, are these guys all a bunch of hypocrites? Who's going to fall next? It diminishes the light In a congregation and in a family when somebody takes a fall. And they did not want David to go down. I mean he's the king of Israel. He's the anointed king. If he if he dies, people will say, I thought God was taking care of our king God had him anointed by Samuel. He's our king. He's the king of Israel. He's the anointed one. If he dies in battle, oh my goodness, we're lost, you know Isn't that the way the disciples felt when the Lord Jesus Christ died on the cross? We're finished. If he's gone, what have we got left? And that's the way they felt with David. It would have been very discouraging. They told him you're not going to go out in battle anymore. We can be discouraged if we see you fall, David. Think of the discouragement the disciples had. And all these They these these disciples, how they fell so quickly. You know, Judas betrayed Christ. Whoa, what do the rest of them think about that? Then Peter denies Christ. Oh my goodness, what do we think about what's going on here? And then Thomas, he doubts he's even resurrected. Oh, doubting Thomas. I mean boom, boom, boom. You go, what's going on? Talk about discouraging the body of believers? And we can do that too. And we need to admonish one another when we see one another. Heading in a direction that's not good, doing something that could be shameful for the body of Christ, for the church of Christ. And these men admonished their king Wow. You're not going out and tell a king what he can do and not do. In verses 18 and 19 it came to pass after this battle that there was again a battle with the Philistines of God uh at the city of Gob. And then Sidekai, he's a Hushavite, he slew Sath. Now Sath was the third name of another of these giants, uh the brother of of uh Goliath And he was one of the sons of the giant. And there was again a battle in God, and here's another battle. And the Philistines are there, and El Hanan, the son of Jerorjam, uh a Bethelamite, he slew the brother of Goliath, uh the Gittite. Now they don't give his name here. But if you go into Chronicles, we get his name too. And his name is Lamy, okay? His name was Lamy. So we get the name of of uh several of these uh you know four four of the five giants we know, Goliath, uh Ishi, if you want to call him Ishi And then we've got here here a lama and a Sath. So we get the name of these giants. These are people that really existed. They weren't just big problems. And you can go to 1 Chronicles 20 and 5 and find his name there. And his spear was as big as a weaver's beam, all right? And so we we find here that all these giants All this problem that David was having, Israel was having, its origin was from the same giant. You know, in our lives, most of our problems have the same origin. Our sin nature. I mean there's sometimes just people out there that just make our life miserable. But more often than not, the origin of all our problems comes from our sin nature. We covet something or we lie about something. Or maybe we steal something? You know? Uh our problems are usually our biggest problems come from one place. And these four giants they came from one place. They they were all born of the giant. They were all brothers of Goliath, all right. In fact our our problems really all stem back to not to well back to our father. Just as these all stem back to the father of Goliath and The father of Sat ours sent back to Adam, our first father, who gave us our sin natures. And uh so we we find the same thing here. Now Goliath's family obviously they've they've got these these uh three giants, brothers of Goliath, and they come in and they want David dead. And they hate Israel and they'd like to wipe out all of Israel as well. Do you get the feeling that Goliath's family hasn't forgotten about the day that David cut Goliath's head off You know. It seems like you know, some people just can't forget, can they? You know? I mean some people just can't let a go, right? Some some people just gotta hang on to to the the grudge, you know, and and that that's that's these uh Philistines They're just not going to let it go. You cut Goliath's head off. We can't just say, oh, well, it's a bad day for the Goliath family. No. These are all Goliath's brothers, and they have not forgotten about the beheading of their brother Just like Satan, tossed out of heaven. I saw him fall like lightning from heaven. He hasn't forgotten about his getting fired, you know, tossed out of heaven. And and he knows who did it. The Lord Jesus Christ, God, come in the flesh, tossed him out of heaven. And he hates the Lord Jesus Christ. And he hates the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, which, by the way, we all bear We're made in the image of God. And Satan hates us because we remind him of who tossed him out of heaven. And so we have this this war going on here. You know, as you look at this, Goliath's dead, okay, let's send out Ishia. Issu goes out, he's dead. Well then let's send out Sapp. Oh man, Sapp, he's dead. Well let's send out Lamy. He'll get him this time, you know. Uh we've learned something. Sure we've learned something about these guys and how they fight. And he's dead You would think after four of your five sons are dead, you would say, you know what, it's time to give it up and pack it up and go home. I mean you know, we're we I we got one son left. Do we really want to go this do we really want to go the same route again? You just wonder how a family or how an enemy or how an army can just lose and lose and lose and lose as they do to the nation of Israel. I mean these people have hated Israel for thousands of years and it's trying to wipe them off the map and ball throw them up and they they lose. They always lose You just wonder what is it that drives the giants to say, well four down and one to go, we're gonna go after them again, or what drives these uh the the Arabs and and those of Saudi Arabia and Egypt and Saudi Syria, let's go after Israel again. What drives these people? It just doesn't make any sense rationally Unless the fact, back to facts again as we look in the scriptures, unless the fact is we don't really wrestle with flesh and blood. You know, we we wrestle against principalities and powers and rulers of the darkness of this world. That makes sense. What else could drive an enemy to come again and again and again and lose and lose and lose and still want to fight some more? It's satanic. It's demonic. It's a spiritual warfare that we're talking about here. And then I ask myself, how can we learn to be content when they're always coming after us? How do you how do you have a content life when the the spiritual warfare that's out there is is just chopping away at your household? Chopping away at your frame, chopping away at your health, uh, chopping away at your bank account, chopping away at your your your your uh your opportunity to be with in fellowship. You know, we peep some of our people are struggling the most are those who can't come to church anymore They'd love to be here. That's a tough blow. I mean how how can how do we become content with our life when there's so much going on and so much bad Paul said he had learned to be content in Philippians 4 and 11. And Paul has, you read the long litany of assaults that Paul was under. beaten with rod stone and shipwrecked and and among thieves, among among uh uh wicked and false brethren and the problems of the church, you go to the long list And you you just you're ready to faint by the time you finish reading what Paul's going through. And yet he says he's learned to be content. How can you learn to be content? Well, Paul says in Philippians 4:13, through Christ which strengthens me I know there's some people sitting here today and you've got problems you've never shared with anyone. And and uh honestly, I know enough problems right now you don't have to come and share yours those with me that you've got that you haven't shared with me If you want to, I'll I'll certainly listen and pray with you. But there's a lot of problems in a little body like this. I mean our our people here uh you know you might think how come someone hasn't called me or husband? You and I some of you have no idea the struggles that other people are having. the hurts they've got that they're going through. It is mind-boggling what most pastors know about their congregations. I'm not talking about their sin problems. I'm just talking about their pain. And and and the assaults against them from uh they're so common and and so frequent and such big assaults The only thing that makes sense is that they're wrestling against flesh and blood, but there is a spiritual, there is a Satan, there is a devil, there is a Lucifer. He's real. That's the only explanation For the animosity towards Israel. It's the only explanation for the problems that you have as well in your life. So many of them, so often And then in verse 20, it just doesn't slow down. There was yet another battle in Gath There was a man of great stature that had on his every hand six fingers and every foot six toes, four and twenty in number, and he was also born to the giant, the same giant that Goliath was born to, and the others Now you might think that these additional digits, you know, the extra fingers and the extra toes, uh that this this might be might make them stronger or it might be a hindrance or a problem to the giant You know, how are you gonna get a pair of shoes that can put an extra toe in this shoe? Where are I gonna get a pair of gloves, you know, so I can grab my sword better with with six fingers instead of five fingers. You know, you you might think that this would be a a a major hindrance for him But when you read the story closely, you realize that the fingers and the toes, they weren't his big problem. His big problem was his mouth. Because with his mouth he defied Israel. Oh man, that is so bad. That is so, so bad. What's been going on in our nation the last couple of weeks? The United Nations telling Israel, you know, you no longer should have this place. We w we want you to give Jerusalem back. to the PLO, to the terrorists have been bombing your markets and so forth. And we want you to divide up your nation. We want a two-nation country over there. A PLO country and an Israeli country. And some people think that really sounds fair. The only problem is, sit down with Yasser Arafat before he died, or any of the PLO leaders, you know what they say? We don't want a two-nation. We want a one nation. We want Israel out. Why doesn't NBC and CBS ever tell us that this two nation idea, as nice as it sounds to some people The PLO doesn't want a donation decision or answer. The problems that we have The anomasi uh uh towards Israel. Hear this giant, four of his brothers are dead, he comes out, he hates Israel He defies Israel. Uh you look up the word defy means he despised Israel. He mocked Israel. He ridiculed Israel. He laughed at them. He sneered. He smirked. He belittled. He put down Israel. As his brother Goliath had done. If you were to go back to 1 Samuel 17 and 10, Goliath defied Israel the day that David cut off his head. The apple doesn't fall far from the tree. All these giants hate Israel. All of them are dividing, are defying Israel His problem was his mouth, not his extra fingers and toes. His problem was his mouth. That's what got the serpent in trouble in the Garden of Eden. You know, he could walk, he could talk I mean he he apparently had uh arms that could pluck the apple off the tree, uh or not the apple, I'll hear about that today. Uh the fruit off the tree I wouldn't be surprised if he took a bite of it and said, see, it doesn't hurt anybody. It was not, it's God told Adam and Eve, if you eat of the fruit Get sin and pain. Just like there's trees out in my backyard. The birds can eat some of these berries off the trees. If I eat those berries, I'm going to be in the hospital. But the serpent, his mouth got him in trouble. His mouth got him cursed. He told him to eat in the tree. Surely God didn't mean you couldn't touch it. Surely God just doesn't want you to be as smart as he is and have all this wisdom. The snake's mouth, the serpent's mouth got him in trouble, and God said from here on you will crawl on your belly and you will eat the dust of the earth. His mouth got him in trouble And we find the same thing in the woman in Proverbs twenty two fourteen. The mouth of the strange woman gets her in trouble. Or it talks about she's the harlot or the prostitute. And her mouth gets her in trouble. It says that her mouth will lead to a deep pit. He shall take you down to hell with her. And Herod's mouth got himself in trouble. In Acts 12, when he was giving his speech, everybody thought it was the voice of the gods and what have you. He was eaten by the worms. His mouth got him in trouble. And here this last giant. But wipe out the whole family of Goliath here. His mouth got him in trouble when he defied the armies of Israel. Boy, I think it's a dangerous thing what our country was doing the last couple of weeks. weeks defying Israel. And I know they're not saved. I know they're not born again. But if you can't bless them, don't curse them. And pray for Jerusalem. Pray for the nation of Israel. And so here he is, he's defying Israel. And Jonathan, the son of Shimeah, the brother of David, slew him. So this is one of David's nephews as well. Uh like Abishai was one of his nephews, and here's another nephew, and it he he kills the fourth one. You know there's some people that just aren't teachable. I mean Goliath's dead, Sap's dead, Ishi's dead, Lami's dead, this now this giant, we don't even have his name. He's unnamed. But you would think that after all of this, someone would be teachable. Don't attack Israel. Washington, D. C. , do you hear me? Don't attack Israel. Now the new administration, I don't think that's going to happen. But pray for the new administration. are under attack. There are some people who just aren't aren't teachable. This giant, this fifth giant wasn't teachable. You can maybe think of some tough event in your own life. if you can, some tough event in your own life, that taught you a valuable lesson. Can you think of something like that? You would have thought that the death of four brothers would have taught him a valuable lesson. Some people are not Teachable. When you look at the men that defended David against these four giants, Abishai, I like Abishai. He didn't say, I'm not called to fight the Goliath family. That's David's problem. He starred this whole thing. There are some people who say, I'm not called to fight the homosexual marriage thing. I'm not called to fight abortion. If you're a Christian, yes, you are. It's your fight too And he Abershading, that's not my fight. And Sinekai, he didn't say, you know, aren't we just showing them the love of Jesus? Can't we just do can't we just get along with everybody? He didn't say that either. He took out the other giant. And then the El Al Hannah, he says He didn't say, but he could have said, well what's in it for me? You know? I mean that's a dangerous mission. What's in it for me? That's why some people become Christians, they come to church. Say uh there's something in it for them. Maybe they get some new job contacts or something, or find a girlfriend or a boyfriend There's got to be something in it for me. He didn't do that either. And Jonathan, he didn't say, you know what, I'm really getting tired of fighting the Philistines and the Moabites and the Amorites. Sometimes Christians say, I'm tired of all the fighting You know, I don't like the fighting either. But if you don't fight, you're gonna die. Satan's not out there just to You know, woo you a little bit. He's not out there just to neutralize you. He wants to destroy your soul for all eternity These men were not tired. They were willing to share the burden. And these four are born to the giant in Gath in verse 22, they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of the servants. Size, strength, and numbers mean Can I say that again? Size, strength, and numbers mean nothing to God. There are no giant problems for God, alright? In fact, the Lord Jesus Christ, as you look through the scriptures, there aren't even any small problems for God. God doesn't have any problems with any of his creation. Doesn't care how the numbers are, the size of them are, or how nasty they are. There are no giant problems. There are no little problems for God. He may be the devil going about roaring like a lion seeking whom he may devour, 1 Peter 5. 8 And remembering his goal is to annihilate you, not just to neutralize you. People say things happen in threes. Well sometimes it's worse than that, and the enemy comes in like a flood. You heard that verse? The enemy's coming in like a flood The enemy's coming in like a flood. It's not two or three or four things happening. The enemy's coming in like a flood. Read the rest of the verse in Isaiah 59 19 and 20. The enemy does come in like a flood, but the spirit of the Lord shall lift up a standard against him, and the Redeemer shall come unto them that turn from their transgressions. Transgressions. Wow. The enemy comes like a flood? If you're one of the redeems, the redeemer will come if you've turned away from your sin. transgressions. God has no problems. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that An example of the life of David. We have lots of problems. It's nice to know, it's a blessing to know that that God has no problems. He foresees and he oversees and he takes care of everything. All we need to be is walking on a straight and narrow open What we need is to be appealing to Him, trusting in Him, that He'll take care of our problems. We thank you, Lord, for a Redeemer who comes to those who have walked away from transgression. and look to you for their Savior. Oh Lord, may there not be one soul here today that will not find that time that they'll look to the Savior. A Redeemer, the anointed one, the Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen.