Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Gospel of Luke and to the last chapter of Luke's Gospel, the chapter 24. And I'm going to read from the first verse of the chapter down through verse 49. Luke chapter twenty-four, beginning with the first verse. Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning They came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found the stone, rode away from the sepulchre. And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Now remember how he spake unto you when you were yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words, and returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. And it was Mary Magdalene and Jonah, and Mary, the mother of James, and the other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. And their words seemed unto them as idle tales, and they believed them not. Then arose Peter and ran unto the sepulchre, and stooping down he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves. and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. And behold, two of them went the same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem, about three score furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered saying unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. And we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, to date is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he is alive. And certain of them which were with us, went with us to the sepulchre, found it even as the women had said, but they saw him not, but him they saw not. Then said he unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets. He expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went, and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went to tarry with them. And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight Then said they one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? And they arose up that same hour and returned to Jerusalem and found the eleven gathered together and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in the breaking of bread. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and said unto them, Peace. Be unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that it that they had seen a spirit And he said unto them, Why are you troubled? And why do the thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold, my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, handle me and see For a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed not for joy and wonder, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of boer broiled fish and uh and of an honeycomb, and he took it and did eat before them And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in all the prophets and in all the psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day And that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name throughout all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of these things. And behold, I send the promise of my Father unto you. But tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to open God's Word today. Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father, we rejoice in the resurrection. We rejoice in the truth of Jesus Christ. And yet, Father, as we approach your word, our eyes are holden. Father, as we approach the precious word of God, we know from Scriptures that the natural man receives And Lord, whenever we approach your word We approach it desiring that your spirit would open our eyes, that you would remove the scales from our eyes, that we might receive your truth. For Father, if we come in the natural man, we cannot understand. But Lord, we are your children. We are made new. We are new creatures. In Christ. And so, Father, it is our desire this morning that your spirit would break the bread to our hearts, and that you would feed our new man with the bread of heaven. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. If we were to take a particular text this morning, it would be verse twenty seven and verse forty four. Verse twenty-seven, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things Concerning himself. And starting in verse 44, and he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. that all must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in all the prophets and in the saw and in the Psalms concerning me. Then open he their understanding that they may understand the scriptures. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer. Imagine the disciples. They have been with Christ now for three years. They have asked questions such as: When you come into your kingdom, will I be the first? Who will be the greatest? They have looked for a redeemer, but they had looked for one who would ransom them from Rome. They had looked for one who would set up a kingdom and re-establish the earthly throne of David, who would deliver them from their oppressions. And yet Christ clearly said his kingdom was not of this world. And so we find Cleopus and the other disciple, and we don't know exactly who he is. Some suppose that it may have been Luke and that Luke out of modesty did not mention his own name in the account. That's a possibility. However, we find Cleopathus and the other one coming to the 11 And it would be kind of odd to come to the 11th if you're the tenth of the, or the 11th yourself. It may have been Peter, we don't know. If it was important, Scripture would have told us. But we find two disciples, men who obviously knew Christ well, men who had spent great amount of time with him, hearing his teaching. And a disciple is a student, it is a follower. They knew Christ well. And yet as they walk on the road to Emmaus, they are met by an apparent stranger. They do not recognize him, just as Mary in the tomb thought that Christ was the gardener. You see, after his resurrection And he was only recognizable to even his disciples by divine revelation when he revealed who he was. And so they walk and they talk and they're sad. And Jesus says to them, Why are you so sad? And they say, Well, we had thought our Messiah was here And our high priest, our own people, took him and they delivered him to be to death and they crucified him. And then the women go to the tomb with the ointments for his body, and he's not there. And they they say they've seen an angel. What are we to make of all this? And Jesus begins to expound to them from the prophets, from Moses, from the Psalms, all the scriptures. Concerning him. And the title we have for our message this morning is Beginning at Moses. And so I'd like us to turn back to the book of Moses. And I'd like us this morning to follow Christ through the Old Testament and to consider what I believe may well have been the very passages of Scripture. that Jesus opened to their understanding as they walked and they talked in the way. Genesis chapter 3 God had made a perfect creation. God had put Adam and Eve in a sinless garden. But we find in the first verse of chapter 3 of Genesis, now the serpent was more subtile than any beast of the field. And we find the serpent questioning God, hath not God said. He questions God. And then he contradicts God. God hasn't said you can't eat. God hasn't said you'll surely die. And Eve takes of the fruit. And she eats of that fruit. And she gives to her husband, and he eats with her. And their eyes are opened. And they see that they are naked. And creation, which God declared good, and not only good, but God declared it very good, is suddenly very bad. Now the hungry lion no longer wants the grass. He wants the lamb. And so they see the destruction of creation. And picking up in verse 13 of chapter 3 of Genesis, and the Lord God said unto the woman, What hast is it that thou hast done? What have you done to my glorious creation, to that which I made good? And the woman said, the serpent beguiled me and I did eat. And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field. Upon thy belly thou shalt go. And dust thou shalt eat all the days of thy life. And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Beginning at Moses on the road to Emmaus, Jesus Christ Himself begins to expound to these two disciples that there is a war going on. There is a conflict between good and evil. There is a conflict between truth and error. There is a conflict between God and Satan. There is a conflict between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. And Jesus shows them on this road to That he is the seed of the woman. He is the one prophesied all the way back in the Garden of Eden. He is the one whose head or whose heel will be bruised by the serpents, and he will crush the serpents. We find in this passage amazing things about the serpent The serpent was the greatest of God's creatures, second only to man. He was more subtile than all the beasts of the field. In other words, he had more capacity for thought. He could scheme. He could connive. He could plan. He could anticipate. He had faculties that we see in destruction today within the animal kingdom. but not in their fullest form. But here we find the serpent, and he speaks. He has the capacity for speech, and we do not find that Eve is surprised that he speaks. I mean if if your dog starts talking to you, pinch yourself. You're asleep. You're dreaming. You've had too much cold medicine, but regardless But Eve is not surprised. Nor is Eve afraid of the serpent. We cannot imagine what that creation was. We cannot comprehend the fullness of what took place there, but we learn important things about our adversary. For he's more subtile than any others. He schemes, he connives, he plants He draws others with him, just as he drew Eve into his plan, and just as a third of the angels fell with him. He's subtile. The attributes of the serpent seem to have been commonly known to man. And yet, at the same time, in this passage, we learn amazing things about the Savior. Because Satan, as we have seen on past Lord's days, was a trespasser within God's perfect creation. Christ comes not as a trespasser, but as a tr As the son. He belongs there. This is my father's world Satan, at this time in our history, is free to work in man's hearts. He draws, he connives, he deceives, and yet Satan is a defeated foe. His head is crushed. He has received the fatal wound. Think about that. A bruise to the heel is not fatal. A crush to the head is indeed fatal. The death of Christ, though fatal in his human body in his humanity, he surely died, yet death hath no dominion over him. And so we find, first of all, in this passage that I again believe that Christ would have expounded to them on the road to Damascus that there is to be an incarnation. If there is to be a son, God will be made flesh and dwell among us. But not only that This one who is to come will come and he will suffer. His heel indeed will be bruised. But there will be a victory. He will crush the serpent's head. In John 12, 31, we read, Now is judgment. Now is the judgment of the world. Now shall the prince of the world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw And and I and uh sorry, and I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. And this he said, signified by what death He should die. And so all the way back in the Garden of Eden, the stage is set. The history, future yet of mankind is laid out before mankind. There's a battle going on. There is a war between God and Satan. And yet, my friend, we gather today We gather today on the Lord's Day. We gather today to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ because Christ won the battle. Satan's head is crushed. Coming back to our passage in Luke, and going down to the second section that I said would be our text for this morning, down to verse 46. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer. How many of you use the word behooved this week in a sentence? We don't use that word very commonly in our modern English, and yet it is an amazing word. It's a good Word. This term behooved, the word from which it comes, is found 106 times in our scripture. And it's a word which means must. An inescapable must. This must take place. This will happen. There's no way around it. There's no escaping. It is a necessity. It is a necessity lying in the nature of the case. It is a necessity brought on by the circumstances or by the conduct of others towards us. It is a necessity in reference to what is required to attain some end. It is a necessity of the law and of the commandment, a duty or an equity. It is a necessity established by the counsel and decree of God, especially the purpose of which of His of His, which relates to the salvation of man by the intervention of Christ, and it was decl disclosed in the Old Testament. Prophecies. I'm reading from one of the Bible dictionaries there. It behooved Christ to suffer. This word, behooved, is the same word that we find in John 3:7. Ye must Be born again. It is the same word found in uh John 3 and 14, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. It is the same word in Acts 4, verse 12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. Christ expounded to these men on the road to Emmaus that that which took place in the garden And that promise that the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. It must happen. Why are you so sad? Why are you so concerned that the one that you thought was your Messiah has been crucified? It behooved him. But he's not there. You couldn't find his body in the tomb. A quadron of Roman soldiers couldn't keep him there. The seal of the emperor could not keep him there. Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. Lay. Ah, thus it is written, and thus it was incumbent upon Christ to suffer But not only did it behoove Christ to suffer, it behooved him to rise from the dead. And my friends. We are risen with Christ. I was born in the death that I received through my mother Adam and my mother Eve and my father Adam I was born dead in trespasses and sins. Oh, I had all kinds of righteousness of my own. I had all kinds of things that I could say. Look and see, God, how good I am. And they were nothing but filthy rags. And that which I thought was my own righteousness was only to my own condemnation and shame. Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. And I in him am risen too. Ah, the stage was set in the book of Genesis, beginning at Moses. Jesus expounded unto them all things concerning himself. But then we come further in Scripture. And we come to Genesis 22. The first thing that we see is the prophecy of a seed or of a son. But the second thing that I believe Christ expounded to them on the road to Emmaus was the prophecy of a subseed. For in Genesis twenty two, righteous Abraham, who has longed for a son And God has said, Abraham, I will give you a son. God gives Abraham a son, but in the first verse of Genesis 22, we find, and God did tempt. Abraham. And that word tempt does not mean that God tried to get him to do evil, but rather it means that God wanted him to be proof steel. Those of you who do deal with mechanics and metals understand what proof hardened steel is or work hardened steel. It is made tough and stronger through the heating and cooling process. The steel is put to the test and is improved. Abraham was a man of faith, but God wanted to improve his faith. God wanted to make him stronger. And so God says to Abraham: Take thy son, thine only son, the son you love. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Take your son whom you love, take him up on the mountain and sacrifice him there. Father, here is the wood and here is the fire. But where is the lamb for the sacrifice? God Himself will provide a lamb. And so Abraham binds his own son and lays his own son on the altar and pulls back the night, ready to slay his own son. And God says, Enough. Enough, you have passed the test. Behold, a ram caught in the thicket. And so So Abraham takes the ram, he takes the substitute, and he sacrifices it unto Jehovah God. You see, Christ on the road to Emmaus with these disciples expounds to them from all the scriptures, beginning at Moses. Ah, you see, dear Cleopas, I am the substitute. You see, dear disciples, so confused, so troubled in your spirit, so sad as ye walk in the way, I am the substitute. I have given my life for your own. I am the substitute. I am the Lamb of God. God the Father requires a sacrifice But God the Father provides the sacrifice for himself. God the Father substituted his own sin for us and gave. The Lamb. But then also I believe that Christ may well have expounded to these disciples on the road from Numbers 21. For in Numbers 21, we find that the people of Israel, the children of Israel, had sinned. And God had sent fiery serpents among them. And the serpents were biting the children of Israel and they were dying en masse. And God told Moses, Make a serpent of brass. And put that serpent upon a pole. And those that look to the serpent of brass, they will be healed. Turn with you to Numbers 21 and let me read the Bible. passage for you. Here you find the prophecy of sacrifice. We've seen the prophecy of a seed. We've seen the prophecy of a substitute. And here the prophecy of a sacrifice. Matthew, Numbers 21, verse 5. And the people spake against the God against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our souls loathe this light bread. And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people. And much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray unto the Lord that he may take away the fires, the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole, and it shall come to pass that whosoever every one that is bitten when he looketh upon it shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if the serpent had bitten any man when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. John 3, 14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, and whosoever believeth in him Shall not perish. Ah, dear Cleopus, dear disciple, there Had to be a sacrifice. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. And so I, your Savior, though you You don't recognize me yet, though you won't know me till I break bread, ought not the Messiah to have been lifted up that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. But Christ said to these men, not only That he was seen in Moses, but he also said in the Psalms, there in verse 44. And so in King David, we find the prophecy of sorrow. Turn with me to Psalm twenty-two. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Oh, we looked at this text in depth on Friday night. My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? What a pitiful and sorrowful cry. We have the prophecy of the sorrowing of our Messiah. Verse 6 of 22 Psalms, I am but a worm and no man a reproach despise to the people. Verse 12: Many bulls have compassed me about. Strong bulls of Bashan, they have set me about. Verse 16, for the dogs compass me about, they may tell all my bones. Ah Cleophus, he was to be a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. That is what your scriptures teach you. Ought not Christ to be. Have suffered. It behooved him that these things should come about. And again the prophets Jeremiah said in Lamentation 1 in verse 12, Is it nothing To you, all ye that pass by, behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my Sorrow. Man of sorrows, what a name for the Son of God who came. Ruin sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah. What? A Savior. Christ expounded to these men that the Messiah had to suffer. Or sorry, that the Messiah would be a man of sorrows. But also we find that Christ expounded to them that the Messiah would be A man of suffering. And I've already mentioned that he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. In Isaiah 50 and verse 6, he says, I gave my back to the smiters And my cheek to them that flucked out my beard. Cleopathus, you probably saw this, didn't you? You were in Jerusalem You saw when I was beaten, you saw when I was spit upon, you saw when they plucked out the beard of Messiah. And I'm speaking in the first person for Christ. Christ had not revealed himself at that point. But you saw these things happen to this Jesus of Nazareth. Shouldn't these things have come to pass? Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to open shame. But the last thing that I believe that Christ would have revealed to these men on the road to Emmaus Is the prophecy of satisfaction. My God is reconciled His pardoning voice I hear. He owns me for his child. I can no longer fear. The wrath of God is satisfied in the sacrifice of Christ. You see, Cleopas says to this one that he doesn't recognize, we had hoped that this would be the one who should ransom Israel. And Christ says to him, I have ransomed Israel. I have ransomed my people. people from the grave. I have ransomed my people in the battle that began in the garden. I have sent my son to be the sac the substitute. I have sent my son to be the sacrifice, God says to Men and Christ was indeed that sacrifice. In verses 9 and 10, we find that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is proof that the righteous judgment of God is is satisfied. Look at verses nine and ten of Psalm sixteen, if you would turn back there with me. Psalm sixteen, verses nine and ten. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth. My flesh also shall rest in hope, for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. Neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Where is the body of King David, who spoke these words? It is dust. God will reconstitute it someday in his own time. David was speaking of himself metaphorically, but speaking of Jesus Christ. Cleopathus. Remember, remember what David said. Remember what the Psalms say about Messiah. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is proof that God was satisfied with the sacrifice. What other sacrifice ever returned to life? Not a one. All the thousands and maybe even millions of lambs and goats and bullets. But this one alone is alive. God was satisfied. And in Acts 2, on the day of Pentecost When Peter is trying to convince the multitude of the truth of Jesus Christ, he himself will quote from Psalm 16 as proof that it's speaking of Messiah. But there's more here. For not only do we find the prophecy of satisfaction in that the righteous wrath of God was satisfied. We find gloriously that Christ Himself was satisfied. Turn with me to Isaiah 53. And verse eleven. I had read this verse many times before, as often we do, and then one day, probably twenty-five years ago, this This verse just arrested my soul and brought such joy and peace to my heart. Isaiah 53, verses eleven and twelve And he shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Ah, on the road to Emmaus, I believe Christ would have shown Cleopus and the other disciple that Jesus himself was satisfied with the sacrament. Sacrifice. It is finished. Father, into thy hands I commend My spirit. And so Christ in his life could say, All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. No man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father. He's satisfied. You see, today it is popular to picture Christ as standing in heaven, wringing his hands, wondering who will be saved. Saved. Or to picture a Savior who has done everything he could possibly do for the salvation of your soul, and now it's up to you to finish. The work that is not a satisfied messiah But he shall see of the travail of his soul. He shall see that because he has poured out his soul into death. And hallelujah, he satisfied. Because indeed Jesus paid it all, not just part. And all to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain, but he alone washed it light as snow. And so Christ says to these sorrowing disciples in the way, Look at Moses. Look at the prophets. Look at the Psalms. They all lay out for you a clear history of redemption. And so he goes into the house with them, and he breaks the bread, and he changes their lives. Because when they knew the Lord was risen, they We're bold. This takes place about 47 days. Some commentators will argue over the dynamics and the numbers, but it takes place about 47 days before pandemic. Pentecost. And for 40 days Christ will be with his disciples, and with many infallible proofs, he will show that he indeed is their Messiah. And the crucifixion was not an accident, but it was the design of God. And those men will go all across the known world proclaiming the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ, and we are the inheritors of their message, and to us it is given, just as it was given to them, and ye shall be witnesses. Unto me. Just as Christ said to the men on the roads of Damascus, Humeus, and ye are witnesses of these things. Verse 49. May God make us bold witnesses. May God help us to confidently look to Him. Even when we walk the roads of this world in sorrow, even when it seems that our faith is failing, and that all of our hopes and dreams have fallen apart. Why are you so sorry? It's all as it was supposed to be. Let us be witnesses. Shall we stand for prayer? Oh God, we rejoice in your word. How rich and alive and edifying and full is this book. Father, bless it to our hearts this day. Send us forth as your people to bear witness to the risen Lord. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.