We find ourselves back in the city of Antioch. And uh In verse one through verse twelve, Acts chapter thirteen. Now there were in the church that was at Antioch, remember that's up in the area of Syria, certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas And Simeon, that was called Neger, and Leucaeus of Cyrene, and Manaean, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul And as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. And so they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed onto Seleucia. Now Seleucia is just a little bit south of Antioch. Seleucia is actually the sea port. It's almost attached uh to Antioch. So they went out of Antioch and down to the seaport of Seleucia. And from thence they sailed to Cyprus. It's an island out in the Mediterranean. And when they were at Solomonus, that's the city on the island of Cyprus where the ship landed, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had also John to their minister, and that's John Mark, they believe, that wrote the book or the Gospel of Mark. And when they had gone to the island of Patmos, it hit all the cities in Pathmas, They found a certain sorcerer, rather all the cities in Cyprus. They came to the city of Pathnus, which is the capital of Cyprus, and they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bargesus. And that means son of Jesus or Son of the Savior. I don't know if he took that name himself to to blasphemy the Lord Jesus Christ or not, but nevertheless that was the name he took, Son of Jesus. This which which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man who called for Barnabas and Saul and desired to hear the word of God. So here we have the deputy of of Cyprus, or the governor of Cyprus, the Roman governor of Cyprus. A very powerful man, this governor, and he wants to hear the word of God from Paul or Saul and Barnabas. And Elamis the sorcerer, he had another name, Elamus the Sorcerer, for so is his name by interpretation. It means wizard or sorcerer He withstood Paul, and he withstood Saul, seeking to turn away the deputy or the governor from the faith. And then Saul, who is also called Paul. Filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him, on the sorcerer. And he said, Oh, full of subtlety and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness Wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness, and he that is a sorcerer went about seeking some to lead him by the hand. And then the deputy or the governor that is here, when he saw what was done, he believed, being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord. Beginning in verse 1, we note that in the church at Antioch, it was a blessed church. It had numerous prophets and preachers and teachers there. Mentioned here are Barnabas and Simeon and Leuchaeus and Manion. Manion actually brought up with Herod, and then Saul is mentioned here. Sometimes fame and notoriety is fleeting, and who might be important on the headlines today or tomorrow is never heard from or long forgotten. And we find that here with some of these names Of Barnabas and Saul we know and we've not forgotten them. Thousands of years have passed, and everyone knows who Barnabas and Saul were Simeon, we never hear from again, and yet he was a great prophet and teacher there at Antioch. We never hear from again. Lucaeus That's a name that we might recognize. It's believed by many that he was one of the prophets, and there was a list of prophets and teachers that came from Jerusalem during the revival, and they came to Antioch, and they helped that church to just explode uh with salvation. And it is believed that some of these names we've mentioned here, especially Leuchaeus, that they come out of Jerusalem as prophets and teachers. And Leuchesius is mentioned here And uh again in Acts eleven and twenty-seven we read about these prophets coming from Jerusalem. But Leuchaeus here is also believed by many scholars And you can check some of the verses. Romans 16 and 21 is one of them. Lucius is believed by many scholars to be Luke. Luke, the writer. of the Gospel of Luke. Luke, the writer of this book we're reading now, Acts. Called Lucius or Lucas here And in Romans 16, 21, Paul mentions Leuchaeus again as going with him and traveling with him. And so many believe that Leuchaeus mentioned here is a name that has not disappeared off the map. alike Barnabas and Saul. And so it's actually our first introduction, quite possibly, to Luke, the writer of the gospel here. But the one I want to concentrate on a little bit this morning is Manion, because we read nothing more about Manion after this either. Another name of notoriety, another name of of fame. In fact, we find here that that he was brought up with Herod Agrippa. They were raised together, whether he was a foster child Uh we don't know, but he was raised with Herod Agrippa. They had the they had the same uh instructors, the same tutors. Uh, lived lived in the household with Herod Agrippa. He who had killed John the Baptist beheaded John the Baptist. And so here's Mannian. He must have come from a noble family, at least, to sit under the same instructors, that would not have been cheap, to sit under the same instructors and the same tutors, and to have an imp uh an intimate companionship with Herod. He was intimate with Herod. He raised together, instructed together, taught together, played together. And now Manion is a born-again Christian. Now Manion has has has received that spirit that's come down from above. Manion is sold out to Christ. His sins are covered in the blood of Christ. And what must that relation have been like between him and Herod Agrippa at this point? It could not have been good. And Manning became one of these prophets and one of these teachers, and uh here we find that he had had quite an intimate relationship at one time. with a big uh Roman uh the king, as it were, King Agrippa, King Herod Agrippa. And uh I I think that we need to pause and look at this man because we we don't see anything else about him except this one sentence. But Mann was raised up, just as Moses was raised up in the court of the Pharaoh, Manion was raised up in the courts in the household of Herod. And uh just as as we find when we read the scripture that Obadiah also lived in and and governed the house of Ahab and Jezebel in 1 Kings 18 and 3. And later we read in Philippians 4 and 22 that there were those of the household of Caesar who who were also saved. And so Manny was like one of these, like a Moses, like an Obadiah, and yet he followed the Lord Jesus Christ. Perhaps someone here this morning wants to blame the home they live in. They want to blame the home they live in for their for their their sin habits. And you got Obadiah and you got Mannion. They are a witness against that tactic. You you cannot say, Well, I am the way I am because of my brothers and my sisters. and my father and my mother and my parents and so forth. You cannot blame the household for the choices that you make in life. If that were the case, Manning would have followed along with Herod Agrippa. Moses would have followed along with the Pharaoh, but he did not. And so these men are witnesses to us that we cannot use as an excuse, well if you knew the background, if you knew my environment, if you knew the home life I came out of, if that's why I am the way I am. It doesn't work that way. It will not work the way before a white throne judgment. We will be held accountable for the decisions we make. And so here we have Manion and Moses and Obadiah who chose to suffer affliction with the people of God. than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ Greater riches and all the treasures of Egypt was Moses, esteeming the riches of Christ greater than all the treasures of Rome was Mannion, esteeming the treasures of Christ greater than all the riches of Israel was Obadiah in the days of Ahab and Jezebel. Forget about excuses before the white throne judgment. I don't want to hear how bad your mother was, or your father was, or how your brothers and your sisters treated you I don't care if you had a life like Cinderella and it was terrible with a stepmother. It does not matter. We are accountable for the decisions we make ourselves We are to obey God's word. No excuses. As they did here, these men in Antioch, when the Holy Ghost spoke to them and said, separate Barnabas and Saul. They did. And send them out into the ministry among the Gentiles, and they did. They obeyed the Word of God without excuse. What excuse do you have this morning for not obeying the Word of God? You don't have one. And so we read in verses 2 through 5 that the Holy Ghost said Separate Barnabas and Saul for the work. And they, being sent by the Holy Ghost, sailed to the island of Cyprus, and there they preached the word of God all across that island, all the way to the city, the capital city of Pathipus. I I want to just stop for a moment and just zero in on the Holy Ghost here. Because so often we read, and the Lord said, and the Word of God said, and and and the Lord Jesus Christ said. But here it says, the Holy Ghost said. The Holy Ghost said to these men, the Holy Ghost spoke. There are cults out there, and we can name them the Mormons and the Muslims and Jehovah's Witnesses and the Buddhists. They deny the doctrine of the Trinity. They deny the idea that God is a triune Godhead. They deny that there are three persons in that Godhead. They deny this and and they teach that when we baptize in the Father, in the name of the Father, and the name of the Son, and the Holy Ghost, that we are really baptizing in the name of God the Father. some guy that lived down in Nazareth and some some mystical, misty apparition you know, figure, uh maybe the force from magnetic force or something. They do not believe that we are baptizing the name of a triune Godhead, that all three persons of the t of the Trinity are deity indeed. And yet we have your explaining to us that this is not some misty apparition or some magnetic force. The Holy Ghost actually talks. He's actually a personage, as it were. And the Holy Ghost said, Separate Barnabas and Saul unto me. And so this is not some wispy operation. The Holy Ghost speaks. In fact, he not only speaks, we find here, he commands them what to do, and he sends them. And it is the same Holy Ghost that we read in Luke 3 and 22 at the baptism of the Lord Jesus Christ, it says that the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove. So he actually has a body, he speaks, he commands, he sends, he is a personage, he is a part of the Holy Trinity. And when Peter was confronted With Ananias and Sapphira in Acts 5, 3 through 5, he says to them, You have lied to the Holy Ghost. You have not lied to men, Peter says, but you have lied unto God. And so just with those few verses, we ought to be able to talk to the the cults out there and say, wait a minute, how can you say the Holy Spirit or the Holy Ghost is not deity, is not God, is not a part of a trium Godhead He speaks, he commands, he sends, he has a bodily form when he wants to have a bodily form. And we're even told that when you lie to the Holy Ghost, you are lying to God. And we ought to be bold enough to declare that there are cults out there. I don't know if you're comfortable with that or not, that we have a man who is a member of a cult who is running for President of the United States. And pastors have gotten in trouble for saying that Mitt Romney belongs to a cult. But by every definition, biblical definition, down through the centuries, Mormonism is a cult. It denies the Trinity. It denies that Christ is God come in the flesh, it denies the Holy Spirit is God. And yet we have these verses here and I j I just I just want you to think sometimes that do you really think that everyone who reads the Bible is a Christian Do you reading that everybody who quotes scripture is a Christian? It just isn't so. It just isn't so The cults do not worship the true and living God that Barnabas and Paul or Saul here were sent to preach on the island of Cyprus. They don't worship that same God. And so we read here that Paul and Barnabas, who worshiped the god that we talk about here and we read in the scriptures, they had gone on throughout this uh island of Cyprus and they'd finally arrived at the capital city called Pathnus. My wife and I have been there. It's a unique ancient city. It's a beautiful place. And there are still some there that that are are saved on that island in Cyprus. And probably it is all solely due to the preaching of Barnabas and Paul when they were there. And they come on to Pathmas, it is the capital of the city. It is where the deputy, Sergius Paulus, ruled, uh his title was really proconsular, or he was the governor, as it were, and he ruled there, and there on that island also where there's a governor, there was a sorceress. You know, where there's good, there's bad And uh so here we have this this false prophet uh called Alamus or Bar Jesus, the son of Jesus. That's despicable to say you're the son of Jesus. If that's why he chose that, we're not sure And uh he was close to the deputy. Perhaps he was an advisor or someone on his administration, but he was close to the deputy of the county. And Sergius Paulus made it known, and the sorcerers knew it, that he was interested in hearing What Barnabas and Saul had to say about the gospel of Jesus Christ. You might wonder why they went to Cyprus first, and we may never know why they went to that island first, but I would share with you that in Acts four and thirty six that Cyprus was the birthplace of Barnabas. And so perhaps when when the Holy Spirit sent these men out to minister unto the Gentiles Send them out with our blessing, lay hands on them and pray and fast over them. That that Barnabas said the first place I want the gospel to go is to my homeland, to my country, to Cyprus. They need the gospel there. Can we stop there first of all the travels we'll make? And the church wasn't opposed to that, and neither was Saul, and that's perhaps why they went to Cyprus first. I want my my children and my grandchildren, my parents and my grandparents, I want them to hear the gospel. That may have been the heart of Barnabas And so they're here on Cyprus going from city to city, certainly hitting some of the relatives of Barnabas, and now in the capital city they run into the governor or the deputy, and they run into the sorcerer Pathnus was the headquarters of the whole island was a cult. It worshiped the goddess Venus And it was all about lust and lasciviousness and and uh all all kinds of sexual uh sins. And but Pathmas was the head of the Venus Worship Center And so they they've left that for the last, perhaps, and they arrive there and they run into a s a sorcerer. He was also very close to this governor, and the governor was a man that says here in verse 7, he desired to hear the word of God. That ought to just stop you in your tracks. Do you know how rare it is to run into somebody who really desires to hear the word of God? Tim and uh Dan and Pastor Everett and several us were down at the legislation uh in Annapolis for the House of Delegates down there. What a joy it was when we ran into people in the hallways and in the offices who love the Lord Jesus Christ, desire to hear the word of God, had Bible verses up on their desk. I mean they were there. They weren't everywhere. They weren't the majority. They weren't even a small minority. They were a remnant. But what a desire and what a rare thing it is when you run to someone who desires to hear the word of God. I trust that's why you're here this morning. Because you desire to hear the word of God. I trust that when you leave here the desire is not totally s saturated and you no longer desire it for another week. I trust that there's that every day of your life you desire to have time set aside to hear the word of God. It is an unusual desire. It is not something that I can cram into your head or into your heart. It's not something we were born with. It is something for the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God, it it imputes it into your heart, injects it into your heart, or it would not be there. If you have a desire for the Word of God God, the hand of God has touched you in a merciful way. And this governor here, he had a desire to hear the word of God. God was working on his heart. God was touching his heart. Behold, the hand of God has touched this man's heart. But we see here in the city of Pathus That there are two distinct hearts here. There's one who desires to hear the word of God, and then there's a heart of the sorcerer who withstood the word of God. We ran into some of them down in Annapolis also. Saul and Barnabas they withstood, for we read in verse 10 that the sorcerer's heart was full of mischief. And I would ask you this morning, because we know there's two hearts. There's only two hearts. What else talk about? There's the saints and the ain't. And I asked you this morning, what kind of a heart do you have? There's only two hearts represented here, or all through Scripture. Is your heart full of mischief? Or the messages of the gospel of Jesus Christ? What is in your heart this morning? What is in your heart We certainly know what was in the heart of Saul. Here it's a Saul called Paul It was so much in his heart to win the Gentiles, the Lord, that he sets aside his Jewish name. Saul is a Jewish name. Remember King Saul in the Old Testament? Saul is a Jewish name. He sets aside his Jewish name. It probably would have been offensive to the Gentiles to have a Jew come to them. There are many people offended by the Jews even today. You know, they meet some of the name Saul Goldstein or something like that. Some of them are offended already. Paul wants to win souls for Christ and he changes his name. He he he just sets aside his Jewish name and he picks up on what people believe was his Roman born name. Paul was born a Roman citizen. We read of that in Acts 22, 25 through 28. Born as a Roman citizen, he would have been given a Roman name, a Gentile name at birth, as well as a Jewish name. And then he believed it was the name Paul. Paul was a big name among the families of Rome. It was a family name, it was a revered name, and so he knew that that name would be better received among the Roman Empire, as he went to Galatia and Thessalonica and and Ephesus, that that name Paul would be better received than the Jewish name Saul. And that's perhaps why he changes it here. As he commences and begins the ministry among the Gentiles, Lest he be offensive, he changes his name or reverts back to his birth name. He says in Corinthians 9. 22 that we should become all things to all men, that we might by all means save some. That's probably what was going on there. Now the devil was not happy to see Paul there. And by the way, from this verse on, he's never called Saul again. All right? So from this verse on, Paul is there on the island of Cyprus, he's in Pathnas, and he's preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And this is not a happy time for the devil. The devil is is does not like this gospel coming into this dark area of his domain and under the worship of Venus, the goddess Venus It was a dark pla it was as dark as dark could be. It was like it was like taking Corinth and spreading across the whole island of Cyprus It was a carnal, carnal form of worship, and he was there preaching it, and the devil was not happy. It is one thing to be opposed to the gospel, as many people you know are But it's far worse when you meet someone who's opposed to others hearing the gospel. That is beyond imagination. That is beyond acceptance. For those who love the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't want to hear the gospel, fine. I will go on and talk to somebody else about it. But if they're opposed to you talking to somebody else about it, and that's where the sorcerer was He was opposed not only to the gospel, but he didn't want Paul to talk to anyone else about it either. And that's what gets Paul stirred up. That's what stirs up Paul's passions so much, that he is opposed to the gospel being heard by anyone else And so he rebukes the sorcerer. He rebukes him before the governor here, before the deputy of Cyprus. He calls him the child of the devil. The enemy of all righteousness. Opposed to your enemy of all righteousness. That means you're opposed to holiness. That means you are perverse. And it says in Proverbs 2 that they will rejoice in those that even do evil. So this is the idea of one who's the enemy of all righteousness, the child of the devil. They are opposed to holiness. Now, here was a governor that was not opposed to holiness. He desired to hear the word of God. But down in Annapolis this week, we've got a governor who is opposed to holiness. O'Malley and his administration have taken the legislation And they have placed sanctification on gay unions. How do you sanctify holy matrimony among gays? I asked some of the delegates down there to their face. I said, how do you call something that is holy? How do you call gay union or gay marriage? You're taking something that is holy. What part of holy do you not understand? And and the fact is they oppose the things that are holy. And the delegate who voted for it, she said to me, Well, I do have a problem with that, but it is what it is. Marriage, marriage, it's mentioned the Bible 65 times. Marriage comes out of the scriptures. It doesn't come out of the Maryland legislature. It doesn't come out of some Roman or or some cultish history. It comes out of the Bible. The term marriage is mentioned 65 times in the Old and New Testament. And in every case it is between a man and a woman. They have taken marriage. When I have two people stand before me, a a a young man and a young woman. I say we are gathered here together in the presence of God to unite these two people in holy matrimony. That's marriage. But now we've got the governor and his ilk, and they have put the stamp of sanctification of what God has called an abomination. And the day will come unless God saves our governor and changes this state That there will be hell. That's the wages of sin. Hell to pay for what they have done. O'Malley has withstood the word of God. He is a sorcerer. A sorcerer is a is a wise man in his own cell, in his own mind. A sorcerer is a wizard or a wise man in his own cell who withstands the word of God. He has the heart of a sorcerer, and all those who voted for it have hearts of sorcerers. Is this being recorded? Well someone said that's why she turned off her cell phones in church. It's not so they go off, it's because someone might be listening in at what we're saying here. Well, they were listening to what Paul said, and Paul said that you are a child of the devil. I haven't called Martin O'Malley a child of the devil or an enemy of all righteousness or full of mischief. But I will now, because he is. Wilt thou not cease to pervert the ways of of the Lord, Paul says, Behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season You you wouldn't I I was reading late last night, what's happening in the United Presbyterian Church, Presbyterian Church US of A, apostate as they can be, but this whole idea of legalizing gay marriage, do you know that in the Presbyterian Church US of A If if you are a pastor or you're about to be ordained and you had introduced your your your gay significant other and you've just gotten married, you know, in the state of Massachusetts or somewhere and That is fine with the Presbyterian Church US of A. You can have a gay pastor with his gay lover and they ordain him and they put him in a pulpit. That is just fine. In fact, you know what they also In in the President Church US of A, they have also said, by the way, we do not require that gay pastor and his gay lover to live a monogamous life They may also have other gay friends and relationships as well. In fact, if you are if you are a heterosexual, if you are a pastor who is married to a lovely lady and you want to cheat on her, we no longer require celibacy of our pastors Or our Sunday school teachers, or our elders, or our deacons. That's what has happened. It is so bad and people I just can't believe it. Well, I'll show you the magazine because it usually comes out about four pages thick It's like nine pages thick this time. It's listing all the Presbyterian churches who have abandoned the United Presbyterian Church. They're gone. They're fleeing like rats on a sinking ship. It took them that long. We left in 1937, was it, Pastor Dave? When they started ordaining people who denied the virgin birth. That's when we left. So behold the hand of the Lord. This debate in Annapolis, it's all about equity, equity between different individuals. It is all about well, you know, there's that there's that ambiguity in the scriptures. It's not about equity And it's not about ambiguity in the scriptures. It's about souls going to hell. That's what it's about. It's about souls going to hell. And we sit there and put our stamp of sanctification From American legislation and approval on it. We've got the same problems Paul had. Sorcerers in our midst Yet, God was gracious. We find that God had done the same thing in the days of Moses. Moses went to the Pharaoh, he said, Behold the hand of the Lord. We got the hand of the Lord touching the heart of the governor in Cyprus, not the governor of Maryland. The governor of Cyprus touching the heart of the governor of Cyprus, and now he's going to touch the sorcerer. Just as Moses went to the Pharaoh and the Pharaoh was touched He said, Behold the hand of the Lord, Moses said to the Pharaoh, the hand of the Lord is upon your cattle, and upon your horses, and upon your camels, and upon your oxen, and upon your sheep, and there will be a grievous moraine or plague, Exodus 9 and 3, upon everything that you have. Pharaoh. And people think that Moses is pretty hard on Pharaoh. And people think that Paul was pretty hard on the sorcerer. But you know, God tempers everything he does. Even against the enemies of God, he tempers it with some mercy. God was gracious to the Pharaoh. That plague that would kill off all his cattle, his camel, his sheep. It was the fifth plague. God gave Pharaoh five more plagues. He gave the Pharaoh plenty of time to repent, plenty of time to consider what he was doing. And maybe Marilyn will have plenty of time as well. But the fact is God is always gracious. The hand of God that comes down to blinds This man here, the sorcerer, if you read it closely, it says, and he was blind forever? No. He was blind for a season. He is given time to repent, he is given time to reconsider, he is given time to reevaluate, he's given time to maybe hear another message preached by Paul and Barnabas. He is given time before the judgment falls. It is merciful for God that he struck him blind when he could have struck him dead. That's mercy You're here this morning, you're not saved, you think God hasn't been good to you? You are still alive. He has been good to you. He has been merciful. He hasn't yet struck you dead You don't like the things that God has done to you? Hey, there's saved people that don't like the things that are going on in their life either. But if you're not saved, there's things that go on in your life, you don't like what God's doing, you're still alive. That's mercy. We have a God of love, we have a God of mercy. God has that touch of mercy and we see it in this man that he's not struck dead. He's only struck blind for a season. His blindness wasn't permanent. He had time to repent. You've got time too if you're not saved. Have you repented? Are you saved? Don't like being asked that question. I know there are people who don't like being asked, are you saved? How many of you ever met someone who doesn't like being asked, are you saved? Ever met people like that? You know why they don't like being asked that question? Because they aren't And so they're the very ones we should ask. Or have you repented of your sins If you have repented of your sins, I would like to assure you this morning. I know that doesn't mean you're without problems. Just because you repent and just because of love the Lord doesn't mean we don't have problems. But I assure you that whatever your problems are, they have been sent by a loving God. They are coated in mercy They are overflowing with mercy. They are assaulted through and through with mercy. And it all shall be confirmed in eternity. How merciful God was to all of us. Regardless of what struggles you've got, what problems you've got, they are just saturated with the mercy of God, and you may not see it today or tomorrow, but the time will come when you'll fall on your knees in heaven and say, Oh God, thank you for your mercy for what and how you did it to me. But in the instance of the sorcerers here Always see it first. It's immediately verse 11 and 12. There fell upon him a mist and a darkness. And it's the same thing happened to Pharaoh. How there was a darkness that fell upon Egypt. They said, A darkness that you could see feel. Now I don't think we've ever had a darkness that dark around Baltimore, but it was a darkness you could feel in the days of Pharaoh. Here it's called the Mist of Darkness. It was a darkness he could feel. And it says he he went about uh seeking someone to lead him by the hand. He couldn't find anybody to touch him. He couldn't find anyone to lead him around. He went about seeking someone to lead him by the hand But the deputy it says here believed. Being astonished, you know, people say, well, well, if you if you preach that kind of message, that's really hard. That's going to drive people away, they're not going to get saved. I've never preached a message and cursed some and called them a child of the devil and ask God to blind them for a season. That would be a hard message. You'll never hear that from me here. I'd like to, but But you know, that's a hard message. A hard message is going to drive people out. They don't get saved with a message like that. The governor of Cyprus got saved. It says he was astonished. He believed the doctrines of the Lord. Even though Paul came in there and he preached this way and he demonstrated the power of God and the hand of God this way, Paul could heal, but Paul was also the whip of the Lord. We we read of Paul how he took an adulterous man, delivered an adulterer, uh, delivered him up to the Satan, and his flesh over to Satan for For a time. We read another time. That was in 1 Corinthians 5. 5. In 1 Timothy 1:20, Paul, the whip of the Lord, he also took a blasphemer and delivered him. That blasphemer over the power of Satan. This is hard preaching. This is heavy preaching. God doesn't give everyone that that the whip of the Lord. God doesn't give everyone the power to cause a man to go blind or cause a man to be given up to Satan. He doesn't do that If I had that power, the House of Delegates right now would have been turned into Maryland School of the Blind. That's why God didn't give it to me and to most of us. And Paul didn't do it that often either. But a hard message like that gets people saved. And so here we have a governor. Wham. He's astonished. He believes we have a sorcerer of blind and darkness. Our circumstances can change so quickly And if you're sitting here this morning, you're not saved, you have no idea what's around the next corner, around the next spin, in the next moment or the next hour of your life. Your situation, your circumstances can change so quickly, and if they change, you don't have the Lord Oh woe is you. Hear the sorcerer Who would deprive others of the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ as deprived of the light of the sun? He's in darkness. He feels the mist of the dark. He's enveloped in darkness. And the deputy, the governor He believes. That's quick change in circumstances, isn't it? To the deputy, no longer were the words of God uncertain. No longer were the laws of God unreasonable. No longer was the service to Christ unpleasant. He was saved. If if you this morning you say I don't know. I think God's words are a little ambiguous, a little uncertain. I think sometimes God's unreasonable. I think that sometimes what I have to do for the Lord Jesus Christ is unpleasant. Not if you love the Lord. Can you say that this morning? That you love the Lord. That God's laws are not unreasonable. That God's word is not uncertain. Can you say, and service to Christ is not unpleasant? Can you say that today If you can, the hand of the Lord has touched you in a merciful way. Let's pray. Father, we do pray this day. Oh, we can't just pray for what the needs are of the saved. We need to pray for the lost as well. And for those that would withstand the word of God and would encourage the lost to stay lost, Father, we ask you to touch your hearts, that you might bring a governor around as you did the one on Cyprus. You you did with Madam Maria Harrison took the that law took the by-bringing prayer of other schools and yet her son Bill got saved. And what a testimony it is that you could that you could change a member of her household And make him a disciple of Christ. Father, we pray that you do the same in the house of the legislature in Maryland. That you do it in the house of O'Malley. That you do it in every house that's here this morning. We ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.