Gracious Father, we thank you that you are indeed the same yesterday, today, and forever. The times and the circumstances of our lives change. We go through times of great joy and times of deep sorrow. We go through times of health and times of sickness. We go through times when we rejoice in great blessings, and other times when it seems like we're enduring famine in the desert. But you are the same yesterday, today, and forever. And in this we rejoice and praise your holy name Father, we thank you that we can gather this morning to worship the great God of heaven. We pray, O Lord, that you would open your word to our hearts Open our hearts to receive thy word. And Father, today may we be blessed and may we be a blessing. Clear our hearts and minds from the chaos of this sinful world. that we might worship thee in spirit and in truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is from Isaiah 62, maybe a little bit different than some of our call to worship. A call to worship is intended to draw our hearts to worship the great God of heaven. Psalm 62 verse 10, go through, go through the gates, prepare ye the way of the people. Cast up, cast up the highway, gather out the stones, lift up the standard for the people. Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the ends of the world, say to the daughter of Zion, behold, thy salvation cometh. Behold, his reward is with him, and his works before him. They shall call them the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord. And thou shalt be called sought out, a city not forsaken. Glorious passage. Thank you. We turn to our opening song this morning. Please turn your blue song boat to number two hundred and seventy-five. Hosanna, loud Hosanna, two hundred seventy-five is our opening hymn for today. The tune of Elocombe should be familiar. And we sing all three stanzas. Beeha The children sang. And their praises was their blessed and all is now made among God. Joyful price, the joy of me with praises, pray and loud of it. Oh, may we ever praise him with a court and light? And voice when it was force, eternally. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. And we have our usual speaker for the confessional uh responses today, and we welcome this return. Brother Ancount, if you if you would, please Good morning. Good morning. It's good to be back gathered with the Saints at Mission Bible Church. If you have your bulletin with you, please turn to the back of it as we read from the 17th article of the Belgic Confession regarding the recovery of fallen man. Christian, and what do you believe? We believe that our most gracious God, in his admirable wisdom and goodness, Seeing that man had thus thrown himself into temporal and spiritual debt, and made himself wholly miserable, was pleased to seek and comfort him. When he trembling fled from his presence, promising him that he would give his son, who should be made of a woman. To bruise the head of the serpent and would make him happy. That word there at the end, happy is also rendered blessed. There was a great blessing when Adam heard and received that promise of God. But this article this morning it's regarding the recovery of fallen man. And we read in the scriptures that after Adam and Eve fell, they were, indeed, in an altogether miserable state. The thing that God promised them was that in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Mankind's condition was utterly helpless at that point. All they had at that moment was a fearful waiting of the condemnation of God. There was no promise that they would be helped. There was Nothing going on there right at that point of the fall. Just a fearful waiting of the rightful damnation coming to them. They became spiritually dead, and they awaited physical death that would lead to their eternal torment and hell. Unless God had stepped in, that would have been the right process of things It would have simply been waiting for a physical death that would have led to an eternity in hell being tormented without any hope. They couldn't help themselves. Their condition was much like that of a dead person. If you've actually seen a dead individual, a dead corpse, you know that life can't help themselves. That body is limp. Nobody would even think in their mind, well, that person ought to do something for themselves. They ought to cry out. They ought to make an effort to stand up It's understood that they're dead. There's absolutely nothing they can do. And that's how we find Adam and Eve in the garden after the fall. They were corrupted and there was indeed nothing that they could do And neither was God required to do anything for them. All that God was required to do was to give them justice. Justice had to come because God promised that in the day that they would eat thereof they would surely die God wasn't required to show any kind of mercy. God wasn't required to give any other kind of plan. And so they were in a quite a miserable condition in that place. And imagine Christian if that was the case for you, if no gospel had come to you, if you were left altogether in a miserable state. Just awaiting uh that torment, that scary thing to fall into the hands of a living God having to pay uh in in in an eternity for your sin. What a scary, miserable thing that is But praise God. The story did not end there. God showed much mercy. We read in the scriptures that God pursued Adam. He sought out Adam Wasn't that Adam and Eve were seeking God? No, they were trying to hide from God. But it was God that pursued Adam. He said, Adam, where art thou? We read up in Genesis 3. 9, and he held a conversation And I love what it says in this article of the Belgian Confession. God was pleased to seek and comfort him, truly. This is a God-initiated uh message, a God-initiated salvation and recovery program. It was all done through the Lord And that's what salvation is like. If the Lord saved you, it's something that God initiated. God pursued you. God sought you out And that's what we read of in Luke 19, 10. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. It's the Son of Man is doing the seeking and the saving. John 15, 16, ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. And 1 John 4, 19, we love him because he first loved us. What a blessing. It's God who initiated and that carried this out. And he promised to Eve. He promised to mankind that Eve's seed that there would be a sea that would come and would bruise the serpent's head. It would bruise and conquer that great enemy, the serpent, the devil. that looks to have mankind befallen, to fall into that same judgment that he's awaiting. And yet Christ comes and he bruises the serpent's head. He crushes the power of the wicked one. Well, praise the Lord for his marvelous salvation that we find in Christ, for that blessed recovery plan that he both created and carried out. Thank you, brother. Brother Vince indeed did an excellent job with the call the uh conventional readings. But it is good to have our brother back. You know we're blessed as a small congregation, to have so many men that are capable of taking leadership roles within the congregation. I I know of churches of a hundred people that basically have the pastor and that's it. So the Lord has greatly blessed us here at Mission To have others who are able and willing to exhort the brethren. Let us go to prayer together at this time. Gracious Father, indeed you have done great things for us where we are glad. You have blessed us above measure. You have blessed us when we are undeserving of thy blessing. And Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have established this congregation. You have established this home as a place of worship And Lord, we thank you for the promises of thy word regarding thy people, Lord, that where we gather, there you meet in the midst. And that your word will not return unto you void, but it will accomplish that which you purpose, and it will prosper in the thing whereunto you send it. Father, we thank you, Lord, that we come not with itching ears. We come not simply desiring to be entertained or to hear that which our flesh desires. But Lord, indeed, our earnest desire is to hear of thee. Our earnest desire is the Word of God may be faithfully expounded, not in words after man's wisdom and not with eloquency of speech. But rather the clear teaching of thy word as expounded by the Holy Spirit, each one receiving uh a blessing from thy word and though many times the the blessing we receive is very different from that what was actually preached, but rather a certain verse or a certain comment. For a certain word will find great root within the heart of the true believer and will bless and edify. Lord, when we see these things, we cannot but stand back and say, Glory to God, for this is the promise of the Holy Spirit. For the Word of God never says that a preacher will guide us into truth. But your word does say that the Spirit will guide us into all truth. And Christ declared that the Spirit would testify of him and show us things to come. And so, Father, may you fulfill those blessings in this congregation this morning. Father, we thank you for the day and age in which we live. We live in a wicked day. We live in a sin-cursed world. And yet, Father, through the providence of the time in which we were born, We live in a day and age when our congregation stretches far beyond those who are just in this room. And Father, there were saints in the past who, when they were in a spiritual desert, could do nothing but just worship alone. But Lord, we are able to join our hearts, minds, spirits together through the Internet which has been provided for us. And so Father, we thank you for those that are scattered across the country and yea, even some in foreign countries. that worship with us uh either live or in a delayed broadcast. And Father, we pray your blessing on them. May they never fear or feel that though they are separated by miles that they are separated from our love and from our fellowship as well. Lord bless them, encourage them, Father. We thank you that our brother and sister were able to visit with many of them And Lord, this is indeed a good and a wholesome thing. Father, we do lift before you the multitude of prayer requests that are on our prayer list, Lord, two full pages week after week. And yet, Lord, we rejoice that scattered in among those prayer requests, there are always also a fair number of blessings. And a fair number of reports of answered prayer. And we thank you for this. Father, raise up the sick. Lord, you know them. We do not inform you of their needs, for Lord, you know what things we have need of before we ask. But Father, these physical situations are known to thee And Lord, you don't need to come visit our house. Just speak the word. We we remember the Centurion with such faith. And Lord, we pray that you would give us that same faith as well. Just speak the word, Lord. It is nothing with thee. And yet, Father, we do know that you work all things together for good, and even sometimes the illness and frailty of the body is your perfect immutable plan for the edification, for the education, for the training, for the confirmation of your children into the image of Christ. And so, Father, work your perfect will within this body of believers. Father, you know the needs of the congregation? And you promise to supply all of our needs. Lord, we are not laying up treasures on earth. We do not love this world. We are not a people who are greedy of filthy lucre. But Father, you know the needs. And Lord, we pray that you would supply those needs. When you sent the disciples out without purse or script, they lacked nothing. The children of Israel's shoes did not wax old, their clothes did not wax old, and their feet did not swell in their shoes. And Lord, we have seen you make a set of tires last far beyond what any manufacturer could ever imagine. We have seen you make washing machines and dryers outlast their life expectancy. Lord, you provide our needs in many ways. And we thank you for this, Lord. We do not lack bread. But Father, we do pray for those of our congregation that are sole proprietors, that are running businesses. And Lord, it is a difficult time economically. Father, give them the business needed Father, for their desire is to be servants of the Most High God. Father, you know the employment situation of many of our people, Lord, that that uh have a job But they need better employment. They need different employment. They need circumstances which will allow them to both meet their physical needs and meet the needs of their families. And so, Father, we pray that you would work in each of these situations, Father. Lord, you know the financial burdens. Father The list on our prayer list of unsaved loved ones is exceedingly long. Father, we thank you that not one of your elect will perish. We thank you that Jesus did indeed come to seek and to save that which was lost. And so, Father, we pray for these that are very dear to our hearts. O Lord, may they be numbered among thine own elect. May they be not simply our children. But may they be children of the Most High God. And Father, we pray that you would open us to us many marvelous opportunities to confront them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so, Father, we pray for husbands, we pray, Lord, for children, we pray for grandchildren, we pray for brothers and sisters and nephews and nieces and parents. Who know not the Lord. O Father, may they come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. May they know Him. Whom to know aright is life eternal. There are many that know all about Christ, but they do not know him aright. And so, Father, bless for the salvation of thy people. We thank you for the privilege we have to live in this land of freedom. Father, we pray that you would protect this land that you that your people dwell in. Just as we find in Scripture that many evil kingdoms were blessed because of the presence of the people of God. So bless this land because of the presence of your own elect. Father, we pray that you would save our president. That you would bring him to his knees before the cross of Christ. And the blood of Jesus Christ, your Son, would cleanse him from all sin. We pray, Lord, that you would protect his body, protect his health, give him wisdom. And Lord, we pray that for all who are involved in our government, watch over them. Father, we hear great opposition from within our own government. Father, Lord, we pray that you would change hearts and minds. Lord, we see We see on the news people with rainbow-colored hair screaming out their own ignorance. And Lord, the only hope for them is the blood of Jesus Christ. Father, may you save the vilest of sinners, for indeed there was no sinner vile than we. If Paul could call himself the chief of sinners, where does that leave any one of us? And so, O Lord, be merciful and gracious to save. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter eleven for our responsive reading. Once you've located Mark 11 in your Bible, please rise. We will responsibly be reading the first ten verses of Mark eleven. And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples. Then saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you. And as soon as ye have entered into it, ye shall find the cold tide whereon never has sat. Lose him, and if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? Say ye that the Lord hath need of him, and straightway he will send him hither And they went away and found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met. And they loose him. And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosen the colt? And they said unto them, even as Jesus had commanded, and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus and cast their garments on him, and he sat upon him. And many spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches off the trees, and straw them in the way. And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, and altogether. Blessed be the kingdom of our Father David that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. The Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. We turn to our sermon psalm today, number 9a. I now will give wholehearted thanks. Number 9a. The tune is Sankey. You know that from the song Hiding in Thee. Number 9A, an adaptation of Psalm 91 to 10, we sing all five stanzas in the Amen. Thanks to the Lord and all your morless words. Will record and you will be glad and exaltingly cry and praise to your name. Will I stay almost high when backward my foes were alterned in despair? Come on terrorist because you were there for you had defended my judgment and And forever. This counsel is concerned Judge and all and why just as we judge the world from the sea and love to all things People shall let when we see a strong strong time. For all the oath in their troubles or card knows knowing your name or trust you for. Your grace to have choice taking no shaking. Let's be seated. Turn in your Bibles with me to the book of Zechariah this morning. The next, the last book in your Old Testament, Zechariah and then Malachi. The easiest way to find Zechariah is to turn to Matthew and then go backwards. Because Zechariah is one of those small little books. towards the end of your Bible. Zechariah chapter 9. And I'll begin reading with verse 9 and read down through the 12th verse. Zechariah Chapter nine. I'll try not to clear my throat too much. At this time of year when the pollen gets going, I think a lot of us Get our throats rather full and have to clear our throats often. The ninth chapter of Zechariah, starting with the ninth verse, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just, and having salvation. lowly and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass. And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace unto the heathen, and his dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth. For as for thee also, by the blood of thy covenant, I have set forth thy prisoners out of the pit. wherein is no water. Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope Even today do I declare that I will render double unto thee. What a marvelous passage of Scripture. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now again we pray that you would open thy word to our understanding. Open our hard, cold, blind hearts, that we might be blessed by thy truth, that we might receive the Word of God. Lord, I pray that you would grant utterance to thy word through thy spirit this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. We've all heard, maybe some of you heard in person or at uh on on some news broadcast at some time, we've heard the playing of Hail to the Chief. When the Queen of England, or now the King of England, enters, they play God Save the King. I was privileged to hear Hail to the Chief played in person at the first Trump inauguration. Uh and I've seen the Queen. She didn't didn't even look at me. Philip looked at me, but the Queen didn't. I was in Montego Bay and I guess it was 2002 And uh there were people everywhere. The streets were crowded. And I said, what's going on today? Don't you know? The Queen's coming! So I was already parked along the road and I wasn't going to get out for the crowd, so I just stood there in the crowd and the queen comes by in her big car and she's waving at people and Philip looked right at me and waved The point's this. Why were the streets so packed that I couldn't get my vehicle out of a parking spot? The Queen was coming. Folks, we pray for and appreciate our president, but he's just a man of earth. When the king or the queen of England comes down the street, there's great jubilation, but they are sinners. But here we find this prophecy in Zechariah of the coming of the king. Behold, your king cometh to you. Shout, rejoice, and behold. But we begin with the description of the king. We begin with the description of this one who is coming, this one for whom we're to rejoice and shout This one whom we are to behold. And the first thing that we find about this king is he is just And there has never been another king that was just. There has never been a queen or a president that was just. Oh, they may have good qualities. Oh, they may do the best that they can. But there's only been one just king. He's just in and of himself. There is dwelling in this king perfect righteousness. Peter, in his preaching in uh 1 Peter chapter 3, and verse 18, for Christ also hath once suffered for sin, the just For the unjust. And again, we find in 2 Corinthians that he who knew no sin was made to be sin for us. And Peter, when he entered into the temple, had this condemnation of the Jews, but ye denied the Holy One and the just. There's no king like this king. This king has perfect righteousness. There is perfect justice. There is perfect right. There is perfect equity in everything that he does. He is just in and of himself. He doesn't need improvement. We pray for our president. We pray that God would give him wisdom. I need to pray for wisdom for this kid. We pray that God will save the soul of our president. We pray that our president will our leaders will be righteous But here was the just king. There's no other king like him. How much more important is the coming of this king? Than the visit of the leaders of the world. He is just in himself, but not only is he just in himself, he is just in his government He's just in his government. There's no other king that is just in government like this one. You see, what had happened to Israel? Well, they were a theocracy God was their king. In 1 Samuel chapter 8, in verse 5 and verse 7. And they said unto him, that's the people said unto Samuel, and they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. Samuel, you're getting old. Your sons are the men that you were. Give us a king, make us like all nations. In verse 7 of 1 Samuel 8, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people and all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected that me, that I should reign over them. Children of Israel gave up the just king for kings of earth. And what was the result? Oh, Ray of Bones. They were given wicked kings in their place. We find, as you read through the Kings, that A new king would rise up that loved the Lord, that walked in the ways of his father David, but after him would follow another king And their whole history had been a pendulum of good and wicked kings, very few that fell in the middle. But folks, there's no middle ground with this just king that's coming. He is just and righteous in himself, and he is just and righteous in his judgment. Every decree he makes Is right. Everything he says is true. He doesn't say one thing, but do another. He doesn't make promises that he cannot keep. He does not elevate the ungodly and put down the godly. He does not free the guilty and imprison the innocent. It does not matter how good man's government may be It is always under the curse of sin. But rejoice and shout and behold, because this one is just. You see, what king do you desire? What king? Who would you have to rule over you? Samuel, they haven't rejected you. They have rejected me. And therefore there will be a succession of wicked priests, of failing judges, of wicked kings, of false prophets of ungodly pastors and pastors who trample the grass rather than feed the sheep. A TV is an evangelist, and you can go down the list of Jim Jones's and Sunlawn Moons and etc. And Muhammad's and popes. Because man, when they had the just king, rejected him. But now to the church who's really being spoken to here, the call comes. Rejoice Shout, behold, because this one is just in his government. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government. shall be upon his shoulders. He will have the royal epaulets upon his shoulders. But not only is he just in himself, and just in his government, this one who is coming is the just and rightful occupant of the throne. He sits upon the throne of his father David to order it with judgment and justice. In Isaiah's prophecy chapter 9 and verse 7, of the increase and of his government, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom. You see, there was never a king legitimately on the throne except for David and the son of David. Oh, but Pastor Saul was anointed and crowned king. But look at the king Saul was. Saul was the first king after they rejected Jehovah. And God gave them a king, and God warned them, this is the manner of the king ye shall have. But King Saul was not a just king, and not even an elect king, or a child of God king, as his own kingdom and kingship showed. But oh folks here, Zechariah, seeing down through the age of the prophecy, calls to Israel, and deep within Israel to the church. Rejoice, shout, behold, there's a king coming who is absolutely just and righteous in himself. He is absolutely just and righteous in his government, the way he governs, and he is absolutely just and righteous because he alone has right to this throne. He's not a usurper. Folks, why does the Pope sit on a throne and govern the sea? Govern there in Rome. You understand the Vatican is its own separate country? The United States horror and shame sends an ambassador to the Vatican. Why does he sit on a throne? Because he's no different than Satan, who wanted to be like God. You see, these have no right to sit on the throne. Satan, you cannot have this throne because it's God's throne. Pope, you can't have it either. Mm-hmm. You are not the vicar of Christ, you are the emissary of Satan. That's right. If you truly were the representative of Christ, you would be standing and preaching, not sitting on a throne, because God has chosen the foolishness of Christ. Scripture very clearly tells us what his ministers are to do and how his ministers carry themselves. But folks rejoice. Shout and behold, because this one coming into Jerusalem, he's just He's just. But not only is he just, but we find that he has salvation. Having salvation. And that term having salvation is very well translated. in our King James Bible. But the language there is is doesn't really show us the full picture. That term having salvation literally means he is salvation. It's not just that he has something in his possession. It's not that he's just coming with a gift to transfer to you, but rather he is the gift himself. He is salvation. Salvation exists within him, and salvation exists only in him, because neither is there salvation in any other. In Isaiah 43, verse eleven, Jehovah declares, I, even I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Savior. But that word savior is the same word in Zechariah, salvation, having salvation, and savior are translated from the same Greek word. Besides me, there is no Savior. Besides me, none have salvation. But this one whom we're to shout for and to behold and to rejoice in, he is salvation. And we find the same thing in Psalm 106, verse 21. They forgot God their Savior. which had done great things for them. And that word Savior is this same phrase, having salvation. They forgot the one who, quote, having salvation Was there salvation from Egypt? And of course, throughout the Old Testament, the deliverance of God's elect from Egypt is a picture of the cross and salvation. When I see the blood, I will pass over. They forgot the one who has salvation. They forgot the one who is salvation. This one who is just and lowly, he is salvation. Not just he hasn't. He is it. He is salvation. And so we look under Jesus, who is the author and the finisher of our faith. In Psalm 68, verses 19 and 20, Blessed be the Lord who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation, the God of our Savior, He that is our God, is the God of salvation. And unto the Lord God belong the issues from death. Let me read that verse again. That's Psalm 68, verse 20. He that is our God is the God of salvation, and unto God the Lord belong the issues from death. The issues from death belong to In other words, he decides who lives and dies. Is that not that the prerogative of a king? Okay, if you you ever hear about the the Colosseums, you know, the thumbs up, thumbs down. Dead, alive. Well that's Jehovah. Talk to me about free will and then explain this verse to me. To him belong the issues from death. It is this just judge, this judge who never frees the innocent and prisons the guilty. Other way around, who never frees the guilty and prisons the innocent. It is this judge who is just, this king who is right in all of his government, and the issues from death belong to him. Come ye blessed of the Father, enter into the joy of the Lord. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity, I never knew you. He never makes a mistake. It's always right. It's always just. This one who comes has salvation. But consider this. In Isaiah 45 we find that the heathen who make their images of wood, they pray unto gods that cannot save. But then we come to the crucifixion, and what do the Jewish leaders cry? He saved others, himself he cannot save. Folks, it's not that he could not save. It's that he would not save himself. They did not take his life. He gave his life. And the only reason that Jesus Christ could give his life rather than his life being taken was because to him below the issues of death. He could decide to live Or he could willfully, of his own volition, decide to die. He bowed his head and gave up the spirit. Do you consider that? Yes, he was crucified. And yes, his blood had to be shed. But ultimately, the life of Christ was not ended by the nails. It was ended by his will. He gave his life a ransom for many. Folks, this one who has prophesied here in this glorious passage in Zechariah chapter nine. He is just and he is salvation embodied. But not only that we find that he is lowly He is lowly. To read our text again, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shalt, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just and having salvation lowly He is lowly. And that term lowly is also translated in our Old Testament scriptures as poor and as afflicted. He is not high-minded. He is not making a name for himself, but rather who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. It was not a falsehood like the Pope. It was not an impression. It was not showing one thing but being another. He thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But he humbled himself and made himself of no reputation. And so he is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was too ugly to look at. Don't bother me with Jesus Christ. Don't tell me about him. I have all these treasures, the world. I have all these things that make me happy, that make me fulfilled, that bring me joy for a moment. Don't bother me with this despised and rejected one. Folks, God gives grace, resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And this one who's coming, he is indeed lowly. In Psalm thirty-si thirty-four, verse six. It is actually the voice of Christ speaking through David, this poor man cried, and the Lord heard him And again, in Psalm 102, verse 1, actually in the title to the Psalm, it says the Prayer of the Afflicted. when he is overwhelmed and poureth out his complaint before the Lord. And that word afflicted is this same word lowly. that Zechariah uses, the prayer of the lowly, the prayer of the afflicted. This one who is riding on an ass's colt This one who is just in and of himself, and just in his government, and just in everything he does, this one who has salvation is afflicted. He's lowly. He's the poorest of men. He has not where to lay his head. Even as he rides into Jerusalem Folks, maybe this isn't the best illustration. It just crossed my mind, but I think most of us, especially the men here, can remember as boys waiting for us banking. I remember in Sunday evening church, my mom would put up with a few little things. But then she would grab my arm and squeeze it tight, and the words would be, you are getting a spanking when we get home. And I knew that meant that dad was going to do it, not mom, and that was always worse. Sunday nights we always had ice cream at our house But I would go home and I would jump in bed without ice cream and my dad would drag me out of bed and spank me and put me back in without the ice cream. I should have gotten the ice cream and the spanking, but all I got was the spanking. But folks, we know we know the dread of something that's coming. Do you ever consider that as this just Savior is riding in in lowly estate, he knows what's coming. When he was with the elders in the temple at twelve, he knew what was coming. All through his life he lived in the shadow of that cross. Indeed, this one on the donkey is poor, is lowly. He is indeed afflicted. Get thee behind me, Satan, as he rides in. Folks, we notice here, and I don't want to get way off and preach a different message, but if you turn back to Matthew, or sorry, sorry, Mark chapter 10, chapter 11 that we read, that account of the triumphal entry. We find that Christ is riding on a borrowed donkey that's never been ridden. He came unto his own, his own received him not. But a donkey that's never been ridden has has not been broken. But his people will be willing in the day of his power We find in verse 2 that he says, Go your way over to the village, and as soon as you enter in, you shall find an ass tied where never a man Sat loose him and bring him forth. Folks, I was tied. I was tied to the post of this world. I was tied to Satan's hitching post But Jesus Christ, loose me and let me go. And then they find that uh when they went, that there was at In verse number four, a door without a place where two ways met. I was tied to Satan's pitching post at a place where two ways met. There's a broad way that leads to destruction and a narrow way that leads life. I was tied as a donkey to Satan's post, and I should go this way to hell or this way to heaven Loose him and let him go. But no, there's one that says, What are you doing loosing him? Satan doesn't want me to go. And so not to go off into a whole nother outline, but folks, I encourage you to read that passage and just think spiritually as you read through it. Because it's a beautiful allegory of salvation. I was loose from the hitching post of Satan. at a place where two ways parted. My spirit was broken that I might believe. A garment was cast on the donkey, and a garment of life was cast on me. And the people cried, Hosanna, Hosanna, and there's joy in the presence of the angels over one soul that repenteth. But that's another outline, maybe next year. This one entering Jerusalem is just. This one entering Jerusalem is salvation embodied. This one entering into Jerusalem is lowly, but oh folks, this one entering Jerusalem is the king. He is indeed the king. And I have given you a key to the outline already. But rejoice greatly. Shout. And behold. Folks rejoice. Rejoice. Only a sinner saved by grace. Only a sinner saved by grace. This is my story. To God be the glory. I'm only a sinner saved by grace. Folks, Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. Our brother brought out in Sunday school last week, I believe it was. Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. Folks, Zechariah saw this day and rejoiced And he calls the people who will not be born for another 350 years, and the people who will not see this happen for another 400 plus years. Rejoice, the king is coming. Rejoice! Oh folks, what joy when the King of heaven unlooses me from the hitching post of Satan! And puts me on the snarrow way, and clothes me in a robe of righteousness, and breaks down my spirit to the donkey that has never been written, joyfully receives the rider. Folks, the king is coming. The king is coming. Rejoice. Rejoice greatly For he is the king. What does it mean when the king is coming? Well, look at the context down to verse 10, back in Zechariah 9. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem And the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace unto the heathen, and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. What's that verse talking about? Folks, in a word, the gospel wins. The gospel wins. The king is coming and the gospel wins. The chariot is cut off from Ephraim. They'll need chariots for this battle because the gospel of Jesus Christ wins. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. He shall see of the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. The gospel wins! The gospel won! Because I am saved. The gospel wins. He cuts off the chariot from Ephraim And Israel, Jerusalem does not need war horses. Remember the other passage? Don't go to Egypt for help because they have horses. Get rid of your horses. Don't trust your own religion. Don't trust your own righteousness. Don't trust your good works. Don't trust your family heritage. Don't trust anything, because it's all chariots and horses that will not save. The king has come. The king is bringing salvation And so he will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and he will cut off the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace unto the heathen. Ah, folks, what a glorious foretaste of salvation. He doesn't come in a chariot of war. He doesn't come riding on a majestic steed of a king, a high-stepping, prancing horse. He doesn't come with his army. In fact, he tells Peter, put up your sword But he comes and he speaks peace to the heathen. He comes as the king because the gospel wins. Ah, the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break his band asunder, let us cast his cords from us. But he that sits in the heavens shall laugh. Well I say laugh because one little word is all it needs. Come. Come He says to my heart, Come and I am saved. Lazarus. Amen. Come forth. He's the king and the gospel wins. And so indeed, ho everyone that thirsteth, come to the waters. But not only does he say rejoice because the gospel wins, he says, rejoice, he says, shout, because your redemption's near. Look at verse 11. As for thee also, by the blood of the covenant have I set forth thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water. I left off the last part of the verse there. It says his dominion shall be in verse ten, from the sea even into the sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth. Right now the the um Children of Satan, right now the adversaries are crying from the river of the sea, Palestine shall be free. Well, no, from the river to the sea, salvation shall rule, is the truth of God's word. But we find that we're to shout because our redemption is near. The blood of thy covenant, by the blood of thy covenant, have I set forth thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water. It's broken, folks. The bonds of Satan. How many times have you heard that phrase wherein is no water? Okay, remember when Jeremiah was put down into a pit and there was no water but mire? And David said he brought me up also out of a horrible pit. What is this pit with no water? It is a deep pit, in other words, it's a place you can't crawl out of. And it's a place where you will surely die. You see, if you're in a pit with some water, you can survive for a good while But if you're in a pit where there is no water, you are absolutely hopeless. You're going to die. And so we are told to rejoice, but then to shout. To shout, because our redemption's near, he's bringing us by the blood of the covenant out of a pit where there is no water. Folks, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The unsaved man is in a pit without water. He's in an absolute pit, he cannot get out, and he's hopeless, he's gonna die there, but shout! But shout. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be delivered out of a pit with no water. Shall be brought out of the hopelessness of sin and death, shall be brought untied from the hitching post of Satan, will be saved. Hallelujah! Rejoice and shout! And it's all because the king is coming. But not only do we find that we are to shout, but also we're to behold. To behold. To read the verse again there in verse number thir nine of Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. Behold, behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross Despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of God the Father. Oh, folks, this time of This Sunday. This remembrance of the triumphal entry is not something just to take his habit year after year But rather, we find here in the entrance of Christ into Jerusalem a beautiful allegory, a beautiful picture, and a beautiful invitation of salvation. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Rejoice, shout greatly, rejoice greatly, shout, and behold your king. And I'm not going to comment further, but just in conclusion, let me read to you the first several verses of Psalm 72. Psalm 72 is David's prayer for his son Solomon, but it is ultimately the voice of Christ to God the Father. Psalm 72, give the king thy judgment. This one coming is just, right? Give the king thy judgment and thy righteousness. He's truly righteous. Give the king thy judgment, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son. He shall judge the people with righteousness. Have you heard that before? And the poor with judgment. Did we see that in Zechariah 9? The mountain shall bring peace to the people. We saw that in Zechariah 9. And the little hills by righteousness He shall judge the poor of the people. He shall save the children of the needy. He shall break in pieces the oppressor. We saw the victory of Christ. They shall fear thee as long as sun and moon endure throughout all generations. We saw that from sea to sea He shall come down like rain upon mown grass and showers that water the earth. We were in a dry pit with no water In his day shall righteousness flurry, and the abundance of peace, so long as the moon endureth, he shall have dominion also from sea to sea. and from the river under the ends of the earth. Folks, the king's come. The king has come. We have great reason to rejoice, to shout, and to be Hold. Let us stand for prayer. Father, bless thy word to the hearts of thy people. Overcome the frailties of human flesh in expounding thy truth, that thy people might be fed and edified. In order we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Appreciate that very much. Good exhortation from Zechariah 9. We close with our Blue Hymnal number 17, All Glory, Law, and Honor. Number 17, your blue hymn book, very near the front. We sing all three stanzas. Oh, glory, Lord. No, no, no. David's royal side's name. Created a great wise God people are. Our praise and prayer and hand us before the week. Says me for thy passion, they sang their hymns of praise to be now high. I exalted our Lord we raise thou can accept their praises, accept the praise we have. We pray who will good and gracious. Amen. Amen. Please be seated.