Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the book of 2 Corinthians and the third chapter. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 And your bulletin actually says the scripture reading is verses 12 through 18. I believe I'm going to go ahead and read verse 3 through 18. I had planned to just read from 12 down and then comment on the others, but I think we'll get the context better by beginning with the third verse of the chapter. Second Corinthians chapter three, beginning with verse three. Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by you. written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone, but in the fleshy tables of the heart. And such trust have we through Christ to Godward, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. who also hath made us able ministers of the New Testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life. But if the ministration of death, written and engraved in stone, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses, for the glory of his countenance Which glory was to be done away, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit rather be glorious? For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect by reason of the glory that excelleth. For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious. See the seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech. Not as Moses, which put a veil over his face, that the children of Israel could not steadfastly look to the end of that which is abolished. But their minds were blinded, for unto this day there remaineth the same veil untaken away in the reading of the Old Testament, which veil is done away in Christ. But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the veil is upon their heart. Nevertheless, when it shall turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away. Now, the Lord is that spirit. And where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. But we all, with open faces, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed. into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, this book that is before us this morning is like no other. This is not a book of man's thoughts or man's understanding, but this is the very inspired Word of God. And Father, we thank you that you have preserved that word. Not a jot or a tittle has passed away. You have kept your promise in keeping all the words. And Lord, though we this morning read it from a translation of that kept word, yet Lord, we believe that we read from a valid and sound translation of thy truth. And so, Father, this morning, may you open your word to our hearts. And O Lord, this morning, may we indeed behold Jesus Christ. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name Amen. The text that I would turn our attention to this morning is that last verse of the chapter. But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory. even as by the Spirit of the Lord. And we read here in the context That when God gave Moses the law, that the people could not look upon the face of Moses because of the radiance reflecting off of his face for having been in the presence of God, having received the truth of God And so Moses put a veil over his face because they could not steadfastly look upon him for the glory that had been revealed. And yet that glory that was revealed to Moses was a perishing, was a passing glory. For it was of the law, and by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight. Christ is the end of the law of righteousness, for Christ has fulfilled all righteousness on our behalf What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, through the flesh of man, God has done through Christ. And so when we read here of a New Testament, we remember that that word testament is the word covenant. It is a new covenant. For the old covenant was the covenant of the law. It was a covenant above works which no man could fulfill. But Jesus Christ, the God man, fulfilled all righteousness on our behalf. And so now, as we look into the perfect law of liberty, As we look into the New Testament, the New Testament of Christ, we look not through a veil, for the veil is taken away. And so we have a more excellent word of prophecy. If you look across your page, or maybe turn one page to chapter 4 of 2 Corinthians And verse 6. And there we read, For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our heart to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. In the face of Christ Jesus. And we all with open face, as in a glass, verse 18 of chapter 3, behold his glory. And so we have no veil. There is no filter. We behold the face of Christ in a glass. Yes. And yet, I think most of us when we were children at some time or another played Shadow Tag. I don't think the kids today play Shadow Tag. They're too busy on their electronics But we would run around in the lights of the parking lot after church on Sunday night. And if I stepped on your shadow, you had to stand still until someone else came and tagged you to let you go. Never hurt when someone stood stepped on my shadow because it was it was just an image And here we read that the veil is taken away. We have been given a spiritual understanding. The old law was written on tables of stone. The new law was written on the fleshy tables of our hearts. And the veil is taken away, and yet we still read there in verse eighteen, with open face beholding as in a glass A mirror, a reflection. Our message today is about beholding Jesus Christ. I have never seen him with my eyes. But oh, I have seen him so many times. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork, but they do not teach us of Christ. I dreamed last night, and I remember my dream, and probably many of you remember your dream last night, and I have dreamed about Jesus Christ. But Jesus Christ is not in my dreams, right? When I dream about Jesus Christ, it is simply that He is on my mind and on my heart. And so I dream about Him just as I dream about my Father. And when I dream about my father who has been in glory more than thirty years from now, I wake up feeling like I've talked to Dad again. But I didn't really. It was just And so when we talk about beholding the face of Christ, the glass is not my dreams. Right? And when we talk about beholding Jesus Christ, the glass is not some vision that I may have claimed to have. I've been under anesthesia recently. And a lot of weird things happen when people are under anesthesia. That's not God speaking to you. It's not God speaking to me. And a lot of people have claimed to have some vision, but it wasn't of the ward. It was just simply something that their own psyche or the bowl of chili they had last night As my father used to say, your vision's a bowl of chili. Some thing that you ate which caused some problem to go haywire in your brain. We behold the face of Christ, but it's not in nature, it's not in the dream, and it's not in the vision. So what is the glass through which we behold Christ? The reflection. Well, Christ Himself told us. He said, Search the Scripture, for in them you think you have eternal life. And these are they that testify of me. And so when we read in verse 18 that with open faces the veil taken away, we behold the glorious gospel and Christ himself as in a glass. If you want to find Christ, you'll find him right here. And you won't find him anywhere else. And so with that foundation, I would like for us to talk, to consider this idea of beholding Jesus Christ. And the first thing I would like us to consider is this. We look at what we love to look at. Why do people carry pictures of their wives and their children and their grandchildren in their billful? look at 'em. I was at therapy the other day and therapist knew that my daughter had just had a baby and first thing I did was I whipped up my phone and started with the pictures. Right? We look at the things we love. We as the children of God are to behold Jesus Christ. But consider the prophecy of the rejection of Messiah in Isaiah 53. You can turn there if you'd like to, but I'll read it for you quickly. In Isaiah 53, starting in the second verse, for he, that is Jesus, that is the Messiah, for he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. And as a root out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comliness that we should desire him. And when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him He is despised and rejected of man, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not And came unto his own, and his own received him not. His visage was marred more than any other man. And yet we gaze on him. Why? Because we love him. Something's happened here, folks. Have you ever heard someone talk about a face that only a mother could love? A face that to everybody else is ugh But that mother loves the child. Why? Because there's a relationship. You see, my friends, we look at that, which we love to look at. And of course, he is the stone that was rejected of you builders, but to us he is precious. And so I asked you, believer, what do you love to look at? What arrest your attention? Remember Peter walking on the sea? And his eyes were on the Savior. If it's really you, bid me come to you. And Jesus says, Okay, Peter, come. It's me. But then Peter began And he began to sink. You see, we fasten our eyes on that which we love. Remember the disciples in the boat, and they see a ghost. In Jamaica, we say they see a duppy. They see a spirit walking on the water and they're terrified. He says, be not afraid, it says I. And they recognize him. And he comes into the boat, and the sea is now calm. And suddenly they fear him more than they fear the sea. What do you look at that makes you afraid? We're coming to the, and I hesitate to mention it, but to the abominable Halloween. You won't get candy at my door. Right? I have nothing to do with it. But everybody's afraid of this, afraid of that, afraid of the other. But there is no fear of God. Before their eyes. You see, we look at what we love, and we love to look at what we love, and we find great joy in looking at it. And so, first of all, Christian What do you love? I can tell you by what you look at. But the second thing we would find about beholding Jesus Christ is that we will be like the things we look at. Look at verse 18 of 2 Corinthians 3. But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even by the Spirit of the Lord. Why are their hairstyles? Why does everybody want to look like everybody else? My wife observed recently that cars, car colors go in cycles. If you look at the the new cars today, they're all whites, grays, or tans. But in a few years it'll all be blues, reds, and greens, and everybody has to have a new car because their car is not the right color. You see, we look at things and then we are conformed to the things we look at. And if we're looking at the world, we will conform ourselves to the world. But if we through the word of God are beholding the face of Christ, that will transform us into his image. That's exactly what the verse says. We are changed into the same image, the same reflection of Christ. Oh, that I might be like Christ! Oh, that my eyes may look upon the things he would look upon, that my tongue may speak the things he would speak, that my ears may hear the things that he would hear, that I might be conformed to the image of Christ, being transformed. By the renewing of the mind, what are you looking at? Because you will be like the things that you look at. Our brother is bringing to us a very apt study in the book of Hebrews. And if you don't attend Sunday school, I would urge you. You know there's two meals a day and they're both free. Uh I would encourage you to try to partake in the Sunday school. But in the book of Hebrews CHAPTER twelve Wherefore seeing we are also compassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, there's some watchers. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin that would just so easily beset us. That's the things of this world that if we're looking at, we're going to pick up. And let us run with patience, the race is set before us. Verse 2, looking unto Jesus. Instead of looking at all the things of this world and being like the things of this world, looking unto Jesus, the altar and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Jude 1 21, there's actually only one chapter in Jude Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Folks, no man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of heaven. We look at what we love, number one, and we are made like what we look at, number two Number three. We can only see if our eyes are open. We can only behold Christ if our eyes are open. Matthew 13, this people, verse 15, this people's heart is wax gross. Their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and should be converted, and I should heal them Blessed are your eyes for they see, and your ears for the hearer. Folks I've talked with many people who have professed that they have read the Word of God that it meant nothing to them. They read with closed eyes. They read With closed eyes. God's got to open their eyes. God has got to give them spiritual sight. But you know what? As Christians, we often close our eyes That verse kind of gets too personal. That one stings. I know what God's Word says, but boy, that's a hard one. Well, you know, this little thing I have over here, it's not so bad. It's it's I know but uh You see, we will only behold Christ and the Word, first of all, if God has opened our eyes, and secondly, if we've kept our eyes open. If we had not fallen asleep when we ought to be praying. In Second Corinthians four, the next chapter in verse six, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is indeed the rev the revelation of the Father. Jesus Christ shows us the truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. One more verse on that, and we'll move on. Ephesians 1, verse 16 to 18. Cease not to give thanks for you. Making mention of you in your my prayers, that the God of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him That's what we're talking about, beholding Christ in the Word, verse 18 of Ephesians 1, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. That you may know what the is the hope of the call of your calling and what is the riches of the glory of the inheritance of the saints. We look at what we love. We are made like what we look at. We can only look if our eyes are open. But then number four, we will expend great energy to see what we want to see Say it again. We will expend great energy to see what we want to see. I'm a scuba diver. And uh in the Dominican Republic there was a very deep shipwreck that I desperately wanted to see. And when we got there we rode off the boat, but we had an adverse current. The current was pushing us away from the buoy. And I swam as hard as I could to beat that current because if I could not get to the buoy, I had to go back to the bay boat. And by the time I got to the buoy, I'm I'm exhausted, I'm breathing hard, and I'm thinking I'm gonna suck my tank dry in no time. And then we went down 120 feet. to see the shipwreck, but I wanted to see it. And so I was willing to do what was necessary to see it. Remember a man named Zacchaeus? Well, probably most of us sang the little song in Sunday school. Zacchaeus was a wee little man, a wee little man was he. He climbed up in a sycamore tree. The Lord he wanted to see. And as the Savior passed that way, and you know the rest of it. Luke 19. Turn there with me. Luke 19 and verse 1. Luke 19, verse 1. And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature And he ran before him and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said, Zacchaeus, make haste And come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. Zacchaeus did not live in a place that was known for righteousness He was in Jericho. He was in a wicked place. Zacchaeus had obstacles to keep him from seeing Jesus. He was short. He was very short. He could have just gone home, but he wanted to see. Zacchaeus was not engaged in the most honorable profession. He was a publican. He was a tax collector for the Romans, and he was the chief among the tax collectors, and he was very rich. I saw a thing recently about um the net wealth of the last five presidents before they came into office and when they left. You know, and some of them had uh gone from a net worth of of two million to a net worth of forty million while they were president. Didn't know the salary was that good. Okay. How'd they get there? Well they got there by by graft. They got there by corruption. And that's where Zacchaeus' wealth comes from Zachia a lot of things to keep him away from Jesus Christ. But he wanted to see. Folks, what stands in your way? Men will climb high mountains to see the view, but they will not come to Christ. Men will spend great sums of money to sit in a stadium seat, but they won't come to church for free. Men will go on great safaris to see exotic animals, but they care nothing for the God who created those exotic animals. Men will even risk their lives in a tiny submarine to see the Titanic. What men will do to see what they really want to see Folks, we look at what we love. If we love the world, we'll look at the world. And if we love the world, the love of the Father is not in us. But oh, if we love Christ, we will seek him in the Word daily We will be like what we look at. If we're looking at the world, we'll be conformed to the world. We only see with our eyes open. And we will expend great energy to see what we really want to see. But finally, we are eternally saved by what we see or we were eternally lost by what we fail to see Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else I have sworn by myself the word is going forth out of my mouth in righteousness and shall not return that unto me every knee shall bow and every tongue shall bow And again in John 3, verse 14, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Looking unto Jesus, Hebrews twelve, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross despising with shame, and is sat down at the right hand of God the Father. John one, verse thirty-six, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he said, Behold the Latin Lamb of God. Folks, what are you looking at? What attracts your eye? What arrests your eye your attention. May it be Jesus Christ. That we may say with Job, for I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand upon at the latter day upon the earth, and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and not another. Though my reins be consumed within me. Dear friend, look to Jesus. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the simplicity of thy word. We thank you, Lord, that you give eyes to see. Oh Lord, you took spit, Christ took spit and clay and made eyes for a blind man Oh Lord, remove the veil, remove the scales from our eyes so we may see Christ. And O Lord, may we love Him and desire to see Christ every day. In Jesus' name. Amen.