Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Book of Matthew and the twenty-sixth chapter. But also we're going to be turning to the book of Revelation and the 21st chapter. So we're going to have two scripture readings. If you want to go ahead and find both chapters before we begin, that way you'll be able to turn from one to the other quickly. But we're going to begin with Matthew 26, verses 26 through 29. And then we'll be turning to Revelation 21, verses 1 through 8. And so we begin with Matthew chapter 26 and the twenty-sixth verse of the chapter. Matthew 26 and verse 26 And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood in the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom. And then turn over to the book of Revelation and the 21st chapter. And there I'm going to read the first eight verses of Revelation chapter 21. Revelation 21 and verse 1. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and I will dwell with them. and they shall be his people, and God Himself shall be with them, and be their God And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write For these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things. And I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the fearful and unbelieving and abominable And murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and adulterers, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to approach God's Word this morning. Heavenly Father, we pray today that by thy Holy Spirit you would open your word to our understanding. Open our hearts that we might receive thy truth. Father, as we pray constantly, Lord, protect this congregation, this assembly, from words after man's wisdom. Father, no one is here today to hear the preacher, but we are here today to hear the word. And so, Father, may your word be a blessing to the hearts of your people this day. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I would like to point out to you, as we begin this morning, two verses, actually three verses from our scripture reading. In Revelation 21 and verse 5, we read, And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And then in Matthew 26, verse 28, For this is the blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you it you, I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine of the day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom. By way of introduction, there's two words here that we find in these two verses, these two passages, that we need to consider. The first is the word new. Now, uh we know generally what new means. Someone gets a new set of clothes, someone gets a new lawnmower, they get a new car, they get a new this or that But the Greek word that's used here for new means more than just simply something that hasn't been used before, or something that that's just been made. But rather, this word also means of better or of higher quality. In other words, this newness of Scripture isn't just that nobody used it before. But it is of higher quality. It also is a word that can indicate that there is a purity related with the new thing. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. It's not just that he's been made again. He's been made again pure. And remember when Joseph of Arimathea came and he begged the body of Christ, and scripture emphasizes that they buried him in a new tomb. That's not just saying that it was just dug out of the hillside, but rather this tomb was a new tomb because nobody had ever rotted there. You see, if a body had rotted in that tomb before, it would be ceremonially unclean. It would be corrupted because of the dead body that had rotted there. But he was buried in a new tomb, a tomb which had never seen the corruption of death. And of course we have the promise that his body would not see corruption. either. And so in that sense, the new tomb of Joseph Arimathea remained a new tomb, even after Christ had been laid there for three days, because he did not rot, he did not see corruption. When on the day of Pentecost they began to mock the disciples, they said, These men are full of new wine. Well, the new wine that they were accusing them being full of would not have made them drunk. It would have been well-fermented wine that causes drunkenness. But they the newness there is of greater quality And so that's the first word you have to consider. This word new. Christ says, Behold, I make all things new. It doesn't just mean that when he makes all things new, the price tag is still on it. But it means it's so much better. It's so much so far superior than anything that has gone before. Remember at the marriage of Canaan when Christ turned water into wine. And the the the Lord of the feast there doesn't use the term new, but he says it is the best. The wine that Christ made was so far superior. And at most weddings they would bring out the best first and then they would serve the worst later. But here you saved the best for last It is new. It is fresh. But then the second word we want to consider is this word testament. In Matthew 26 and verse 26, for this is the blood of the New Testament. And this word testament is the same word as covenant. We talk about the New Testament scriptures and the Old Testament scriptures. They are the scriptures that relate to the Old Covenant and to the New Covenant. It is a testimony. It is a covenant. This word covenant means an agreement between two parties. A covenant is a structure or order of law by which men are related to God. In other words, in the Old Testament, how were men related to God? Well, they were related to God through the covenant, through the structure of law God had established. This word testament in our New Testament is also A word which is used for a last will, a last will and testament we talk about. So turn over with me To Hebrews chapter 8, the 8th chapter of Hebrews. And before we get into our actual outline this morning, I want us to consider this testament briefly. In Hebrews chapter eight, and we'll start reading in verse seven. They're Hebrews referring back to the Old Testament covenants. For if that first covenant Testament Abraham, if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for a second For finding fault with them, that's fault with the people, not fault with God's covenant, but fault with the people that could not keep the covenant For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they continued not in my covenant Okay, God gave a covenant to Israel, but they broke that covenant. And I regarded them not, saith the Lord. Verse 10. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind and write them in their hearts, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. Have you heard that phrase already this morning? Revelation 3, 21, which we read. And they shall be his people, and he and God himself shall be with them, and he shall be their God. And so consider what is before us this morning. I've already referenced the marriage of Canaan, where Jesus turned water into wine, and the wine he made was so far superior to any that had been before. We've seen in the institution of the Lord's Supper where Christ takes the cup and he says, This is my blood of the new covenant This is my blood of the New Testament, this wine. And you have again a glorious bookend to the ministry of Christ, marriage of Canaan, the first miracle, the Lord's Supper, at the end of his earthly ministry. He's getting ready to go to the cross. But then you add to that Revelation 21, which is the New Jerusalem, the holy city, the people of God coming in the clouds with the Lord. And united together, and here again we have the promise. It is the new covenant. And the fulfillment of the covenant of promise, I will be their God, they shall be my people. And so with that background, I'd like us to go back now to Matthew 26. And consider what we're going to learn here from this Lord's Supper that Christ is instituting And the first thing we find when he makes all things new is that this is the new covenant. We touched it on that already But again in verse twenty-eight of Matthew twenty-six, for this is my blood of the New Testament or New Covenant Which is shed for the remission of the s of shed for many for the remission of sins. Christ is reminding them of the old covenant. In Exodus twenty-four, verse eight, and Moses took the blood and sprinkled it upon the people, saying, Behold, the blood of the covenant which the Lord hath made with made concerning you all these words. In Exodus twenty, God gave the law. In Exodus twenty-one to twenty-three we have the explanation of the law, and in Exodus twenty-four we have the blood sacrifice. The blood of bulls and calves could not take away sin. But we find that without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. And so Christ is here in the upper room. He's with the disciples. And why are they there? Well, they're there to celebrate the Passover. But what is significant about the Passover? Well, it was the celebration of the deliverance from Egypt. God told him, take the lamb, slay the lamb, take the blood of the lamb, put it on the top of the door, put it on the two sides of the door. The death angel is going to pass through the land, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And so the death angel passes through the land of Egypt. God delivers Israel from bondage in Egypt. God delivers Israel from Pharaoh And we know looking back from the New Testament that the deliverance from Egypt is a beautiful picture of God delivering his people from the world and freeing his people from Satan, our Pharaoh. were delivered from bondage. If the Son shall set you free, ye shall be free indeed. But now Christ says to the disciples, after they've eaten This is my blood of the new covenant. The old covenant was the covenant of the law, but no man could keep the law All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But there's a new covenant coming, and that new covenant is the covenant of grace. For by grace you save through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. No man ever got to heaven by safe keeping the law because no man has ever kept the law except for Jesus Christ the God. But here, Christ, as he's meeting with the disciples this last time, says, I'm going to make a new covenant with you. This is the new tough testament in my blood. He's getting ready to go to the cross. The first time we find this word new that we're considering this morning is in Matthew chapter 9, if you'd like to turn there. Matthew chapter 9 verses 14 and following. Matthew 9, verse 14. I love to hear the sound of the turning of the pages. Then came to him the disciples of John, saying, Why are why do we and the Pharisees fast often? But thy disciples, Christ's disciples, fast not. Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bride chamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast. Okay, what's significant here? Christ says, My disciples aren't fasting because I'm still with them. Christ is the bridegroom, the children of the bridegroom, the friends of the bridegroom. They don't fast while the bridegroom is with them. But then look what it says in the next six verses 16 and 17. No man put a piece of new cloth, there's our word, a piece of new cloth into an unto an old garment. For that which is put in will fill up uh will fill it up, taketh from the garment. Let me read it correctly, folks No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for that which is put is put in to fill up taketh from the garment, and the rent is made worse Neither do men put new wine in old bottles, else the bottles break and the wine runneth out, and the bottles perish. But they put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved. What is Christ talking about in verses 17 and 18? Well, he's talking about the law. He's talking about the old Jewish tradition. And what is the illustration he uses? My disciples don't fast because the bridegroom's still with them. Christ, I'm here. When I'm gone, then my disciples will fast. And how do you know this is true? Well, you don't take an old garment and sew in a new patch because the old garment will tear. You don't take the old ceremonial law and try to Shove it into the new covenant because it tears apart. It doesn't work. You don't take the old law, the w old wine, a new wine, and put it into old bottles because it'll expand. It'll burst them. I'm the bridegroom. I'm with you. And so the first thing we learn from the Lord's table this morning is that Christ was establishing a new covenant with his people. Gone is the law. The veil of the temple will be rent this night. And we are bidden to come boldly to the throne of grace, not through the law. But through the blood of Jesus Christ. And so Christ is establishing for his people a new covenant. In Hebrews ten we find the law had the shadow of good things to come. When I was a kid we used to play shadow tag. Doesn't matter how hard you stomp on somebody's shadow, you can't stomp them with it. And so the law was a shadow of good things to come. So, first of all, we find here that we have a new covenant established. But then we have a new commemoration established. And again, remember why Christ and the disciples had gathered in that upper room. It was the Passover. It was the annual celebration of the deliverance from Egypt. Folks, this morning, when we take the Lord's table, we're not celebrating the Passover. The Passover's finished. It's glorious. And we sing the song, when I see the blood, I will pass, I will pass over you, and that's true, but we don't have the blood on the doorpost today. The blood is applied to our hearts. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. And so Christ is establishing a new commemoration for his people. Look at verse 26 of Matthew 26. And as they were eating, as they were consuming the Passover, Jesus took bread and blessed us. Verse 27, he took the cup and gave thanks and saying uh gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it. That doesn't mean don't doesn't mean drink the whole cup But rather means every one of you, drink it. Drink it. For if you were outside of a house with blood in Egypt, you died. If you're outside of Christ, you die. Neither is there salvation any other, for there's another name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. Drink ye all of it. Children, drink ye all of it. Young adult, drink ye all of it. Senior citizen, drink ye. All of it. And we're not talking about drinking the drink we're going to drink this morning, for it's just a shadow and a picture. That's right. But drink ye of Christ. Thank you, Jesus. And so is a new commemoration. As oft as ye drink this cup and eat this bread, ye do show the Lord's death till he comes. And what do we read about in Revelation twenty one? What is coming? I won't drink this with you again until I drink it new with you. And that's that same word new that we're considering in my father's kingdom. And so Christ here is establishing a new covenant, and he's establishing a new commemoration. But all this has come about that there might be a new creature. Why did Christ die on the cross? To set a good example? No. Why did Christ die on the cross? He died on the cross because I was a dead sinner. He died on the cross because my sin carried me to hell. I had no hope. Yes. But he died on the cross that I might be a new creature. And folks, when I was Arrested on my Damascus Road. That's the way I like to put it. Arrested on the Damascus Road. When God saved me, it's not just that He made me over again. But remember one of the meanings of that word is not just made new, but made better. He made me not just new, he made me better. He made me a new creature. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, some things have become new. No, no. No, what's that what it says? Behold all things all things are become new. You see, we saw in Sunday school this morning how the Adam was created in perfection. Actually in our co our um Confessional reading. Adam was created perfect. Adam was created in righteousness. Adam was created a holy being. But Adam sinned. Adam lost his righteousness. God, through Christ, restores us to what we should be. He makes me new. He makes me better than I've ever been because I was born dead, but I'm born again alive. And not only is the new creature better because we're born again, but we'll never die again. You see, the first time I was born, I have a precious little little grandson just born, he's a week and a half old now. But he lives in a dying body. Our children are dying from the day they're born. But the man that's born again is born again to life, not to death. Ah, isn't that better? Isn't that new? Isn't that of higher quality than anything I've ever been before? And so Christ is here teaching his disciples that this is a new covenant. This isn't the old covenant of death, because the law of sin and death was what the old law was. But the spirit of life in Christ has made us what? Free from the law of sin and death. And so Christ is establishing here the new creature. Galatians 6 verse 15, For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything. What was circumcision? It was the law. Nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. Put off concerning Ephesians 4. 22, put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to deceitful lust. and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and in true holiness. Righteousness and true holiness, folks, not hypocritical righteousness. Not hypocritical holiness. Not, hey, look at me how good I am. No, don't look at me because I'm a sinner, but look at Christ. And see how good he is. And you see when God the Father looks at me, he sees Christ because I'm in him. And he's in me. And so it's a new creature. Purge out the old leaven that ye may be a new lump. And so Christ here is teaching his disciples that this is a new covenant. And it's a new commemoration, do this in remembrance of me, that leads us to a new creature. And then we find it's a new church. It's a new church. Or we could say a new congregation. A new community. Yes, we could even say a new country. Because this world's not my home. I love the United States and I'm proud to be a U. S. citizen. I was blessed to be a US citizen But this isn't my home, folks. My home is in heaven. And Matthew twenty-six again In the 29th verse, Jesus says to the disciples, But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it new with you, where? In my father's kingdom. There's a new country. There's a new congregation. There's a new church that's being established here Christ is not talking about the nation of Israel. He's not talking about the physical children of Abraham, but he's talking about all the elect children of God. Thank you. The saints of God. That's right. In Ephesians chapter two. You can turn there if you'd like. Ephesians chapter two. And I'll start reading in verse eleven of Ephesians two There we find, wherefore remember that ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh. who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands, that at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenant of promise. having no hope and without God of the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who were sometimes afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. That's between the Jews and the Gentiles. That's between the Old Testament covenant and the new covenant. having abolished in the flesh the entity, even the law of commandments contained in the ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man. To take the Jews, to take the Gentiles, and to mold them into one new man, which is the church. The elect. God's people throughout all ages. And so Christ has made us one new man. And in Second Corinthians three, Paul talks about the law no longer being written on tables of stone, but on tables of stone of flesh. Because the new covenant is not written on two tables of stone as was the old covenant, but it's written upon my heart. Hallelujah. And so again in Second Corinthians three and verse six, we are f find that we are made ministers of the New Testament. We're made ministers of the New Testament. We're a royal priesthood, folks. We're priests to our God, but we don't come and sacrifice a lamb. Isn't that what priests do? But not this priesthood, because the lamb has been slain. But rather, we're ministers of this new testimony, not of the law of sin and death, but of the law of life in Christ. And so we have a new covenant and a new commemoration and a new creature and a new church. But finally we have a new city, folks. We have a new city. Go back with me to Revelation chapter three and verse twelve. Revelation uh well uh yeah, we I ha had had to turn to Revelation chapter three. You can turn to chapter three of Revelation, we've been in twenty one. I said go back and kind of confuse you there. Sorry about that. Revelation chapter three and verse twelve. Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God And he shall no more go out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is the new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God. And I will write upon him my new name. When I was a kid, we used to sing the song, there's a new name written down in glory, and it's mine. Oh yes, it's mine God writes his new name on his people. And again in Hebrews 12, verse 18, for ye are not come unto the mountain that might be touched. And that burn with fire, nor unto blackness and darkness and tempest. Go down the verse twenty-two, but ye are come to Mount Zion. unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly of the church of the firstborn. There's your new church, folks. What church are you a member of? I'm a member of the Church of the Firstborn. I'm a member of the Church of Jesus Christ. I'm a member of his family. It doesn't have a denominational label on it, and it doesn't have to have a steeple on the roof to be a church. Hallelujah. We're the people of God. Thank you, Lord. And to the spirits of just men made perfect. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant of this New Testament. Hebrews 12, verse 24. And so if you're still there in Revelation, turn with me again to verse 21, and with this we'll close. We read these verses before. I want to read them again. He has made a new city, a new country. Revelation twenty-one, verse one And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. Remember that word new doesn't just mean still has the price tag on it. It means better than you can ever imagine. He's made a new heaven and a new earth. Folks, I don't love this earth. I've had enough of this earth. This earth is vile This earth. We begin our worship with silent prayer just to kind of get rid of this earth as we cut gather to worship together. But I saw a new heaven and a new earth better than any that's ever been before. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven, prepared as a bridegroom for her husband, a bridegroom adorned for her husband. That's not talking about bricks and mortars and streets, folks. It's talking about people. You don't marry the building. But you marry the savior of the body. And so the New Jerusalem coming down there is the company of God's people coming down with him in the clouds. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. What do we read there about the new covenant? I will dwell with them. And I will be their God, and they will be my people. I heard a great voice say, Behold, the tabernacle of God was men and is with men, and I will dwell with them. They shall be my people. And God shall be with them, and they shall be shall be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. With the sweat of your brow you'll eat from the dirt until you die, Adam. But here we have a better covenant. Oh yeah. It's new. It's better than it's ever any ever gone before. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. Folks, that's not a restoration, that's a new creation. He doesn't say I make all things better. Oh, it'll be better. But better's not good enough. Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give it to him that is of a thirst, that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. Folks, aren't you glad that we have a new covenant, a new commemoration? We have a new creature. We have a new congregation and we look for a new city. Let us stand for prayer, and then I'm going to have uh Brother Vince come and lead the hymn, and then we'll have the Lord's table following the hymn. Let us stand. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word and your truth. Oh Lord, bless your word to our hearts this morning. Father, may we never look into thy word, into the perfect law of liberty. And forget what manner of men we are. But Lord, as we look into thy perfect word, may it change us. Lord, may it cause us to love you more. May it cause us to hate our sin. Oh Lord, make us like Christ we pray. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.