Turn in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the Old Testament book of Isaiah and the 42nd chapter. And as I read our scripture reading this morning, you will hear in our scripture the latter part of our responsive reading. For in our responsive reading we found the quote from the prophet Isaiah in the New Testament, translated from the Greek, who is the prophet Isaiah in the Old Testament, translated from the Hebrew and the Aramaic. And so we're going to be looking at Isaiah chapter 42, and our scriptural reading will begin with verse 1. Isaiah forty two verse one. Behold my servant whom I uphold Mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth. I have put my spirit upon him. He shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not cry nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed he shall not break And the smoking flax he sh will not cla he shall not quench. He shall bring forth judgment unto truth He shall not fail, nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth, and the isles shall wait for his law Thus saith God the Lord, He that created the heavens and stretched them out, he that spread forth the earth And that which cometh out of it. He that bringeth giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit in them that walk therein. I, the Lord, have called thee in righteousness, and I will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners from prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. I am the Lord That is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images Behold, the former things are come to pass. And a new thing do I declare before they spring forth. I tell you of the tell you of them Sing unto the Lord a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea and all that is therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages of Kidor doth inhabit Let the inhabitants of the rocks sing. Let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let them give glory unto the Lord, unto Jehovah, that is, unto the Lord, and declare his praise in the islands. The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man. He shall stir up jealously like a man of war. He shall cry, yea, roar! He shall prevail against his enemies. I have a long time holding my peace. I have been still and refrain myself Now will I cry like a travailing woman, I will destroy and devour at once I will make waste the mountains and the hills, and dry up all their herbs, and I will make their rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools. And I will bring the blind by the way that they knew not. I will lead them in paths that they have not known. I will make darkness light before them, and the crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them. They shall be turned back. They shall be greatly ashamed that trust in graven images that say to the molten images, ye are our gods. Hear ye deaf, and look, ye blind, that ye may see Let us bow for prayer. Father, bless this glorious word to our hearts. O Lord, as we read these mighty words, they by your Spirit preach a mighty sermon to our hearts. And so, Father, as I read these words again, my thought before thee is how can any man expound upon these words and make them any plainer than they are? And yet, Father, this morning we pray that by your Spirit we'll be able to look deeply into this passage and glean fresh food for the soul. May we be edified. May we be convicted. May we be strengthened. And O Lord, may we be brought to rejoice in our great Savior. Bless thy word to your people this morning in Jesus' name. Isaiah is an amazing book And it is very difficult to pull out just a few verses and really gain an understanding of what those verses are saying. Because Isaiah didn't write chapter 1, verse 1, chapter 1, verse 2. He wrote the inspired word of God as the Spirit gave utterance to his heart. And these chapters and verses that we have are very beneficial to our ability to study, but we understand that it wasn't written that way. The chapter divisions and the verse divisions were added to make it easier for us to digest. And so to even begin to look at this first portion of chapter 42, we have to back out a bit and get some context. And I mentioned with Brilliant Vince several times that there are some people who are portrait painters. They paint the tiny picture. And I kind of think of my preaching as more of a landscape. preach uh painting. I I like the broad view of scripture. So I'll try to be very brief with the broad view and get back into the chapter. But the first 17 verses of chapter 40, two chapters previous, contain the prophecy of the ministry of John the Baptist Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God, speak comfortably to Jerusalem. And God promises He'll send his witness, He'll send His testimony And so that prophecy of John the Baptist preceding the Messiah, very briefly before chapter 42, it's there. And that little bit of information is important to understand the view of Messiah in 42, because 40 is the prophecy that John the Baptist is going to proceed. And then the remainder of chapter 40, Isaiah expounds upon the incomparable nature of Jehovah, the greatness of our God And then you come to chapter 41, and in chapter 41, God restates his promises to Israel, but much of chapter 41 deals with the futility of trusting in idols. But the idols cannot save. The idols have no power. The idols have no value. And so those two pieces of information in the Jewish context are important as we come to chapter 42. God says, I'm going to send a forerunner. He's going to go before the Messiah. Now you're trusting in your idols, and your idols are nothing. They're foolishness. But after God has shown them in 41 the futility of their idols and how their idols cannot save, and their idols have not saved those that trusted in them. Their idols are wood and stone, but he made the heavens. Then we come to chapter 42, and God says, Behold my servant 40. I'm going to send the forerunner before him. 42, worship Jehovah, your idols are nothing. Or 41, worship Jehovah, your idols are nothing. 42, behold my servant. Servant. And so the first thing that strikes us in this first seventeen verses, first eighteen verses of Isaiah 42 Is the declaration of Jesus Christ the Messiah. Behold, verse one, my servant, he's coming. Isaiah 42 was written approximately 700 years before John's declaration, behold the Lamb of God. In fact, some of the Bible calendars put it at 712 years BC. And yet God is saying to Israel, look at it. Take a look. His coming. Not a soul living in the days of Isaiah would actually see him riding on an ass's colt. Generations would follow in the 700 years between that time and John the Baptist's declaration, behold the Lamb of God. And yet God says to these Old Testament saints, look at him. Behold him. Look unto me, and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. Behold him. And there is not a soul living on earth today that actually saw him in his earthly ministry. And yet, our preaching today is thus, behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Now, Isaiah is propheting, prophesying to Israel in a time of great apostasy, in a time of The worship of idols. And he's reminding them Messiah is coming. The forerunner will proceed. Behold him. Look at the Messiah. Take note of him. See him with the eye of faith. Turn from your idols and be saved. God says in chapter 45, I've sworn by myself And the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return that unto me every knee shall bow and every tongue confessed. That's chapter 45, which is three chapters later than forty-two in our understanding. But remember, it's not broken up by chapters. It's one narrative. You've been bowing to idols. Behold your coming Messiah. Every knee will bow to me. And so this chapter begins with a declaration of Jesus Christ. And he says there, Behold my Messiah. Behold my coming king. What does it say there in verse 1? Behold my king. Servant. Behold my slave. Behold the one who is bound to do my will. See, Jesus Christ came not to do his own will, but to do the will of the Father. And we know through Jewish history that they were looking for a conquering king. They were looking for one to restore the glories of the throne of David. They were looking for one to come with glorious human wisdom as Solomon. And in the days when he did come, they were coming looking for a deliverer because Rome was the current oppressor at that little time. in history. But Rome was irrelevant. The Medes and the Persians didn't make any difference. The Assyrians, the Philistines, you name all the kingdoms of earth, and they're counted as a drop in the bucket. We saw in our prayer meeting challenge a few weeks ago. They're nothing. Why are you concerned with them? Behold my servant Look at the one who's coming exclusively to do my will. Look at the one who will not fail to do the Master's will. Because he is the servant. And as we look at the ministry of Christ, we find this over and over again In John 5 and verse 30, I've quoted the verse already, but let me read it for you. I came not to do my I I can of my own self do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not mine own will, but the will of my Father which sent me And John 6. 38, for I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. And John 8. 29. And he that sent me is with me. The Father hath not left me alone, for I do always the things that please him. Jesus did his Father's will even unto death. For there in the garden he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, O Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not As I will, but as thou wilt. But look what further we find about Christ here in this text. Not only is he called the servant of Jehovah, But Jehovah declares that he will uphold him. He won't let him hanging. Have you ever on your job been sent to do a task and the boss promised you an email or promised you some tools or promised you something that was vital to the job that you were to do. And when you got there, the tools weren't on the job site. The information was missing. The computer wasn't there that they had promised you and you're expected to do the job, but there's you're not you don't have any support. Jehovah says, I'm sending my servant, and I will uphold him. I will be with him. I will give him all things that are needful. I will hold him, he says there. And in verse 6, if you look further down in their text, I the Lord have called thee in righteousness, and I will hold thine hand. I will keep thee The psalmist prophesied in Psalm 91, verses 11 and 12, for he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. There's the Old Testament prophecy of God the Father sustaining the Son. But you remember when Christ was being tempted? in the wilderness of Satan after he had fasted forty days and forty nights. And Satan comes along in the time of Jesus' weakness and begins to tempt him. And what does Satan do? He throws this very text from Psalm 91 in his face. Has Satan ever used Scripture against you in your discouragement? Mm-hmm. I think most of us can God's saying there have been a time when when Satan just just took the word of God and twisted it all up and threw it right back in my face Satan's a great deceiver. That's a separate message. That's just a, you know, uh that's an extra fry in the bunch of fries this morning. But here we find this glorious promise that God is going to uphold his son, and we find Satan in the temptation throwing it right back into space. that which which was intended for his encouragement. Satan could use it for discouragement. If you look at verse four of our text He shall not fail nor be discouraged till, till is important, is it, till he has set judgment He's going to succeed in that which he sent to do. And in Isaiah 53 and verse 11, he shall see the trail of his travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. Why is it that Christ is fully satisfied with the travail of his soul? Because his father has upheld him and he did not fail. But not only do we find that Jehovah calls him his servant, and Jehovah declares that he will uphold him, but look further in the verse. Behold, my servant whom I uphold, mine elect. Isn't that glorious? God the Father calls God the Son his electric. Jesus Christ was the only begotten Son of God. By faith in Christ we become the sons of God. Jesus Christ was the elect of the Father, and we are made the elect by God's electing love. And so here the Son is called his elect. And this word elect means to choose. To set aside to a specific purpose, to mark out for a particular job or use. This is mine elect. God didn't choose angels for redemption. Were the angels sinless? Were those that did not fall with Lucifer, they were sinless. But God did not choose them to be the sacrifice. God elected his own son. And so we know these things, but oh meditate on them. Christ is the elect of the Father And in Isaiah twenty-eight and verse sixteen, Behold, I lay in Zion, I found for a foundation stone, a tribe stone, a precious cornerstone, a selected out cornerstone. And in 1 Peter 2 and verse 6, wherefore also it's it's contained in scriptures, behold I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect. Okay, the Isaiah passage that Peter is quoting from just says select or chosen. But Peter in the New Testament calls the cornerstone elect. and precious. And when Matthew quotes from Isaiah 42 in the scripture reading, we had for our response up reading this morning in verse 18, it says, Behold my servant whom I have Chosen. Chosen is the word that we find in Matthew. He's elect. God the Father chose, elected his own son to be the sacrifice. But there's more here in this first verse. For Jehovah declares that he delights in the sun. Behold my servant whom I behold, my elect, in whom my soul delighteth And that word soul is not without not without significance. God the Father says, my soul delights in him. Okay, folks. I delight in chocolate ice cream. It's good. But my soul doesn't delight in it. I delight in trains that are older than I am. They give me pleasure, they give me joy. But my soul doesn't delight in it. But here God the Father declares that his soul, the innermost thought The innermost nature of the being of the Father delights in the Son. Does your soul delight in him who the Father delights in? Think about that. Does my soul truly delight itself in this one that we're told to look upon? Does my soul truly delight in this one who is the elect servant of God the Father? And in Proverbs 8, we hear the voice of Christ as portrayed in the voice of wisdom. And there he says, I was by him, as one brought up with him. I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him. And at the baptism of Jesus Christ, the Father speaks This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. And again in 2 Peter 1 and 17 For he received from God the Father honor and glory when he came, there came such a voice for the excellency of glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. So the first part of this first verse of 42 is an exposition, a declaration of the coming of the Son, but God doesn't leave it there. For in this verse he also declares his unity with this one whom he is sending. Look again at the verse. I have put my spirit upon him, and the spirit there is not capitalized in our Bible, but it is a reference not just to the inner man, the inner thoughts, but it is a reference to the third person of the Trinity. God the Father says of God the Son, I have put my spirit upon him. And of course we remember the baptism when the Spirit of God descended like a dove. And John knew that this was the Messiah because the Spirit rested. The Spirit remained upon him. And so God is declaring to this rebellious generation that is turned from him to idols. Look Behold, I declare to you the ministry of the Messiah. I declare he's coming. And so, first of all, we have the declaration of Jesus Christ the Messiah. But the second thing we're going to find in this chapter is the ministry of Jesus Christ the Messiah. And it would have you look down at verse 6 of the text. I, the Lord, have called thee in righteousness. And I will hold thine hand, and I will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, a light of the Gentile. God declares that he will give Christ a covenant of the people Now the first time I read those words, I don't even remember it. It was years and years ago. And I would venture to say that most of us have read that verse many times. But have we ever dug in to what it's saying? God says there in the latter part of the verse And I give thee, God speaking to the Son, I give thee for a covenant of the people. We need to dig that one out, folks. What is the glorious truth that's being taught us here? The word covenant there is a covenant sacrifice. We think of a covenant as a promise, and a covenant is a promise. But God here is declaring to these idolatrous J. uh uh Jews, I'm going to send my son, I'm going to send my Messiah, and he will be the sacrifice of the covenant Now, these people have been sacrificing to idols rather than sacrificing to God Jehovah. God here is telling them the Messiah is coming and he will be the covenant sacrifice. Let me show you the uses of some of these words. Genesis nine, verse thirteen, I do set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be for you a token of a covenant between me and you the earth. That word, I do set my bow, is the same word give here in Isaiah 42, 6. God said after the flood, I'm going to give you the rainbow, and that's going to be the sign, that's going to be the covenant, that's going to be the testimony. Here in Isaiah, I'm going to give you my son. And he will be the sign. Remember Egypt and the blood on the doorpost. That's right here in Isaiah 42. And then when God made a covenant with Abraham in Genesis seventeen and verse two, God says that I will make my covenant between me and thee and multiply thee exceedingly. And that word make in Genesis 17, 2, is again the same word give in Isaiah 42. This is the token. This is the seal of the covenant. It is the blood of Jesus Christ. And when God appeared to Abraham, or to Abram actually, before he was Abraham, God appeared to Abram in Genesis 15, verses 9 and 10. And he said unto him, Take thee an heifer of three years old, and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he took him all these and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds he divided not. Here we find Abram making a very defined and specific sacrifice to God. God told him exactly what the sacrifice would be, and Abram took the sacrifice and he laid it before God. And you guessed it. That word laid is the same word I do give in Isaiah 42. It was a spare very specific sacrifice. And it was offered in a very specific way. But folks, there's one more that ties them all together. Leviticus 17 and verse 11. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it you upon the author. And so here, as God the Father is declaring the ministry of Jesus Christ the Son, the very first thing he mentions is, I have given him for the bloody sacrifice of the Covenant. He is the one that will make atonement for your sins. But not only do we find that Messiah is given for a covenant of the people Also, he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. Verse 1, the last part of the verse, in verses 6 and 7. I have put my spirit upon him. He shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. And verse 6, I have given him for the cupboard of the people, for a light to the Gentiles, to open the blind eyes. We think of the word judgment, and our first thought is that of condemnation. Our first thought is coming to stamp out the evil. But this word judgment again does not fully express itself in our English understanding Uh Brother Vince actually did an exposition on this two or three years ago that has stuck in my mind. I'm sure he could direct you back to it. But this judgment is not judgment of condemnation. This judgment is judgment of law commandments. It is a judgment of the righteousness of the law. And so when Christ says he's coming to bring judgment to the Gentiles, It is the same judgment we find in Psalm 19 and verse 9. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. Christ doesn't say I'm coming to smash the Gentiles flat. He says I'm coming to bring them my righteous law commands. I'm coming to bring them the true judgments of Jehovah. And again in Leviticus 18 and verse 4, ye shall keep due my judgments and keep my ordinances. And ordinances there in Leviticus is the same word we have judgments in 42 and verse uh two God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Jesus did not come to bring judgment. But we find he came to bring a light, to open the eyes, to let the prisoners out of prison, that they might be free in Christ. But also we find that Christ is coming in meekness. He shall not cry nor lift up. Again the Jews were looking for uh someone to come and smash the Gentiles. But he was coming to bring light. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee having salvation lowly and riding upon an ass and upon the foe of an ass. But this passage also speaks not only of the declaration of Messiah and the ministry of the Messiah. But it foretells the success of the Messiah. First four of the chapter, he shall not fail, nor be discouraged till he have set judgment in the earth. And the isles wait for his law. Isaiah fifty three, verse eleven, He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. I remember very clearly when that verse first came to my attention. 20 some years, 20, 30 years ago, probably now. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. Christ is in no way disappointed with his sacrifice. Christ is not standing in heaven wringing his hands because I shed my blood, and now people are not believing. But rather, he is fully satisfied. But it's not just that he's satisfied with a number that are saved. He is satisfied with the righteousness by which they're saved The blood of Jesus Christ has satisfied the sin of my soul before the righteousness of God. My own death could never satisfy God's justice. But Christ has done so. So shall my Lord be that goeth forth out of my mouth that shall not return on the movie, but shall accomplish that which I purpose and prosper in the thing whereunto I said it And folks, when Israel heard these words, they should have rejoiced. When we hear these words, we should rejoice. And we find multiple times in the New Testament where where Paul just suddenly erupts into an exuberant hymn of phrase. And that's exactly what we find here in the passage. For in verse 9, Jehovah says the former things. Are come to pass. And the things, these things do I declare before they spring forth unto you, I tell you of them. Sing unto the Lord a new song. His praise from the ends of the earth, ye that go down to the sea and all that dwell therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof, let the wilderness and the cities lift up their voices, the villages that Keter doth inhabit Let them glory in the Lord and declare his praise in the islands. That verse was a verse that Penny and I looked at multiple times. As even before we were married, because we knew we were going to the islands and what a blessing it was to us. Let them give glory unto the Lord and declare his praise in the islands. And that's what we were going to Jamaica's two young kids to do, to declare his praise in the islands The Lord shall give forth go forth as a mighty man. He shall stir up jealously like a man of war. He shall cry, yea, roar, he shall prevail against his enemies. You see a change in tone, folks? We've just read that the Messiah will not lift up in the streets. He will not cry aloud. He will not quench a smoking flax. He will not break a tender reed. That's what the Jews wanted the Messiah to do. But now Jehovah's speaking. See the contrast Messiah came in meekness, verses 2 and 3, but it is Jehovah that comes in vengeance. It is Jehovah that now comes with condemnation. It is Jehovah that comes to stomp the Gentiles and the Jews alike. That will not receive the Son. Verse 14, I have a long time holding my peace. You see the contrast? He shall not cry, Messiah. But now Jehovah says, I've held my peace long enough. I have been still I'm gonna smoke squench some smoking flaxes. I'm gonna break some tender reeds. And refrain myself. Now will I cry like a travailing woman? Can the travailing woman hold back the cry? No, it burst forth. I will destroy and devour at once. I will make the mountains waste and the hills and dry up the herbs and the rest of the chapter. Verse 18. Hear, ye deaf. Look, ye blind, that ye may see. What was the first word of the chapter? Behold. Behold, God has declared his Messiah, and God has declared the judgment that will follow his messiah. And so this discourse will continue on for three more chapters, but in 45 and verse 22, look unto me and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. For I am God. And there is none else. Why is that important? Because of chapter 41, the idols. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. And so we have just barely scraped A little bit of the surface of what is found in this glorious text. May God draw our hearts to meditate upon it and to dig deeply into the Word of God. Because just as I mentioned there with Christ being the covenant of people, I've read that a dozen times or more and never even thought about what what it meant. May God lead us to deeply feed on the Word of God. I mentioned at the beginning of our message that today is is The third of July, tomorrow we think about our nation on the fourth of July. But do we adore our Christ? Do we truly think on him in whom the Father is well pleased? Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word today. Oh Lord, we thank you that it is so deep and rich and full. It testifies abundantly to our hearts that no man can come up with this. The greatest writers of earth could never write such a tale. But O God, we rejoice that by your Spirit you gave your word to man And you have preserved it to our souls. Father, may your word find deep root in us. May you teach us in the word day by day. In Jesus' name. Amen.