Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel chapter five. Second Samuel chapter five, verses thirteen through twenty-five. I'd rather not read some of these verses. And I realize by the end of the day, some of the gentlemen here are going to be catching it on the nose from their wives. Embarrassing section, but under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, God has willed that these verses be recorded and read. And meditate upon and and preach. And so I think you'll get the gist of why I'm hesitant and yet it's there. I don't know if I've ever heard anybody preach from these verses per se But here we find ourselves this morning, going chapter by chapter and verse by verse. And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he was come from Hebron. And there were yet sons and daughters born to David. And these be the names of those were born unto him in Jerusalem. Shemuah. Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, Ibar, also Elishua, and Napeg, Zephiah, And Eleshima. Alitidah. Alithalet But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David, and David heard of it, and went down to the hold, or to the stronghold. And the Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Raphaeim. And David inquired the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto David, Go up, for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines. Into thy hand. And David came to Baal, perhaps them. And David smote them there. And he said, The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me as a breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal Perizim. And there they left their images. That is, the Philistines dropped their images. And Dave and his men burned them. And the Philistines came up yet again and spread themselves in the valley of Rephim. And when David inquired of the Lord, he said, Thou shalt not go up. This is God responding to David, thou shalt not go up again, but fetch a compass behind them and come upon them over against the mulberry trees. And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself, for then shall the Lord go out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. And David did so, as the Lord had commanded him, and smote the Philistines from Giba until they'll came to Gazer. Bestir thyself. That word bestir, if you have a strong concordance, you'll find it's used once in the entire Bible. It's only used once. It has a numerous meanings. It can mean arise up or get out there and move thyself. Or it can mean be vigilant Or it can say, be alert, bestir thyself, awake thyself. Has a lot of meanings, but it's only used once. And it's used here. Now, beginning in verses thirteen through sixteen, we write we find a troublesome verse. We're talking here about David, the man after God's own heart, and I believe that verse with all my heart that David was a man after God's own heart. But what is he doing here in verse 13 and 16? Taking upon himself concubines. If we look at 2 Samuel 15 and 16, we find that he accumulated at least ten concubines. And unless you think these were just help maids or or or some sort of uh uh house cleaners or something like that, we find that he had children of all his concubines. These were mistresses, at the very least. And so what are we doing with a man like David, a man of a Gonzo heart, and we are shared, we are showing a dark side here of him, of great failing on David's part. Ten concubines. It says here he took more concubines, verses thirteen through sixteen. And he took more wives. They don't name the wives here. We know that at least one of the names with Bathsheba. But it says wives, so he took at least two more. In 1 Chronicles 3, 1 through 3, we we note that he has these other wives. We note that one of the wives not even mentioned among the list of wives is his first wife, Makel. the daughter of Saul. And so we accumulate by looking through these scriptures that David has at least ten concubines, and by name at least nine wives. And all of this we know is polygamy. Bigamy then becomes polygamy. And then it is also in Deuteronomy 17 and 17 is expressly forbidden not only for any one of Israel to multiply to himself wives, but not even a king may do so. He has lots of things he can do that the rest of the people cannot do. He can order war, he can a draft men into battle, he can send men out to face certain death, but not even a king could multiply to himself wise. It was a sin And yet we find David here. Perhaps he could say, well, everybody else is doing it. I mean, this is the culture of our day. How can that be wrong? How can so many people be wrong? After all, did not Jacob have sons of two wives? So I've got nine. Did not Jacob also have uh sons of two concubines in Genesis 30? And so I've got More than two concubines on the king, I got ten plus. And did not Abraham have sons of concubines? We read about that in Genesis 25, 6, and did not King Saul himself have sons of concubines? We read about that in 2 Samuel 3:7 In 2 Samuel 21:8. I mean, we've got Abraham, we've got Jacob, we've got the patriarch, we've got the former king having concubines and additional wives. It is the culture of the day. So what's the big deal? And dear friend, if you're following the culture of the day and think it's not a big deal, you think again. We are not supposed to adapt ourselves to the culture. We are to change the culture. We're not to bring the culture into the church. We're to eradicate the culture. The enemy of our life should be the culture of the world. We don't bring it in the church and try to get warm and fuzzy with it. I read this week of one of the mega churches and how the their pastors are always trying to find a unique way to enter the pulpit Sometimes they come descending on wires out of the ceiling like they're an angel. Sometimes they come lifting up out of the floor with all the the the the the uh the what they call the ice I can't think of the name, but dry dice, you know, and and this week there was a what what do they call these lines, these zip lines, one of the pastors zip lined himself into the pulpit in the Spider-Man outfit and the people just love it That is bringing the culture into the church of the day. You can bring it into your home. You can bring the culture into your life. You can bring it into your marriage. And it has horrendous consequences. There isn't time to talk about all the horrendous consequences. But we see them in the life of Abraham with his concubines, we see them in the life of Jacob with the extra sons. We see that that's that if you look at the lineage, that's where you end up with the Palestinian Liberation Organization, that's where you end up with the Hamas. And and that's where you end up with the Hezphala, and that's where you end up with the ISIS, and that's where you end up with the Al-Qaeda. And all these terrorist groups all over the world, these Arabs as they were, they came out of the seed of the concubines. Of Abraham and Jacob. And so we're still living with the consequences today of polygamy and bigamy. 2600, 3,000 years ago. We're still living with the consequences of it today. And if you don't see those as consequences Then think about the horrendous consequences that are going on today as we see polygamy and bigamy still being practiced all over the world. Don't you think that the lack of no rain in California for several years now that the drought out there is just a mistake. We've been talking about the the sin of California ought to drop off in the ocean. Well maybe it will someday, but right now God's just drying it up As he did in Elijah's day. No rain falling. And don't you think that the crazy flus and plagues and diseases coming in this country across the Mexican borders and elsewhere being brought in from other nations You just think, well, that's just the way it is. People bring in other other diseases and coughs and so forth. It is a part of God's plague on a nation that has turned her back on God. There are consequences. And sometimes it's war and sometimes it's terrorism that lives among our own ranks and on our own streets. Sometimes it's a locust and the canker worm and sometimes it's just Lime Tick disease. Do you not see God's hand in chastising America? What will it take for us to wake up and repent What will it take to bestir us, to stir ourselves up and realize what's going on in this country is not just poor fortune, bad luck, or these things happen to everybody. Do you think that when you sin it doesn't hurt anybody else? Well, the sins of David, the sins of Abraham, the sins of Jacob, it's still hurting us today. Our sins not only hurt ourselves and others, our sins encourage others to sin As well. That's what the culture, that's what the world's doing. And they're getting away with it. They're sinning and getting away. So I'm going to sin too. It encourages other people to sin against their souls, against eternity itself. If that doesn't bestir you or stir you up to say, hey, I've got to change my lifestyle, I don't know what will. And there remains in the best of Christ's disciples a sin nature. You may be born again and bloodwashed, and you love the Lord, and you read your Bible through twice a year But you know you still have a sin nature. You know you're still struggling with some things. You're not struggling the way you used to. You don't have as many things that that that just irritate you in your life But you're still struggling with some aspects of your life, some sin aspects of your life that you wish were gone. And that's David here. He is struggling with coveting and lusting other women. He hasn't arrived yet. And neither of we. And you find that, even with that small bit of sin nature, oh what damage it can do. Even to a Christian's life. On a positive note, what we just read here about David and his concubines and their wife, it is inspired scripture. It belongs there. We need to know about it. It is recorded. In fact, what I what I love about the scriptures that you won't find in any other holy book Is it records? It proves that it's God ordained and God inspired because it incorporates and it records for all to read for thousands of years later the sins of the prophets of God It's the sins of the priests and the kings of God. You got Abraham, we know Abraham's sin with Hagar. You got Jacob's, you know what his sins were uh stealing his brother's birthright and multiplying himself wives. You got the sins of Moses. Moses he beat a man to death. We got the sins of Samson. He was also the problem that David had coveting other women And messing with the horror and the whores in the land, the Philistines. You've got Jonah who denied God and ran away from God and didn't want to do what God wanted to do. You've got the sins of Peter denying Christ three times with Cursing and swearing, Thomas, a doubting Thomas, the Apostle Paul, a blasphemer and executioner of other Christians. I mean, we see the sin life of the people that God uses to reach the souls of others. We see that no man is perfect. And we know that this book is inspired because it records some of the things that the men like Paul and David. And Jonah wished were not there. But we know it's an inspired book. And we know that all the other religious books out there are not inspired. Why? Because all the other religious folks out there don't record the sins of their Buddha. They don't record the sins of their Muhammad They don't record the sins of their uh Russell uh Tay's. They don't record the sins of John Smith. They don't record the sins of their people because their Bible, their holy book Is not inspired. Were it inspired, we'd read about the sins of Muhammad in the Quran, that he married a seven-year-old girl. He was a pedophile. And their response to that is, well, he waited till she was nine to consummate the marriage. That's not, they they hide these things. These things are recorded in their holy books. They don't talk about uh the Muhammad endorsing uh polygamy. Muhammad had thirteen wives And you say, well, thirteen, well, David had ten. What's the difference? In the holy book about David, it is said it's a sin, it is wrong. But in the Quran and in Muhammad's writings, uh what it was written about Muhammad Multiplying of wise is not a sin. It is not wrong. It is okay. In fact, to this day, under Sharia law, coming to a town near you soon, by the way We have Sharia law in Detroit, Michigan, and other cities. Sharia law not only authorizes bigamy and numerous wives, but it also authorizes that the Muslims under Sharia law may take Child brides. Seven-year-olds. And they've got that going on in this country right now. 40 and 50 year old men marrying child brides under Sharia law The difference in the Bible is inspired and it tells you about the sins and it calls it sin and the difference in the other religions like the Quran And in the Book of Moroni is they don't describe all of these things and they don't call it sin when you find out about it. The Mormon founders, Brigham Young and Joseph Smith Now now there's there's something for you. You want to know anything about your genealogy, go downtown to DC to the Mormon Church. They know more about your grandfather, great-great grandfather, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather. They can they can take you all the way back over to Europe. You know that? Ask them how many wives Brigham Young and Joseph Smith had. Oh, we don't know. That's not uh that's not something that's accessible to just anyone Well, by the newspapers going back in the 1800s, we know at least this much that Joseph Smith had 33 wives. We can't prove any more than that to suspect that he had more. And Brigham Young had 27 wives, although some account it as 57 wives Well you see the difference between the Bible and Brigham Young and Joseph Smith and the Mormons and the other churches and the other religions is it's not a sin to have all these wives The Bible it is. In the Holy Bible it is. And God's holy word, it is a sin. And that's the difference. Yes, we have this record record here of David, and it's an embarrassment to us, but we know that But holy men wrote as they were moved by the Holy Spirit, because holy men, if they were not holy men, moved by the Holy Spirit, they would have never reported the sins of David and Samson. But they were moved by God and they had no choice Whereas in these other religions that's not moved by the Holy Spirit, they're not moved by God, and they leave the dirt out That's the positive note on our Bibles. Multiple marriages and concubines. I want you to also note this. You would think that with ten concubines and nine wives, that would stop David from coveting, wouldn't it? You'd think that would keep him busy enough that he'd leave the other women alone. You'd think there were nine wives and ten concubines, but it didn't stop him From seducing and committing adultery with Shiva. So what is the answer? The answer is of drop to your knees before God if you're having a problem With pornography? With coveting? With looking upon another man's wife or upon the maid of a man? What is your the solution is well if I had two or three more wives, or if I had a younger wife, or I had a prettier wife, or if I had a wife that was more accommodating. The answer is You need to ask God to make you a new creature in Christ. David commits adultery. We'll find out about that very shortly. I want you to note this morning that once a man breaches the boundaries set by God, when a man breaches the boundaries of holy matrimony set by God They'll find it soon easy to cross over that boundary again. Once you cross that boundary, tomorrow it's easier to cross it again. Once you cross the boundary of holy matrimony that God has set, it's not only easier to cross it again, but you will go further and further and further every time. And that's what's happening in America today And it ought to stir you up, it ought to alert you, ought to awake you to what's happening in this country. What the Supreme Court did in a five to four decision, what they have done is it Breach the boundaries of holy matrimony. And it's been going on for a long time. Let me just give you the list of the boundaries that was broke. Broke long ago when I was a young kid When they allowed, they allowed the law changed up in New York, and there was now no false divorce. There was a time when you had to have a reason to divorce A scriptural reason, there must be adultery here. There must be abandonment. There had to be something from the scripture, or adultery, or rather divorce wasn't even allowed. But in New York, when I was a young teenager, they allowed in New York, and it spread all over the United States. No fault divorce. And then there became winking at adultery. People didn't even get divorced for adultery. They just did it and they winked at it and they went on. And then from no fault divorce and winking at adultery, they began to legalize prostitution in the state of Nevada. And in other states they just looked the other way. And then the Supreme Court recently sanctified sodomy, sodomite marriage Do you see the progression? You step across, you breach the boundaries of holy matrimony, and the next time it's easier again, and you go further. And you go further and you go further, and now we've got them breaching the boundary of sodomite marriages are now allowed in this country, and they're coddling bigamy These illegal immigrants coming to the country, the Muslims coming to this country, they're coming in with more than one wife. And they're applying for welfare and food stamps And they're being told, well you can't apply as though that's your second or third wife, but you can say that she's a part of your extended family, like like an aunt or something And so they're doing that. And we are paying out money to these illegal immigrants, Muslims that come into this country, and we're paying out money and welfare and food stamps and wicked and everything else that's out there for them Housing allowances, free cell phones, we're giving it all to the second wife. That's bigamy Off across the boundary and under Sharia law. And Sharia law is in Detroit and other states across the land They just they don't even bother with the fact and in England it's there too. Sharia laws are already there and you may have more than one wife under Sharia law. You do you young girls think, well, you know, you're being awful hard in other religious other religions. I mean Sharia law can't be all that bad. There are lots of Muslim women. They got the burqa on, they love that If you got Sharia law right now, if you think Sharia law is okay, young ladies, give me your driver's license. You will never drive a car again. Under Sharia law, you don't get to drive a car And by the way, you young ladies, if you're here this morning and you're not here with a brother or your father, shame on you. You'll be taken outside and beaten with rods, maybe even stone. You can't go anywhere without someone in your family. An adult male with you. You can't go on a date, you can't go to the movies, you can't go to the shopping centers under surreal law. And when the sun goes down, you had better be in your house. Because you can be raped out in the streets of the Sharia law because you are out after sundown. Sharia law, how and Hillary Clinton says nothing wrong with Sharia law. A lot of our politicians, nothing wrong with Sharia law. Very few women are saying there's nothing wrong with Sharia law, except the ones that don't know what Sharia law is. But they have breached the boundaries of holy matrimony, and that's where we're ending up in this country today. David ignored God's holy order for marriage. That's what's happening in verses 13 through 16. David has ignored God's holy ordinances of marriage. And he does this in verses 13 through 16. And in verse 17, the Philistines came. And that's what God does Do you think that the Boston bombers and the Fort Hood shootings and the ones at San Bernardino in California, the these are the Philistines. These are the bands of Philistines The Philistines would come in bands sometimes, just four or five or six guys, and they'd hit a place and then they'd run back into the land of the Philistines. What do you think is happening here? We're here being invaded by the Philistines Why? Because we have broken the bonds of marriage in this land. And ought to stir you up. In verse 17, the Philistines came. In verse 18, the Philistines came. In verse 22, the Philistines came. Why? Because David took upon himself concubines and additional wives. Is it any wonder in verse 19? David inquired the Lord, shall I go and fight the Philistines? David's got a great army. And great David's got a decision before him that seems obvious. Of course, you want to fight the Philistines. Why would you even say that? They're God's enemies. The reason David would say, Lord, shall I go? is because he's in the midst of sin. He's just taking on more concubines and more wives. The Philistines attack and he goes, oh Lord Shall I even go? I brought this on, my nation. I've ignored your holy matrimony laws. I breached it Do I go? And the Lord says, Yes, David, you go. And then David says he inquired further and he says, he says, Lord. Will I will I win? Will I I didn't write it down, but in chapter five verse When the Philistines came, David heard it, and he went down. Philistines came, he said, and David inquired the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? He says, Yeah. And he says, Will thou deliver them into my hands? Man, you gotta kill me? You seem obviously should go. Well they'll deliver me And here we learn about the mercy of God. God responds, and the Lord said, I will deliver you, David. And I will deliver Israel. I don't know what you might be into this morning or last night or what you got plan for today. It may be a sin you've been struggling with for years. You just can't get rid of it. It keeps coming back. Maybe it goes for a month or two and it comes back on you again and you but you can't can't seem to get rid of it. And you've just about given up on even trying, and you've given up and think that God will even forgive you, but we have here a man with ten concubines and nine wives, and God says, I will deliver you, David. There is still hope. I'm a merciful God. If you have a repentant heart, how can you question the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ? Christ. He will forgive you. I don't think there's anybody here with ten concubines and nine wives. So you're in a better position than David. The mercy of Christ. How can you forget the mercy of Christ? He that is out sin cast the first stone. Do you remember that in John 8:7? Boy, that's a mercy. Caught in adultery. She's fresh. Fresh from the bed of adultery, but God sees in her heart a repentant, weeping woman. And he says, Wait a minute. Yes, he deserves to be stoned, but See the tears. See her hear her heart. She's weeping. How can you stone someone that's repented? God, the Lord Jesus Christ shows mercy. The adulterous bed of this woman is still warm, and yet she's truly repenting, and there's forgiveness. There is forgiveness for anyone here this morning But don't expect forgiveness and blessings if you don't seek them I I get so aggravated by people on TV. Someone's son is shot and killed or something goes on and they interview they interview the grandmother or the grandfather and they say, Well, first thing I want to know is that I forgive that guy that murdered my daughter To rape my daughter, to dismember. I forgive them. They didn't ask for forgiveness. And and who is his grandmother or uncle to forgive the guy? Let's hear from mom and dad if they forgive the guy. God does not forgive us until we repent. And dear friend, we're not to forgive somebody until they repent. We ought to be open at the drop of a hat to forgive anyone that repents. Our heart has to be there, ready to forgive at the moment's notice. But to forgive, to do God one better, and to forgive people that haven't repented. Only encourages them to do it again When we ask forgiveness of God, we better seek it crying out fervently. We'd better seek it reading His word frequently. We'd better seek it, living a faithful life. Trying fervently, reading the word frequently, living faithfully, God will forgive someone like that. Trying to stir you up to storing. Trying to get you moving, trying to get you visual, trying to wake you up, alert you, what's going on in this country, to bestir you. Man, someone's sitting here this morning probably just saying another Sunday message, flat boring. Oh man, how much time we got left? Okay, I've been there The message seems flat. Seems like it's not applicable to your life You look around, people aren't attentive right now. Souls aren't trembling like they should about the word of God, and God just seems absent this morning. Is that the problem? Then pray for me. Pray for the message. Pray for the minister. Pray for the people, the members of this church, that God will bestir them and you. Pray to rid yourself of evil habits clinging to your soul that are dragging you down to hell. Pray for the destiny of other souls in this congregation and those who aren't here that ought to be here. Bestir yourself. That the message is getting better. Reach deeper. Touch others. When we're restored, when we're awakened, it's notable. Christ, the message was that Saul of Tarsus, behold, he prayeth, Acts 9:11. Paul after the meeting of Christ on the road to Damascus, he'd been stirred up. He'd been excited. He'd been moved by Christ. He rose up. He was alert. He was awake. He was bestirred and he was praying We all need to pray more. Me first. I know I need to pray more. I'm talking to myself this morning. Do you think I'm beating on you alone? I'm beating on me. We need to pray more. We need to pray so much that the world out there fears us. More than some head chopping terrorist. They don't fear Christians anymore because we don't pray anymore. We don't get excited anymore. We don't get stirred up anymore. We seem like we don't care. We just walk away and say, Oh God's gonna have to take care of that. Yeah, God's gonna have to do that. So I'm not gonna get too caught up in it. Let's just let the Lord do it, you know That's not the way the scriptures read. Be vigilant in your prayer life to stir yourself up Saul of Tarsus, behold, he prayeth. The words of Christ ought to move you. The words of Christ ought to stir you. The words of Christ ought to awaken you. The words of Christ ought to bestir you and move you. It's the words of Christ are full of promises. How can that not excite you? They're full of promises. Promises such as, I will never leave thee. Wow, that should stir you up. Not ought to excite you. The Christ will never leave you. You should feel his presence. In the worst of times, you ought to be able to pray until you feel his presence and then he's going to help you through it Maybe not cure you, but give you the grace to walk right through it. With a smile on your face and people say, I don't know how you do it Your doctor says what? You got this and what the how's that and how's it gonna unfold? How's it gonna go? Well that's not very uh that's not very encouraging. How do you how do you do it with a smile? Because Christ is with me. He promises, how do you know he's with you? Because he said he'd never leave me, so he's gotta be with me. Hebrews 13, 5 says, He will never forsake thee. I like that one. I die and my eyes open up on the other side of the terrain, and there stands Satan. And he's calling out to God, I want this man in hell. He did this, this, this, and that. And Christ steps forward and says, Excuse me, Lord, my father, he's one of mine. Can't forsake him now, never did before, not going to do it now. He'll never leave us, he'll never forsake us. Whatsoever you ask in my name, that will I do. I love that one. John 14 and 13. How can we not Be stirred by the promises of Christ. 22, 7. I love this one. Behold, I come quickly. Good. Make it happen now. But he says you'll come as a thief in the night. Maybe it's gotta be a little darker. Maybe it's gotta be a little darker in this land. How much darker can it be This country's going dark. This country's going to the occult. This country's going into uh the deep and dark and demonic things I tell you, I walk through Toys R Us and I see the toys the children are buying today. They're dark. They're dark You ever used to watch those movies Abba Costella? Abba Costella, he's down in the cave somewhere, and Frankenstein's after him. Here's Frankenstein. And here's Abbott. Boy, he's rolling like crazy. It just seems like Frankenstein is always able to catch up to him. You know, I would love to fight a guy like Frankenstein that moves that slow, right? 10, 6, 7 times, go around the back, kick them in the back, I mean but you look at the stuff in the Toys or Rust stores a day, it's demonic It's bad. I'll tell you what, Abma Costello, they couldn't survive the first two aisles of Toys and Rust. They'd drop over a heart attack. This this world is turning dark. Christ says, I will come as a thief in the night while it's getting dark in this country And his words ought to disturb us. And you know how love about the promises of Christ, I'll never leave you. The promise of Christ, I'll never forsake you. The promise of Christ, ask him my name and I will do it. The promise of Christ, behold, I come. You know how love about these promises? There's no expiration date on them. Like there is on this bottle of liquid. They got an expiration date, but the promise of Christ, no expiration date. Isn't that great? His promises are yea and amen. And so we find in verse 20 that as David said, Will you pro will you deliver me? And God said he would. And it says that when David got out there, the Lord broke forth as a breach of waters Now if you you have to understand this the waters on a river, as the waters rise, there's lots of rain, the waters get higher and higher, and they breach the river banks, right? And the water flows over the riverbanks, and what do you see next? Houses washing down the road, trees uprooted, bridges taken out, when the waters breach the banks They wipe out everything in front of them. And that's what David said here. The Lord broke forth as a breach of waters. He just it's just like the waters were flowing out in front of him. And the Philistines were being wiped out left and right before David fired one arrow or slung one stone. Like rising waters overflowing their banks, they wipe out the Philistines. And when all was said and done, David gave God the glory. We don't do that enough. I know once in a while you hear an athlete on TV, the football game or baseball game. People say, why do you watch football? Why do you watch baseball? I don't watch that much of it But I watch too much of it, okay? But what I really love is at the end of the game, because you know there's certain Christians on certain teams, and they'll interview 'em. And they'll give God the glory. I these guys think, well, uh we won today because uh uh with the quarterback had great coverage. Uh we won today because our pitcher Boy, he was just really on the spot today. It was teamwork, teamwork, all the way. Oh, baloney. I love the guy that says, praise God, the Lord Jesus Christ gave us a victory. I love that. He knows it wasn't his ability. He he knows it wasn't his dexterity. The same thing. He knows that God was there or they wouldn't have won it. That's the way you watch some games sometimes. There's no way the team's going to win. There's 30 seconds left in the game and they're behind by 14 points and they win. I mean, you know God has to be there, but they don't give God the glory Once in a while, an athlete is God the glory, but when was the last time you heard a politician really praise the Lord Jesus Christ? It just doesn't happen. When's the last time you heard a physician really praise the Lord? Give God the glory. Well we did the surgery and now we'll see it. It looks like it's turning out really well. We got in there and this and that and I had a great surgical team, had a real good team work with me, and I think it's going to be all right. Forget the surgical team and the dexterity. Any great doctor can have a rotten day. I'll take the worst doctor on a good day if Christ is guiding his hand. Over the best doctor in the world on a bad day and Christ is not there. I want to hear a doctor say we did all we can, but the fact of the matter is, if the Lord Jesus Christ doesn't bless what we just did, when do you hear that from a physician? We're a politician. We only hear from athletes. How pathetic we only hear from athletes. Giving glory to God. And David says, Praise God, the Lord broke forth as a breeze and they left their images behind, their idols, that is carved idols, and they brought them onto the battlefield, probably carved idols of Dagon. That was one of the big gods they had. And Astros is another one. And it said like a breach of water overflowing the bank. And the Philistines fled. They were in such a big hurry. They dropped their idols. They dropped their gods. They they dropped their their goddesses. They dropped everything. They just took off running. As they fled. They had become weary of carrying these idols because here's a guy come with a spear, or here's a guy come with a sword and a shield. I can't run fast enough carrying my idols, and they just tossed them aside and kept on running away. The idols they brought to help them battle became their burden as they fled. These were idols to help them, but now they're a burden as they fled. And I ask you, has God made you weary of the sins you're carrying? Has God made you weary of the sins that you treasure? Have you decided to drop some dirty habits? Have you decided to discard some horrible sins Have you decided to lay aside the sin which thus so easily beset you? Hebrews 12, 1. I don't know what the sin is that so easily besets you. I've got a list of them here, and you might work on them if it applies to you Some of the dirty habits? Gossip. Booze. Drugs. The occult. Gambling. Swearing. Cursing. Jesting. Making fun of people. Did I mention pornography? How about withholding intimacy from your spouse That's a sin. Debt. Not giving God his tithe Oh, by now I've gone to meddling, so we'll move on. But we need to come to a point where our idols are not so important that we drop them and discard them and lay them aside, and then you'll know the delight of the Lord. Then you'll know the delights of the Lord. And you know something when you give God the glory and you toss away those idols and you toss away those sins that's so easily beset you and you give God the glory. I tossed away this sin. I got rid of this habit because God empowered me and bought God bestirred me to do it to let go. When you do that and you give God the glory, he's just glad as can be to hear from you again. And David gave God the glory, and the Philistines came back, and David said to the Lord, Lord, what do I do now? And God was glad to hear from David again, because David gave God the glory in the first victory. God is glad to hear David come back again and talk to him. If you give God the glory, you can inquire again of the Lord, and God will step in and do something for you. In verse 23, David inquired of the Lord again And this is interesting because in verse 23, he's in the same location. It's the same enemies, all right? It's the same time frame. You would think David could say, well, we'll just do what we did before. But he doesn't. He doesn't take the circumstance for granted. He knows that God knows the best battle plan. He knows that God should be in charge here and he should ask God. And so he asks God. And surprising the Lord says to David, this time we're going to do something different. This time you're going to fetch a compass behind him. You're going to you're going to Drop back from your lines and and not let him see that you've dropped back, you're not in those trenches, and you're gonna slip way around. Take a long, long walk all the way around the back of the Philistines. And they're still staring up there where they think you are. And and David says, boy, that's that's a lot of work. To go off and quietly sneak out behind them? I mean how how that's that's difficult. Those directions are rather distasteful. That's a long march. That's a long march, that's distasteful to me. And when we get to that, attack him to the back, he says, no, then you wait. Wait That doesn't seem reasonable. I mean we sneak out, we we're we're standing here behind them, we've got to attack them now, right? And he said, No, you've got to wait. What are you gonna wait for? Tell you you hear the sound of me walking in the tops of the mulberry trees But while we're waiting, they might discover us. They might turn around and attack us. I mean it's this is this is a distasteful long ways to walk. It's just not reasonable. Sit there and wait and do nothing I think some of us have discovered that waiting on the Lord is hard Doctors tell you to wait. We did a biopsy? Well, you hear for us in three days, a week. And then the the week is up, but it falls on a Friday. And they don't call you on a Friday. They let you go through another weekend not knowing. Waiting is hard, isn't it? And yet God asked David to wait. Prayfully waiting can be difficult even for the disciple of Christ. It can be difficult to wait But Paul wrote, continue in prayer and watch with all thanksgiving, Colossians 4:2. Got to wait. Moses at the Red Sea said to the people, Stand still or wait and see the salvation of the Lord. Exodus 14:13. By love the God that does show up finally for David twice here in these verses. You've heard others present God perhaps as a as a gentle, all-loving, non-judgmental ruler of his creatures. I'm so sick and tired. I don't know where they get that stuff from. It's not from the Bible That God is gentle, all-loving, non-judgmental, ruler of all creation. In truth, he is a jealous God. In truth, he is a protective God. He is the guardian of the souls of his flock. God is concerned for his sheep. For his own, his people. He isn't some woozy, nambi, pamby, but a warrior. God, it says in Psalm 24:8, is the Lord mighty in battle. That's who I've got for a God Not the wussy wussy namby-pamby you hear preach from pulpits and on a Christian radio and television. Don't you allow anyone to tone down, diminish, or dilute the powerful image of God that's recorded in the scripture. right here. We've got a God that's a warrior. We've got a God that can take care of the hydrogen bomb. We got a God that can take care of any of the terrorist groups that are out there. That's my God. The Lord Almighty in battle, and he smites and he causes us to triumph in Christ, Paul writes, 2 Corinthians 2 and 14. Don't let them tone you down or diminish his horrible image Bestir yourselves, rise up. That's what he tells David here. Verse 24. Bestir yourself and rise up. And the Lord shall go before thee and smite the Philistines. And they did. And the Philistines were alarmed. The Philistines, they may have heard the sound in the tops of mulberry trees. Sound like men marching in the tops of the mulberry trees or maybe angels, whatever the sound was, it scared them. You ever been scared by a sound? The sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, Leviticus 26, 36 says. The sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall flee when none pursueth. Have you ever been frightened by a a door just blowing shut in your house? Yeah, you got the windows open and the screen windows are open and and you're sitting there and all of a sudden the gun just the wind comes in and slams the bathroom door and you jump. What was that? You know No one's pursuing you. Or step creeks in the middle of the night. You're laying in bed and you hear a step creek. What was that? Somebody's on the steps Or you're busy doing something and a shadow falls across your shoulder and you're startled. It's a tree branch outside the window. Oh, God can be make you so afraid of nothing. Or the sounds of him marching the tops of the mulberry trees. God can tune the Philistines' ears or your ears. To hear frightening sounds. Maybe he's tuned your ear today to hear the frightening sound of the scriptures that repent Or spend eternity in a place called hell where there's a wailing and gnashing of teeth. Hell isn't five years and then you get out. Hell isn't ten years and good behavior you get out in three and a half. Hell is forever. Hear that. May God tune your ears this morning to hear that. And so 25, verse 25, David did as the Lord commanded, and he smote the Philistines, pursuing them all the way to their borders. And obeying God, David got a victory. David got a great victory. In fact, David got a greater victory than you can imagine. First Corinthians, or chronicles, rather 14, 16, and 17 says that it reveals that the fame of David in this victory, the fame of David went out into all the lands And the Lord brought the fear of him, the fear of God, upon all the nations, the fear of David upon all the nations. They were now all the nations. Now did you get a victory, but now all the nations were afraid of the God-fearing man named David. Afraid of him. So here's our marching orders this morning. Here's your marching order. Taken from 2 Chronicles 7. If my people humble themselves, that's your marching word, humble yourselves Pray, seek my face. Turn from your wicked ways. Then will I hear, forgive your sin, and heal your land. Those are your marching orders, pilgrim. Bestir yourselves. Repent Pray and wait because his promises are coming. And depending on which side of the prayer schedule you're on, those are good promises. Or they can be very bad promises. Bestir yourselves. The promises are coming. Let's pray. Lord, we thank thee this day for David. What a sinner. And yet, what a man. Oh, if we could read his Psalms of repentance We would know that the wives and the concubines became a thing of the past. We see how he changed. We see that he was a man after God's own heart. And Lord, we can change too. Forget about our past Move it as far as the east as from the west, make it white as snow, white as wool. Oh Lord, change us as David was changed. Give us a heart that seeketh after God. God. Give us a hope in the promises that are coming shortly. We ask all of this in the name of our great God and since Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.