Turn with me to Second Samuel, chapter twenty. 2 Samuel chapter 20, just to refresh your memories a little bit. Absalom had revolted, driven his father David, out of Jerusalem, out of the kingdom. There have been a battle. Absalom is dead. David is returning to Jerusalem. He's trying to reunite the 12 tribes of Israel. And he's having some problems. And we're going to see that here, uh, where he he tries to make it work by taking Amasa, who was the general of Absalom's armies, and make him the commander of all the armies Again, replacing a man named Joab. He thought that would bring in the other uh ten or eleven tribes with the tribe of Judah. But as you can see here, it doesn't quite work out that way. and trying to unify a nation, uh kind of like the Civil War in America, you know, over a hundred years ago, trying to bring the nation back together again It isn't as easy. It's easy to break a nation apart than it's to put one back together again. So that's what we're seeing here this morning in uh 2 Samuel chapter 20 verses 1 through 13. And there happened to be there a man of Belial, that's a man of wickedness, or a man of an of the evil one, satanic as it were, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bikri. A Benjamite. And he blew a trumpet and said, We have no part in David. Neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, O Israel. So here is a split. Got eleven tribes that aren't going to stick with David as he's returning to Jerusalem. So every man of Israel went up from after David, and they followed Sheba, the son of Bikri. But the men of Judah claving unto the king from Jordan even to Jerusalem And David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten women, his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in ward, and fed them, but went not in onto them. And so they were shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood. This might seem like a parenthesical phrase here. Why is that even stuck in there? But we'll we'll discover Verse four And then said the king to Amasah, Assemble me the men of Judah within three days, and be thou here present. So Amasha went to assemble the men of Judah, but he tarried longer than the time set which he had appointed him. And so David says to Abashai, Now shall Sheba the son of Bikrai, do us more harm than Absalom. Take thou thy Lord's servants, and pursue after him, lest he get himself into fenced cities, gets into a large a walled city where he can't get at him and escape us. And there went out after him Joab's men. Remember, Joab's no longer the commander. uh Amasah was. And there went out after him, that is after Abishai, Joab's brother, the Karahites and the Pelathites, and all the mighty men, and they went out of Jerusalem to pursue after Sheba, the son of Bikri. And when they were at the Great Stone which is in Gibeon, uh don't ask me what the great stone is, I tried to figure it out and couldn't find it in scripture, couldn't find it on the internet anywhere, but trust me, there was a great stone there, okay? And everybody knew about it. It was a meeting place. And Pob became so famous they chipped away at it and took parts of it home as it's the souvenirs and now it's gone. But there was a great stone there. The Bible is never wrong. And when they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasha went before them, or he had arrived and begins to lead them again. And Joab's garment that he had put on was girded unto him, and upon it a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins and the sheath thereof. And as he went, that as Joab went forth, it fell out He's going up Joeb is going up to approach Amasa. I'm going to congratulate him, salute him for his new promotion, which means Joeb's new demotion, all right And so Joab says to Amasa, Art thou in good health, my brother what a pleasant way to greet someone. And Joab took Amasa by the beard, and with the right hand to kiss him. That was common thing to be done in those days. You see how the French will kiss on cheek to cheek, it was something similar to that. And Almasar took no heed to the sword that was in Johab's hand that had fallen out And so he smote him therewith in the fifth rib, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and struck him not again, and he died. And so Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba, the son of Bikri. And one of Joab's men stood by him, that is by the dying Amasha. And he said, He that faveth Joab and he that is for David, let him go after Joab, or follow Joab now. And Amasah wallowed in the blood in the midst of the highway. And when the men saw that all the people stood still, he removed Amasa off the highway into the field, cast a cloth over him And when he saw that everyone had came by had stood still. You've got to get rid of that that horrible sight. It's kind of kind of like going by a traffic accident, how the cars slow down, everybody's gotta stop and look So he took Amasah's dying body and moved off to a field and got rid of it. And when he was removed out of the highway, all the men, their soldiers, or people went on after Joab to pursue after Sheba, the son of Bikri. Title of Message, Betrayed with a Kiss. We find as we begin the story in verse one that there happened to be a man of Belial. That word Belial means evil or of the evil one. We often think of Satan as the evil. the evil one. His name was Sheba, and he was the son of Bikri. And in these verses it is stated he he also states he's a Benjamite, so he'd be a follower of the King Saul and his loyalty with King Saul and with the you know the northern kingdoms uh or the northern uh tribes. And so being a Benjamite we're not surprised. But what is kind of surprising here is it's only mentioned once that he's a Benjamite It is mentioned six or seven times that he is the son of Bikri. Scripture never tells us who Bikri was, but he is the son of Bikri. Uh probably bikri was very embarrassed at what this kid is doing. And yet he's the son of Bikri, verse two, he's the son of Bikri verse six, the son of Bikri, verse seven Verse 10, verse 13, verse 21. I mean, if you've if you're the father of this kid, you don't want anybody to know you're his father. Or then again, maybe it's recorded because Bikri was proud of his son. And he was The apple didn't fall far from the tree. And maybe they're trying to tell us that he wasn't ashamed of what his son did here. It was a reflection of what the father believes also For it's mentioned seven times. He's the son of Bikri. And he says here in this verse one, we have no part in David. He's not going to be our he's not my king. We have no part in God's anointed is what he was saying. David was Absal was not the anointed king. Absal had not been anointed by a prophet like Samuel. uh as Saul had been as David. He was not the anointed. But here is God's anointed. Here is God's Christos as it is. That's the word anointed means Christos or the Christ. He will have no part in the anointed one And there are people today that will have no part in Christ, who is our anointed one, who is our King as well. And it's it's a horrible position he's taking here to have no part in the anointed one. And as we're reading this chapter 20, and he says there in verse 1, we have no part in David. Just slip up one verse to verse 43 of chapter 19 where they say, we have ten parts in King David. Boy, how quickly things change. I mean we're we're just talking two sentences later And so here are these people from Israel. We have ten parts. He's our king because we're ten tribes and we have ten times as much interest in David. And all of a sudden, here we go and say, we have no part in David Wow. You know, unsafe people are not very consistent. Unsafe people are what we would call not very steady. Uh not they don't follow a very steady course. In fact they're they're very unstable. And here we got this victory. We got ten parts in David. We have no part in David And all the people followed him. So here's all of Israel. We've got ten parts in David. All of Israel. And the next moment, all of Israel, we have no part in David. And you're just looking at the attitude of an unstable heart and of these unstable men. That were a part of Israel here. And when we see that in history, we see that with Egypt, when uh Moses brought them out of uh Egypt and crossing the Red Sea and so forth and they get across the Red Sea and and as they're as they're leaving after the Passover and and they refer to Egypt as the house of bondage in chapter thirteen. We've left the house of bondage in chapter thirteen. And then in chapter sixteen they say, Oh, we miss Egypt The flesh pots and the bread and the garlic and the leek and the onions and you know how how quickly people who are unstable will change, right? They're not very steady as a as it were, not very consistent. And so we not only find it here with with Bikri in Israel, but we also find it with Israel when they left Egypt. And the same thing we find going on in the New Testament the unstableness of an unsaved heart. And we find that when Christ is entering in the city of Jerusalem, it's called this triumphant entry. And we find that in John 12, he's just coming in. All the people are saying, Hosannah! Hosanna, oh son of David! They're all excited about the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, Hosanna, is just repeated so much so that the priests and the Pharisees said, Can you stop them from shouting this Hosanna? We we're getting really tired of this. And it says there and when you look at it in uh John, it was just six days. Just six days before the Passover, they're shouting Hosanna. And then we find just the six days later, they're saying, Crucify him, crucify him uh the unstable heart of an unsaved man. Unstable heart. And uh so we we find it uh We find it all through Scripture. We have to be careful the kind of people we hang out with, uh to see how how steady the course is they walk and and how stable they are. Scripture tells us James chapter 1 and verse 8, a double-minded man is unstable. Okay? A double-minded man is unstable. or not steady in all his ways. You say, boy, he's not very stable when it comes to this point or that point. If you find someone's not very stable, uh It's on the scriptures, you can believe he's not very stable on almost anything. And it's that's that's what James says a double-minded man is unstable, or he's not steady in all his ways And so I I would just say this morning, Pilgrim, have you set a steady course towards living a holy life? Have you set a steady Course towards holiness by seeking Christ daily in your prayers and by reading the scriptures. That's setting setting a steady course, as it were. And we find David here. Uh he is about to resume his reign in Jerusalem. And the first thing he does, as he's resuming his reign in Jerusalem, he sets a steady course, a holy course, as recorded in verse three. Look at verse 3. And David took the ten concubines who he had left to keep the house, and he put them And he fed them, but he went not in unto them. widowhood. From the day that David returns to Jerusalem, from the day that he resumes his kingship, he is never again found multiplying himself, wives or concubines. He has learned a lesson. If you set a course for holiness, God will bless you, God will help you, God will be there for you, and he is not going to do this anymore. He has discovered that his covetous and adulterous life had produced every imaginable trial, tribulation, and grief that had ever fallen upon anyone. And we can go through all that again of the raping of Tamar and the murdering of one of his sons. and the killing of another son in battle, and uh the sword being raised up in David's house. And it's all because why? Because he's got all these children from these different wives and concubines Don't tell me that you can get divorced, the children are resilient, and they'll be okay. No. You can have Absalons in your household and Ammons in your household. They're not going to be okay. And Adonijas, we haven't talked about him yet. David had learned as he returns to Jerusalem, having been driven out by one of the sons of another wife, he had learned learned that tribulation comes with sin. And so he sets a course for holiness in that verse three. A lesson that far too many today haven't learned learns yet. You look in the Hollywood. Was it Jazha Gabor? Was it nine wives? Somebody correct me. I think it wasn't, I mean nine husbands she had? Wow And you you look at the stuff going on and it's not just in Hollywood, it creeps through the T V set into our homes too, and through the magazines into our homes as well It's just a lesson that people aren't learning even today. And it it it gets so so bad at what's going on in the families and the households of the world today because they haven't learned the lesson that David has that the scripture tells it it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. Ephesians 5 and 12. It's a whole lot worse than many of you can imagine. For some of us who who do a more reading than others, we know some of the stuff that's going on. Uh the the I'll just quickly say it the bathroom bill in North Carolina. The locker room and and gym classroom where the boys are allowed and the girls uh I mean w we it's it it's a s it's it's a it is a shame even to speak of the things which are done of them in secret. And uh we're I'm not even touching on all of it, and I'm not going to But that's the consequence of David's life and of the lifestyle the people live today. These concubines, by the way Now they're not treated badly. You know, there there wasn't a lot of liberty of the women in those that day anyway. They might slip down the market some of them, but if you were of of the king's royal household, you didn't go shopping in the market. You had slaves and servants that did that So really his his putting him in a war, that is they would not leave the house, they would not leave the palace, but they'd be fed, they'd be clothed, they'd be taken care of. So it wasn't like they were uh in in the a solitary confinement that you might find in a prison today, but for the most part, yes. It was a uh it was a solitary uh confinement with uh the ten of them in in a large ward together. For the duration of their lives. And and so what these concubines have learned is this Uh their beauty, which they were probably all excited about how pretty they were, how beautiful they were, and they'd caught the eye of the king. And was this even though the king is married, you know, isn't it great that I caught the eye of the king? But it resulted in Solitary confinement for the rest of their life. You just have to wonder if they had realized where it was going, if they'd have been all that excited about how much beautiful they were. Is that what we see going on in the world today? Oh the the beautiful people? And they're never satisfied how how how nice they look Uh they've all they gotta have their teeth so white they look whiter than the angels that were in the tomb when Christ was resurrected. I mean it's just it's bizarre. Uh if you see these people the teeth on TV, they're just so shiny, white. Shiny in the keys of the piano. I mean what And they're fifty or sixty years old and not a wrinkle on her forehead, not a wrinkle around her mouth. I mean they're they're just that they're all involved and want to be beautiful. But there's consequences that come with being so beautiful. And the concubines learned that their beauty had a consequence. They were confined and solitary For the duration of their life. And Tamar, the beautiful girl, one of David's daughters in 2 Samuel 13, her brother, he he was struck by her beauty and he shamed her. And all of a sudden her beauty was maybe not so Something that she found a plus in her life, and it says she remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. You know? How about the anointed cherub? We read about the anointed cherub, Lucifer, Ezekiel 28, verses 14 through 17. The anointed cherub, thine heart was lifted up because of thy. beauty. He was the most beautiful cherub, most beautiful of all of God's angelic creation. And he was his heart was lifted up. He was so much more gorgeous and and uh and extravagant than all the other angels ever created. And he decided, I'm gonna rise up and take over the throne of God, and I'm gonna rise up and take over the heavens. He said his his heart was lifted up because of his duty. People value beauty and the beautiful have some serious and severe temptations in life. You know that? Have you ever wished that you were more attractive? I think almost everybody thinks that, right? Especially when you're a teenager and you got the pimples, you know, you want them to go away and and maybe you got a mold that's in the wrong spot. Isn't it fine? Someone's got a mold they want to remove and someone hasn't got a mold and they want to put one there, right? I mean no one's ever satisfied with the way they look If you ever wish you were more attractive, think about this. The beautiful have some severe and serious temptations that we often aren't confronted with and we ought to thank God For it. They have severe temptations. For favor or beauty. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, oh She shall be praised. Proverbs 31:30. She shall be praised, she shall be valued, and she will be sought after. Think about the Lord Jesus Christ. Forget about the projection of the movies, but think about the Lord Jesus Christ. What did he look like? You know, uh didn't have blonde hair and blue eyes like most of the paintings. Right? He he he did not. Well his hair wasn't long either. I mean the projections you get from Hollywood are just not accurate. Ah, don't you wish there was something in the Bible that told us what he really looked like? Well we know he didn't have long hair. But what did he look like? Well, if you wanted to paint what he looked like, I can only give you Isaiah 53. He hath no form nor calliness. I thought he was from the GQ magazine somewhere. You know, what do you mean he has no former communist? And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. The women weren't chasing him They weren't excited about him. He he wasn't the way he's portrayed in the movies and TV, this good looking macho die that anybody would just love to have their daughter aligned with you. It's just that's just not the way it was. But people did seek after him. But they never saw it after Christ because of his outward image. Th there was nothing there to to desire of him, it says They didn't seek after Christ because of his outward image or his miracles or his money or that he might help you to prosper. That was never the reason people sought after him. Those who really effectually sought now there were people who followed him for money or for prosperity or or for healings of course and miracles But those who were effectually drawn to Christ were not drawn by his physical image. They were not drawn by his miracles. Those who were effectually drawn to him, they came because of his knowledge and his obvious love for the Heavenly Father Boy, he knew about the Heavenly Father. He knew the scriptures. He had knowledge that the Pharisees and Sadducees didn't have. And for those who were being effectually drawn, they didn't care what Christ looked like. They didn't care about the miracles. They wanted to hear him speak. And never a man spake as he spake. We read from John 7 and verse 46. So young people, and some of you old people, you're looking to attract a mate, don't use the physical Because you'll just get someone who's into the physical. Use the spiritual and you'll attract somebody spiritual. spiritual. Whatever bait you use, that's what you're gonna catch. You know that. If you're out there you put corn out in a field this time of year, you're gonna get some deer, right? Or apples? You know what you're gonna get, right? The bait determines what you're going to catch. Now David here, as I said, he's resuming his kingship And having dealt with his previous sin problem, we move on to verses four through seven, where David said to Amashah, this is Amasha who had led Absalon's forces against him. And now that the battles are over and Absalom's dead, he wants to unite them, so he's he's appointed Amasa to be the captain of the host of Israel, and he has demoted Joab. I wonder how that's going to work out Oh Joabai, be all right with that? Do you think? Not so. But he appoints Amash and he says to them, Assemble to me the men of Judah within three days. Get a group of them together out of Judah. And he said, and Amasa went out to assemble the men of Judah, but he tarried longer than was set time. That is, Amasah was having a he was having a hard time gathering the men of Judah. They His promotion by King David apparently wasn't going over real well among the men of Judah. They liked Joab. He was a nasty, brutal guy, but he must have had a lot of charisma. You know, uh he must have been a macho man, the kind that people look up to at least physically. And uh so Amas is just not getting these these men together. And David feels it's important. This this guy Sheba, he's got an insurrection going, I'm gonna have another battle on my hands if I don't take care of Sheba And shut him down and take him out before he gets back to some of these other cities and spreads the word. And so David, after a couple of days, David says to Abishai, who is the brother of Joel Web. He said, Abishai, Sheba, pursue after him lest ye escape us and get into some walled or fenced in city And there went out after him Joab's men. So you know he he hopes that Amasa is new promotion, the men will gather around him of all of Israel. They don't. And then he hopes well at least they'll gather around uh the men of of Judah because Amasa is a cousin Or rather, he's a nephew of David, but it doesn't pay. They still like Joab, who is also a nephew of David. This is all family here, you know. Uh Abishai, Joab, and uh Amasa, they're all David's nephews He's he's their uncle, so to speak. But even among families, sometimes families don't get along. Wow, go figure And they don't get along here. And so David he gives up on Amasa being able to attract a good army, and he calls in Abishai, the other other nephew, who is willing to be followed by Joab's men. Joab said, look, you're my brother. I don't mind if they follow you. And I'll tag along. But I'm sure glad they didn't follow Amasa, who had been the traitor at one time and had been with Absalom. Hope we follow all these names. If you've been with us a couple of weeks, you should. So verse eight, uh rides at Gibeon where the stone is. Where the stone was, I guess. He arrives there with a smaller force from Judah. He catches up with Abishai, who's got a larger force, so he's moving slower. And by the time uh uh Amasa finds out that David couldn't wait any longer and and he sends Abishai with a larger force, he said, Well I've got the smorf this force got not very big, but we'll take off and we'll we'll catch up and probably be up there at Gibeon. And they do. And so he arrives there and and he comes up with uh to Abishai and he's got his group, and Abishai recognized that he is the commander appointed by David over the whole earth host of Israel, he acquiesced to it. And it says here in Amas Amasa in verse 8 went before them. He began to lead them. And Joab, uh, in as they're moving out, he goes up to approach Amasa. Wants to show there's no hard feelings. David's promoted me, he's promoted you. Hey, if that's what the king wants to do, that's what the king does. And I just want you to know there's no hard feelings. And so here comes Joab. And I think Amasa must have been a little You know, a little leery, but as as Joab uh uh approaches him, he's got the sword hanging on his side and and every commentary thinks he has set it up uh to fall out while he's walking. If you ever walked with a sword on your side, it kind of bangs on your hip. And he he has said it in such a way this will fall out as he approaches Amasa. It's all contrived that by the time he reaches to Amasa's side, he has to stoop over and pick up the sword that has fallen. Now he's really smart, because most of the men in all of the armies of Israel, they're right-handed. Okay? And it says here as we read this that that Joab comes up to him and he he grabs Amasa by his right hand, grabs the beard, and you know to give him the kiss. So the hand that would do the dirty work with the sword is about to grab his chin and kiss him. So Amasha says, I'm good. Oh, I think he dropped the sword. It's in his left hand. He's not planning anything. I'll tell you, this Joab, he's as slippery as a sword. snake. He he he can s if you're not expecting it, he can do some real damage even with his left hand. Most of you here, you might be right-handed, but if I gave you a knife in your left hand and someone's not expecting it, you can still do some pretty good damage with the left hand. And so this is what he's doing here. And so it says that the uh Joab's sword fastened upon his loins and the sheep thereof, and as he went forth to salute Amasa, uh his sword fell out And Joab said to Amasa, verse 9, and you can just see him, you know, the sword falls out, you know, falls out as he's approaching him, and he says, Amasa, hey, are you in good health, my brother? And he reaches up They kiss him, and as he's kissing him, he slides his sword up onto the fifth rib. And he kills him. Smooth as a snake. You know, the wiles of the devil, Ephesians 6 and 11. What a slick plan. I'll let it drop out of the left side, my left head. You never suspect it. And and just what a what a nice approach. He betrays him. He betrays him with first a compliment. Are you in good health? He calls him my brother And he kisses him. Wow. Betrayed. I want you to note this. Amasa is betrayed first With a lie. He didn't care about his good health. And he didn't consider him his brother in the Lord. So he confronts him With a lie first and then the kiss. Same thing with Delilah, right? She's just old lovey dovey with Samson. She loves them. She's giving them kisses. And she tells him how much she loves him. And then she says after the kissing, where can lie at your great strength, Samson? See, there's the betrayal. So lie first, and then the kisses, but the betrayal is there. The kisses are there for that reason. The same thing of the harlot in Proverbs 7 or verse 5. The harlot, she flattereth with her words, and then she gives her Kisses. The lie precedes the kisses. And if you think that pattern doesn't always stick there, you're going to see that it does because Judas comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. in the Garden of Gethsemane. If you look at that in Mark, I've lost uh lost the exact Mark 14 and verse 45. Judas comes in the Garden of Gethsemane that night to betray Christ. And we know he's going to betray Christ with a kiss. But as he approaches Christ, he says, here's the lie. Master, Master, Liar, Liar. And And then he betrays Christ with the kiss. You think people lie to us today before the kiss? Oh, you young people, I hope I hope you learned something this morning. They lie to you because they want to kiss you. What kind of lies do they tell? Well, Let's see what the kind of lies I would tell. Oh, when I was a teenager, I love you. Wow, that seems like a pretty good reason for her to kiss me, right? I ran to a PK girl, a preacher's kid one time. She was very smart. She said, but I don't love you. Oh But but but uh I love you. And she said do you love anybody else? Oh no. She said, so you never kissed anybody else? Oh well yeah I have. How'd you get them to kiss you? You told them you loved them, didn't you? That relationship never went anywhere. But anyway, uh they lie to you. They tell you they love you, they tell you you're pretty, they tell you you're beautiful, you got great looking eyes, and on and on and They la the lie precedes the kiss. I know I've been there. It works a lot of times. We betray the girl or the guy with a lie and a kiss But the worst lie ever recorded of Christ was Judas Iscaring it, wasn't it? Pastor! Pastor! And he did it to his face. He lied to his face. Boy, that that is bold sinning, isn't it? I mean it's one thing to lie to somebody or to lie about somebody behind their back But it's bold when you can do it right to the face. I mean Joab is bold, isn't he? Oh my brother, how's your health? Write to it face and the Lord and Judas, oh Master, it it takes a bold sinner to just sin in your face. And we find that's commonly done too. Adam in the garden, in the presence of God. Before the face of God. He blames God for what he has done. He's eaten from the tree. He says, It's the woman whom thou gavest me. She gave me of the tree. He's blaming God for his sinful Actions. He's to God's face. He does this. That's that's a bold sinner. How about Peter? Peter in Matthew 26 and 74. Peter denied Christ three times with cursing and swearing before the face of the Christ. When you read that when the cock crowed the third time he denied him, it says and Christ looked at Peter. He boldly denied and he said Sinned, denied that he was a Galilean, denied he was a part of the disciples, denied that Christ was anything in his life at all. And he does it to his face. That's a bold sinner. I would ask you this morning, is there anyone here that would dare to sin so boldly in the sight of God? I mean, would you dare do that in front of Christ? Would you dare do that in the garden of assembly? Would you dare do what uh Joab has done here, or Judas has done, or what Peter Would you dare to do that boldly in the face of God? I think everyone here would say, No, I wouldn't dare do that But we all have. When do we do that? Well the truth is, the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth 2 Chronicles 16. If God's eyes run to and fro throughout the whole earth, then when you sin against the Word of God, you do it before his eyes. Eyes. You do it in God's face. We have to think sometimes we're contemplating a sin. Forget about whether the angels are watching you. God's eyes run to and fro. is watching you and what you are about to do or what you are doing, you're doing it in his face. And if you don't believe that everything you've ever done sinfully was done in his face, do you ever think that sometimes God doesn't see it because he He's too busy. God is never too busy. God hates to look upon sin, but you want to know something? He looks upon it. He spots it. He's got it written in a book. Oh, and he really does know who's been naughty and nice. Yeah. In fact, it says the Lord will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. The things you've done in the dark that nobody could see. And you'll make manifest, oh, not only the things you've done, but the consoles of your heart, 1 Corinthians 4. The things you thought in your heart. Oh, I've never committed adultery. Do you ever look at a woman with lust? Yeah, but never got caught by the little woman. She never caught me looking. Oh well God. I never stole anything, no But do you ever contemplate how easy it would be to take the money out of that cash register or lift a couple of dollars uh maybe out of collection plate or something when no one's walking around up here That's that's stealing. You never did it, but that was the counsel of your heart. That was what was in your heart. And so and you and you and you thought about those things in your heart and nobody knows and you never did them But there's still sin and God, He saw it. He did it in the very presence of His face So our sins and the way we live our lives, we're not any better than Joab or Peter or Judas. Unless we repent, then then we're a whole lot better than them. Now here we we go back to Amasa. He's had his stuff to him, hasn't he? And he's dying. It says here that he's wallowing in his blood. In verse eleven, one of Joab's men stood by him as he's lying there dying. And he said He that favoreth Joab steps over the wallowing body, the body that's dying and bleeding. He says, follow Joab and let's do it for David. Oh, patriotic speech. Could you have stepped over that bloody dead body or stepped around it I mean, Joab didn't get him off in the corner somewhere. Joab, the troops are all gathered and are all watching. Oh wow, here comes Joab. He's going up to talk to Amasa. Oh, he's been demoted and he's been promoted and this ought to be interesting to see there's a little sneer on his lip or see the little sarcasm in his voice and all the soldiers there watching And what does Joab do? He kills them. He guts them in front of all the men. I mean, how do you sit back and you know that this man, Joab, he is a bloodthirsty murderer Responsible for the death of this man, responsible for the blood that's on the road, responsible for this dead man laying there or wallowing in his blood, and you say, I'll still follow him, I'll still support him, I can tolerate Joab How can he do that? Because our hearts were not regulated by biblical principles. These men's hearts were not regulated by what Christ taught in the scriptures. They were willing to tolerate Job. They were willing to follow Joab. They were willing to embrace this bloodthirsty Joab because he was probably a very personable, charismatic individual, and so they could do it. Now we can sit this morning and say that we wouldn't, and I think most of us would not. But we know people that would. We know a lot of people that would. Because people vote for politicians and they follow movie stars on Twitter and TV and the tabloid magazines who embrace the abortion movement, and that is tolerating bloody murder of the innocent. And we know people that do that. They would step they they might just as well step over the a bloody aborted baby as they go over to get the autograph of some starlet Because those Hollywood types, they they are pro-choice. They are for abortion. And many of those who we vote for, we being this country They would follow a Joab. They have followed a Joab. They have put Joabs in office. And they buy tickets to the movies of the people who make millions and donate it to the pro choice abortion movement, don't they? Wow So Amasa, he's wallowing the blood. They remove him, and all the people went on after Joab to pursue Sheba. Oh, there's always a bigger and greater cause, so forget what he's just done here. Hmm. You ever ask yourself, why does God God allow such monsters to live in this world? Why does God allow such monsters to do such appalling, shocking wickedness? Why does God allow that? Can't God stop that? Yeah, He can stop it, and sometimes He does. But why does God allow that? And we say that, well, you know, all things work together for the good of them that love God. Romans 8. 28 You know, that just doesn't satisfy most people, does it? I mean you take the people in Egypt. They're living there for 430 years, and they're living in bondage under the Pharaoh, and they're living under the heavy Taskmaster's hardened hand. And it's a brutal life for the Jews. And you walk up to the Jews and say, Well, you know, all things were up for the good and the love of the Lord. Do you think that the the Israelites in in Egyptian bondage would say, Oh, that just touched my heart and makes me feels so much better. Why does God allow a Pharaoh? Why does God allow a Joab? Why does God allow uh the ho I don't even want to give credit for the names of people we all know, serial murderers and rapists and killers and And jihadists and terrorists. Walk in dressed up like Santa Claus? Oh in Istanbul and killed all his people and wounded seventy And when they say wounded, you know what that means sometimes? Paralyzed from the waist down, a bullet goes through the spine? Or they die three or four months later from now? I mean, why does God allow some of this stuff to go on? All things work for good of them that love God. I don't think that most of the Israelites in Egypt in that day would have would have found that a good enough explanation. But 900 years later, we get one. In the book of Ezekiel, we find out why Israel was living in such bondage and hardship. in Israel. Ezekiel twenty, verses seven and eight. Because while in Egypt, you know Joseph had got them in Egypt, things went pretty well. under the Pharaoh who knew Joseph, but then after he died, uh there was a Pharaoh who did not know Joseph, did not know Joseph's God, and the Israelites began to forget Joseph's God as well. And so why did they live in this horrible bondage for all these years? Ezekiel 278 says, because they begin to worship the idea. You want to worship the idols of Egypt? All right. Well, we'll keep you here. You'll find out what it's like to worship the idols of Egypt. Israel was worshiping the idols of Egypt. And so and these plagues, many plagues, the plague of the frogs and the plagues of the flies, those were the gods of Egypt. And as much as Egypt was astounded and appalled that their gods were were Frogs were dying everywhere. Those are the gods and the flies and so forth. The Israelites, they've been worshiping those frogs too. And worshiping the Nile River also, the river of life And so why did they go through all this? Because they were worshiping, they were living in an idolatrous spiritual adultery against the God who created them. The heavens and the earth. And that's why they went through it. You know, we don't always know why God does things. But sometimes in Scripture, He reveals to us why He allows these horrible, horrendous things to happen to a nation. Israel still has had a rough government, haven't they? But you know, there was the high priest, Caiaphas, and the people Who said when they were going to crucify Christ? They said of Christ, let his blood be upon us and our children. Whoa! Why would you bring a curse like that down on your children and your children's children? Today we look out and we see Christians, especially Islamic countries, and they're being raped And then they're being crucified, and then they're being beheaded. That's the way they're treating Christians right now. And we have a president who is very close to the heads of some of these He said, I've got a relationship with the Iranian government that is so good and I can talk to them and he just gave them uh billions of dollars and they can make nuclear weapons, but he has never approached him and said, Let my people We've got pastors and their wives in prison over in Iran who are going to be executed, some of them this week, and not once in eight years has our president ever stepped in and said, Hey This ought not to be. Why is there such wickedness in the world then and even now? The victims of crimes are everywhere, and the victims of some of these crimes, alarming crimes, and we say, Why? What's going on here? Well here's here's something for you to think about. When we look at the terrible things going on today, we only have a small fragment of the present. You know, if we could look out into the future, nine hundred years from now, we might understand why God was allowing some things to happen, as we did in Ezekiel. But right now with just a fragment of the present, we don't know. We don't have the whole picture of what God is doing. And God hasn't written in his word uh enough to satisfy our every curiosity. You know, God didn't write his word to satisfy our curiosity. His word has been written down for us that we might be saved, that we might repent, that we might live holy lives. That's why it was written, not to fulfill every one of our curiosities But his word does tell us that he has reasons. And his word tells us we're to trust the Lord with all thine heart and lean not over On our own understanding. And that's what people do. Why is God doing this? Why is God doing it? Why is God allowing this? Why is God allowing that? Lean not on your own understanding. Understanding, friend. You've only got a fragment of what's going on right now. You don't have the whole picture. The curse, causeless, shall not come. Proverbs 26, 2. You think we're living in accursed times? The curse causeless shall not come. There's a cause. There's a reason for why God is doing things. And Job records, God giveth not account of any of his manners. You know, we can't hold him and say, God, I want to explain, I want it right now. He doesn't have to give us account for any of his manners. Although he does sometimes, Job 33 and 13. And Christ taught us this: what I do now, thou knowest not. But thou shalt know. Hereafter. So, pilgrim this morning, struggling with what's going on in the world, the horrible things, wait patiently on the Lord, for in the hereafter you shall know And you will rejoice at what God is doing right now. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day that in these few verses of the life of David, we find some good counsel. We find some good warnings. We find a God that loves us. we may be in bondage. He has a plan for his sheep, for his flock, for his elect. Lord, may we hang on to it, that though we know not what you're doing right now, we shall in the hereafter. And we'll praise you for all eternity for what you're doing right now. And it's in Christ's name we give you the glory. Amen. I didn't need a body.