Please this morning to the Gospel as recorded for us by Matthew and to the twenty-sixth chapter. The twenty-sixth chapter of Matthew's Gospel. Matthew chapter 26. And I have looked at this chapter this week multiple times and tried to figure out how to do the scripture reading. And to eliminate some verses so the scripture reading is not so long. I came to the conclusion you can't do it You have to read an extensive passage of Scripture. And yet, as I've said to you before It is my privilege to come to this pulpit week after week and to preach, but I have nothing inspired to say. The only thing that we have that is inspired is the Word of God. And so I'm going to read verses 1 through 50 of this chapter this morning. And I would ask you to Give extra effort to staying alert, to concentrating on the Word of God. In this same chapter, we find the disciples, when they should have been praying, falling asleep. And that's the perfect illustration for us of how quickly our frail minds can depart from spiritual things under the things of ourselves. So I'm going to begin in verse 1 and read through verse 50 of the 26th chapter of Matthew. And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these things, he said unto his disciples, Ye know that after two days is the feast of the Passover, and the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. Then assembled together the chief priests and the scribes and elders of the people under the place of the high priest who was called Caiaphas. And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people. Now when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, there came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat. But when the disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste for this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor? When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world there shall this also this also shall also this that this woman hath done be told for her memorial of her Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priest and said unto them, What will you give me? and I will deliver him unto you. And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him. Now, the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came unto Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into a certain in into the city to such a man and say unto him, The master saith, My time is at hand, I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them, and they made ready the Passover. Now when even was come, he sat down with the twelve, and as they did eat, he said Verily I say unto you, one of you shall betray me. And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of Man goeth, as it is written of him, but woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, and of the day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. When Jesus S then Jesus saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered But after that I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples Then cometh Jesus with them to the place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul was exceeding sorrowful unto even unto death. Carry ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What? Could ye not watch with me one hour Watch and pray that ye enter not into the temptation. The Spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak And he went away again the second time and prayed, saying, O my father, if this cup pass not away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy. And he left them and went away again and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Then cometh he to the disciples and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Arise Let us be going. Behold, he is at hand that doth betray me. And while he yet spake, Judas, one of the twelve, came. And with him a great multitude with swords and staves from the chief priest and the elders of the people. Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same as he, hold him fast. And forthwith he came to Jesus and said, Hail, Master And kissed him. And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took him away. Let us pray. Gracious Father, as we read this passage of a vile betrayal. Lord, make us aware this morning that we are all guilty, that we have all betrayed our Lord. Father, bless thy word to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Betrayed. Betrayal. The very word gives us knots in the stomach. The very concept of betrayal is repugnant to us. We celebrate This week, the independence of our nation. How many of you have heard the name Benedict Arnold? How many of you would name your child Benedict Arnold and then your last name? Benedict Arnold's name lives in infamy. We find here an unnamed woman who brought an alabaster box and she poured this valuable ointment on Christ in an act of love an act of submission, an act of faith. And Christ said, wheresoever it is preached, shall be remembered for immemorial. And her act of worship has been remembered on every continent and in just about every country, if not every country of earth. How many of you would name your child Judas? No? It's not a name we use. Why? Betrayal Betrayal. Webster's dictionary defines betrayal, or to betray, as to lead astray To deliver to an enemy by treachery, to fail or desert, especially in a time of need. And then Webster's also the word betrayed. The first was to betray, the second is betrayed, treacherously abandon, desert, or mistreat. Betrayal by a friend or by a loved one is one of the most painful things that any individual can ever endure. In fact, the wounds caused by betrayal Even though they're not cuts in the flesh, even though they're not broken bones of the flesh, the wounds of betrayal often have more lasting effect on the individual than physical wounds. An arm will heal, and yes, maybe you can tell when it's going to rain by a bit of pain. But most days you don't think about the fact this arm was once broken But when your spirit, when your soul has been pierced by betrayal, that is a wound that stays with you. That is a hurt that is there every morning. And the closer the individual that betrayed you is to your heart, the more deeply that wound Pierces to the soul and stays with you. The Greek word for betray is parabidami. Para-didymai. It is a compound of two words, para and didmi or didomi. The word para is a preposition. It's a word that means beside. Something is beside or something as is at one's side. It is era. It is here to me. In our English we have the word parallel, and it comes from the same root. Two lines that are parallel, they're right together, they're beside each other. It's a preposition that means to the side, but it also means from my side. Okay? It is something that comes from right here. It comes from close to me, from my side. And in the word did my second part of this compound, did I, or didami, actually is the better pronunciation, means to give. or I give. And it also means to give from. And so when we had this compound, paradidimi, it means to betray from my side. Okay, something comes from me, it is beside me, and it is given to another. And so to betray is to, from the very close to me To betray. To break the trust. To deal treacherously. And of course, a spy gets as close as he can to gather all the information he can, and then he gives that information from his side to an enemy. And so when we talk about Judas betraying, he was by the side of Christ, and he gave him over to the enemy. Webster also records incorrectly actually, Webster records that this word first came into use about 1609. And that's interesting because 1611 was our first publication of the King James Bible. The word was just becoming very common in English at that time. However, Tyndall, in his 1520, 26th English translation uses this same English word to betray for paradidomai. That's the way he defines it. And to further understand this word, we need to look at another place in the New Testament that it's used. You know I love to do this because you look at other verses that use the same word. It explains them. In Matthew chapter 11, verse 27. 7. You can turn there if you'd like, but you don't need to. I'll read it to you. Matthew 27, verse 11, Christ says, All things are delivered unto me of my Father. And no man knoweth the Son but the Father, neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Fat Son will reveal him When Christ says all things are delivered unto me of the Father, he uses parididomy or paradidym In other things, in words, all things come from the side of my father. They're right here with my father. They're beside him. And he delivers them to me. He gives them to me. And no man can know the father but the Son. And the only way you'll ever know the Father is if the Son reveals him. If it comes from the side of the Son, and it is given to you. Parididomy. Now it's interesting, that same word that talks about the Father delivering all things to the Son is the same word betrayed. Because of the origin of that which is given. It comes from the Father's side. Now you think about the betrayals that we suffer in life. Again, it's the person closest to us that has the greatest potential to betray us. And it is the betrayal of that one closest to the side That pierces the deepest into us. And so Judas, from his own side, Delivers up Christ. Judas delivered the one by whose side he had spent three years. Judas delivered to the enemy by treachery. Remember that's one of the terms that we had there for betray, treachery. Judas gave over the Messiah to those that wanted to kill him Judas gave over Jesus to be crucified in his time of need. Judas betrayed the Lord, and his name is known with scorn. But we read there in verse 24 of Matthew 26. The Son of Man goeth as is written of him, but woe unto that man! by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for him that he had not been born. I'd like you to see from our text this morning, first of all, that Jesus was betrayed by the Jews. He was betrayed by his own countrymen. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. And there in verses 3 through 5. of the chapter. We had the account of the Jews saying, let's let's kill him, let's take him, let's crucify him. But we better not do it on the feast because we don't want to cause an uproar. We know that the people have seen the miracles. We know that the people have done seen So we can't do it openly. We've got to find some other way to get him, because as they themselves have said, no man can do these miracles which thou doest except God be with him. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Abraham believed God, and it was counted him for righteousness. God had promised to Abraham that his seed would be as the sands of the seashore and the stars of the heaven. David, the son of Abraham, was a man after God's own heart. And if anyone should have been true to the Messiah, If anyone should have embraced him, it was his own. Your own children have the greatest potential to hurt you. Your own family have the greatest potential to do you harm, to betray you He came unto his own. We read those words casually, and I don't think a lot of times we really think about what it means. He came unto his own And his own received him not. In Luke chapter 19, we read, and when he came near he beheld the city and wept over it, saying If thou had known even at the least, at this last day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. And we find Christ weeping over Jerusalem. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them that were sent unto you. How also thy have gathered thy children together as a hen gathers her chicks. But ye would not. He was betrayed by the people that should have loved him. He was betrayed by the people that should have received him. But they received him not. And then we find in this chapter that Christ is betrayed by the disciples, by all of the disciples. You see, we hold Judas up for special scorn. And we read that it'd be better that he had not been born. But you know the same can be said with me without Christ. The same can be said for you without Christ. Any man who dies without Christ, it would be better for him to have never been born. Christ is betrayed by his disciples. And there in verse 6 through 13, we find one of the greatest acts of worship. Of Jesus Christ that we find in the New Testament. We find this woman with the alabaster box of ointment. She is anointing Christ for his burial. And how many times he said, I'm going to be crucified. My death is coming. The time is at hand. Scripture does not tell us explicitly that this woman understood the prophecy, but the fact that Christ says, She's done this for my burial would indicate that somehow she did understand. That somehow she knew what was gonna happen to Messiah, this woman whose name is not mentioned, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Peter, James You can name off the disciples. We don't know her name. But this woman is the only one in the room. That's not betraying him. So when Christ is ready to be crucified, his disciples are arguing over money. When Christ is ready to be crucified, they're concerned about waste. Oh, this beautiful precious ointment. We smell it now, but what a waste, because it could have been sold and given to the poor. And we find in other passages they cared not for the poor, and Judas was looking to take his skim out of the bag. He was betrayed by his own disciples. Having loved them, he loved them to the end. We read the disciples. His disciples who had been specifically chosen by him, who had been at his side, who had great potential to betray him. They were the ones that forsook him in his time of need. In Matthew chapter 16. Christ says in verse 23 that he goes to Jerusalem. Let me read it to you. From that time went forth Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests. priest, and to be killed, and to be raised again the third day. Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, because and said, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be done unto thee And he turned and said unto him, Peter, get thee behind me, Satan, thou art an offense unto me. Thou savorst not the things of God, but the things that be of men. What happened in that passage in Matthew 16? Christ again is telling his disciples, I've got to go to Jerusalem and I'm going to be crucified. And Peter says, No, you're not. Peter says, uh-uh! And so Peter took him and rebuked him. Here is Peter rebuking Christ. Now, Why was Christ here? Well, he came to die for sins. And Peter's saying, no. No, that's not right. Not what I want. I don't want it that way. I won't have it that way. Lord, you said this is what's gonna happen. Uh-uh. If I can prevent it, I will I don't like it. It's not what I want. It's not the way I think it should be. That's a betrayal of Christ. But contrast that with Christ's prayer in the garden. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will. But thy will be done. You know what? It had been better for me that I had never been born Than to rebel against the will of God. You see, we don't name our children Benedict Arnold. And we don't name our children Judas, but every one of us have betrayed the Lord. I don't like it this way. He was betrayed by his disciples, all of them The twelve and me and you. And then again, I read in Luke twenty two twenty-two In Luke 22, verse 21, and behold, the hand of him that betrayed me is with me on the table, Jesus says. And truly the Son of Man goeth as it was determined, but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed. Then began Then they began to inquire among themselves which of them should do this thing, and there was strife also among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. Did you hear that? Here it is on the night of the crucifixion, in Luke's account of them in the upper room, and he says, I'm going to be betrayed. And he said, No, I'm not going to betray you. And then they start arguing over who's going to be accounted. Which one is going to get the most recognition? Which one is going to be the one remembered in history? He's already told them the woman with the ointment. She'll be the one remembered. What a betrayal. Christ has told them he's going to be crucified, and they're still concerned about themselves. He was betrayed by the disciples, all of them. And of course then Peter denies him with an oath How often do we deny Christ? We're in a situation and someone's taking the Lord's name in vain and we just kind of turn away. That's my Lord. I knew a man that used to say to someone who heard cursing, curse in my name, but don't curse in my Lord's name. We betray the Lord. We deny him, just like Peter, by our silence and by our words. And then of course, we've seen that Peter was denied by the Jews, or Christ was denied by the Jews, Christ was denied by the disciples. And then we have the denial of Christ. by Judas himself. The treachery here is obvious, but it bears a little bit closer to examination. We find that Jesus, that Judas betrayed Jesus by trying to hide what he had done. Look at verse 21 of Matthew 26. Matthew 26 and verse 21. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began everyone to say unto him, Lord, is it I? Then drop down to verse 25. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? And he said unto them, that was said. Did Judas know it was him? He's already been to the chief priest. The coins are probably clinking in his pocket. Master, is it I? You see, if eleven disciples ask and he doesn't ask, Yeah, the old sore thumb, he's gonna stick out like a sore thumb. He's got to try to hide what he's done. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but he that confesseth and forsaketh it shall have mercy. Was there a second chance? Was there a final chance for Judas here? There was Judas could have and should have said, Lord, die, forgive me. Lord, don't go out to the garden tonight. Lord, I won't kiss you tonight. Lord, I confess my sins and you are faithful and just to forgive me of my sins and to cleanse me from all unrighteousness. Lord, is it I? Hypocrisy and lies. Judas knew exactly who he was. In Numbers 32 and verse 23, be sure your sin will find you out. And think about this. Jesus has just said to the twelve, one of you shall betray me. Shouldn't Judas have been trembling? Shouldn't he have immediately thrown himself at Jesus' mercy? He knows! And how could Judas possibly think he didn't know? Jesus saw Philip under the tree. Jesus knew all things. Is it I? And in John 18, in John's account of the arrest in the garden in verse 5. Jesus said unto them, I am He. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. Have you ever gone into a situation where you knew you were surrounded by people that were out to get you? Into a situation where you knew that that there was a conspiracy against you and that that people were lined up and you you knew that you were in a hostile environment and your best friend was standing on the other side. Rather than being remember where that word para comes from beside, rather than your friend being here, glued to your hip, as we say, having your back as we say, being your wingman, as we say. The one who should have been with you is is standing over there on the other side. Here comes Judas with a band of soldiers. And instead of turning his back against the soldiers, he turns his back against Christ figuratively. Instead of standing with Christ, he stands against him. How foul can you get, Judas? And yet Peter, where was he a few hours later, warming himself by the enemy's fire? Have you ever been in a situation where people were talking against God and you just kind of stood there? Whose side were you on? Whose defense were you taking? Ah, maybe you didn't have a band of soldiers with you. But Judah stood with the enemies of Christ. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. Nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Judas denied Christ by standing with sinners. And then Judas denies Christ with a kiss. A kiss is a symbol of unity. On Saturday coming, Pastor Keith will say, you may kiss the bride. And then two Saturdays later, my best friend will say to my new son-in-law, you may kiss the bride. Why do we do that at a wedding? It's a public symbol of unity, of two that are brought together as one. We don't kiss just anybody and everybody. At least you better not. The kiss is a very intimate and tender expression of love and unity. I understand, don't get me wrong, I understand that this was in the Oriental setting where they they greet with a kiss, and we're told as believers to greet one another. with a holy kiss. I understand that the symbolism that they had was somewhat different than our modern American European symbolism. And yet he betrays with that symbol of love. And in Mark's account, in Mark 14 and verse 44, we read, and he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomosoever I shall kiss, that same as he, Take him and lead him away safely. Why did Mark record that Judah said to the chief priest, take him and lead him away safely? Well remember that the chief priests were worried about a tumult? They were worried about a mob of disciples coming along and trying to defend Jesus. And Peter doesn't indeed bring out his sword and takes off Malchus's. ear. If Judas had come and said, there he is, that's him, arrest him, that probably would have been a destruction. But Judas comes with a kiss. A peaceful gesture so you can get him and take him away safely. The people that betray us will sometimes use the most tender and gracious means to stick the knife in and twist it, as we say. Judas betrayed with a kiss And folks, there's so much more here. I know our time is getting short, and I've got a lot to go. Judas. Judas betrayed Christ by despising his grace. Judas despised the grace of God. He was with Jesus for three years. Blessed are your eyes, for they have seen. More blessed are those who having not seen yet believe. Judith had so many opportunities to truly believe on Jesus Christ. But he despised the grace that was offered. And don't misunderstand me here. We're talking about common grace in the theological term. This was not saving grace, it was common grace. But he had so many opportunities. And just like Jacob or like Esau despise his birthright, Judas despised The blessings that God had given to him. Christ chose Judas to spend three years with him. He could have chosen someone else. Someone else could have spent twelve years watching miracles, or three years watching miracles. Someone else could have spent three years communing with Christ, eating with Christ, talking with Christ. How many times do we find Christ speaking not to the multitude, but to the twelve? How many parables do we have here that Christ spoke the parable to the multitude, but he didn't give the interpretation until he was alone with the twelve? And Judas was there. It had been better for that man not to have been born. Judas despised the blessings of God. And so Judas betrays Christ to be crucified. Turn with me. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter twelve. I mentioned that Esau despised his birthright. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses sixteen and seventeen talk to us about Esau. Esau, who was the firstborn. Esau, who should have received the greatest blessing of God from his father. But in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 16, lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for a morsel of meat sold his birthright. For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Do you realize that sin always has an afterwards? Every sin has an afterwords. Esau sought for blessing with tears, but he could not find repentance. Judas goes back to the high priest, to the chief priest, and he says, I betrayed innocent blood. Here's the money. He can't go to Jesus. Jesus is dead. There was an afterwards. He could have made a turn there in the upper room, but now in the room with the chief priest, there's no turn left. Peter denied his Lord, and he went out and wept bitterly. What's the difference there? Well, Peter's was a weeping of repentance, and his repentance was accepted of God. Christ was rising again. Judas went out and hanged himself He went on and hanged himself. Sin always has an afterwards. And so every one of us have betrayed the Lord in some way or another. And it could be said that we really betray him every day. Sin has an afterwards. The child of God flees for repentance to Christ. The child of Satan goes on in his sin. I wish we had another hour to go. What is the state of your soul, my friends? What is your afterwards? When you sin, do you add sin to sin? Do you compound another one and another one, betraying the Lord Or do you weep bitterly over your sin and turn to Christ in true repentance? We're going to partake of the Lord's table in a few moments. We have the warnings in Scripture not to partake of this table unworthily. We are warned in Scripture of those who are sick, and even some who sleep, because they partook of the Lord's table. with sin in their hearts. Christ said, do this in remembrance of me. As oft as ye drink this cup and eat this bread, you do show the Lord's death till he come. When we partake of this table, it is incumbent upon us first to search our hearts. Lord is my heart right before you. Do I have within me the spirit of Judas? Do I have within me the spirit of rebellion against thy word? Am I somewhere in my life saying, no, God? It shouldn't be this way. Am I somewhere in my life saying, well, this belonged to the Lord? It's a precious ointment, and yet we could sell it. the poor or we find some excuse for saying, No, Lord, that I can't give you. I'd like to have a a moment of of silent prayer. searching our own hearts and caring for one another as we read in uh 1 Corinthians and then I'll Lead in prayer and we'll have uh Mike and Pastor Keith come forward to help with the communion this morning. Let us pray