In Hebrews, I'm going to go to the eighth chapter this morning of Hebrews chapter eight. I'm going to read our passage for today, verses six to twelve. It's kind of a pinnacle. It's like the mountaintop of Hebrews, and then from there out we're just going to explore the plateau that's on top. But I'm going to read that and then I have my discussion question. And it's not too exotic, but I think it's something that will get some of these points across. Hebrews eight, I'm beginning to read now in verse six. Hear now the word of the Lord. But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also is he the mediator of a better covenant Which was established upon better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second. For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws into their mind And write them in their hearts, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people, and they shall not teach every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For all shall know me, from the least to the greatest. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. That's our section for today. I'm going to leave that last verse to introduce the rest of the topic because there's a lot going on here today. I didn't want to piecemeal it. I thought it'd be good to keep it together. It's somewhat self-explanatory. But my question. We have some cooks in our audience. We have some ladies and maybe some men who have spent some time in the kitchen, perhaps, just venturing a guess, or even at a campfire. So when it comes to cooking a full meal, which is better, a campfire or a modern-day gas stove and oven? What would you choose, ladies? Electric. You would choose electric. All right. Forget the gas stove. You'd rather have electric. Why do you like electric as opposed to convenient. It's convenient. Okay. Is there any other reason why you'd choose electric as opposed to a campfire? Uh or uh yeah, I just go with a campfire. I don't want to have ten different campfires going. You don't want to have ten different campfires going. Okay, a couple of ovens rather than many different campfires. Okay, all right. Anybody else, what what was your choice? There's particular flavor that comes from the grill that you can't get anywhere else. So you would have a campfire. Alright? You would regularly how's that campfire working in your kitchen these days? Well, depends on where your kitchen's located. Depends on where it's located, okay. In Jamaica, the kitchens were around back. Yeah. Because the flavoring's good. Yep. Okay. All right. Depends on where the kitchen is I'll put the gas stove because at least you get a continuous heat source unlike with a campfire. It's up and down. There's extreme highs and extreme lows. It's very difficult to manage. Yep, it is difficult to manage a campfire. Okay. Anybody else? What would you choose? Let's go with a different route. How about an icebox or refrigerator? For those of you old enough to remember an icebox Mm-hmm. Uh the man came knocking on the door, pulled out his tongs and brought a uh fifty pound block of ice and set it there. What was wrong with that? I mean, hey, that was cheap, relatively speaking. Would you rather have an icebox or would you rather have a refrigerator? Refrigerator. Refrigerator of course. Why the of course? Why was that better? It's easier, convenient. Okay. Does it melt? Does it melt? Does it melt? Easier? Convenient? Okay. Big storage. Big storage? Well you can get a big ice box. You know, if you take a tour of uh Mount Vernon or some of the um early Maryland governor's houses, there's a very large pit uh near the front of the house, typically under a tree. They would plant a shade tree and there's a very large pit and it would be lined. And what they would do is they would take blocks of ice, send the slaves down to the Potomac River, chop out blocks of ice and stick them in the pit And that way they could have ice cream in the summer. So you just have a big enough pip, that's all. I would say the icebox is a lot more work. I mean chopping out blocks device, sticking it in there with the refrigerator, you don't have to do any work. Okay. So what is what is the fundamental difference then between say the campfire and the gas stove or electric. What's the fundamental difference? Why? Most of you picked uh camp uh not the campfire but the gas stove. We'll ask Joe a question about that later, but What is the fundamental difference? Why, what caused the difference? Time, effort, convenience, okay, time, effort, convenience. That's your experience, and that is true. But think about the engineer uh working on it. Cheaper. Campfires are pretty cheap. I can go outside and chop up some wood and have a match to it and fire nothing flat. How many cheaper is that Mexican Yeah. Campfire's really cheap. It's free free wood. Progress. Okay, progress. Safety. Safety. That's an interesting word. Safety. Yeah, if you have a campfire in your kitchen, it's not well contained. It might spread So put yourself in the engineer's shoes. How do you get the warmth of the campfire inside your kitchen? He had to come up with something, didn't he? He had to take a different approach. Still using fire. But it had a different approach to achieve the same result. Of course, safety is a big thing. I like safety. Keep that thought in mind. Alright, well, we're not gonna answer this debate, I think it's kind of been settled in our society. If we really want to go rough and go back to the old times, we get the good grill flavor and taste. But for the most part, day in, day out, we're going to use modern appliances. Well you're going to see why a little later, why even go down that path in case you're wondering what I was dealing with. So I've broken this up into three chunks. We're going to look at verse six, because verse six is just loaded with power phrases. Every phrase in there is a punch. It's just a It's like a 12-cylinder engine. Every cylinder is firing and it's delivering a lot of content. We're going to look at that one at a time Then we're going to look at the the springboard at the end of verse 6 talks about better promises. We're going to use that and we're going to go look at what those promises are in verses 10 to 12 because that's where it talks about them. Then we'll come back to the middle part, verses seven through nine, and we're going to look at the reason, the rationale given for why there's a new covenant. You could say the reason why we went from campfire to gas stove. So that's that's kind of the outline. Alright, with that, let's turn now to verse six. But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. But now But now. Those are two glorious words that you find many a time in scriptures. Pastor Joe, I think a week or two ago, perhaps it was last week, looked at that phrase but, because that is a wonderful phrase. That button now corresponds to verse 10, by the way, where it says, this is the covenant they'll make after those days. Anybody have any idea what those days might have been when it says after those days he's going to make a new covenant? What are those days that he's talking about, you suppose? After those days, he's going to make a new covenant. We're in it now. Those days to us are past. What were those days? Any ideas? Before Jesus came. Uh okay, certainly before Jesus came, yep. And that would be the dividing point. When Jesus came, there was a big difference that's being made. And so after that Old Testamental period up to the time of the Messiah, but when the Messiah has come Things changed. Things took a radical turn and it changed. So as a result of Jesus, he's that centerpin of history, but now. And there's a lot of but now's in scripture. So There's similar phrases like you find in Isaiah 43. But now, thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob. That's another place where God uses that but now phrase. Jesus said in John 16, but now I go my way to him that sent me. Acts 17, tying back to his own ministry. To Jesus' ministry, the Apostle Paul preaching on Mars Hill says to an unbelieving crowd of Greeks, the times of this ignorance God winked at But now commandeth all men, I think the emphasis is on all, to repent. Jews were commanded to repent, but now it's all men. It's a universal, global, Gentile-included command to repent. Romans, the Apostle says, but now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, is revealed. Romans 6, but now being made free from sin and become servants to God. These are phrases, this phrase is used to introduce sharp distinction and contrast And it does a very effective job here. But now, and then we continue in our phrase of verse 6, but now hath he obtained? He is Jesus. He obtained something. He obtained by fulfilling prophecy. He obtained by an obedient and righteous life He obtained by the gift of the sacrifice of himself. All of these things he did. He obtained it by an eternal life. He's made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. He obtained these things. Nobody else has met all of Jesus' qualifications. The poor Jews are still looking for the Messiah, yet I don't know how they're going to identify him when all of the perfect fulfillment was demonstrated right in front of them. They saw it and they rejected him. But now he hath obtained a more excellent, and this is a key word that's going to give you a hint as to why I went with the introductory question. That word more excellent is only rendered, that phrase excellent, is only rendered four times in the Bible. Twice excellent, both of those times in the book of Hebrew. Two other times it's related to the word different. And the sense is that it's a strategically different approach. Military planners talk about the generals coming up with a war strategy But the guy on the ground is working tactics. This is a question for Joey. What's the difference between tactics and strategy? Tactics are typically a more established, this is what you do in this sort of scenario where a strategy tends to be more situation to situation. So a strategy can change where the tactic will be more steadfast. This is what you do in this scenario. Okay. So uh tactics are more uh uh repeatable. They're they tend to be on the ground, uh when under fire, seek cover, etc. Whereas strategy is a much broader, larger picture of things Exactly. And that's that word used here as well. More excellent. In other words, God has taken a different strategy. He is taking a different approach that is more excellent. We've gone from the campfire to the electric stove. Why? We've got a different strategy. It's more expensive. You've got to have electricity to the house. That assumes that system is set up and run. The electricity has to be delivering electrons to your appliance at a certain rate and able to scale up or down based on need. That's a whole other system you're dependent upon. Your stove has to be able to manage temperature changes and to set them and to time and to have safety. There's a lot of engineering that goes into it, but the end result is convenience, ease of operation, reliability, all that good stuff. All the illities come out. Maintainability, loss of stench, you don't have to be hauling wood. Works in the wintertime. Works in the rain. It's strategically a different approach. And that's exactly what he's talking about here. It's a more excellent way. What Christ has come and done is strategically different. And this is what we hope to illustrate here today. You've covered it well. More excellent. So it's a strategically improved More excellent ministry. We've seen this word back in verse 2. He's a minister of the true tabernacle. He's a servant. He's a public servant. He's the minister of the sanctuary that he's also ministering other things as well. You know, Jesus is still busy He's still busy. He's not sitting up on the throne, and I don't want to profane the name of God, but he's not sitting up there eating bonbons all day long with his feet propped up watching videos No, he's busy. He is a minister. He is a servant in the house of God. He is continuing to serve you and I. He is by how much also, meaning it keeps getting better, by how much, this is an amplifying term, by how much also he is the mediator. Notice that it does not say he is a mediator. He is not a mediator. He is the mediator. There is only one mediator in this covenant. The old had many. Yes, high priests, but there were Levites, there were other priests that had their job, their duties. You would deliver sacrifices to them. Once in the year the high priest went and did his job. There were many priests, but they served a lowly, exemplary, mediatory form. They made you right in the covenant community. But that holy of holies was a picture and a representation of God where he dwelt, where his name was. Jesus is a real deal. And there's only one of him, and he's more than sufficient to take care of all of our needs. He we is the mediator, and then it says, which was established. That's an interesting word, established. That's not a normal use of the word established. It means it is enacted as a law. You could say ordained. In fact, it's used In Romans 3. 20, uh this this concept rather is used in Romans 3. 27. It talks about the law of faith For the law of the spirit of life, uh in Romans 8. 2, the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and death. That's the old versus the new covenant We live in this one called the law of faith, Romans 3. 27. 931, the apostle makes a distinction. It says, but Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, has not attained to the law of righteousness. It's a subtle little nuance there, but there's really two laws going on there. They followed Moses, but they didn't attain heaven. They followed the old, but they didn't attain the goal of the new. So Paul's speaking a little bit uh nuanced there By how much also he is the mediator, which was established upon upon, meaning resting upon. This is what it sits on. Here's the strategic difference. Better promises What are those better promises? Well, that's clearly spelled out in verses 10 to 12, which is where we're going to go right now. There's better promises. The promises he gave to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the promises he gave to national Israel, wasn't anything wrong with them. They were good. But now it says you're built on better promises. So let's kind of compare and contrast those two for a moment. I want you to follow along as I read Hebrews 8, 10, 11, and 12, that is in your bulletin, your handout. And I want you to see if you can identify the promises in these verses, because it lists a number of them here, alright? So see if you can pick some of these promises out. It's not going to say I promise blah blah blah blah blah. It comes in a biblical form. So see if you can identify them. Here now, Hebrews 8. 10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws into their mind. And write them in their hearts. And I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. And they shall not teach every man his neighbor. And every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me from the least to the greatest. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. So what promises did you hear read there? Anybody? What did you hear? Gabriel. Well, just starting out as it says he will make a covenant in the house of Israel. So the first is the promise that there's a covenant coming. Absolutely. Alright, what else? What other promises do you find there? It's a sure thing he's gonna do it. What other promises are there? He will implant his law in their hearts. Very good. What other promises you find in here? Yeah, he will be to them a God. And it's it's not only gonna be in their hearts, but also in their minds as well. He will be to them a God. There is a promise that he is in fact going to be their God. And kind of the implication is there's not going to be a change on that. Alright, what else? What other promise do you see in here? He'll be merciful. He will be merciful. to their unrighteousness. The implication is there's still going to be an unrighteous people in this covenant. It's got a lot of unrighteous people in this covenant. But he will be merciful to them. That's a wonderful promise. What else? There's something that's going to be enveloped in them. Uh nobody is going to tell them what to do something inside of them. Yeah, very good. There's something that's indwelt in them. And they don't need to be told what to do. They're gonna know what to do. Yeah. They're they're taught of God directly what to do. Penny? I kinda like the last one. Their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. When we're contrasting it with the old covenant, it seemed like they were always remembered, you had to keep coming back and coming back and coming back with those sacrifices. But now they're gone. Yeah, their sins and their iniquities, will I remember them no more? Forgiveness is just that. I will remember them no more. Absolutely. So those are the promises. You caught them all, that's great. So here's my follow-up question. What is your role in securing these promises? Nothing. Nothing. He has already done that. Do you see how that is strategically different? Right. Man isn't even in the equation. You know, I used to like doing math as a young fellow. And in fact, I w was an engineer and eventually I got into management where I lost a lot of my math skills, because engineering management doesn't do math. I love math. I always love math. I remember my third birthday party. I was there with all of my friends. No, uh third what it was second grade birthday party. However old I was, I had all my second grade friends around, so I guess I was about seven And we're and I'm having a grand old time. I got my buddies Richard and John and Kent. I remember them. I still remember their names for a glorious time of life. And we we had just finished up lunch. What do you want to do? I said, let's do some math problems. I mean I couldn't think of anything more fun to do on my birthday than to do some math problems. I was like, yeah. That was I don't know, really a dweeb. In math, what's fascinating is that you can make some problems simply go away. You rearrange the equation. and certain variables chink, jink, cancel out. I ain't gotta solve that. It's gone. I don't have to think about it. I don't have to stress my brain out. I can rearrange the equation so that certain problems can go away They are strategically eliminated. That's exactly what God has done here. If man is in the equation of salvation in God's plan of redemption, It equals failure. Not because God's equation is bad, but because it's based on horrible material. But if he puts Jesus Christ into where man was, now you've got perfection, now you've got infinity, now you've got eternal life And you have a radically, fundamentally different set of equations with a very different result. And that's what he's doing here. That's exactly what God's done when it comes to the business of salvation. I remember for years that growing up in a um Relatively conservative Baptist Bible church in my youth that I remember hearing the illustration given That man is dying, that unsaved men are like the drowning man on the surface of the water. He's gone under two times You know, they say you go under three times and and you're you're really gone. He's gone under twice, and he's just got to reach out and grab the life raft or the little life ring called Jesus, and then he'll he'll make it. And so we've got to get out there. It's quite the gripping illustration. And uh it certainly shows it impresses upon young minds the the need for evangelism and that Jesus is the only life raft. But the illustration had a bit of a fault to it, because the old boy still had to grab the life raft. Years later, when God did save me, because I was an unsaved youth listening to these religious things, an old Presbyterian preacher got up and used that same illustration with a twist to it. He said, man is not like a drowning individual floundering about on the surface of the ocean. Waiting to grab a life fest. He is dead. He's sunk to the bottom of the ocean and the sharks have eaten his heart out. How is he going to get saved? What he needs is a resurrection and a new heart. That will save him. And boy, I tell you what, I could resonate with that illustration a million times over. I was like, that was me. That was me. Lost, gone, not looking for God, not interested in the things of God, not interested in salvation, because let's face it, unsaved people, you present to them Christ or a rock concert. Most of them will probably go with the rock concert. They're not going to go to Christ. I remember sitting in a lab, computer lab, as a young engineer. They were discussing different types of music. Oh, I like this genre, I like that Now one gal just put it put the nail right on the head. She says, yeah, I I tend to like jazz. I I like rock, of course, soft rock, hard rock, even a little bit. Country, I even like country and western. She says, I just I just don't like gospel music She liked all the wide genres of music but one. I just don't like gospel music. And I'm like, yeah, I believe it. I absolutely believe it Because the sharks have eaten her heart out. And she's dead on the bottom of the ocean. She's not looking for Jesus. She knows about Jesus because she knows about gospel music. So she had to have heard it. Because gospel music at the end of the day is about the Lord. Even an a a vague amount of truth that might still be in it, she doesn't want it. So that's why salvation, God's plan of salvation, is built upon better promises. The promise to write his laws in their heart and mind. 2 Corinthians 3 puts it this way: He says You're manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God. Not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart. This isn't something off Mount Sinai with a smoking rock. This is in a different rock, the stone of your heart, which has been cut out and given a new heart. That's just Graphic language to illustrate that, oh no, it's deeply implanted in you. The Christian all of a sudden has higher sensitivity to the things of God. He's got an enhanced sensitivity to it. You know there's some medications. Maybe they dilate your eyes. You're very sensitive to sunlight. This is a dilation of the heart. It opens the heart. You're more open to hearing and receiving the things of God. All of a sudden it takes on a new depth and new value and new meaning. That's a new covenant. That's a better promise. It says he will be their God and they will be his people. You know what also is here? What's here is what's not here. They will be his people unconditionally. He has obligated himself to be their God. We know they're going to be unrighteous because he says he's going to be merciful to their unrighteousness. David slew a man. Even murder can't keep you away from God. I'm not advocating murder. The child of God's very sensitive to the things of God. Even to demonstrate hatred to his fellow man he recoils from. I know somebody that wouldn't even kill a fly He would trap mice and release them in the field. They're just so tender and sensitive to things that the Lord has made. It says he will be merciful to their unrighteous. Mercy is not giving me what I do deserve as a promise to not remember their sins. Isaiah 43, I even I am he that blotteth out that transgression for what? For my own sake. Even the very basis, the very reason why God does it. these things. It has nothing to do with you. I want to blot out your iniquities because you gave a whole lot of money for the church building fund. Not in here. You don't find man anywhere in there. In fact, go to Romans chapter 3 and verse 4. It's not even in your handout. You might have just blasted over this passage before. But I'm just trying to illustrate to you how God's plan of salvation is strategically different. It is engineered in a way that keeps man out of the loop. I'm talking about regeneration. I'm talking about a new heart. I'm talking about a new spirit. Romans 3, the question begins in verse 3. Paul says, What if some did not believe? Christ goes to the cross, lives a perfect life, goes to the cross, dies, buried, rises the third day, ascends to heaven. He does all of this wonderful work. What if some don't believe that? Isn't man still part of the equation? Man's got to believe. It still hinges on men. What if some didn't believe? Shall their unbelief make the faith, the faithfulness, the duty, faithfully carrying out, the faith of God without effect? That's an interesting question. What if God Almighty did everything he did and lo and behold the entire human race, phooey on that, I'm not going to believe. Ha ha, look what you went through. You did all that stuff, nobody's still saved, because I'm not going to believe. Is that actually a possibility in God's plan of salvation? The Apostle Paul says God forbid. It's not possible that God's plan of salvation can fail. Yea, it says, let God be true and every man a liar. Let them all be liars. He says, it doesn't matter. That thou mightest be justified in thy sayings and mightest be overcome when thou art judged. The Apostle Paul goes on to talk and explain that more. But I want you to meditate on that point. Faith is not the root of salvation. It is the fruit of salvation. In fact, it's called one of the fruits of the Spirit. How do you know somebody? Is in fact a child of God. They believe. They have love, joy, peace, faith, self-control. I can't name all the fruit of the Spirit right now. I used to be able to call them off. I hadn't looked at that in a while. That's a fruit, if not the root. This is God's plan of salvation. It is very different It is a very different plan. God has more faith than any man will ever have. Absolutely. We are saved by the faith of Christ. Faith that God has comes from him to us. He implants that gift in us. Oh, you better believe his children believe him. They believe him stronger than anybody else Because they have a heart and a desire to it. Forgiveness. And as Ms. Sabla is saying, need no external evidence. God's put it in your heart. Yes. External evidence will come It will come. It will of necessity be there because he has promised he will write them in their hearts. If the law of God is in that heart, it's really close, and because I tell you You ask any preacher, what's the longest distance known to man is the distance from the head to the heart. We preach the head, but getting to the heart only God can get to. I can make many good arguments and reasons as to why Christ will make a huge difference in your life. But unless God Almighty connects that down to the heart, Nothing's going to happen. You'll hear and listen. You'll hear these sounds. Now compare and contrast these promises to those of the old covenant. I just gave a small sampling that I thought would be very plain. Let's look at two from the book of Deuteronomy, one from the book of Samuel. In your bulletin, Deuteronomy 8. 19. Let's compare these. Listen to How Moses is repeating this language here to them. This is the children of Israel. They've been wandering around the desert. Their parents are dead and gone. These are the ones who came out and they were twenty and under So now they're 60 and under. They're basically my age. There's nobody there older than me except for Moses and Aaron, Joshua and Caleb. That's it. Everybody else is my age and younger. He's telling him, it shall be, if thou, Deuteronomy 8. 19, it shall be if thou do at all forget the Lord thy God. And walk after other gods and serve them and worship them, I testify against you this day that ye shall surely perish. Is man in the equation there? You bet. In fact, it says, if you do X, you're sunk. I will be against you. That was a promise of the Old Testament. Is there anything wrong with that? No. You know, uh I know some mothers who have had children and sometimes they get little girls who are like little tomboys. And you know the boys like to go outside and go explore the creek and fish out crawdads. And some of the little girls want to do that too, and they got their nice little summer dress on. And they go right down the creek and they like it so much, they just go flopping in the creek. And they just want to wallow in the mud. And here comes this little girl home with her dress all muddy and mama's like, I Told you don't go into that creek. What are you doing messing everything up? I why are you doing that? That little girl's no deal. You're not this is not and so mother can threaten them with an inch of their life It doesn't change it. It just won't change it. So threatenings don't really get you anywhere. God Himself is threatening these people. I testify against you this day you'll surely perish if you forget the Lord your God. And what did they do? Didn't take them long. Deuteronomy 28, 62. Again, these are the promises of the old covenant. Because thou wouldest not obey the voice of the Lord thy God, it shall come to pass that as the Lord rejoiced over you to do you good And to multiply you, so the Lord will rejoice over you to destroy you and to bring you to naught. He's happy that you're being destroyed. Can you imagine this? This is really intense. That's quite the threat. That should really cause you to wrinkle your brow and say, oh boy, we don't want to do that. That's the old covenant. 1 Samuel 12 is great. Samuel, such a faithful prophet, reminding the people as they come in, they're going to anoint a king. And he says in 1 Samuel 12, 14, if you will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then, notice the if then. If this, then that, then shall both ye, plural y'all, and also the king that reigneth over you, continue following the Lord your God. You'll continue following if you fear, if you serve him, but if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, Then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. He even had an example. He had proof of the pudding. It happened to your fathers. You don't want to repeat that Samuel is just echoing to them the words of the old covenant. Because man was in the equation, even with threatenings with their very life and that of their posterity and their nation. It could not perfect the people. And the point is the blessings of the old covenant highly depended on the faithful obedience of those under it. So and none were faithful. And at the end of the day, none were faithful. None could fully carry it out. There are a handful of individuals Of whom Scripture records as being highly righteous, but none could ever reach the level of righteousness that Jesus Christ brought forward. And he proved it, Jesus did, because he was buried, and after three days, he rose up from the dead, because death could have no grip on him. The grave had no reason to hold him in place. The only reason you and I die is because of sin. And that's how we know Job was a sinner. And that's how we know Daniel was a sinner. And that's how we know David was a sinner. Because they died and their bones are still here. So, why a new covenant? We've talked about the threatenings of the old, the blessed promises of the new. Well, we find in verse 7 that he articulates what I've already been telling you, but to show you that I'm not pulling it out of my own mind, it says in Hebrews 8. 7, back to our text, if that first first covenant had been faultless without a fault. It was good, but it had a fault to it. Then should no place have been sought for the second. Notice he's making it clear. There's a first and there's a second. First It's not one A and then one B. It's first and second. It's version two. An operating system comes out. You don't want version one point oh you want push point one or point two trust me yeah you want version five that's right ellias you want to wait a little longer Verse 8, for finding fault with them, with them, he saith, Behold the days come, saith the Lord. I'll make a new covenant with the house of Israel, the house of Judah. Verse 9, not according to Not in the same approach, a a very different approach, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not the fault as with the people. You see that? It's very plain. I really don't have to do too much more expl explanation, other than to highlight the key phrases. The goal, folks, is perfection. And what is perfection again? Two words? How do you know somebody's perfect? Two words Eternal life. They live forever. That's how you know somebody's perfect. If mom goes on another hundred years, whatever she's eating, I want to eat. If you not got cancer, I'm having donuts. But those the other two words I I was thinking in Christ Absolutely. None of this goes on if you just think it's well, you got to be right. That's where perfection comes from, is in Christ. An individual is considered perfect if they live forever. And the old covenant could not make me perfect. That's what Hebrews 8 said in 719. The law made nothing perfect. Because the men died. Even the very Levites administering the covenant, they themselves died. The high priest himself died. The whole covenantal structure presumed that men were going to die because the high priest, when he passed than the cities of refuge could release their captives. So it was all assumed that it was on weak men. The law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which hope we draw nigh unto God. That better hope is the better promises. And that's exactly what we're talking about here. Failure to produce perfection was not with the old covenant, but with them, with national Israel. So, observations. I've got four observations to wrap it up here. From what we've covered, and I and I hope you appreciate what I'm saying, because this is really fundamental. God claims direct responsibility for making two covenants. He didn't patch up the old, it wasn't a a fix-up job. It wasn't even really a replacement in a way. It was a it was there's an interesting dynamic between the two that the Apostle Paul talks about is the law against the promises of God, God forbid. He speaks about that at length. I'm not going to cover that here. We're going to continue to talk about the covenant going forward here. But we're not making this up. There really are two covenants. You can't get around it. Number two. The second covenant is not like the first. It's not. It's not according to. So as a Bible teacher or a preacher or evangelist or home Bible teacher You have to enter into the Old Testament with New Testament eyes. You cannot resurrect the Old Covenant law and say, now this applies to you. You have to be very careful in handling it. You have to be very careful to not bring them back under the law. And by the way, this is an easy mistake to make. That's why the Apostle Paul flamed the Apostle Peter in the book of Galatians. Because he was trying to drag them back under the law again. And it was for a simple matter as, oh, there's some Gentiles in the room, yeah, we'll eat with them. But when some Jews are present and they see us eating with Gentiles, we're not going to do that. Apostle Paul flamed them for that, just for which table they chose to eat at after fellowship. He wrote them a whole letter and said, you were in severe violation. So you have to be very careful when you go into the old covenant as to what you're bringing forward because God says there's a new covenant after those days, days of Jesus Christ, he came, fulfilled it. We have to be very careful going into it. There are moral principles there, and that's kind of my third point, is that both covenants were God-inspired. Both covenants are excellent. But one depended on man, which proved man to be the problem. That was the point. All are condemned by sin, all are convinced of sin. While the other depended on one man, the Lord Jesus Christ, which proved Jesus to be the solution. That covenant was there to show to man, by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. That was the point, is to point out sinners, and it does a very good job of it. It continues to point out sin here, sin there, sin there, sin in your minds, sin your thoughts. And our reaction is no, no, no, no, it's not right. No, we change the law, we change our behavior, we we make an idol in our minds. It's all designed to point out sin in the flesh and it does a really good job of it, but it's also designed to point out the Savior. He didn't do this, he didn't violate this, he didn't he He met it all perfectly. This one must be the Messiah. He's the one to come. It had a purpose. They were both ordained of God for specific purposes. Use them right. The law is good if a man use it lawfully, but there are unlawful ways to use it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you bind heavy burdens on men, grievous to be born, but will not lift one finger to take it off of them, paraphrasing it. So there is a wrong way and a right way to use the law. Number four. The two covenants do relate to each other. They're not discussed in this passage. And I just want to touch on it. There's points of similarity. It's the same moral code that was in one of the promises. I will write my Laws in their heart. Okay, so there's still the same moral code, and I would say nine of the ten commandments, the fourth commandment, the Sabbath day, that's a shadow, that's a sign, that's very clearly called a sign in the Old Testament. Don't let the Seventh-day Adventists will tell you that L and G. White had a grand vision and we still have to keep it. God quoted a sign. Colossians said that's a sign, a shadow of things to come, the body, the substance, the reality is of Christ. So you don't need to be judged by anybody on that matter But that moral code is written in the heart. That's part of the new promise. That's part of the new covenant promise. But there are points of difference because it's not according to the old. The basis, the reason why God looks upon you favorably. Has nothing to do with what you did. Not when it comes to justification. I love to tell you know, I I hear people Say, well Christians are all hypocrites. I said, yeah, people shopping in grocery store, hypocrites too. You stop grocery shopping? I'm on a diet. Yeah, I see what you're buying at the store. Oh, well there's sin and faults and problems in your life. Amen. There's more in my life than you can even shake a stick at, and I know more than you do. But until you find fault with Jesus Christ, you ain't got a thing on me. That is the gospel. That's the new covenant. That is the promise of God. That's a plan of salvation that'll work. And that's fundamentally different, strategically different. Anything else you'll find Do we sin that grace may abound? Of course not. Of course not. The law of God is written in the heart. Brother Mayhan put it this way. He said, Well if you preach like that, you know what, Brother Vince? People are going to do whatever they want to do. I said, that's right. You go do what you want to do. That's the problem. As you want to changed. Because if you don't have a change you want to, you're going to live the any way you want anything. That's the question. What you want to. It's not about me, it's about Jesus Christ. But when God looks at me, He sees Jesus Christ, because I am in Christ. And because there's that tight relationship, oh I don't want to shame that worthy name. I don't want to shame that worthy name. Uh that's that's very terrifying to the child of God. Very gripping. I don't know if any of y'all have seen on YouTube. Uh The preachers that come on is once specifically Jingo Jennings. I don't know if you ever heard of that. But people all over the com world is adhering to what this man is teaching them, that they have to do all things in the Old Testament to be saved. And be baptized and be saved. And you'd be surprised that the number of people come they they get people from all over. Mm-hmm. And that's what they believe That is the unregenerated nature. You find a structure, what must I do to be saved? Man wants to do something. Right, right. But God says, No, I have done Christ has done it. It's not that we do something. Every time a heinous crime occurs, what's the politician's response? We need to make a new law. That'll fix it. All right, well let's close up here. We're running out of time. Brief prayer. Father God