Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the book of Genesis and chapter twelve, the twelfth chapter of Genesis. I'll read the first ten verses of Genesis twelve, and then we'll go to chapter thirteen and read there as well. It is so good to be together. It's such a blessing to hear our children Sing praise to our God, and how blessed we are to have them in our midst, and how blessed we are to have two children in our midst yet unborn. For God sees their substance yet being imperfect. And God called Jeremiah to be a prophet from the womb. And may God raise up our children to be prophets, to be priests and kings in this world, to share the gospel of Christ. Blessed to have them with us. Genesis chapter 12, and I'll read the first ten verses. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, from thy father's house, into a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him And Lot went with him, and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their substance. That they had had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Harem. And they went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and into the land of Canaan they came out. And Abram passed through the land unto a place of Shechem, unto the plain of Moreh, and the Canaanite was then in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. And there he builded an altar unto the Lord, who had appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east side of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord. and called upon the name of the Lord. And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. And there was a famine in the land. And Abram went down into Egypt and sojourned there, for the sa famine was grievous in the land. And then go over to chapter thirteen, and here we'll read one through thirteen. And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife, and all he had, and Lot with him into the south. And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold. And he went on his journey from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and and Hai, unto the place of the altar which he had made there at the first. And there Abram called on the name of the Lord. And Lot also went with Abram, or which went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents. And the lamb was not able to bear them that they might dwell together, for their substance was great, so they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Perizite dwelt then within the land. And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we are brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then when I will go to the right hand, or if thou wilt depart to the right hand, then will I go to the left And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere. For the Lord, before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord like the land of Egypt as it cometh unto Zorah. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. And Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves one from another. And Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan. And Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord. Exceedingly. Let us bow for prayer. Oh, our great, loving, kind heavenly Father, we praise you and worship you this morning We rejoice that we have the privilege to gather together in this place to call upon thy name. We rejoice that you have given us health and strength to be here. We rejoice that you have given us your spirit, which draws us to the place of the preaching of God's Word. The natural man can't understand that. To the natural man, the preaching of the cross is foolishness, for he is one that perishes. But Lord, your grace has brought us to love Christ, to love your word And to love one another. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. Oh God, open our hearts to receive your word and open your word and implant it within us. In our hearts this day. Father, our gathering is in vain if we gather here for a lecture. Our gathering is in vain if simply my lips speak To the ears of this people. And so, Father, it is our earnest desire that the Spirit of God would speak the truth of God to the hearts of your people. this day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. God told Abram, and again if I say Abraham, forgive me because he was not yet Abraham. But God told Abram to leave his family, leave his father's house, leave his country, and go into a land that God had promised him would be his. Lot, Abram's nephew, journeyed with him. And we find in chapter 12 and verse 8. But they come to Bethel and Hai, and there an altar to the Lord is built. And then we find that because of a famine, they go down into Egypt. And when the famine is done, they come back to this place, Bethel and Hai. And if you notice the title that we've given the message this morning, it's between Bethel and Hai. It was a special place. Abram built an altar there, and he returned back to that place. Bethel on one hand, Hai on the other. The name Bethel means the house of God. This is the place where years later Abram's grandson Jacob while fleeing from his brother Esau, would take a stone and make of that stone a pillow. And as he slept in this place, Bethel He would see the vision of the ladder extending from heaven to earth, and the angels of God ascending and descending on that ladder, and Jehovah Himself standing at the head of the ladder. And when Jacob rose from that dream, he gave this place which had previously been called Love a new name. He says, Oh, this is a dreadful place This is even the house of God. God was in this place, and I knew it not And when Jacob left that place and went to dwell with Laban, and later would we be returning back to his father Isaac? And back to Esau his brother, he would camp again in this place, Bethel. And there his name would be changed. He would no longer be Jacob the supplanter, but he would be Israel. The prince with God. That's Bethel. On the other hand, where Abraham and Lot are camped is Hei. We better know this place as AI without the H. It is one and the same. AI is the place where the children of Israel would go with great confidence. And say, oh, it's a small little city. We don't need to send all of our armies up to Ai. Let's just send 3,000 men and they'll conquer Ai like nothing. We just saw the walls of Jericho. Fall down. But God had told the people of Israel: when you go into Jericho, don't touch a thing. It's polluted, it's dirty, it's filthy, it's not for you. And yet Achan, Achan had seen with his eyes a goodly Babylonian garment. It was pretty. And he saw a wedge of gold. And Achan had lusted with his eyes and lusted with his his heart and he took the cursed thing and it didn't even bring him any pleasure because he couldn't look at it. It was buried in the floor of his tent. And so the children of Israel went to Ai with great confidence, and yet the Lord was not with them because they had sinned. And they fled before the men of Ai, and 32 innocent men died at the sin. Now we said that the name Bethel, which was on the wrong one side, is the house of God. The name Ai means a heap of ruins or the house of ruins. And so when we find Abraham and Lot at this place between Bethel and Ai, Bethel and Hai, they had the house of God on one side. And the heap of ruins, the house of ruins, on the other. Now, the last verse of the hymn we sang had that phrase: And you shall be our chosen God. And that verse is a reference to the cry of Joshua when the people were looking back to the pagan gods. And he said, Choose you this day whom you will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And that verse is not saying choose God or choose not to follow God, but rather it is a rebuke to the people of Israel. If you're not going to choose Jehovah God, then who are you going to find? For there is no God beside me. Brethren and friends, I believe In Scripture would confirm that as we walk through this world, we always have the house of God on one hand and the house of ruin not far. Far away. We live between Bethel and Hai. And we know the story of Lot. Lot chose Sodom. He chose the house of ruin rather than the house of God. God. And I would have us to see this morning, as the Spirit gives us direction in His Word, that first of all, we dwell between Bethel and Hei. in our daily relationship with God. We're never far from the house of God, and I don't mean this building. This building is beautiful and it's It's comfortable and we're thankful for it. And we sometimes talk about going into the house of God and we refer to a building, but the house of God is not a building. The house of God is our dwelling with him. I shall dwell in the courts of the house of the Lord forever. One thing of my desire to the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of the And David there was talking about a current existence all the days of my life while he was on a We're never far from the house of God, and we're only one sunrise away from denying Christ. did Peter. We dwell, we dwell between Bethel and Hai daily in our walk with God. with the Lord. And so we must always be on guard for how quickly we can fall. Look with me at chapter thirteen and verse ten. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, and it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt as thou goest, as thou comest on the Zor. And Lot chose him the plain of Jordan. And Lot journeyed east and separated themselves one from another. Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked before the Lord exceedingly. Lot chose for himself to move toward Sodom. And he could have made many excuses for this choice. We read there that the land was well watered and he had cattle and he had sheep. Surely that's good. Surely God would want that for me because it's well-watered. And not only was it well-watered, it was like the garden of the Lord. It was like Eden. It was like the place that God wanted us to be. And beyond that. It was a place where he could increase his flocks, where he could get gain. He lifted up his eyes, he looked, he saw, and he coveted. Can you think of someone else? Flip back to chapter three and verse six And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food That it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave it unto her husband, and he did eat. It looked so good. And Lot could have said, surely this is a beautiful place. This is what God must want for me, because here I can prosper. Here I can grow. This has got to be it. And yet the men of Sodom were sinners before the Lord, and it doesn't say a little bit. They were sinners exceedingly, and Lot knew the people of the land. But he pitched his tent toward Sodom. As he stood between Bethel and Hai, he moved to the house of ruin. And it was You see, his problem was greed. He wanted for himself. And remember who would later come along to AI? Achan. And what was Achan's sin? The exact same thing. He knew that what he was reaching for was forbidden. He knew it was not right. He knew it was not wholesome. But it was a goodly a goodly garment. And he took it. Ah, my friend, the world has its dainties. The world has so much to offer. And it is so easy to start making little steps and little compromises. Just a little bit. Oh, I'm not going there. I just want to see it. It says that he pitched his tent towards Sodom. It doesn't say he pitched his tent in Sodom. And yet we know later on, where is he living? He's forsaken his tent. He's in a house. It has a door We know it had the door because the angels had to shut the door to protect him. You see, one step at a time, he dwelt at the place where Abraham had built an altar. He dwelt there at the place between Hai and Bethel. And into the time, he moved. Towards AI. Oh, God, give us grace. Because that's where every one of us are today. We can profess Christ today, and yet tomorrow we can be found in iniquity. And so we dwell between Bethel and Hai in our daily walk with the Lord. Turn with me to Second Peter chapter two. Second Peter Chapter two And here we have one of those marvelous Greek sentences. That um takes up verse after verse after verse our New Testament. And the grammatical structure is is It's beautiful the way it's constructed because it is very clear and very precise, and our our King James brings it to us in a very understandable way, but many times we have a sentence that is actually a whole chap just about a whole chapter And that's what we have here. So we're going to start in the middle of a sentence, starting with verse 8. Peter is expounding God's judgment on the wicked and his promises to deliver the godly. And in 2 Peter 2 and verse 8 2 Peter 2 and verse 6. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overflow. making them an example to those that should after live ungodly, and delivered just lot vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. For that righteous man dwelling among them in seeing and hearing Vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Because Lot chose to pitch his tent toward Sodom Because an inch at a time he moved closer and closer to Haii and further and further away from Bethel, he vexed his soul. And that word vexed is only found three times in Scripture, and two times it's vexed in this passage. The other time the word vexed is used is by Stephen. When Stephen is preaching to the council, and Stephen talks about the way that the Egyptians were treating the Israelites And Stephen in his recounting of Israel's history is preaching about the time when Moses saw an Egyptian beating an Israelite. And the word that Stephen used for the Egyptian beating the Israelite, and our King James is oppressed, he was oppressing him, but it's the same word vex, and that's that's the third time. That word is found in Scripture nowhere else. So the word is used for somebody getting a licking. Somebody getting beat. And that's what righteous, he's called there in 2 Peter, that's what righteous Lot was doing to his soul. This was beating his soul with the iniquity of Sodom. My friends, we can beat up our soul pretty quick in this world. There is iniquity all around us. There are so many things we shouldn't see, and so many things we shouldn't hear, and so many things we shouldn't read. And it's unfortunate that you can't even read the news feed on the computer anymore because there would be so much trash and pictures on the sidebar. That'd vex your soul. May God give us grace as we live between Betho and Hai. But it gets worse Because you see, there are many foods that we say, oh, you have to develop an appetite for it. I've never developed an appetite for caviar, and I have no intention ever to do it. But there are foods you have to develop an appetite to. But most of us can think of something that we used to think was disgusting. Lot developed an appetite. Go back to Genesis in chapter 19 Lot fell in love with the culture and the lifestyle of sinners. Genesis chapter 19. And I'll start in verse fifteen. I love to hear pages turning. That's such a blessing. Genesis 19, verse 15. And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, which are here. Lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of this city. And while he lingered The men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his daughters, the Lord being merciful unto him, and they brought them forth and set them without the city. And it came to pass when they had brought them forth abroad that he said, Escape for your life! Run, Lot! Run, run, run! Escape for your life. Life. Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in the in all the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest thou be consumed. And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my lord. Behold, now thy servant hath found grace in thy sight. And thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast showed unto me in saving my life. And I cannot escape into the mountain lest some evil take me, and I die thither Behold, now this city is near unto thee, and it's a little one. Oh, let me escape thither. Is it not a little one? And my soul shall live Lot had fallen in love with the culture of Sodom And here Lot is making excuses to the angels that God has graciously sent for his delivery And oh, how we can make excuses. Lord, I know this isn't quite right, but it's a little one. Lord, I know I I know I shouldn't do this anymore, I shouldn't go there anymore, I shouldn't say that, I shouldn't read that, I shouldn't watch that Lord, I know this friend, boy, they don't lead me towards righteousness, but I like them, and we've been friends since high school. And Lord, it's just a little one. Can I keep this one? Can't I can't I live here? Not not in the mountain, Lord. Oh but so if I'm in the mountain, something will happen. You can't protect me there, especially what he said Oh friends, Lot began to nibble on the j the the candy of the world. And he ended up with a sweet tooth He developed an appetite for iniquity. He vexed his righteousness. And so we live between Bethel and Hai in our daily walk with the Lord. 1310, Lot lifted up his eyes. 1311, Lot chose the plain of Jordan. 1312, Lot dwelt in the cities and pitched his tent towards Sodom. 1313, the men of Sodom were sinners against the Lord exceedingly. But not only do we dwell between Bethel and Hai in our daily walk with the Lord, we dwell between Bethel and Hai in our testimony for the Lord. In our witness to the grace of Jesus Christ that we've received. Peter calls Lot a righteous man in spite of all that we know about him. Why can Peter, how can Peter call Lot a righteous man? Well, because Lot's righteousness was not his own, just his mine. I'm not a righteous man. I would love to be able to tell you that I am, but I'm a sinner. But my righteous Christ has clothed me in his robes. And so when God the Father beholds me, he holds me as a righteous man, even though I'm a sinner. And so he's called a righteous man, and yet we find that he had no testimony. He had no moral authority to witness the people around him. Look at verse 17. We find um chapter 13, verse 17, we find that the testimony is being protected here by Abraham. In thirteen seven, and there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Parasite dwelt in the land. The people that dwelt in the land knew that Lot and Abram were different, and yet there was strife there. They could see a breach in testimony, and so Abram's solution is: look, let's not have strife, we're brethren. We're brethren, let's not fight. If you want the land over here, you take it, and I'll take the other. Or if you want that land, just let me know what you want. Let's make peace here. We're brethren, and the world is watching. And so the foundation had been laid there by righteous Abraham to maintain testimony. But the men of Sodom were wicked before the Lord exceedingly. And Lot forgot what family he was a part of. See, we're children of God. We're children of light, not children of darkness. Christ said to the Pharisees, You're of your father the devil, and the works of your father ye will do. But we're children of God. And we're to have a light. Turn to chapter 19, and we're going to look at verse 4. In the first part of chapter 19, verse 1, the two angels come to deliver Lot and his family from Sodom. And Lot pleads with them not to spend the night in the streets because Lot knows the wickedness of the men of Sodom knows what will happen to them And in verse 4, we read, before they laid down, that's Abraham, that's Lot and the angels, before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed around the house round, both young and old. all the people from every quarter. And they called unto Lot and said unto him, Where are the men which came into thee this night? Bring them out that we may know them And Lot went out at the door unto them and shut the door behind him and said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly. Lot has gone so far towards Hei that he's calling the wicked men brethren. Now remember the words of Abram when they departed. Let there be no strife between us, because we are brethren. You see, my friend, when you start to play with the world, you forget who you are. You forget who your family is. You forget your heritage. You forget where you're supposed to be. So Lot has gone so far that he is calling these wicked men brethren. In the New Testament, Ephesians 5:11, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them For it is a shame even to speak of the things that are done of them in secret. And in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 9, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. Because of our children, I'm being very careful with this text because there's a lot in here that our children are too young to hear. But you know what What was going on in Sodom. And yet these are the people that righteous Lot is now calling brethren Years the salt of the earth. But a salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. Look at verse nine of chapter nineteen And they said, this is when the men of Sodom come desiring the angels, and they said, stand back. And they said again, this fellow, that's Lot, came in to sojourn, and will he needs be a judge? Now will we deal worse with thee than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door. He said of Sodom says, Thought, are you going to judge us? Who are you to judge us? You see, my friend, if you do not have a righteous testimony at your workplace, you have no moral authority to be a witness of the testimony. Testimony. You see, if the unbelievers that know there's something different about you The Canaanites and the Perizzites that live around you, if they do not see the image of Christ in you, how are you ever going to have a witness? This man came to sojourn among us. Are you going to be our judge? Lot? What's different between you and us? Oh, maybe you're you're holier than thou. Maybe you think you're better than us. But he had no witness. His salt had lost its savor. His testimony was gone. And it all started between Bethel and Hai. His downfall. You see, when you lose your keys after you ask your wife, you go to the place where you last ask. Adam. Remember how many times we find Abram coming back to Bethel? Back to the place where God. appeared to him. Ah, my friend, when we start to wander, when we start to get close to Sodom, remember what the angel said, run for your life. But there's a third way in which we live between Bethel and Hai. And this one's really the most important, and I probably should have split this into two messages. But the snow stopped, so it's not going to be hard to get home. I've got nine pages today. We dwell between Bethel and Hai in our families. The Christian family is under attack. The roaring lion is out to get us. The wolves in sheep's clothing are nibbling. The TV's talking. Our kids' friends are inviting. There are so many things around us. That are after the mothers and fathers first, and the children second. We live so close to the house of God, and yet Hei is never far. First, let's look at the family of Abraham. Look at verse 17 and 19 of chapter 18. Genesis 18, verses 17 and 19. This is where the angel has come to Abraham or Abram and Sarah And told them that Sarah is going to have a child, and Sarah has laughed. And then the angels before they leave say, you know, should we let Abram know what we're about to do, what's going on And in 18 and verse 17, And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham the thing which I do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. 19, for I know him that he will command his family that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord. God says of Abraham, I know he's going to command his family. I know he's going to direct his family well. Men, read it every morning. Abraham was known of God to be one who would order his household in godliness. May God make us that kind of man. But then we find the contrast when we look at the case of Lot. Because Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom, because he chose the green pastures that lay in the way of iniquity. His family was destroyed. Lot lost his son-in-laws. Look at 19 and verse 12. And the men, that's the Angels, nineteen twelve And the inn and the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here bes uh any beside son-in-law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place. For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of Jehovah of the Lord. And the Lord hath sent us to destroy it. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-law, which married his daughters, and said, Uh, get ye out of this place, for Jehovah will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons-in-law. And I'm not going to go into all the arguments of the commentators. And everything involved here. We find later that Lot has two unmarried daughters who have never known man. And it appears that it was probably these daughters. In other words, these sons-in-laws had not been with his daughters yet. It was the betrothal setting in which we find Joseph and Mary. Okay, so that clears it up a little bit. But they are considered married, even though there has not been a union. And Lot goes to these that have been brought into his family, loved by his daughters, very likely. But remember, he has no testimony. Are you gonna judge us? And his son-in-laws mocked. What what's what's the old man talking about? But then we find, and again I will be very careful here, but Lot lost the purity of his daughters. Look to chapter nineteen, verse eight We already read chapter 19, verses 4 through 7, so we pick up in the middle there. When the men of Sodom have come and demanded the two angels, and Lot offers his daughter. daughters instead. Behold now I have two daughters which have not known man. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do unto them as is good in your eyes, only unto these men do nothing. For therefore have they come under the shadow of my roof. Then go to nineteen and verse thirty. And Lot went up out of Zorah and dwelt in the mountains, and his two daughters with him, for he feared to dwell in Zora, and he dwelt in a cave, and his Two daughters. And Lot's own daughters defiled themselves with their father. You see, these daughters living in Sodom had not been brought up with any respect for the truth of God. These daughters who had been offered to the men of Sodom had no respect for their own bodies. It all began between Bethel and Aon. It all began so innocently. How easy it is to part. And then we find that Lot lost his wife. In 1917, the angels had rew had warned Don't look back. But look down to verse twenty-four in in chapter nineteen. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire. From the Lord out of heaven, and overflew through the cities, and all the plain, and all their inhabitants of the city, and that which grew up of the upon the ground But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt. And Christ gives the warning in Luke 17 and verse 32: Remember Lot's wife. You see, his wife, who should have had a godly leader, who should have had a man that set the example of righteousness, she looked She lingered, she longed, she lusted, and she lost. And it all began between Bethel and Hei And finally, we find that Lot lost his posterity. Remember the promise to Abraham that in his sea would all nations be blessed? And Abraham, Lot, who had been a part of that family and been a part of that blessing, who had been called by Abraham, we are brethren, but now Lot is calling the men of Sodom brethren. Look at chapter 19, verse 36 through 38. Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father. And the firstborn bare a son and called his name Manoah, the same as the father of the Moabites unto this day. And the younger also bare a son and called his name Ben Ami, the same as the father of the children of Ammon And we find the Moabites and the Ammonites in the Bible, in the Old Testament. They were the adversaries and the enemies of Israel. And we find one here that's saved and one there that's saved. But by and large, the posterity of lot is in hell. He lost his posterity. He lost his heritage. Oh, remember Ruth? Ruth the Moabitus, who follows her mother-in-law, and her words are, where thou goest, I will go, and where thou liest, I will lie. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. There was a few here or there that in God's mercy were plucked as fires from the burning, but he lost his posterity. Brethren, we live between Bethel and Hai. May we take the warnings of Scripture? May we ever be on guard because tomorrow we could deny Christ just as Peter. Let us stand for prayer. Oh, our great Heavenly Father, bless your word to our truths today, our hearts that truth to our hearts today. Father, may we remember Lot's wife. May we remember every morning that we are waking up between Bethel and Hai. And may we ever be on guard. Blessed. Bless your people we pray in Jesus' name. Amen