Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Genesis. And we're going to read in chapter 12 the first 10 verses, and then skip over to chapter 13, and there read the first 13 verses. Genesis chapter 12, reading the precious, infallible, inspired, and preserved Word of God. Genesis twelve, verse one. Now the Lord had said unto Abram Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee all families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haram. And Abram took Sarai, his wife, and Lot, his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran. And they went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and into the land of Canaan they came. And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sycham. and unto the plain of Moray. And the Canaanite was in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land And there builded he an altar unto the Lord who appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west And Hai on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of the Lord. And Abram journeyed going on still toward the south And there was a famine in the land. And Abram went down into Egypt and sojourned there, for the famine was grievous in the land. Now go to chapter 13 and verse 1. And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had. And Lot went with him into the south. And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold. And he went on his journey from the south, even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai. Under the place of the altar which he had made there at the first. And there Abram called on the name of the Lord. And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents And the lamb was not able to bear them that they might dwell together, for their substance was great, so they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelt there in the land. And Abram said unto Lot, Let there not be strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld the plain of Jordan, and that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. even as the garden of the Lord, like into the land of Egypt as thou goest or comest unto Zora. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. And Lot journeyed east, and there separated themselves the one from the other. And Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Let's pray. Oh God, bless and open this passage of your holy word to our hearts this morning. May we take warning, O God. In Jesus' name. Our key verses this morning will be verse 8 of chapter 12 and verse 3 of chapter 13. In chapter 12 and verse 8, we read, And he removed thence unto the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent. having Bethel on the west and Hai on the east. And then verse thir three of chapter thirteen And he went on his journey from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai. It's interesting to me that in the first verse of chapter 12, God speaks to Abram. And God tells Abram, Leave your family, leave your country, leave your father's house. Go into a land that I will show thee, and I will bless thee. I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse him that curseth thee. And I believe the hymn there is actually Satan and all who follow Satan. Curse them. It doesn't say them. It doesn't say I'll curse them. It says I'll bless him. Or curse him that curseth thee. So in verse 1, God speaks to Abram. But in verse 7, something different happens. In verse 7, when he comes to Bethel, God appears to him. Before God had just been whispering in his ear. But now God appears to Abraham. And he says, I'm going to bless you. And there Abraham, Abram, he still is called at this point. There he builds an altar. This place, Bethel, is very significant. For in the passage of time, Abraham, now Abram, now called Abraham, his grandson, will come to this same place. His grandson's name is Jacob. And Jacob fleeing from his brother Esau will come to this same place where his grandfather had built an altar This same place where the Lord appeared to his grandfather, and there Jacob will lay down to sleep, and he'll take a stone and use it for a pillow. And as he sleeps, God appears to Jacob in the same place. For there Jacob sees a ladder stretching from earth to heaven, and the Son of God standing at the head of the ladder, and the angels of God Ascending and descending on the ladder. And when Jacob awakes from his sleep in Bethel, he says, How dreadful is this place! This is the house of God. God is in this place, and I knew it not And it's actually Jacob that will call it Bethel. It's referred to Beth as Bethel in scripture uh before, but in the account of Jacob we learn that Jacob named it Bethel. Of course the the God, who ordained Scripture, knew what it would be called in Abram's day, and so it's referred to as Bethel then. But this place, Bethel, Bethel means the house of God. And indeed it was the house of God. It was a place where God appeared to Abraham, to Abram, and he built an altar to the name of the Lord of God who appeared unto him. It is the place where God appeared to Jacob, and Jacob realized what he says is dreadful, our English word dreadful. We think of something terrifying, but here, dreadful, this word means that it's a place of great awe. It's a place of great wonder because God's in this place. The house of God, Bethel. But not far from Bethel If you look at a Bible map, it's about a half an inch. Not far from Bethel is another place. It's Heai. Hei will be very significant in Scripture as well. The name Hei means the house of ruin or the place of ruins. It will be at Hei, also called Ai without the H, that Achan will behold a goodly Babylonian garment Achan will look upon a wedge of gold, and he will take that which God says, no, leave it alone. God says, no, it's polluted. It's not for the children of God. Don't touch it. At Jerusalem at Jericho, Achan will see the polluted thing and take it and hide it. And when the children of Israel come up against Ai or Hei, they will be defeated, and thirty-six righteous men will die because of the sin of one wicked man. Ai or Hei is the house of ruin. And so we find that Lot Travels with his uncle Abraham. Abram. And Lot is blessed in joining To his uncle. God told Abram, I will bless thee, I will multiply thee, I'll make of thee a great nation. And we read when they're coming back up out of Egypt after the famine that Lot also has been blessed. He is also a wealthy man because of his association with his uncle. His father has died, and Abram has become a father to his nephew, and they are blessed together And they come, and now they're standing right in the middle. They have Bethel on the west. And Hai on the east. They have the house of God on one side, and they have the house of ruin on the other. My friends, I would submit to you that we as Christians dwell very close to the house of God, but never far away from the house of ruin. We stand between the two. It was standing between the house of God and the house of ruin that Lot chose Sodom. And it is not an unusual thing in the Word of God to find godly men standing on the brink of foolish, stupid, and wicked decisions. Samson, don't fool around with Delilah. Run for your life. Get out of there, Joseph ran Samson, run But Samson chose to toy around with Delilah. Samson kept on visiting Delilah And Samson, a little bit at a time, revealed to Delilah his Nazarite vow. And when she learned it was the hair, she cut it off. David, get off the housetop! You know back she was out there bathing. Look away! Go inside! Run, David! Run! But instead David sins for Bathsheba. Oh, that's just a little sin. It's just a small one But it led to murder. We looked two or three weeks ago at the man of God who came up out of Judah and he comes to Bethel, which Bethel eventually is part of the northern kingdom, the kingdom that did not follow God, the kingdom of Israel. But he comes, the man of God, comes out of Judah unto Bethel, where now there is a calf of paganness. And we saw a few weeks ago that he did well until he was deceived by an old prophet and suddenly he turned away. Why did he not continue to follow God. And we could go on. Peter. Peter warmed himself beside the fire of the enemy. And so we're considering Bethel and Hei. And it's interesting to note in this context that Bethel was on the west. And Hai was on the east. And places are significant in Scripture. Places are of great importance. Remember when Paul was desirous to go into Asia, and God forbid him, the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost forbid them to go. And then he wanted to go to Bithynia, and the spirit suffered them not. And then the vision of the man of Macedonia appeared. Come over and help us. Asia was East. Macedonia was West God made a distinction there. Don't go to the east, go to the west. Because the Apostle Paul went to the West. The Western world today has the gospel and the East has Islam. The East has Buddha. You think about the Asian nations and how many of them believe in Christ and how many of them are involved in all kinds. God makes distinction. Here, there is a decision to be made. Do I go to the house of ruin or do I go to the house of God? Brethren, I'd submit to you that there are three areas of our lives in which each of us stand this morning between Bethel and Hei. First of all, I'd like us to consider from our passage that we daily stand between Bethel and Hai in our relationship with Jehovah God. We will be drawing closer to him or we will be moving further from him. We will be growing in his grace or we will be atrophied. We will be filling our hearts and minds with the Word of God, or we will be filling our hearts and minds with the filth of the world. We stand today in the same place that Lot stood. We're between Bethel and Pai. Look over to chapter 13 with me again and verse 10 of chapter 13. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord likened the land of Egypt as thou comest to Zora. Lot lifted up his eyes and he looked toward Sodom. He looked that direction and it was well watered. It was even like the garden of the Lord. It was like the Garden of Eden. It was like Egypt. Is Egypt ever good in the Word of God? Is Egypt ever a place to be desired in the Word of God? But it's so beautiful. It has so much to offer. There's so much I can gain over there. He looked. Samson looked, he saw Delilah. David looked, he saw Bathsheba. Throughout Scripture we find that iniquity often begins with a look. And when she saw the fruit, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and to be desired to make one wise. You see, he looked, he longed, he lusted, he lingered, and he lost. What a glorious illustration. Not glorious, I used the wrong word there. What a gruesome illustration. And so Lot Lot had to know He had to know what took place in Sodom. It was not hidden. He knew that it was the house of ruin He knew that they were sinners before the Lord exceedingly, as we find in verse 13. Paul warned us. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. Make no provision for it. I went camping with my brother uh last week, not this past week, but the week before. And I spent days putting together provision. I made sure we had a charcoal for the fire and we had a lighter and we had lighter fluid and we had a pan and we had a fr had a grill and we had sleeping equipment, all these things. Why? Well because I was anticipating something I wanted to do. So I made provision for it. But you see, when we begin to make provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof, it's because we want to fulfill it in the lust thereof. I put together a camping kit because I wanted to go camping. We can't, when we sin, say the devil made me do it. But rather we make provision. Lot is making provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. He knew that the men of Sodom were sinners before the Lord exceedingly But he pitched his tent towards Sodom. He prepared the way before his feet to stumble. He was living between Bethel and Hala. And again, Paul says, neither give place to the devil. And that word place is a fascinating word. That word place there in Ephesians 4. 27 is also Translated in our King James license. Neither give license to the devil. Give the devil a license to work in your heart To give him opportunity. That's what a license is. It's also translated coast. Don't give him a coast. Remember Normandy? The first thing that the Allies had to do was establish a beachhead. Don't give Satan a beachhead in your life. Lot pitched his tent before Sodom, towards Sodom. He gave God a beach, gave Satan a beachhead to invade his heart. It's also translated quarter. And that's also a military term. Give no quarter to the enemy. In other words, you don't spare one of them. They almost die. Don't give Satan a quarter in your life. It's also translated in the King James as rock. Don't give him a place to stand on. Don't let Satan have a rock in your heart. Neither give place to the devil. Lot began by looking at what was happening in Sodom and looking at the beauty around it And he also began to justify his evil choices. Look what he says. Oh, but but it's like the Garden of Eden It's it's just like the Garden of Eden. It's it's it's the way that was. It's it must be good because it's so beautiful. It's so attractive. And further, I believe that Lot should have deferred to his uncle. Abram says to Lot, you take the left and I'll take the right, you take the right and I'll take the left, you choose. And Lot should have said, oh no, no. No, you are my elder. You are my benefactor. You took me in when my father died. Oh no, Abram, my father, you choose. You choose, and I'll take what is left. You see, Lot was covetousness, was covetous. He saw the very best And rather than saying to his uncle, who had done everything for him, you take choose first, and I'll take whatever you don't want. But Lot saw the best, and he said, I want the things of this world because they're beautiful. I want the things of this world because they're well watered. I want the things of this world because they look glorious. They're attractive to my eyes. And we're going to see later, we're considering now that we dwell between Bethel and Ai in our relationship with God, but we're going to see later that Abram was able to stand against temptation. And I believe if Abram had of given if Lot had have taken the leftover and sent Abram that way, I don't believe Abram would have gone to Sodom. He would have dwelt in the plains where his sheep could be taken care of. But Lot was too weak to stand. And so Abram should, or Lot should have deferred to his uncle. Covetousness and greed are the root of that which destroys man And we mentioned A Achan earlier. Achan saw a goodly Babylonian garment. In Psalm one nineteen, verse thirty-six, Incline thy heart unto my testimonies and not to covetousness. Let me read that verse again Psalm 119, verse 36, if you're taking notes. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies and not unto covetousness. And that's a prayer. God, turn my heart to your testimonies and not to covetousness Beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things that he had. And so Lot's downfall began with a look, but then Lot vexed his righteous soul. Peter expounds in on God's judgment on the wicked there in Sodom. And in 2 Peter 2, verse 8 or verse 6 it says, Tur and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overflow. making them an example unto those that after should live ungodly, and delivered just lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked For that righteous man dwelling among them in seeing, remember we talked about seeing, and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Lot's downfall began with a look, but then he vexed his own soul. And that word word vexed is an interesting word. When Stephen was preaching on the day of his death, when Stephen was stoned Stephen was talking about Moses delivering one of the Egyptians, one of the Israelites, when one of the Egyptians was oppressing him. In Acts 7, verse 24, and seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him and avenged him that was oppressed and smote the Egyptians. You know what that word oppressed is? It's the exact same word, vexed. The word Stephen uses as oppressed is the word that Paul used or Peter used as vexed. It helps you understand it, doesn't it? Lot oppressed his own soul. What does it mean to oppress? Well, it means to push down. It means to afflict. It means to imprison. It means to beat up. Lot oppressed his own soul. He was a righteous man and he oppressed his righteous soul. In other words The godly spirit within him, he had to push it aside in order to sin. The voice of the Spirit of God in the ears and heart of Lot said, no, no, no. Isn't it blessed when the Spirit of God convicts you and says, No? Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me. And my friend, if you do not know, if you do not know the restraining voice of the Spirit of God in your heart, I tell you, my friend, you're not a child of God. Because the child of God cannot sin with impunity. The child of God cannot do wrong without the conviction of God. The Spirit of God will say in your heart, This is wrong. The Spirit of God will say in your heart you shouldn't do this. And I speak to our young people and to our adults. If you can sin without the Spirit of God saying no. Then you need to seek the Lord and seek him now. For the Spirit of God, if the Spirit of God dwells within you. The Spirit of God will restrain you from evil. That Spirit of God in Lot was saying no. But he vexed you. this righteous saw. So I'd say to you my friends, that Lot, sin began with a look And then he vexed his righteous soul. And the result of him battering, oppressing the Spirit of God, quench not the Spirit of God whereby you're sealed into the day of redemption. The result of him quenching that spirit was he fell in love with iniquity. He fell in love with the wickedness around him. I'm going to have you turn over to chapter 19 of Luke, or Luke, Genesis, pardon my twisted tongue this morning. Turn over to chapter 19. It should just be a page or two from where you are And there I want to begin reading in verse 15. This is the account of the angels that came to deliver Lot from Sodom. And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, which are here, lest thou be condemned with the iniquity of the city. And while he lingered, while he lingered, remember back in Luke where we read there in our responsive reading? Um whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life, he's trying to save his life. He's trying to save his world. He's trying to save the things that are around him He's trying to save all that he's gained in this world. What shall it profit a man if he gained all the things of Sodom? And lose his own And so he fell in love. While he lingered, the men laid hold on his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and the hand of his two daughters, the Lord being merciful to him. Get out of here! Did you ever grab a child by the hand and pull them out of danger? Lot, this place is going to be destroyed. Run for your life. Tick. Talk. Tick, tock, tick, tock, goes the clock on the ball. It's about to explode, Lot. The fuse is lit! Well, I don't really want to I don't I don't want to leave this. Look at look at all look at all that's around me. Look at everything up as amassed here in Sodom and all my friends. The pin on the hand grenade has been pulled. It's about to blow. Run for your life. Oh, what a glorious example we have from Joseph who left his coat behind. Continuing in verse 16, the Lord being merciful to him, and they brought him forth and sent him without the city. And it came to pass when they had brought him forth abroad that he said, that they said, escape for thy life Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest thou be consumed. And Lot said to them, Oh, not so Not so, my Lord. Behold now, if thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercy that thou hast shown unto me in saving my life. I cannot escape to the mouth unless some evil take me and I die. Behold, this city is near to thee, to flee unto, and it is a little one Whosoever shall save his life shall lose it. Whosoever shall lose his life shall save it, we read in our call to worship. You see, the context there of that verse in Luke 17 is remember Lot's wife It ties right back to Genesis chapter nineteen. It's a glorious, glorious connection between the Old and the New Testament. Oh, let me escape there, it is a little one, and my soul shall live. My friend, we dwell between The house of God and the house of ruin day by day in our relationship to God. You will be drawing closer to God, or you will be l going further from Him. But then I'd like to see continuing that we dwell between Bethel and Ai in our testimony for the Lord. You see, by the time that Lot starts telling his sons-in-laws that they need to flee, he had lost all moral standing. He was to them as one that mocked. They wouldn't listen. He had other daughters. They stay in Sodom and died. His own wife looked back and was turned to a pillar of salt. You see, he had totally lost his testimony. He is called in the New Testament a righteous man. And yet he had lost his testimony for God. And when the two angels came, he didn't want the angels to stay in the street overnight. Why? Because he knew what would happen to them. And as a moral authority, his moral four four fortitude for God was so corrupted and so corroded, he offered his own daughters instead. You see, when you head for the house of ruin, the house of ruin is all you'll find. And it will ruin your house. And so he had lost all moral authority. But then again, looking at chapter nineteen We read there in the seventh verse that when the men of Sodom came And we're asking for the two angels that appeared in verse 7 of Genesis 19. And he said, I pray you brethren. I pray you brethren, who were these? They were the men in verse 13 of chapter 13 that we read were sinners before the Lord exceedingly. But Lot calls them brethren. And I emphasize in our scripture reading when Abram said to Lot, Let there not be strife between us, for we are brethren. Who was A lot's brother? Was it Abram or was it the men of Sodom? And that word brethren that we read in our Old Testament is a word which indicates a flesh and blood relationship, but it is also a word that indicates a likeness Relationship. And that is why in the New Testament we are brethren. We're not flesh and blood, but we are likeness. We are made alike in Christ, and we are adopted into the same family, so we are brethren. But here what Lot is saying is I'm not like Abram, I'm like you. We're brethren. We're brethren. He totally lost his testimony. And every one of us today stand between Bethel and Ai in our testimony for the Lord. In the workplace. Will you be like your friends? Will you be like the Lord? When men around you take the name the Lord's name in vain, what will you do? There's so much cursing in all the media today, it is filled with it. Who are our brethren? That's right. And so we've seen that he lost his that we all stand between Bethel and Ai in our daily walk with the Lord. We stand between Bethel and Ai in our testimony for the Lord. But then finally, and I know our time is rushing away, but stay with me, please. We stand between Bethel and Ai in our families. The Christian family is under attack. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, spiritual wickedness in high places, the rulers of the darkness of this world. world. Our families today stand between Bethel and Ai. We will either go to the house of God. I thank you the thank the Lord that you're in this house of God today. But in our families we will go toward the house of God or we will go toward the house of ruin. It will be we can't just stay here, folks. We can't stand in the middle. We'll be going one way or another Look over to chapter 18 with me briefly. I made references earlier that I I believe that if Abram had have gone to the plain of Jordan, Abram would have been able to stand. And I base that on chapter 18, verses 17 through 19. When we talk about the family, first of all, let's consider Abraham's family very briefly. God knew that Abraham would train his family right. In Genesis 18 and verse 17. And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham the thing which I will do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the earth shall be blessed in him, for I know him That he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. Isn't that glorious? Could God say that of you? Could God say, Oh I can I can share this with him from my word because I know that he'll command his children right. I can blive this blessing to this family because I know the head of the family will lead his family the right way. I know that he'll lead them, his family, to keep the word of the Lord. What a glorious testimony Abraham has here of his tet of his family. Has Isaac been born yet? No. No. He didn't have a family yet. This is before God gave him children. God makes this glorious declaration of him. You see, Abraham dwelt between Bethel and Ai and his family, and he made he went the right way. The poor Lot. I've mentioned already that Lot lost his sons in laws. You see, Lot was a righteous man, and his sons-in-law should have been taught the righteous way, but they taught him opped. Lot lost the purity of his daughters. First of all, he offers his daughters to these wicked men, and then later his daughter is getting drunk, and he has Children slash grandchildren with his daughters. We saw in The passage here and in Luke seventeen, he lost his wife. You see, because Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom, because Lot chose Hai over Bethel, his wife could not stand. It never talks about his wife having a righteous soul. Talks about Lot having a righteous soul. But his wife turned back. How sad. I'm sure he loved her. I'm sure she was precious to him, but he failed to lead her in righteousness. And he lost his wife. And then we find also that he lost his posterity over again in chapter 19 of Genesis in verses 36 and 38. After the his daughters getting drunk. Thus were born, or thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father. And the firstborn bare a son and called his name Moab. The same is the father of the Moabites unto this day. The Moabites, are they blessed in the Word of God or they cursed? Lot lost his prosperity. And then verse thirty eight. And the younger she also bear a son, and called his name Benime, the same as the father of the children of Ammon unto this day. Moab the Moabites, Ammon the Ammonites. Grandfather Lot. He lost his posterity, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob You see the lineage there. The glorious grandchildren of Abraham. Lot. You see, my friend, Lot lost his walk with God, Lot lost his testimony for God, and Lot lost his family. And it all took place there on the plain when Lot stood between Bethel and Hai. And my friend, we today, and as long as we live on this earth, we stand between Bethel. And Ai. We are very close to the house of God, but we're never far away. from the house of ruin. Deuteronomy four, verse nine, only take heed to thyself. To keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them. Thy sons and thy sons. And then Ezekiel eighteen and verse thirty Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways. Thus saith the Lord God, repent and turn yourselves from all your transgressions. So iniquity. Shall not be your ruin. So iniquity shall not be your ruin. Bethel or AI. Let us stand for prayer. Oh God, help us. Help us, Father. For by your electing sovereign grace, we are very close to the house of God. And yet, Lord, in our sojourn here, we are only one moment away from sin. Protect us, O Lord, by thy Spirit. May we not make provision for the flesh. May we not give place to the devil. O God, may our eyes be fixed on Christ and not on the well-watered plains of Jordan. Help us, O Lord, to stand for truth. In Jesus' name. Amen.