Our gracious Father, we thank you for those sweet times when you, in your providence and love to our souls Indeed, prepare our hearts to worship with music. And Lord, indeed, we do desire to be still and know that you are God. We do a desire to come before you in the stillness of heart, having the cares of this light set aside, the concerns about uh All the things, politics, economy, uh family issues, all the things that can intrude in upon our souls so quickly. But Lord, we thank you that there is a sweet haven of rest, that indeed Jesus is a rock in a weary land. And Father, we come this morning endeavoring to find shelter under that rock. We come this morning desiring to be sharpened, because iron does indeed sharpen iron, and so does the countenance of a friend. And Lord, we desire to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So Lord, as we gather today, may the cares of this life be set aside. May we be renewed in our faith, in the earnestness thereof, as we were admonished so well in Sunday school this morning. And Lord, may you indeed continue that work which is so needful in us to conform us to the image of your Son. We thank you, Lord, that we stand in perfect righteousness Before the throne of God, because Christ has borne our judgment. And yet, day by day we are called upon to resist the devil that he may flee from us And so, Father, we thank you that Jesus has done all the work on our behalf. And yet, Lord, may that work continue in us day by day. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is actually three verses from three different psalms. From Psalm thirty and verse four Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints, the ye saints of his and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Psalm 31, verse 23. Oh love the Lord, all ye his saints. For the Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth the proud doers. And then Psalm 34, verse 9, O fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. Good morning everyone. Grab your uh blue song book and turn to our opening hymn. Our opening hymn. Fits with the Sunday school lesson this morning. A mighty fortress is our God, that great tune that Martin Luther penned after coming to this Doctrinal realization, a just shall live by faith. 172 in your blue songbook, A Mighty Fortress. I trust you're familiar with the tune. You sing all four stanzas. Almighty fortresses are God all every In the floor Almort For still our ancient foe does seek to work. Just for his breath and power are great, and are with rules, honor it is not easy. Did win our own straight convicts? Our striving would be losing. Do not know right on our side No men of God told to sing Just as will that make me Christ Jesus is Lord Sabbath of this thing, promise who makes us save. We must win the battle. And no wisdom should return to us. Und we will not before God and will His truth to try up to us. The friends of darkness friend We tremble not for him His race we can endure for law His To this shore, one little shall give and burn up the whole earthly time. No thanks to them of writers God spirit and God gives us to him. With the signer that this I can drink off this portal life also. The morning they make you got truth of my destination. This kingdom is for the world. Amen, Amen, Amen. Please be seated. Good morning. Please turn it to the back of your bulletin. This morning we read from the 12th article of the Belgic Confession. This is the first part of it. This is regarding the creation. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that the Father, by the Word, that is, by His Son, created of nothing the heaven, the earth, and all creatures, as it seemed good unto him. Giving unto every creature its being, shape, form, and several offices to serve its Creator. That he not also still uphold and govern them by his eternal providence and infinite power For the service of mankind to the end that man may serve his God. So far in the Belgian Confession we've read about who God is We read about his triune nature, and uh we even read about the ways or the means that we have of knowing him by the law and by nature. But this morning we begin to look at his works, what it is that this great God of ours has done. And the first work, of course, is creation. He created the heaven and the earth. This is what happened from the beginning. We don't read of anything being there before heaven and earth And the confession makes a right point that it was out of nothing that God created the heaven and the earth. Men, of course, boast of being able to create something in a lab where they already have tools and elements that are ready and available for them. And then once they're able to make something with these elements that they have, they make a claim that, well, the earth could have could have started like this Without the need of any intervention, without the need of any God. It's just formed on its own in this manner. But they're borrowing God's instruments. They're borrowing the things that God's already created God, when he created heaven and earth, he created it out of nothing. Try to do that as a man. Try to create something out of nothing. It's impossible. God's the only one able and that has done this. And we read, of course, in the creation, or in the uh sorry, in the confession, as well as in the scripture, this tremendous point that this creation occurred by his son and for his son. It was the Lord Jesus Christ that was the one that created the heaven and the earth. And furthermore, it was for him. In Colossians 1, 16 through 17 we read, For by him, that's by Christ, were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Jesus Christ is not just an interesting historical character. He's the creator of the world. And it was created for him, for Jesus Christ. in the world often thinks and has their philosophy about why are we here? Where did we come from? What's the purpose of our existence? And vain men will come up with lots of reasons, lots of ideas, thinking of evolution and what it is that we ought to conquer and what we what it is that we ought to do here in this world. But instead, what does the scripture say? What does God say? That the whole world was created by Jesus Christ. It was his intention. He's the one that formed it. And furthermore, it was for him, for his glory. The Westminster Catechism question one says, What is the chief end of man? And the answer there is man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Everything you see, everything that was created, whether it's the stars, the mountains, the great seas, animals, all plants, they were all there to glorify Jesus Christ. And of course some people can make the argument, well it's us who are enjoying it. We're the ones that are eating the plants, eating the animals, we're the ones that are enjoying the sun, isn't it about us? Well no The Lord has provided these things to you so that you would turn back to Him to glorify him. It's all to praise the Lord. And so what about those that don't believe in Christ? That don't believe it was Jesus Christ, the God of the Bible, that created the heaven and the earth, and they have all these other ideas. Well that's quite the scary thing. They're denying the one who's created them for himself. They deny the individual, the creator, who sustains their life even right now, who gives them every breath. And they'll be destroyed, uh, not only because of their sin, but you see that even right now they're living in utter darkness. They're denying the God that's created them, that's created this whole world that they're living in. Right now they're living in utter darkness, just awaiting that destruction, that rightful destruction of the God that's created him. that's created them, the the God that they'll have to give an account to. Truly the Lord has done a marvelous work in creation, and he continues to uphold it by its power. So may we give him all the reverence and glory due to him, as it says in Psalm 104, verse 24. O Lord, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all. The earth is full of thy riches. Amen. Ah, let us go to prayer together this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for the multitude of exhortations that we receive from thy word and by thy truth. Father, we thank you that you are the great God. Lord, the heathen rage, but our God sitting in the heavens shall laugh. And Lord, we are warned in Scripture that in this world we shall have tribulation. But be of good courage. I have overcome the world. And Father, we thank you for these glorious promises. We thank you for these truths. And Lord, we thank you for the way that we see them worked out and confirmed day by day. Lord, it's a miracle that any of us are alive today. There have been so many opportunities where we could have gone to our own destruction either physically or spiritually. And yet, Lord, you have preserved us and kept us. And Father, we read that your people are as the apple of your eye. We find that your eye is on the sparrow, Lord, the sparrow does not fall without your knowledge. The hairs of our head are numbered And Father, you do know what things we have need of before we ask. Yea, even Lord, you know what things we have need of as opposed to those things that we simply want. And Lord, so many times we have seen that the things that we wanted turned out to be very bad, but the things that we resisted turned out to be filled with mercy. And uh the hymn wrote her wrote, um, you fearful saints, great courage, courage take. The clouds ye so much dread are big with mercy and shall break in blessings on your head And Lord, do we have seen this true so many times that the clouds that we so dread are filled with mercy Lord, we bring before you this morning a bunch of clouds that seem very dire to us. Lord, we bring before you the physical needs of our people, Lord, many of whom are struggling. We rejoice that one of our sisters is here today who has Not been able to be here in person for many weeks, and yet, Lord, she walked in the door. We thank you for that. We rejoice in this token of thy mercy. Lord, you are good to your people. Father, we rejoice that our sister who has suffered very long, Lord, seems to be improving and the current treatments seem to be effective in her body. And O God, we plead that that might continue. We thank you, Lord, for a very positive report. Father, our brother is here this morning who has missed Sundays in recent weeks, Lord, and uh was given up by the doctors as dead. They did not see that he had long at all. And yet, Lord, you know more than any of these doctors can ever know. Father, we thank you that our our brother in Texas has recovered from a lung surgery a few years back and seems to be doing well. Still struggles with his back and other issues But Father, we thank you for that answer to prayer. And Lord, I pray that you would bless that family as they continue to grieve over the passing of the mother. Father, we thank you that our sister in Wisconsin is now well past the surgery that we prayed for for Five years, six years that she was was struggling and at times very near death. And yet now, Lord, she's recovered and is gaining strength and able to do things this month that she could not do last month We continue to pray for her and for her dear husband and her other two children that we've had opportunity to meet and thank you for their son here today. The Lord bless them and encourage them. We pray that the Internet Ministry would be a blessing to them and to the folks in Texas, our dear sister in North Carolina, those in Alabama, our brother out in Arizona, our brother in Texas, Father. Lord, overseas, as as we've recently learned, of a dear brother in the Philippines who is greatly blessed by the ministry of holding fast. Father, how good you are to allow us sinners to have a part in that. We thank you for it. Father, we thank you that having begun a good work in us, you will perform it until the day of Christ. We thank you that you told us to cast all our cares upon you, for you care for us. Lord, you know the the struggles of this day. We have two families, Lord, involved in real estate that real estate has taken a great downturn and it is a struggle because of regulation. It is a struggle because of people's fearfulness to move, to branch out. Lord, you were able to deal in all of these things, Father Father, I pray that you would bless and prosper your people. We have none here that are looking to be wealthy. We're not looking to lay up treasures on earth. But Lord, you know our needs. You know what things we have need of, and you're able to meet those needs. You're able to turn the hearts of judges and lawyers to very quickly resolve situations that are ongoing. Lord, we pray that you would deal with these things, Father, according to your will. And Lord, we pray with importunity that you would deal with them right early. Father, you know the the uh job concerns among our congregation. We have those that are uh in new employment and those that are overworked in employment. And Father, we pray that you would arrange according to your will that which is necessary and needful for the blessing of thy people Father, we do pray, O Lord, that you would bring about a true revival of religion. Father, not the religion as the world thinks of it, but Lord, a true revival of spiritual earnestness in our souls. A hatred of sin, a love of righteousness, a hunger and thirst after thy truth. And Father, we pray for families that are struggling. Lord, we pray for those that are very dear on our heart at this time. Families where the children are suffering because of disruption in the home. Father, we pray that you would bless and bring healing, dear Father. Father, we have not mentioned specifically all of the physical needs that are listed on our prayer list, but Lord, they're known to you. And Father, we we have senior saints that are faithful in the gospel and faithful in their study of thy word and faithful in prayer. And they have a great ministry among us, Father, for they are so much a part of this fellowship. Lord, I pray that you would help them and bless them through the daily aches and pains of life. Through the joints that do not function as they once did. Lord, the the injuries from days past that continue to plague them. Father, may you bless them and strengthen them. And Lord may they perceive that their merchandise is good. For indeed their prayers are so needful, their sharing of Scripture is such a blessing to many. And so, Father, we pray that you would bless them. And Lord, I pray that you would meet their needs. Father, we thank you this morning that we are not left without an instruction manual. We have thy word. It is indeed a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. Lord, I believe all of us have probably found an instruction manual that was written in another language and the translation just doesn't make sense Father, we thank you that we are blessed with a faithful translation of thy word. O Lord, that you have preserved and guarded The men who translated it were not inspired. But Lord, we do believe that they were blessed of thee to be godly men who had studied the scripture and had laid a foundation of truth before they endeavored to put the Bible in our own language. And Lord, we thank you for that. Father, bless it to our hearts this day. Bless our dear brother Paul Elliott, who is standing in defense. of the faithful scriptures. Bless this ministry. Lord, bless the ministry in Jamaica that we're a part to be able to be a part of. Bless as literature has been prepared to be sent to the Philippines, Lord. And we thank you for those of our number. that are laboring and endeavoring to put that forth. Father, we thank you for the video that is coming out soon, Lord, and pray that that would be a testimony to the mighty working and power of God in our midst. Father, we pray for the Gen Z outreach as well, that you'd bless that. And Lord bless us that on the next Lord's Day we have the privilege again of going to only memory care and exhorting These folks from the Word of God. Lord, you have given us many, many avenues of ministry, and we are thankful for the opportunity. And humbled and fearful with the responsibility. Father, help us to make full proof of the ministry. Lord, bless us this day in thy word Lord, it is good to be together. How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell in unity. We thank you, Lord, that we have never had a disruption. of that unity in our midst. Oh Lord, we're individuals. We have different personalities and different likes, different opinions. And yet, Lord, you have given us such blessed and sweet unity in Christ. And we thank you for this. O Lord, may it ever be shepherded and preserved. Bless us this day through thy word. Convict us, O Lord, of our sinfulness. Convict us of our proneness to wander. Make us more like Christ in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm twenty-six for a responsive reading. Once you locate a Psalm twenty-six in your Bible, please rise. We will responsibly read all twelve verse all twelve verses of the twenty-sixth Psalm. This is a Psalm of David. Judge me, O Lord, for I have walked in mine integrity. I have trusted also in the Lord. Therefore I shall not slide. Examine me, O Lord, and prove me. Try my reins and my heart. For thy loving kindness is before mine eyes, and I have walked in thy truth I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go with dissemblers. I have hated the congregation of evildoers, and will not sit with the wicked I will wash mine hands in innocency. So will I compass thine altar, O Lord, that I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving and tell of all thy wondrous works Lord, I have love the habitation of thy house and the place where thine honor dwelleth. Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men. In whose hand is mischief, and their right hand is full of rights. But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity. Redeem me and be merciful unto me, and altogether my foot standeth in an even place in the congregations of thy blessed Lord. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. Thanks be to God. Amen. Please grab your red song book and turn to our sermon psalm, God Be Merciful to Me, number 51D. D is in David, 51D to the tune of Top Lady. You should be familiar with this. It's sung in Rock of Ages. God be merciful to me. One of my favorite uh psalms and also one of my favorite song tunes Fifty-one D where we sing all four stanzas and the Amen. God be merciful to me. On thy grace I rest quite pleased. In my past abounding grace, my transgressions only race. Watch me holy from my stand when from For I send me for me rise ever present in thy eyes. That thy judgment may be clear, and thyself is just a fear. Thou know my sin when conceived thou clean, O thou dost desire and thy truth. Sincere within my mind, and thou wilt within my heart wisdom to me and part. And with his love, sprinkle me, and from sin I clean shall be wash me from its stain, and load I shall wash. Why turn me that so make me hear joy, cheering voice, make my bone can both rejoice? Maybe see it. Turn with me in your Bible this morning, please, to the book of 1 Peter. Towards the end of your New Testament. You have difficulty finding 1 Peter, I would recommend you find Revelation, which is one of the big books, and then just start turning a few pages towards the beginning of your Bible from Revelation. And you'll quickly come to 1 and 2 Peter, 1 and 2nd, 3rd, John, and Jude, which is followed by Revelation in the last book. 1 Peter chapter 5, and our scripture reading will be verses 8 through 11. 1 Peter Chapter five, and beginning with verse eight. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil As a roaring lion walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus After that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now we pray that you would open our hearts to receive thy word And open thy word to the understanding of our hearts. Father, this morning, may we be warned, may we be convicted, and may we be challenged And Lord, we pray this in the name of Jesus Christ, who gave his life a ransom for us. Amen. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about As a roaring lion, and my father always said, as a roaring lion, he would put a roar in the word, seeking whom he may devour. Do you see what it does not say? It doesn't say fear. Just be sober. It says, be vigilant. Gives the cause for soberness and vigilance. Your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion walking. It does not say fear. If you notice the previous verse, which I did not read, verse 7, it says, Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. And that word care is the same word anxiety. It doesn't say that we're walked to a walk around fearing Satan. Now it does not say that we're taken lightly either. When I was a kid There was a little song that they used to sing in children's m uh meetings. If if the devil doesn't like it he can sit on a tack and they they made light of Satan and we're told that we're not to speak evil of dignitaries. We're not to mock Satan. But we do not need to fear him. We don't fear him because our Lord has conquered him. If you turn back to chapter 3 of 1 Peter and verse 12. I'll read a few verses there, just a page or so from where you are, chapter 3, and verse 12. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous. And his ears are open to their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. And who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? But, and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you, a reason of the hope that lieth within you with meekness and with fear. And then turn would be to the book of Luke and chapter 12. Luke, chapter 12. A lot of times I just read these verses, but I realize that it's good for you to get them both in the ears and in the eyes. Luke chapter 12, we find Christ speaking to his disciples, and in verses 4 and 5 of Luke chapter 12, Christ says, And I say unto you, my friends Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do you. But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear, fear him which after he hath killed after he killeth, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say, fear you him. Christ says, Don't fear those that are able to kill the body, but not able to kill the soul. He had some experience with that, didn't he? Not at the time it was yet coming, but they killed his body, but they could not kill him. And by faith in him we are become the same. They may kill this body, but my soul is eternal. And then while you're there in Luke, turn back to chapter 10. And again we have the words of Christ Himself. In chapter ten of Luke and verse eighteen, and he said, that's Jesus said unto them I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions. And over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall be it shall any means hurt you Notwithstanding, in this rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven And so there are a multitude of scriptures which we can point to that uh tell us that we do have confidence. Satan is a defeated foe. Christ said he saw Satan fall as lightning. Lightning can startle you. It can make you jump when there's a loud clap. I uh on two occasions that stand out in my mind, I was within 50 yards of a tree in one case and a telephone pole in the other was struck by lightning. It'll it'll startle you But Satan's like lightning. He flashed across the sky, but he is a defeated foe. And so this passage going back to 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 8, it does not say that we're to fear Satan. Now, that doesn't mean that we're flippant. It doesn't mean that we we don't aren't cautious. But we serve Christ, who is greater than Satan. And we sang in the hymn written by Martin Luther, the Prince of Darkness Grim. We tremble not for him. His rage we can't endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One little word shall fell him So our text, first of all, does not say fear him, but it does say beware. The title of our message this morning is Beware of Lion. I'm sure you've all seen a sign that says Beware of Dog. For the children of God, beware of lion. It says to beware. To beware, first of all, is to be sober. To be sober. That word sober means watchful. In fact, in uh the first chapter, if you want to turn again in this same book of Peter, first chapter 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, that same word, and hope unto the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you through the righteous through the revelation of Jesus Christ Gird up the woins of your mind and be sober. You see, pornography comes to the mind through the eyes. Profanity comes to the mind through the ears. The smell of alcohol comes to the mind through the nose. Gird up the loins of your mind and be sober. Satan, the roaring lion, is attacking the mind. He's putting things all around us and in our path day by day that enter into our senses but they end up in the mind. Be sober, be watchful, be vigilant And it continues there in chapter 1, verse 14, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. But as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because as written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. And then in chapter 4 of this same book, but the end of all things, chapter 4, verse 7, but the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober, watch, and pray. Paul told young Timothy, but watch thou in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist. Because of Beware of the drunkenness of the senses. Beware of the drunkenness of the senses. Be sober. You see, when someone is drunk, they become Immune to danger. They will do stupid things that are very, very dangerous, but their awareness of the danger has been Overcome by the alcohol. And so Satan makes us drunk spiritually, and we fail to recognize the dangers of the little things. I guarantee you that David knew when Bathsheba bathed every day. And he was aware that he could look. He became drunken in his senses, and it began with a look. Beware of the drunkenness of the senses. Beware of the drunkenness of the situation. Go not in the way of evil men. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. But it is easy for a believer to become drunken to the situation. And he places himself in places where he is tempted to evil, and the longer he stays there like Lot, the more he vexes his righteous soul. The drunkenness of the senses leads to the drunkenness of the situation, which leads to the drunkenness of the soul. The soul which belongs to God becomes drunken to the danger of the roaring lion. The sobriety that is called upon is gone. There no longer is a hatred for evil, but a tolerance of evil. The tolerance of evil yields l leads to the engagement in evil. To beware of the lion is to be sober To beware of the lion is to be vigilant. And that word vigilant means to be watchful. Remember the disciples in the garden, could ye not watch with me one hour? And it was that same word. And you know, this is pure speculation, but we know that it was within hours of Peter sleeping in the garden. In fact, when Christ came, he said, What, Peter? Could you not watch with me one hour? Could it have been that if Peter had been watchful in the garden, he wouldn't have been denying by the fire? That's speculation. But I think it is it is a good thing to contemplate that Peter had failed to watch and pray. And within hours he denied that he knew Jesus. Christ. To be where the line is to be sober. To be where the line is to be vigilant. But also to beware the lion is to know who your adversary is. We read in history of spies and traitors. I watched a documentary recently about a British, uh, a British spy. who had been in Germany during World War One and after Britain won the uh Britain and the Allies won the First World War, he stayed there in the British in the German military And he was still there in World War Two, this same guy, he he received one of the highest honors that Britain can give. After World War Two, he finally came out of the cold as we as they used to say about uh spies that have been in Russia. The whole time he was a spy. He was a traitor. They did not know who he was You see, to beware the lion is to understand who we're dealing with. To know who he is. And that does not mean studying Satan. That's not what we're saying at all. But we have to understand, and Scripture tells us here who he is. We find, first of all, that the devil roars like a lion. They say that lions most often roar in the darkness, that lions don't often roar during the daytime. Well, isn't that a lot like Satan? He comes to you at night. It comes to you when other senses have been shut down. Thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. But when we fail to read the word, the darkness comes around us And Satan with that darkness comes and roars. Our defensive light has been allowed to get dim. The roaring lion comes at night. A lion's roar marks his territory. One male lion will roar to let other lions know that this is his territory. Satan walks about in this earth roaring because he's in his territory. Remember when Satan asked, or the God asked, Satan where he'd come from in the course of Job, case of Job, he said he came from walking up and down on the earth and going to and fro in it. In this realm, when we get to heaven, he won't be there But in this realm he roars because he sees this as his territory. He's there. The lion roars when he is hungry, but folks, the lion's roar cannot harm you. But the lion's roar should warn you. The rattle of a rattlesnake. Anybody ever hear a rattlesnake? I've got some Texas folks here. What do you do when you hear the rattlesnake? Well you back out. You back out. You've been warned. But folks, a lot of believers sadly hear the lions roar and they stick around. Be sober. Be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, is like a roaring lion. But also it says he he walketh about. He's not stationary. He walketh about seeking whom he may devour. To Eve Satan appeared as a serpent. To us, he appears as an angel of light. To Simon, he was the sister of wheat. To Judas, he was the invader of the heart. We read in John 13, 12, and supper being ended, the devil having now put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot to betray him. He walks about. He comes in the way that will trap you. He walks in the way that will trap me. We have to know our enemies roaring. We have to know our enemies walking. And that is part of being sober. But not only does he roar and walk, he seeks. He's looking. He is out to get the believer. And he seeks whom he may devour. No, he cannot devour the Christian. He cannot devour the believer. We are protected. But oh how he can get us dirty. Oh, how he can bloody us with the things of this world. Ephesians speaks extensively About those who are being devoured. It says in Ephesians 4. 18, their understanding is darkened. They're being past feeling. uh through lasciviousness to work all uncleanness. And again in Romans chapter one, God says, wherefore God gave them up to uncleanness. I gave them up to vile affections. In verse 28 of Romans 1, he gave them a reprobate mind. In verse 30, they are haters of God, despiteful and proud. We can see all around us those who are being devoured. Be sober. Be vigilant. Beware of the lion. In 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 11, we find that lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. See, folks, it's one thing to know what the lion does. But knowing what the lion does is not necessarily being sober and being vigilant. We have to be on guard. And that's what we find here in verse 5 of our text. Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary of the devil is a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Verse five, whom resist Steadfast in faith. We considered this in Sunday school this morning. Steadfast in faith Knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in you are in your brethren that are in the world In James 4, verse 7, submit yourselves therefore unto God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 27, neither give place to the devil. That word place, uh, I I was taught as a young teenager is essentially like a beachhead. For an army to invade, they first have to get a toehold. My dad used to say when the camel gets his nose through the door, before long will be in the living room. Okay? Those of you that have dogs, you know if they want a room, once their nose is through the door, you can't shut the door. They're gonna find their way in Don't give Satan a place. Don't let Satan get his nose in your heart and his nose in your life, his nose in your mind, because he's coming in. But rather we just resist him. Slam the door shut in his face. That word place is the same word that was used in the story of the Nativity when there was no place for them in the inn. There there wasn't a room where they could find a place. Don't give Satan a room in your inn. Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And it's that same word place. It's a reserved spot. Don't reserve a spot in your heart for Satan. Cast him thoroughly out. Don't give him a place as God has given us a place in heaven. It's also a term that refers to authority. Remember when the scribes and Pharisees were so concerned about the ministry of Christ, and they said in Roman in sorry, in John chapter 11, verse 48 If we let him, that's Jesus, if we let him alone, all will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and our nation. Well, they said if if we let Jesus continue, the Romans are going to come and take our authority away. They're going to take our place. Don't allow Satan to be an authority in your life. Remember Esau? When Esau had forsaken his birthright, we read in Hebrews twelve, verse seventeen For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected and found no place of repentance There was no repentance left for Esau. Folks, there should be no place left for Satan in my life. I don't give him a room. I don't give him a reservation. I don't give him authority. I don't give him any place. Any possibility. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. And so we find, first of all We f in this fifth in this fifth uh ninth verse of chapter five that we're to resist, but also there's something that we're to know. Knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the Lord. world. Do you ever feel like you're the only one with this temptation? Feel like nobody's having to fight the same battles you're fighting. Nobody has it no. The same temptations are accomplished in your brethren than in the world. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. Folks, you're not alone in the Bible. We are not alone in our temptations. We are not unique in our temptations. And we are not exact not without examples of victory in our temptations. We are fighting the same battles, we are fighting on the same battlefield, and we're fighting the same enemy. You know, you see if if Satan could isolate you he can devour. If Satan can isolate you, one of the one of the tactics for any army is to cut off their enemy from their command structure. It is, you know, you you've got three units against you if you can isolate one unit and fight them alone. And that is why Scripture urges us, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication. But see, if Satan can separate you from the Word of God and separate you from your time of prayer and separate you from brethren, then he can defeat you one at a time. And so that is why I believe Peter was inspired to give us this encouragement, knowing that the same afflictions The same temptations, the same battles are accomplishing your brethren that are in the world. Our brethren in heaven don't face them. They're beyond them today. And it doesn't say the unbelievers in the world, because they don't care. But the same temptations are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. Verse 10. But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus After ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. First of all, it's the God of grace. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 9, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient. You know, there are times when we feel like we're about to be overcome. There are times when I feel like you know I can't resist anymore. Well, the God of all grace, his grace is sufficient. Faithful is he who calleth you, who will also do it. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in That word sufficient is used in Matthew 25, verse 9, but the wise answered unto him, lest we have not enough. the uh wise and foolish virgins. And the wise virgins said, we can't give to you lest we have not enough. We don't have sufficient. But the wise virgins did have sufficient for their lamps. And so the grace of God is sufficient. Moreover the law entered that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. But there's more there in that fifth ver in that tenth verse. But the God of all grace who hath called us unto Eternal glory, not temporary, to eternal glory by Christ Jesus. He's called us to eternal glory. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. Whom he called, them he also justified. Whom he justified, them he also glorified There's not one step left out. It's all completed. What should we say to these things of God before us? Who shall be against us? But I would like to pause for a little bit on the second part of the verse. To read it again, it says, But the God of all grace who hath called us to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while Wow. Why don't they just let us not suffer? Right? Why why does it say that the the the God of all grace has called you to eternal glory is taking you home now and be done with it Satan's a defeated foe. Why is he allowed to walk around? Well, God is building a spiritual building. And folks, these four terms that we find here make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you These four terms all can be applied to a building. To a building. Look at this. But the God of all grace, after you've suffered a while, make you perfect. Complete the job. Finish it. A a building that's done, the trim is all painted, the windows are installed, the the rubbish has been cleaned up, the the the building construction but waste. has all been swept away. It is perfect. It is complete. This can be applied to a mortise joint or a tongue and groove. I like cabinet building. And if you know what a mortise joint is, it is a joint that actually can hold itself together without any nails, even without glue. They're typically glued, but it is a joint that is perfect, a two-piece of the board. joined together and there's not a gap. It's it's perfect. It's complete. That's what that word make you perfect means. That we have all of our spiritual parts and they all fit together that we're made in the image of Christ. Well, after we suffer a while, that will happen. We'll be made like him. And the second word is stablish. And that word stablish is a word that is like a keystone. You know what a keystone is. Uh on a on a stone arch, it it holds it all together, it establishes you. And who is the keystone? Well, we talk about Christ being the cornerstone, and we often think in our modern building is the cornerstone being the the ba base foundation stone but a cornerstone also is that is that keystone it's it's the stone on which everything else is structured stablish you Every part equally supporting the other. The stone which was set at naught of you builders is made the head of the corner, Christ declared, or Peter declared, of Christ But then that word strengthen, make you perfect, establish, and strengthen. This is kiln-dried lumber, folks. It is lumber that's no longer going to warp and twist. Oh, the lumber starts out wanting to bend. The lumber, as it dries, the different cells within the board will dry at different rates. And if you go to Home Depot and go to the back where the cheap stuff is, you'll find a cart of boards that look like rainbows. They're just twisted and turned and they sell it cheap if you can use a piece of it, but it's spoiled lumber. But here we find that after we have suffered as believers, we are strengthened. We are lumber that is well dried. There is no more warping, no more twisting, and no splitting of the board. Wow. Doesn't it describe what we're supposed to be as Christians? A straight board that is strong and true. It's not splitting and cracking, but it's useful to the master. And then that word settled. Make you perfect. Stablish, strengthen, settle you. Every building has to settle down. When a building is built, it it sometimes takes a few months or sometimes even years for the building to settle. And you'll hear a building creep and pop as it settles down to the point where it is evenly resting on the foundation. Other foundation can no man lay than that. which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. You know, and as as we go through life and we're tempted, we're just kind of bouncing around on the foundation of Christ sometimes. Until that day when we just rest, peace And the popping and the cracking and the creaking is all finished. And we're settled. So here we find that the God of all grace. That's how we got in here in the first place. For by grace he was saved through faith. Who hath called us to his eternal glory, that has called us to us, the one who is warning us about this roaring lion. He is the one. It doesn't say that we Make ourselves perfect, establish ourselves, and strengthen ourselves, but though it's the God of all grace that is doing these things, beware, because the lion doesn't want it. But the God of all grace, after that ye have suffered a while like our brethren suffer in the world. After you've suffered a while, because in order to build the building, first of all, the trees have to be cut down. You see, we're talking about a building here, but the trees have to be cut down. The ground has to be cleared. The rocks have to be removed. The foundation is dug and laid. The lumber that we talked about being straight and true has to be cut and sawn. And when the lumber is cut and sawn, in any construction site, you'll find a dumpster that is being filled with the scraps. There's been something removed in the process. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life has to be cut off before the lumber. is strengthened. Nails have to be driven, holes drilled. There will be a lot of cutting, hammering and banging and pain before the building is complete. After you have suffered a while, make you perfect, established, strengthened, and settled. And then the final verse, to him, be glory. Why is God doing this in the first place? Well, he's purifying to himself a glorious church without spot and wrinkle, that no flesh should glory in his presence. To him be glory and honor and majesty. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shall I serve. It's all to His glory To him be glory and dominion. What did we start by talking about? A roaring lion A roaring lion. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. So in conclusion, I would like to read from Revelation chapter 12, verse 9 to 11. And then one verse in Romans. Revelation 12, verse 9. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceived the whole world. He was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Now I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused him before God day and night. There's the trouble we're talking about. After you suffered a while. And they overcame him. And they overcame him. They resisted the devil. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by Jesus Christ, and by the word of his testimony, thus saith the Lord. For they loved not their lives unto death. And then the final concluding verse is this: Romans chapter 16, verse 20. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Let us stand for prayer. Our father, it is always a great grief to our heart to see a brother stumble into sin. To see uh those that we love fail to be sober, to be vigilant. To become drunk in their senses and drunk in their situation and drunk in their soul, so that the roaring lion finds an entering end and does them great harm. O God, help us to stand. Give us grace to understand what we're up against. Give us grace to align ourselves with other believers that iron may sharpen iron. Give us grace to be in thy word and grace to be in prayer. And Father, we thank you. The victory is won in Christ. Bless thy word to our hearts. Thereby is thy servant warned. And so, Father, may we be warned this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen and amen. Turn to our closing hymn number four hundred and nineteen Most fitting hymn, yield not to temptation. Number four hundred and nineteen in your blue song book, yield not to temptation. We'll sing all three stanzas. Each victory will help you some mother to win fight and fully on He will carry you through as your Savior to help you, strengthen and give you Israel. To the way you will carry you through show companions and language disdain. And true look ever to Jesus. We will carry you through as the Savior to hell. You call for strength and execute you. He is willing to wake you. He will carry you through to God given the crown faithful shall come to cast down Our strength will renew Look ever to Jesus. Will carry you through as the Savior to help you all for strengthen and keep you He is willing to wage He will carry you through please keep seated