Turn with me in your Bibles, please, this morning to the book of Psalms and the 118th Psalm, Psalm 118. And I will read all 29 verses of the Psalm. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, because his mercy endureth forever. Let Israel now say that his mercy endureth forever. Let the house of Aaron now say that his mercy endureth forever. Let them now that fear the Lord say that his mercy endureth for ever. I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear what man can do unto me. The Lord taketh my part with them that help me. Therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. All nations compass me about, but in the name of the Lord will I destroy them. They compass me about, yea, they compass me about, but in the name of the Lord will I destroy them. They compass me about like bees. They are quenched as a fire of thorn, for in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall. But the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song, and has become my salvation. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacle of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. The right hand of the Lord is exalted. The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. I shall not die but live, and declare the works of the Lord The Lord hath chastened me sore, but he hath not given me over unto death. Open unto me the gates of righteousness. I will go in unto them, and I will praise the Lord. The gate of the Lord into which the righteous shall enter. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. The stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee. Send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. God is the Lord, which has showed us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even under the horns of the altar. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee. Thou art my God, I will exalt thee. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Let us bow for prayer now as we approach God's holy and precious word this morning. Heavenly Father, now, as we come to the preaching of the Word of God, May the Spirit of God be our teacher and preacher. May the Spirit of God speak truth to our hearts. Father, open your word to our understanding and open our understanding. To receive the precious truths of our God. Oh Lord, we thank you. Jesus Christ is indeed our Messiah. He is the one who came to give his life a ransom for many. Lord, the day we celebrate his entry welcomed by the people into Jerusalem and yet crucified on Friday. O Lord, he came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. Father, may you bring many through your word to truly believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Father, we pray these things now. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to focus our attention this morning on that 27th verse of the Psalm, which reads, God is the Lord which has shewed us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. God is the Lord God created man for the purpose of worshiping him. God created man to have fellowship with him. Because of sin, that fellowship with God was broken there in the Garden of Eden. And because of sin, man no longer by his nature worships God, for his nature is corrupted. And so man by his fallen nature will worship any other quote unquote God than Jehovah God. Man will make for himself a God. Man will worship a mountain, or he will he will worship a crocodile, or he will carve some God of wood or stone for himself But here we read in our text, God is the Lord. El God is Jehovah. And that Lord, Jehovah there is the self-existent one. This is the one true God, the one who is God alone. There is but one God And that God is Jehovah. No matter what deity man may try to worship, no matter what God man may make for himself, There is but one God, and that one God is Jehovah. Look into me and be ye saved. All ye ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. The prophet cried in Isaiah 45 in verse 22. I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed when there was no strange God among you. Therefore ye are my witnesses. saith the Lord, that I am God. And so there is but one God. And this 27th verse of Psalm 118 begins with that declaration: God is Jehovah. El is the Lord. There is but one God, and he is God alone. And the certain evidence that El is Jehovah, or is that that God is the Lord, is found here in the context of the Psalm. Look down to verse five with me. I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. The first evidence That El is Jehovah, that the that God, he is the Lord, is that He is the God that answers. For there is none other God that can answer. There is none other God made of man That can answer prayer, but God alone answers. Your idol of wood, it cannot answer. If you worship some cow or some animal Can it respond to you? No, of course not. But God is the Lord, and the evidence is that He alone is the God that answers. And oh how often we think of the prophets of Baal there on the mountain in 1 Kings in chapter 18 And they cried from morning till afternoon, and they cut themselves with knives and lassets until the blood gushed out upon them. But we read there that there was no voice, nor any that answered. Neither was their voice, nor any that answered, nor that regarded. Their God didn't even pay any attention. But Jehovah God. Jehovah God is set apart from the gods of the wicked because he alone is the God that answers. And so Jehovah says unto his own beloved children, He shall call upon me. This is Psalm 91, verse 15, he shall call upon me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. And again in Jeremiah 33, call unto me and I will answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Jehovah is God El is the Lord, and the evidence of that fact is that he alone is the God who answers his people. But further evidence is found there in that fifth verse of Psalm 118. God is the Lord because he is able to deliver. Look again at the verse. I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. He sent me in a large place. And that reference to a large place there is a reference to deliverance. He sent me in a large place. In Psalm eighteen, verse nineteen, we read, He brought me forth into a large place, he delivered me, because he delighted in me. And again in Psalm thirty one, verse eight, and thou hast Hast not shut me up into the hand of mine enemies, but thou hast set my feet in a large room This reference to a large place is a reference to deliverance. Not crammed in in confinement, but in a large place. He is the God who is able to deliver his people when they're confined up into a little place and place them in a large place. Remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? Nebuchadnezzar there in Daniel 3 said, Who is that God that shall deliver out of my hand? And Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered, Our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. No other God could deliver Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, but Jehovah God, the one true God El, Jehovah, El, who is Jehovah, was able to deliver. And then again in Daniel, we find Daniel There in King Darius. And Darius, because of a foolish uh edict which he had written, which was designed to entrap Daniel Uh Darius throws Daniel into the lion's den, and he spends the night in in uh fasting, it says there actually in Daniel. And he comes to the lion's den in the morning in Daniel 6, and Darius tries, Oh, Daniel! Servant of the living God is thy God whom thou servest, continually able to deliver thee from the mount from the lions. And Daniel answers, My God has sent his angel and has shut the lion's mouth. God is able to deliver God puts his people, sets his people in a large place. Do you feel confined? I think most of us have experienced that to one degree or another in the last few weeks. We feel like we're crammed in and uh we want to say, oh, they had wings of a dove, then we might fly away and be at rest. Now, my friend, God is able to deliver. God is with us in a straight place, in a small place. And God, we read there in verse 5, I called upon the Lord in distress I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. And so God proves that He is Jehovah, that He is the Lord alone. Because he's the God that answers. God demonstrates that he is God alone, because he is the God who is able to deliver. But then also God proves in this psalm God demonstrates that he is God alone, because he demonstrates his power over all mankind. Look at verse 6 and 7 The Lord is on my side. I will not fear what man can do unto me. The Lord taketh my part with them that help me. Therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me. Really learn from these two verses. God rules it all. God rules over men. Remember Job? Satan desired to have Job, but God limited Satan's power over Job. Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan that desired to have thee that he may sift thee as wheat. But I have prayed for thee Oh, and all that we see around us and all the problems and man that may hate us, he is limited by the power of God. How do we know that El is Jehovah? The God that God is the Lord? Because he rules it all He rules over all of it. He rules the winds and the waves. They obey his will. And so he alone is God. It says there that the Lord Verse 7, taketh my part with them that help me. Therefore shall I deceive my desires upon them that hate me. Remember God's promise to Abraham? In Genesis 12 and verse 3, when we read the Abrahamic covenant, as we call it, God says to Abraham, I will bless them that bless thee. And curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed And so God right at the outset demonstrates that He indeed is Jehovah, because He's the God who answers. He's the God who delivers, and he's the God who rules over all. And so naturally, verses 8 and 9 of our Psalm, it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Every day on the news you probably see the the uh uh interviews and the the um press conferences and they're talking about we're gonna do this and we're gonna fix it this way and the princes and the governors of the world have all these plans and schemes and sometimes I'm afraid they scare people more than they help. But My friend, don't put confidence in men. Don't put confidence in princes. It is better to trust in the name of the Lord. And why is that true? Well we just saw from verses 6 and 7. He rules it all. We saw from verse 5 he's able to deliver. We saw from verse 5 that he is the God that answers. Look into me And be ye saved all the earth, for I am God, and there is none other. But then continuing There in that 27th verse we read, God is the Lord, which has showed us light, buying the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. God is the Lord. L is Jehovah, which hath showed us, or shoed us, as it is in our King James, has showed us, it's pronounced, he has showed us. Light. God has showed us light. Notice there it doesn't say that we searched out and discovered light. Notice the text does not say that we were wiser than someone else and we somehow came upon this light. We did not find this light in the light of nature. We didn't look at the trees and the skies and they pointed us to Christ. He showed us the light. Remember from our responsive reading there in John 12 this morning? That they didn't understand until afterwards the things that they were doing to Christ when he entered the city and they were crying, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord Remember from our uh our confession from the canons of Dort this morning, we talked about that sovereign electing love of God that reveals Christ to man. Well that is exactly what we find here in this second phrase of our text for this morning. God has showed us the light. We did not find it on our own. And yet in Isaiah 9 and verse 2, we read, the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them, upon them hath the light shined And the Apostle John, in the opening chapter of the Gospel of John, where he's giving this great declaration of Jesus Christ, he said there in John 1, in him was life And the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. We read in John 3 in verse 17, this is the condemnation that light is coming to the world. And men loved darkness rather than light. Why did not the scribes and the Pharisees believe on Jesus Christ? Because they didn't have the light. Ah, the light was shining, but they loved their darkness rather than light. And remember when Christ spoke to them in parables? And the disciples said, Why do you speak to them in parables? Well Christ said, I speak in parables, because to you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom. but to them it is not given. And so we find here that God has showed us the light. He has pointed it out to us. He has directed our attention to it. He has removed from our hearts and minds the distractions of this world that we might see the crucified one to be absolutely lovely. He's despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. And so why do we now behold his face in adoration and love and faith? It is because God has shined the light upon us. And so in John 8 and verse 12, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of light. And again in John 12, I am come a light unto the world, that whosoever believeth On me should not abide in darkness. While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light For this is the condemnation, as I said read before, that light has come into the world. But men love darkness rather than light. Oh my friend The light that we have is only because Jehovah God, El Jehovah, El who is the Lord, has shin the glorious light upon us. And that brings us to the third phrase of this great verse 27. God is the Lord, which has showed us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. God is the Lord. He has showed us light behind the sacrifice to the altar. We read in Genesis 22 when Abraham takes Isaac up into the mountain. to sacrifice him. That Abraham bound Isaac. He bound his son and laid him on the altar of sacrifice. When God gave instruction to Moses for the building of the furnishings of the tabernacle, God told Moses very specifically how each of the items was to be made. And the altar of sacrifice was to be five cubits long, five cubits wide. Four square, and on the horn, on the corners, thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners. thereof. We read in Exodus 27. There were to be horns made onto the corners of the altar. Why do you think that was? Well, the horns of the altar were necessary because the sacrifice was unwilling. The blood of the sacrifice will be taken and it will be put onto the horns of the altar, but those horns were there because if you bring a big ox or bullock to that altar And you lay it down upon the altar, it wants to get up, it wants to struggle, it wants to fight. And so cords will be taken and the oxen will be forced upon the altar, just as Abraham had to bind his son Isaac in order to give him as a sacrifice. But my dear friend Jesus was a willing sacrifice. And so why does it say here, bind The sacrifice with cords. Well, let us look closely at the context of the Psalm. Look back now down to verse 19. And I'm going to read down through a little bit so you get the flow of the context that leads up to this 27th verse this morning. And verse 19, open to me the gates of righteousness. I will go in to them, and I will praise the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord into which the righteous shall enter. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. The stone which the builders refuse is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Oh, you see, my friend, the context of this 27th verse. is the foretelling of this triumphal entry. There in verse 25 where it says, Save now. That word save now in This psalm in Psalm 118 and verse 25 is the same word Hosanna that we find in Matthew 21. And in Mark 11 and in John 12, when Christ entered into Jerusalem and they cut down the palm branches and laid their garments in the road and cried, Hosannah! Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. That Hosanna there in the New Testament is not a Greek word, but a Hebrew word You see, it is recorded for us because Hosanna means save now. Hosanna means send now prosperity. And we saw there in our responsive reading where they did not understand until later the things that they had done to him. The people are cutting down branches at the triumphal entry, and they're saying, Here comes our king Here comes our deliverer from Rome. This is the one we're looking for. Save now and send us prosperity. But they didn't understand that this one that was coming was not coming as a conquering king. He was coming as the suffering lamb. You see, the context The context in time was that of the Passover. It was the remembrance of the death angel passing through the land of Egypt. And as we saw last week in our message, the blood was put upon the doorpost. And the top of the door. And when God saw the blood, he passed over, and the death angel did not enter to take the firstborn. But here we find God Himself giving His own firstborn, giving the very Lamb of God, Jesus Christ Himself. And so Christ is entering into Jerusalem. But he's not entering as a conquering king. He's entering as the suffering lamb. He's entering bind the sacrifice to the altar. The Jews welcomed Christ on Palm Sunday and crucified him on Friday. The context is that of the Lamb entering into the city He was coming to give his life a ransom for many. Look down at verse 27 again, and let me intersperse it with what we saw there at the beginning. God is the Lord. El is Jehovah, the covenant God of his people. Jehovah is the covenant name of God. Which hath showed us light. Jesus Christ came to give his life and to give light to his people. Bind the sacrifice with cords. Jesus is the true Lamb. He is the Passover sacrifice Bind him even under the horns of the altar, for Christ must fulfill the law. And so he gave himself willingly But he was bound, we find. Not bound in in uh in chains until later at the at the uh when when Pilate binds him, when the Jews bind him But he was bound to the will of God. The Old Testament sacrifice had to be bound, but Christ was a willing sacrifice in John 10 Christ said, Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. I have the power to lay it down, and I have the power to take it again. But Christ The willing sacrifice was bound by his father's will. Remember in the garden When Christ prays, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will. But thy will be done. And again in Matthew 26 and verse 42, he went away a second time and prayed, O my Father, if this cup pass not away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done And so Christ is not bound by a rope to the horns of the altar, but he is bound to do this, to make this sacrifice, because of his father's will, without the shedding of blood. There is no remission of sin. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And there was no other way. The sacrifice had to be a perfect sacrifice, but there was no man that could make that sacrifice. The blood of bulls and of goats could not avail for the taking away of sin. But Jesus Christ was bound to the sacrifice of the cross because it was his Father's will There was no other way. God gave Abraham a sacrifice that did not sacrifice his son Isaac, a substitute that did not sacrifice Isaac. But there was no substitute for Christ. Yea, rather he was my substitute. And he gave us life a ransom for many. And so Christ was bound to the sacrifice. He was bound to the altar by his father's will. But Christ was also bound. To the fulfillment of the law and the removing of the curse of the law. And I made brief references earlier. But God's righteousness demanded a sacrifice God's righteous demanded punishment for sin. Sin cannot go unpunished. The law demanded Payment for sin. And the wages, the payment for sin, is death. And so Christ was bound to the sacrifice by the law. Man vainly attempts to cast off the cords of the law. We find that beautifully uh uh Given to us there in the second Psalm, the kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, let us cast their cords from us. Ah, the bands and accords that man would cast off were the bands and accords of God's holy righteous law And the chords there in Psalm 2 is the same word that we find here in Psalm 118. It is that cord that binds the sacrifice to the altar. Man would cast off God's cords, but Jesus Christ has broken the cords, the law for his people, for he has perfectly fulfilled God's law of righteousness. And so when the fullness of the time has come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoptions of sons. And in Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree. Christ was also the willing sacrifice bound to the altar in his love for his own elect. Greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends. Ah, my Messiah, who has become my elder brother, Jesus Christ, loved me so much that he gave his last life a ransom for me. I am the good shepherd, the good shepherd giveth us life for the sheep But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so we have this glorious text: bind the sacrifice to the altar. Oh, it is better to trust in God than to trust in man. It is better to trust in God than to put confidence in princes We find there in the context that David's saying, they compass me about as bees. And remember Christ said, strong bulls of Bashan have compassed me about. There's so much in this psalm that is a reflection. of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ gave himself willingly a sacrifice When he was bound and taken to Pontius Pilate, he could have called ten thousand angels, he could have called legions of angels to deliver him, but he willingly gave his life a ransom for us. And so God is the Lord, which has showed us light, bind the sacrifice with cords, even under the horns of the altar of sacrifice. As we conclude the message this morning, I want to take us back to those first few verses which we bypassed when we began. So look back up with me to verse 1 of Psalm 118. Oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, because his mercy endureth forever. That is the statement of declaration. Let Israel now say that his mercy endureth forever. Israel here is the congregation. It is the party of the elect. Verse 3, let the house of Aaron now say that his mercy endureth forever. That is, let the ministering priesthood declare that his mercy endureth forever. Verse four, let now them that fear the Lord say that his mercy endureth forever. That is let every one, the priesthood, the elect, all of God's people, let them declare that his mercy endureth forever. That is the introduction to the Psalm calling upon all groups of those that believe in Jesus Christ. Turn over with me, if you will, your Bible to 1 Peter chapter 2. And I want to show you a beautiful parallel to these first four verses of Psalm 118 in 1 Peter 2. I'll begin reading in verse 6 of 1 Peter 2. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scripture. Behold, I lay in Zion a cheap cornerstone, elect and precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head in the corner. Have you heard that before? We saw that in Psalm 118. The stone which was disallowed of ye builders The same has made the head of the corner, a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. What happened when Christ came in? Hosanna, save now, send prosperity. Crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. Oh, what a change took place in just a couple days, because rather than Christ being their conquering king, they look for He became to them a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people. that ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. And I would focus your attention there on verse 9. 1 Peter 2, verse 9, but ye are a chosen generation. Psalm 118, verse 2, let Israel now say. A royal priesthood, Psalm 118, verse 3, let Aaron now say. And holy nation, a peculiar people Psalm 118 verse 4, let now them that fear the Lord say that ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Ah, in the Old Testament We have this threefold call to praise the Lord. In the New Testament, we have the same threefold call repeated to praise the Lord. Why must we praise Him? Because He is God. God is Jehovah. God has shown us light. And the sacrifice has come bound to that sacrifice, bound with cords of love. That we might have eternal life. Oh, what a glorious Savior! What a marvelous sacrifice He has made on behalf of His people. The application that we have taken this morning is that of Christ being bound to the sacrifice. But there's another application that we can make of this passage. Bind your sacrifice with cords to the altar. Paul said, I beseech you therefore, brethren By the mercies of God that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. My friend, we are to present ourselves a willing sacrifice Bound by the grace of God, we sing that old hymn, O love that will not let me go. Bound by the grace and the love of God upon the altar. Is your life a living sacrifice to this great God? Ah, not a stone of a stumbling and offense but rather the the headstone, the cornerstone of the building of God is Jesus Christ. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. There is no other way. There is no salvation apart from this one who came to Jerusalem. riding on an assus colt, this one who was heralded on Palm Sunday and crucified on Good Friday, but then rose again on the third day. Have you trusted in Jesus Christ? Is your faith in him alone? We began by saying that man will make for himself all kinds of gods. Is your God Jehovah The God who answers, the God who is able to deliver, the God who is the true God, or is your God a God of your own making? Let us bow for prayer as we conclude our worship today. Great Heavenly Father, we thank you for your precious word. We thank you, O Lord, that your word is yea, and amen. Bless your word to the hearts of your people, we pray. Lord, we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.