Open again in your Bibles to the first Psalm. And if you Follow the bulletin. You'll notice that the text in the bulletin is actually the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5. And I had intended during the week to flip the responsive reading and the scripture reading And I failed to do so. So I hope that doesn't miss up mess up our internet people who are ready uh ready for the Beatitudes. We're going to consider the first psalm this morning. God's Word is amazing in that the most familiar passages Can often bring to us the greatest blessing. And I had started out in my preparation this week and actually contemplating this message before that point. to preach from Matthew 5, 6, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. And the message in many ways that I had Considered preaching would be a follow-on from last week's message, where we considered redeeming the time, and the first way in which we as believers redeem the time is truly panting after God. Truly hungering and thirsting for his righteousness. But we cannot consider hungering and thirsting for righteousness without the first psalm. And um if you've ever read Spurgeon's commentary on the book of Psalms, The Treasury of David, he points out that the first psalm is the prologue to all the psalms. It is a God-ordained foundation and a beginning that the Psalms are built upon. It introduces the Psalms well. Blessed. is the man that walketh not in the way and the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful And we've considered that word blessed before, and probably most of you that have been in church any amount of time understand the meaning and the import of this word. It basically means happy. or fully satisfied. And folks, that's what the world is lacking. Suicide is on the rise People are not happy. People are not satisfied. They are not content with their lot. They're not content with their life. They're not content with their loves. They're not contented by their lust. Men are not happy. Men are not blessed. If you look at the Beatitudes. The things that are listed there will not bless the unbeliever. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness. The world doesn't want that. The world hungers and thirst after lust. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the merciful. I don't want to have mercy on him. Bless you are the meek. Meekness is not considered a virtue. And yet, the child of God, his life is different. His lusts have been transformed. Rather than lusting after the things of this world, the true believer, he lusts after truth. He hungers and thirsts for righteousness, and the man who is truly happy and blessed is the man who does not walk. and the counsel of the ungodly, or stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of the scornful. Scripture says much about blessing. And interestingly, the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament scriptures. done sometime around 200 years after Christ. The Greek translation of the Old Testament scriptures uses this same word blessed in Psalm 1 for the blessed in the Beatitudes. There's about four different words that translated blessed in our scripture, but it's the same word that is used here at the beginning of Psalms and used in the Greek Old Testament. Blessed are they that put their trust in Him. Blessed is He whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people, saved by the Lord. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and callest to approach unto thee. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Blessed are they that keep thy judgments, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. Blessed are the undefiled in the way. Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the Lord. Folks, none of those things make the world happy. None of those things are the things which the unbeliever seeks after. But blessed is the man who walketh not in the counsel of the un of the ungodly. But consider this. Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth. And all these verses I'm reading where you find happy is the same word as blessed. Happy is the man whom God correcteth. You know who said that? Eliphaz the Temanite. And you know who he said it to? Righteous Job. Righteous Job. And yet Eliphaz was correct. Blessed is the man. Blessed is the man whom God correcteth. And in Psalm 94, 12 it's repeated, Blessed is the man whom thou chastisest, O Lord. Proverbs three verse twelve for whom the Lord loveth he correcteth. Hebrews twelve verses five and six My son, despise not thou the chasten of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth And scourgeth every son who receiveth. Revelation 3, 19, As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore, and repent. And so the first thing that I would like to point out about this blessed man who walks not in the council of the ungodly, or stands in the way of sinners, or sits in the seat of the scornful, God's been working on him. God has done something in this man's life. He's been chastened to the Lord. He's been brought to repentance. And indeed, he is blessing, blessed because God has not left him alone. Because you see, the greatest blessing that God can give to you is to convict you of your sins. The greatest blessing that God can give you is to arrest you on the road to Damascus. And after Saul was transformed as Paul, everything in his life went wrong. Think about it. After God saved Saul, he didn't go into Damascus as the Pharisee that everybody respected. He was led in as a blind man. He spent three days that way. Saul has to, or Paul has to escape in a basket. Saul is beaten. Paul is put in prison. Paul is shipwrecked. And finally, his head's cut off. After he accepted Christ, his world fell apart. His prestige was gone. His honor as a Pharisee was done. You see, in terms of this world, Paul lost it all. In fact, he said, What things were gained to be, those I counted lost. Yea, I count all things but lost, that I might win Christ and be found in him. But I don't believe any of us would dare to say that the Apostle Paul doesn't fit in to this first verse of Psalm 1. And so this blessed man of Psalm 1 is a man that God's been working on. And yet when God works on a man, it's not often comfortable. When God begins to remove from us the things of this world that we like, it's not comfortable. When our friends turn on us as the Pharisees turn on Paul, it's not comfortable. I don't believe Paul enjoyed any beatings. He endured them for the cause of Christ. But I don't believe he enjoyed them. I don't think Paul enjoyed being shipwrecked But while she preached some mighty messages. I don't believe that Paul enjoyed being in prison. But while he's in prison, we got what we call the prison epistles. And his ministry content continues today. Blessed is the man that is chastised before God. Because you see, there's not a one of us that will walk in the council, not that will avoid walking in the council of the ungodly until God begins to work on us. You see, the world the world has a lot of bad advice, a lot of bad counsel. The world will tell you to do anything but seek the Lord while he may be found. And Paul, the man that had been worked upon by the Spirit of God, would write to us. And you hath he quickened, Ephesians 2, verse 1, and you hath quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the counsel of the courts of this world. Paul said, you used to walk according to the course of this world. In other words, you were walking in the counsel of the ungodly. And according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, Ephesians 2. 3, among whom also we had our conversation, our counsel. Among whom we had our conversation in times past in the lust of the flesh. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherein he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved. That's the blessed man that's being talked about here in the first psalm. He doesn't walk in the counsel of the ungodly. He doesn't stand the He doesn't sit and see the scornful, and the only reason he doesn't is because God has got a hold of his heart. Because God's changed him God's taken away the desires for wickedness and replaced them with a true hunger and thirst for righteousness. And he pants after God. The world has a lot of bad advice. I've already mentioned that to you. My son, as sinners enticed, thee could sent thou not Proverbs 4, verses 14 and following. Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it. Pass away. For they sleep not, except they have done mischief. And their sleep is taken away unless they cause some to fall. But consider by contrast the blessedness of walking in Jehovah's Wa Walking like he did. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, but where are you going to walk if you're not walking in the council of the ungodly? Well this phrase that is used here in Psalm 1, this walking, is first found in the Garden of Eden. For in the garden of Eden they heard the voice of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Adam and Eve walked and talked with God in the cool the garden. They had that fellowship. They had that communion with him. And the first time we find this walking mentioned is there. And then we find in Ephesians Genesis 5. 24, and Enoch walked with God, and he was not for God's sake. And it's not just that they were walking side by side walking round, but rather there was a fellowship There was a communion there. He was hungering and thirsting. Enoch was hungering and thirsting after God. And God was meeting that thirst. For blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. And Enoch, not walking in the council of the wicked men around him, but rather walking with God. A blessed man. He knew true happiness, true contentment. How could Paul and Silas sing hymns in the prison? Because they had this kind of happiness and this kind of blessing. Genesis 6, verse 9. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation, and Noah walked with God. God wasn't making footprints in the sand beside Noah, as the poem says. But Noah, in the midst of a wicked generation, God saw the wickedness of man that was great on the earth. Everyone had gone astray. But Noah Had been worked on by God. And Noah was blessed because he wasn't walking in their counsel, he was walking with God. Genesis 17, 1. And when Abraham was 90 years old and 9, the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me. And be thou perfect. Abraham, I'm God Almighty. There's a God in this world. You don't belong to Him. I have worked upon you if you want to be happy Leave your family. If you want to be happy, leave Ur the Chaldees. If you want to be blessed, leave behind all the things this world offers, because I've got something better for you. I'll give you the land, and in thee shall all the nations be blessed. And so in Genesis 17:1, we find that Abraham walked with God. But because Abraham walked with God, and Lot also, which went with Abraham, had flocks. And that word went, talking about Lot, is the same word walked. Because Abraham followed God, others around him received the same blessing that he had received. And then we find Abraham's servant who's seeking a bride for Isaac. And in Genesis 24, verse 40, and he said unto me, The Lord, before whom I walk, he will send his angel with thee. And prosper thy way, and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred and of my father's house. And so Abraham walked with God, and Lot walking with God received blessing. And then Abraham's servant of his household, he goes to seek a bride to find Rebekah And he, the Spirit goes with him as well. The same blessing that is following Abraham now is following his servant as well. You see the picture here, folks. The godly man who doesn't walk in the council of the ungodly, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the sea of the scornful. Others around him, his own household, his own family. Receive blessing, and they too are walking in the righteous way. Because God has worked upon one, and then he works upon the next. And then Jacob, Genesis 23, verse 1. And Jacob went on his way, and the angel of God met him. That word went there is the same word walked that we find. In Psalm 1. But more than that, folks, turn over with me to Exodus 13 and verse 21. Exod thirteen and verse twenty one I'll give you a moment to find it. Exodus thirteen, verse twenty-one, And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light. and to go by day and night. And folks, that word went is the same word walked. The Lord walked with them The Lord walked with him in a pillar of fire and a pillar of cloud. He's present with his people. Blessed is the man that instead of walking in the counsel of the ungodly and standing in the way of sinners and sitting in the seat of the scornful, he's walking with God day by day. He's hungering and thirsting after righteousness. There is that fellowship. And folks, in Exodus 14, in verse 19 and verse 29, we find that the pillar went from in front of them, same word, and went behind them and stood between them. Them and their enemies. Isn't it glorious that the man who's walking not in the council of the ungodly has the protection of the Most High God? He shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. And so there's great blessing to those that walk not in the counsel of the ungodly When Moses was getting ready to lead the children of the people of Israel, he said, If thy presence go not with me, let us not go up hence. That word presence is the same word. If thy walking go not with us, let us not go up. But folks, before we move on, there's one more verse I need to share with you. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. And that word goeth forth is the same word walking. He that walks with God, bury the gospel. Shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. This same spirit, in which all these godly men that we revere in Scripture, it goes with our witness. If we indeed are walking not in the council of the ungodly. But the passage continues. that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. And it's been pointed out aptly and correctly that a man walks and then he stands, and he can't sit while he's walking There's there's a progression there. If you try to sit down in the middle of your walk, you're just gonna look silly. You end up on YouTube today or something, some video Before the man sits in the cow in the seat is scornful, he has to stop his walking. He has to stop and look. And we find Peter, who first stood at the fire of the scorners. And then he didn't physically sit down, but he joined them. He stopped and stood by the fire of those that were there to say, Crucify Him, crucify him. He stopped and stood at the fire of those who were not there because they loved Christ, but there because they hated him. And you see, the man who stops walk who starts walking in the council of the ungodly before long will be standing in the way of sinners, and it won't take long to be sits in the squeeze of the scornful. And that word scornful is the mockers, the deniers, the ones who will deny Christ. And folks, we've all seen it sadly. Where a young person started out well and seemed to be on fire for the Lord, and something happened, and they end up denying him. They end up sitting in the seat of the storm. And it begins when we stop the walk and start standing. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. nor standeth in the way of sinners. Folks, there's a lot of filth in this world that want you to stop and look. There's the internet is the great scourge against holiness and righteousness. We dare not stop and look before because before long we'll sit down. And stay awhile. But instead of walking in the council of the ungodly and standing in the way as standing in the way of sinners and sitting in the seat of the scornful, His delight, his joy, his pleasure is in the law of the Lord. I mentioned it This blessedness is seen in Paul, even though after he was saved, everything in his life went rotten. Everything of his life went wrong His entire personality as the world viewed it changed. He was no longer the persecutor. Now he's a religious nut. He can't stop talking about this Jesus. Totally transformed. He's a new creature. Well, his delight was now in the law of the Lord. And folks, everything in his life changed when he was saved except one. The law of the Lord never changed. You see, his circumstances were different. Rather than eating fine food, he's getting prison scraps. Rather than being revered, he's reviled Rather than being esteemed, he's estranged. But the thing that didn't change in his life was the law of the Lord. Folks, if you're delighting in the things of this world, they're going to change. If you're delighting in your job, you'll get laid off If you're delighting in your house, it'll burn down. If you're delighting in your vehicle, it'll get hit. If you're delighting in your friends, they'll leave you. But indeed, the man who delights in the law of the Lord is blessed and happy because it never changes. It's forever settled in heaven. There's a firm foundation there. And so, his delight is in the law of the Lord. Psalm 112, verse 1: Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. Let me read that one twice. Blessed is the man, or praise the Lord. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord and delighteth greatly in his commandments. That's a hunger and thirst, folks. Hear instruction to be wise and refuse it not. Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the post of my doors. Proverbs 8, 33 and 34. Proverbs 8. 32. Now therefore, hearken to me, O ye children, for blessed are they that keep my ways. Psalm 94, 12, bless is the man whom thou chastest, O Lord, and teachest out of thy law. We talked about the chastening before, but the chastening is followed by teaching out of thy law. Rather than walking in the counsel of the ungodly. Psalm 119, verses 1 through 3. Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. It's the same walk there again. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with their whole heart. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. And so, indeed, blessed are they that do not stand in the way of sinners. Blessed are they that do not sit in the seat of the scornful. And verse 3 gives us a great promise. They shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. That bringeth forth his fruit in a season, his leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. There's three elements here to this promised blessing. Of this godly man. First of all, permanence or stability. Permanence or stability. It's like a tree planted by the rivers of water. You know what? The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. The Lord provides for me. There's stability there. There is a permanence. Paul lost everything. But there's a stability there. There's a permanence. The sheep walking the way in the way of the shepherd do not want. He maketh them to lie down in green plast pastures. This verse was in Psalm ninety-two that we sang as our opening psalm, the last few verses, Psalm ninety-two, thirteen, and fourteen. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. They shall be fat and flourish. I've got the fat part nailed down. But oh God, may I still bear fruit in old age. May I still flourish. The fat's not talking about the belly, it's it's talking about a different kind of fat. But oh may we not rust out. May our candle not grow dim with age. May we preach the gospel until our final day on earth. You see, that promise is the promise to those that don't walk in the counsel of the ungodly or stand in the way of sinners or see it and see the the scorn set to see the scornful. Like a tree planted by the rivers, there is a permanence or stability. They bring forth fruit. And the second area, they have a permanence and they have a posterity or a progenity. They bring forth fruit. He bringeth forth his fruit in his season. This leaf also shall not wither. And this element of blessing, of fruitfulness. is seen in the very beginning of God's creation. In Genesis, when God created man and earth, man and woman, Adam and Eve, God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful. And Multiply. And again in Genesis 9, when Noah and his sons came out of the ark, God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. That blessed their Talking of Adam and Eve and of Noah is this same blessedness we find in Psalm 1. And then again, Genesis 17 and verse 20 God blessed Ishmael, even though he wasn't the son of the covenant. I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and will multiply him exceedingly. And then in Genesis 24, they blessed Rebekah and said, Be thou fruitful, the mother of a thousand of millions. You see, the blessing of God is fruitfulness. God blesses us with physical children. And God blesses us with spiritual children. And God blesses us with a multitude of fruit. But it all begins with not walking in the counsel of the ungodly and standing in the way of sinners and sitting in the seat of the scornful. But above all, we find in this promise of posterity, the promise of those that come behind us, the promise of God to Abraham of Messiah. In thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed. And so God has promised permanence and posterity. But God has also promised Success. Prosperity. And I don't think any of you would think I'm going to go into the prosperity gospel here. But God has promised prosperity, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. But I know our time's getting away, but we need to consider this word prosper. What does it mean? What is it talking about here? The blessed will prosper. Psalm 128, verses 1 and 2. Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways, for thou shalt eat the fruit of thine own hands. Happy shalt thou be, and that happy is the same word blessed. Jeremiah provides a beautiful parallel to Psalm 1 and Jeremiah 17, 8. For they shall be as a tree planted by the waters, that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and they shall not see when heat cometh, but her root leaf shall be green And so what does the Bible mean when it says they shall prosper? What is the prosperity of this blessed man? Well, again, we need to compare scripture with scripture and find out what God's talking about when he says our way will prosper, because I don't think any of us are getting rich. And I don't really think any of us desire the wealth of this world. But what is the prosperity of this godly man? Well again, you take the word and you see where that word is used in Scripture and it begins to enlighten it. Isaiah 53:10. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief When he shall make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. That's the prosperity that's being talked about here. It's not a prosperity in the things of this world. It's not a prosperity in piling up wealth. It's a prosperity of reward in heaven It's a prosperity of righteous gain. You see, because of Christ's suffering, it prospered in his hand. I'm the prosperity of the cross of Christ. I was what he was purchasing. I'm the wealth that he came to seek. And you look at scripture. The parable of the treasure hidden the field, which is the kingdom of God, the parable of the great pearl All those things are talking about a great treasure, but none of them are earthly treasures. It's always spiritual treasure. And so the man that does not walk in the council of the ungodly nor stand in the way of sinners or sit to see the scornful, he'll be prosperous. For great is thy reward in heaven. There's great prosperity in this lifestyle. No, you're not going to have a mansion on a hill here. But there's prosperity And it says there, again, looking at Isaiah 53, 10, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him The Lord was delighted in this. The Jews cried, Crucify Him, crucify him, but God accomplished that which he purposed. The prosperity of Psalm 1 is inseparable from the will of God. When Christ uh we read in Psalm 76, verses ten nine and ten, when God arose to judgment to save the meek of the earth. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee. The remainder of wrath shall he not restrain. The wrath of God, think about Pharaoh. Pharaoh greatly abused the people of God, but it was all to their blessing. And so the prosperity that is spoken of here is the same prosperity. Where God says, So shall my word be, that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and prosper in the thing whereunto I send it. It's the same prosperity that we find here in Psalm 1. The gospel that goes forth, it will prosper. And then again in Isaiah 54, no weapon is formed against thee shall prosper. This same prosperity is used in our defense. And so, in Hebrew, we read of the saints of old. They were stoned, they were sundered, sold asunder, they were tempted, they were slain. With a sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goat sins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves That doesn't sound like prosperous people. But folks, they were prosperous. They remembered the work of God. We talk of them today. Their prosperity continues. But you see, it begins with a man who's been worked on by the Spirit of God. God. A man whose lust for the world has been changed into a hunger and thirst after righteousness, his desire of the things of the world has been replaced within his law doth he meditate day and night. He's a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth his fruit. And whatsoever he does, all of his labors, they prosper. Cup of cold water is not forgotten. But the ungodly are not so The man on whom God has not worked, the man that God has left to go in his own way, not so the wicked. He is like the chaff which the wind drives away. My wife's cat gets tremendously excited and quivers on the back of the sofa watching leaves blow across the yard Most excitement she ever gets. The wicked are like the chaff, which the wind drives away. Boy, we we rake them up and more blow across the yard and we burn them when we can. We bag them up and take 'em to the dump. No permanence there. The leaf flowing across the backyard is not green. It's wither. Not so, not so, the ungodly. They're like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment. Where are we saying our prosperity is? Before the throne of God. But the ungodly, they can't even stand there. We're there to receive our reward. There's a crown of righteousness laid up for us there. But they can't stand before this judgment. You see the beautiful parallel here. Or sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way. Of the righteous. That's the greatest blessing of all. You see, if I am not walking in the council of the ungodly, God knows the way I'm walking in. And why is it that God knows the way I'm walking in? Because I'm walking with Him. Remember back where we began with Noah and with Adam and Eve and with Enoch and all those that we saw walking with God. The Lord knoweth the way of the unrighteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. One final thought and we'll close. Matthew Henry, the old commentary. I was reading Matthew Henry on Genesis 120 and 128. Uh 120 is where God blessed the fish of the sea and said be fruitful and multiply. And 28 is where he blessed Adam and Eve and told them to be fruitful and multiply. And this is what Adam Clark said. Life is a wasting thing. Beautiful phrase. Life is a wasting thing. That's the old Middle English. It's it's wasting away, it's declining. Life is a wasting thing. Its strength is not the strength of stones Its candle will burn out, if it will not first be blown out. And therefore the wise Creator not only made the individuals, but provided for the propagation of the several kinds of God blessed them saying, Be fruitful and multiply. God will bless his own works. And not for the sake of them And what does he and not forsake not God will bless his own works and not forsake them. And what he does shall be a perpetuity. The power of God's providence preserves all things, as at the first his creating power produced them. Fruitfulness Is the effect of God's blessing and must be ascribed to it. That's ascribed to his blessing. The multiplying of the fish and the fowls from year to year is still the fruit of this blessing. Well, let us give to God the glory of his continuance of these creat of his creatures to this day for the benefit of man. I don't know if you call All that. But it's a glorious statement. It's all about the glory of God. And so indeed, blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly. Blessed, happy, satisfied in always. is the man that God's worked upon, changed his lust to a hunger and thirst after righteousness, made him fruitful and prosperity in eternity. Let's just stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the marvelous truth of thy word. We thank you that it is new every morning, that old passages can bring new blessing and new encouragement to us. Father, we thank you that you've chosen the foolishness of preaching. Father, we thank you for the great truth that Moses was not eloquent, and Paul came not with eloquence in his speech. Father, your word is not bound by the bumbling tongue of the preacher, but rather your word is expedited by the work of the Spirit. And to this day, may you bless your word to the hearts of your people. In Jesus' name, Amen.