Open your Bibles with me to the Gospel of Matthew and the fifth chapter. And I think your bulletin probably says I'm going to read 1 through 16. I think we'll actually stop at verse 12 for the sake of time this morning. But Matthew chapter 5, and I'll begin reading in verse 1, and you will find it a very familiar passage. Probably many of you, as soon as you hear Matthew 5, your mind goes to the Beatitudes. Matthew 5 and verse 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for this precious book that is before us. This is indeed the very Word of God. We thank you that it has been preserved to this day. And yea, Lord, you have promised that not one jot or one tittle shall perish from the law till all be fulfilled. Bless thy truth to us this morning Father, may we have ears to hear. May we not look at our brethren, but look at ourselves as we consider thy word this day And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is that third verse: Blessed are the poor in spirit. for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And that idea of poverty of spirit, or bankruptness of spirit, is the matter of humility. It is the matter of our own self-view. The world says much about self-esteem. And the world tells us that you don't want to break the will of a child because they'll have low self-esteem. The Word of God tells us that the will of the child must be broken For the will of the child comes from this world, and it comes as a part of the fall. The will of the child is inherited from Adam. And the will of the child must be submitted to the will of God. And so this verse Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven, deals with the matter of our own self-view or our own humility before God and before our brethren. It has been said that there are two things that are too dangerous to pray for. One is humility, and the other is patience. Be careful of praying for patience because the trial of your faith worketh patience. Be careful of praying for humility because God will lay us low when we do. And yet, brethren, friends, oh how we need patience. And oh how we need humility. And so, though these things may be painful in their process and painful to attain, they are precious to the soul. And they are part of God's conforming us to the image of Christ. For Christ humbled himself and became obedient. Obedient to the death, even the death of the cross. And salvation is the sinner humbling himself before God. God, I'm a sinner, and become obedient unto death, Lord, I die to myself. that I might live in Christ. Blessed are the poor in spirit. We won't spend a lot of time on that word because I'm sure it's familiar to most of you. Its basic meaning is happy or supremely blessed. Blessed above measure. It's interesting that this third verse of Matthew 5 is the first time we find this word in the New Testament. And I love to take a word and just see how many times it's used and how it's used. This word is used fifty times in the New Testament. I won't read them all, but just consider very quickly with me this Blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they hear. Blessed art thou Simon Barjonh, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee. Blessed are they which hear the word of God and keep it Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. If ye know these things, happy are ye if you do them Blessed are they that have not seen and yet believed. It is more blessed to give than to receive. Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, whose transgressions, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute iniquity. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried or receive a crown of life. Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of these prophecies, and keep those things which are written therein. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, the spirit, uh the spirit that they may rest from their labors and their works do follow them. Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of this book. Blessed Supremely happy, supremely blessed, receiving of the goodness of God. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. I would submit to you first of all. That the poor in spirit are blessed because they have an inseparable relationship that is right with God. The poor in spirit are blessed because their relationship with God is conformed to God Himself. You see, humility is foundational to the law of God. Both tables of the law, the first table of the law dealing with our relationship to God, and the second table of the law dealing with our relationship with men, are founded on humility. Without humility, we will not be in obedience to the law of God. In fact, you notice that this is the first of the Beatitudes. The first one is blessed are the poor in spirit, because it is foundational all. Consider this. In Malachi 6, verses 6 through 8, we find these words. Wherewith shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams or ten thousand of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body, for the sins of my soul He has showed thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly And to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. And I would submit to you that that eighth verse Do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with thy God. That's the second table of the Ten Commandments. To love thy neighbor as thyself, not to covet, not to steal. And so we find in the Old Testament that this foundational principle of humility, and blessed are the poor in spirit because they get it. Blessed are the poor in spirit, because they realize God is righteous. I am sinful. And I must come to Him. And then we come to the New Testament, and in Matthew 22, we find a lawyer trying to tempt and test Christ. And we find in Matthew 22, starting in verse 36, Master, which is the great commandment of the law. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself On these two commandments hang the all the law and the prophets. You see, loving the Lord God with all your heart, soul, and mind excludes arrogance and pride. When we come before God, we can't come before Him with pride. Because He is holy and we're unholy. He is righteous and we're unrighteous. He is supreme and we are subservient. He is sovereign and we are always changing. And so humility before God. But loving your neighbor as yourself also excludes pride. You can't love your neighbor and think, oh, but I have so much Better than he is. I'm so much smarter than she is. I'm so much this than that one is. And so, first of all, we find that blessed are the poor in spirit, because they are rightly related to God. And if you are full of pride, you are not rightly related to God. And until your pride is gone, you cannot be rightly related to God. Indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven For the relationship with God is right. But secondly, the poor in spirit are blessed because God giveth grace to the humble. They're blessed because they're recipients of grace. Folks, you will not be humble unless God gives you grace to be humble. You will be full of yourself, as they say, or you will be full of Christ. But you can't be full of yourself and be full of Christ at the same time. And so the poor in spirit are blessed because God gives them grace. And here I turn to James chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, the Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? That's the spirit of the old man. It's the spirit of the world. The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. Verse 6 of James 4. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Oh, the poor in spirit are blessed. Because their poverty of spirit is evidence that they are recipients of marvelous grace. 1 Peter 5 and verse 5, likewise, you younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. And then again in Psalm 138 and verse 6. Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. You see, folks, let's put it right where it is. Pride is sin. Pride is sin. Psalm one o one, verse five Whoso privilegh his neighbor, why will we slander our neighbor? Because we think we're better than they are. Whoso privilegh his neighbor, him will I cut off. Him that has a high look and a proud heart will not I suffer God says, him that has a high look and a proud heart. I'm not going to suffer him. I'm not going to tolerate him. But blessed are the poor in spirit, because they've escaped this. God gives more grace. And then again in Proverbs 6, verses 16 and 17. These six things doth the Lord Hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed Innocent blood. Blood. Blessed are the poor in spirit, because they have been recipient of grace. And oh my friend, if you find your heart filled with pride, plead for grace. Because God resented the humble. Indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven, because more grace has been given them. Number three. The poor in spirit are blessed because humility is the spirit of repentance. Humility is the very spirit of repentance. Remember the publican and the Pharisee in Luke chapter 18? In Luke 18 and verse 11, the Pharisees stood and prayed with thus within himself: God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust adulterers. Or even as this publican, I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Oh, how stuffed shirt he is, as they say. How impressed he is with his own righteousness. Look at the wonderful things I've done. Verse 13. And the publican standing afar off. Would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And then Christ gives the interpretation of the parable in verse 14. I tell you. Christ says, listen to me. I tell you that this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, but he that humbles himself shall be exalted. Humility is the essence of repentance. You see, when I come before God and repent, I'm telling God that I have a sin problem that I cannot take care of myself. I'm telling God that I am not big enough. I am not strong enough. I am not smart enough. I am not spiritual enough. I am not able to deal with my sin. God, I come before you confessing that I've messed up everything. And I have no excuse. I simply plead mercy. Blessed are the poor in spirit, because humility is the essence of repentance. Where there is pride, there is not repentance. You cannot separate repentance from humility. In Psalm 10, verse 4, the wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God. Let me read that again. Think about this. The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God. God is not at all in his thoughts. Why does the wicked not seek God? Because I don't need him. Why do the wicked not seek God? Because I'm pretty good. Why do the wicked not seek God? Because I'm better than everyone else around me. Why do the wicked not seek God? Because they think they can take care of their sin for themselves. But repentance is being said, God, I can't take care of this myself And we read there, shall I give my firstborn son as an offering in Micah 6. Shall I give tithes? Shall I bring sacrifices? No. Walk humbly with thy God. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves. and pray. And the scriptures full of examples. Consider Job and Job forty verses four and six. Behold I am vile What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. Wherefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job understood that he had no righteous of his own. He humbled himself before God. David, Psalm fifty-one, the sacrifice of God or a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O Lord, thou wilt not despise. Psalm fifty-one verse seventeen. And then Paul, though I might have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinks that he hath whereof he might have in the flesh, I the more. But then Romans 3, where is boasting? It is excluded. And Romans 7, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? The spirit of pride and the spirit of God do not dwell in the same body. If the spirit of pride dwells, the spirit of God is absent. Proverbs 3 verse 4, a high look and a proud heart and the ploughing of the wicked is sin. But Proverbs 8. 13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride, and arrogance. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride, and arrogance. We stop at evil sometimes, but pride and arrogance, hating those, is the fear of the Lord And so indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven, because God has granted them repentance. The poor in the spirit, poor in spirit, have escaped the sin pit of pride. Number four. The poor in spirit are blessed because their trust is in the Lord. The Spirit of God are blessed because they know they can't do it. They know they can't manage it. They know they can't achieve it. They just simply trust in the Lord, who is sufficient for these things. Remember the rich fool in Luke 12, starting in verse 16, if you're following along, Luke 12, 16, and he spake a parable unto them, saying, the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow all my fruits. What am I going to do about this? But see, the child of God says, Lord, what should I do about this? The man who thinks he's got it jumps right in to fix it. The man who understands who to use Brother Vincent's phrase, God's got this, says, okay, Lord, I've got a problem here. What do we do about it? Lord, you direct my step, for the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delighteth in his way. Lord, there's a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the way is that way so the ways of death Lord, what am I going to do about this? Lord, direct my day. He had no thought that his riches came from God. He continues in Luke 12 and verse 18. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods And I will say unto my soul, so thou hast many goods live for many years, take that ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool. This night shall thy soul be required of thee. Then shall whose those things be, whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided? You see, the poor in spirit have learned to trust in God. 1 Timothy 16, verse 17, charge them that are rich in the world that they be not high-minded. Does it not think that they accumulated this stuff by themselves? Does they didn't accumulate this because they were smarter or because they whatever It's of the Lord. The Lord has done this. Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded nor trust in the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God. who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. And so indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven, because they have placed all their trust in God. Number five, the poor in spirit are blessed because they have a realistic view of themselves. They have a realistic self-view. They understand how rotten they really are. They understand how wicked they are of themselves. Paul said, if any man had where to boast, I the more. But his testimony was, Oh wretched man that I am, who should deliver me from the body of this dead? David, the great psalmist, said, Behold, I was shaped in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Have you ever met a proud person whose reality lived up to their pride? Have you ever met a proud person who was really what they thought they were? So many times the proud person's failings are so glaringly evident. And everybody else sees it, but certainly they don't. Matthew 7, go ahead and turn over there, you're close by. Matthew 7 is a fascinating passage It is often misused and misapplied, and all kinds of contorted interpretations are tried to shove into it. But let's consider Matthew 5, verse 1. Sorry, Matthew 7, verse 1. Judge not that ye be not judged. Boy, don't the wicked love to pull that verse out. Don't judge me. Well, it doesn't say don't judge. There is a place for judgment were to be discerners of good and evil. But consider what it says to the believer: judge not that ye be not judged, for with the judgment ye judge Ye shall be judged. In other words, if you're going to be a judge, you better not be a hypocrite. You see, the best judge of a brother's sin is a humble brother. Who says, I don't know it all, and I have not attained righteousness to perfection. But my brother, I want to help us both grow in grace. That's godly judgment. For what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with the same measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. Why beholdest thou the moat in thy brother's eye, but considereth not the beam in thine own? You know, most of the most judgmental people in church Are the biggest hypocrites of church. Most of the ones who always can point out their brothers' failings are looking at moats in their brother's eyes and failing to see the beam in their own. And I would point out to you that verse um three is not talking about judging the world. Notice what it says. Why beholdest thou thy moat in thy brother's eye? It's talking within the confines of church. When we're talking about the world, it's a little bit different situation in judgment. But this is talking about your brother's eye. Verse 4, or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat out of thine eye. And behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's eye You know what, the poor in spirit have a realistic view of themselves. Naught have I gotten but what I received. Grace hath bestowed it since I believed. Boasting excluded, pride I abase. I'm only a sinner saved by grace. You see, the humble man has reached a realistic view of himself Lord, I'm just a sinner trying to help other sinners grow in grace. Lord, help me to get rid of the beam in my own eye so that I might be able to help my brother with his moat. The poor in spirit have a realistic view of themselves. A proud man cannot have a realistic view of himself. In fact, in Obadiah chapter 1, verse 3, the first part of the verse. The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee. Thou that dwellest in the cleft of the rock, whose habitation is high, that saith in his heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground? Your pride has deceived you. A proud man will always consider himself to be better than he actually is. The pride of man will always distort one's own self-perception Pride is based on a sinful misrepresentation of myself. Let me say that again. Pride is based on a sinful misrepresentation of myself Paul warned Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 3, for men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous boasters. Proud. But indeed, blessed are the poor in spirit, because by the grace of God they've been given a realistic self-view. The poor in spirit realize I'm just a sinner, Lord. Help me to help other sinners. And so they have a realistic view of themselves. To review briefly. They're blessed because they have a right relationship with God. They're blessed because God giveth them more grace. They're blessed because humility is the spirit of repentance. They're blessed because they trust in the Lord. And they're blessed because they have a realistic self-view. Put now number six. Blessed are the poor in spirit, because God dwells with the humble God dwells with the humble. Isaiah 57, verse 15. For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, Whose name is holy, I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to receive, revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite one. God says in Isaiah 57, verse 15, he dwells with the contrite and humble in the humble I've already said that the spirit of pride and the spirit of God don't dwell in the same body. But for those that are poor in spirit, God dwells with them. Psalm 138, verse 6, Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Proverbs 16, verse 5. But everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Though hand joint in hand, he shall not be unpunished. And so God dwells with this poor in spirit. But there's a bonus There's a bonus to that. The Word of God teaches that the sport the poor and spirit have a lot of friends. God dwells with them, and they have a lot of friends. Proverbs 13, verse 10. Only by pride cometh contention. But with the well advised his wisdom. Proverbs twenty-eight, verse fifteen He that hath He that is proud of heart stirreth up strife. But he that putth his trust in the Lord shall be made fat. And it's not talking about this kind of thing. And so they are blessed because God dwells with the humble. Number seven, the poor in spirit are blessed because their prayers are heard. The poor in spirit are blessed because God hears the prayers of the poor in spirit. In 2 Kings 22, we find Judah has sinned. And the book of the law is found and is brought to Josiah. And the book of the law prescribes judgment against Judah. Judah. And Josiah goes before the Lord and he tears his garment and he lays himself before God in humility. Lord, we have sinned. Lord, we deserve every one of your judgments. But O God, be merciful. And in 2 Kings 22 and verse 19 we find this. God says, because thine heart was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the Lord When thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast rent thy clothes and wept before me. I also have heard thee, saith the Lord. Because you humbled yourself, God says, I've heard you. And I've I will forgive. Psalm 66, verse 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Proverbs 15, verse 29: The Lord is far from the wicked, but he heareth the prayers of the righteous. Number eight. The poor in spirit are blessed because God will exalt them. Luke 1, verse 52. He hath put down the mighty from their seats. and exalted them of low degree. Luke 14, verse 11, For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted Proverbs 29, verse 23, a man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. James 10, verse 11, James 4, verse 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord And he will lift you up. Humble therefore yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. 1 Peter 5, verse 6. But the most glorious example of God exalting the humble is found in Mary, the Virgin Mary in Luke 1, verse 46. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord. And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior, for he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaid. For behold, from henceforth all nations shall call me blessed Did you ever hear Mary? Know who she is? Well, she was from a wealthy family, so she had a big name, right? Well, she accomplished great things, so we all remember her. She was very, very wise. No, we remember her. Because God exalted the lowly. God has regarded the low estate of thy high maiden. Indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Because God will exalt the poor in spirit. Number nine, hang on, we're almost done. Number nine. The poor in spirit are blessed because they are remembered with honor. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven, because they remembered with honor. Remember the Gentile centurion who had a servant that was sick? And he came to Christ and he said, Jesus, my servant, have mercy on thou son of David, have mercy on my servant. And Jesus starts to go to his house and he says, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't come to my house. I'm not worthy, he says in Matthew 8, verse 8, to send your answer and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my house, my roof. I'm a Gentile sinner. And I recognize that you're the Messiah, you're the Son of David. I'm not worthy that you should come into my house. When Jesus heard it, he marveled and said unto them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great a faith. No, not in Israel. He was remembered well because he was humble. And then again, the Gentile woman of Canaan. In Matthew 15, starting in verse 22, and behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed. But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she crieth after us. But he answered and said, I am not sent unto the lost sheep. Sorry. But he answered and said, I am not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. He recognized, I got a problem with it, I can't take care of. Lord, help me. But he answered and said unto her, It is not meat to take the children's bread and cast it on the dogs. And she said, How dare you say something like that to me? You just offended me. No treated her. And she said, Truth, Lord. Truth, Lord. It's not meat to take the children right to take the children's meat and give it to dogs. You're right. And I'm a sinful Gentile dog. Truth, Lord. Yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall for the master's table Oh Lord, you're right. You can't take the meat for the children, but there's gotta be some scraps. There's gotta be something left for me, oh Lord Then Jesus said unto the woman, unto her, O woman, Great is thy faith, be it unto thee, even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. Blessed are the poor in spirit, because they are remembered well. They're remembered recorded in the Word of God. And indeed, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The poor in spirit are blessed. Because theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And all these things we've talked about, a right relationship with God, God giving more grace, repentance. Trusting in the Lord, having a realistic self-view, God dwelled within them, prayers being heard, God exalting them, and their name being written in the Lamb's Book of Life, they remembered. These are all things that are reflections of what? The kingdom of heaven. And you take one away, and the kingdom of heaven is gone with it. God doesn't hear the prayers of the ungodly. God resisteth the proud. The man that trusts himself cannot be saved. Except he repent, he shall all likewise perish. Every one of these things that we've talked about are an exclusion from the kingdom of heaven. But blessed are the forward spirit, for these things we've considered in the Word of God are reflections. of the kingdom of heaven. And so indeed it is true, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Psalm 149, verse 4, is a beautiful verse. For the Lord taketh pleasure in his people. He will beautify the meek with salvation. Ah, here is a proud, wicked, ugly sinner that nobody likes. His own dog will bite him. He's just a nasty, proud individual, and no one wants to be around him. But the Spirit of God arrests his soul And he humbly repents before God. And his life is transformed into something it could never be of himself. His pride is gone. And he becomes a humble child of God. For the Lord taketh pleasure in his people. He will beautify the meek with salvation. Isaiah 29, verse 19, The meek also shall increase in their joy in the Lord, and the poor among them shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. And we'll conclude with this verse, Isaiah 66, verse 2. For all those things hath mine hand made, and all those things have been, saith the Lord. But to this man will I look, even unto him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word. Oh, may God make us indeed poor in spirit. For blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom. Oh to heaven. Let us stand for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that though we are sinners Vile and unworthy before you, filled with our pride, filled with our self. Yet, Lord, you have replaced our own wicked selves with the Spirit of God Lord, drive from us the last vestiges of our own sinful self-image, and make us in the image of Christ we pray. Bless thy word to our hearts. O Lord, may we not be, may we not look into the perfect law of the liberty and forget what manner of men we are. But O Lord, may we be transformed and made like Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.