In your Bibles to Psalm 33 again, the passage which we read the first portion of for our responsive reading. And we concluded with verse 12 of that psalm, and I want to pick up with verse 12 and read through the end of the psalm for our scripture reading this morning. Psalm 33, verse 12. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon the inhabitants of the earth He fashioned their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. There is no king saved by a multitude of an host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy, to deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine. Our soul waiteth for the Lord, for he is our help and our shield. For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we hope in thee. Let us bow for prayer this morning. Gracious Father, now as we look into your word, Father, may your word reach our hearts. May it go beyond our intellect into our souls. May we not this morning simply have our ears tickled But Father, may you prick us to the very soul, to the innermost man. May we rejoice In the great privilege you have given us to be in this God-blessed nation. And yet, Lord, may we truly say in God we trust. Not in man, not in our documents, not in our institutions, but in Christ alone. Bless your people this day, we pray, in Jesus' name Amen. Well, we rejoice in this nation that God has given us, and truly we as Americans, we as the United States of America have been blessed second only to the nation of Israel itself. By way of introduction to this psalm this morning, I want to consider our heritage. How our nation was established, how it came about. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Blessed is the people, the nation. Who Elohim is their Jehovah? The creeds of our nation clearly declare that we are one nation under God. And when those creeds were written, we were indeed one nation under God. I don't think we can say that about our nation as we stand today. When the pilgrims came to this continent, their purpose was not to find better farmland. Their purpose was not because they thought there was gold in them, their hills. The pilgrims came to this continent, and their purpose was to find a place where they could worship God according to their conscience. Where they could be free from being told by the state what they were to worship, how much tithe they were to give. They came here because they wanted to be pure to God. And the beginning of the Mayflower Compact, which they wrote after finding land and yet still on a ship, begins this way. In the name of God, amen. We whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign Lord King James, by the grace of God of Great Britain, France and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, etc. having undertaken for the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith, and the honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony In the northern parts of Virginia. Do you see there what their purpose was? For the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith That was their purpose. That's why they came. And of course we know their history. How they had fled to Holland And there they still could not find the liberty that they sought. And there they found their children being influenced by a pagan culture. And they said, We have to get out of here. We have to find a place where we can worship. And then the Declaration of Independence credits the source of our rights and freedoms to the Creator God. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal. That they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Where did the writers of the Declaration of Independence credit the source of our rights? They're endowed by their Creator. It says nothing of Muhammad or Buddha or Confucius or Baal or any other God you may want to try to insert there. There is one creator, God. And then the Constitution of the United States. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof Or abridging the freedom of speech or the press or the right of the people to peacefully assemble and to petition their government for redress of grievances. Congress shall do nothing to prohibit the free exercise of religion. And I would say to you that having prayer in a public school is an exercise of religion. And it should be a free exercise of religion, but that has been taken away from us. In God We Trust was first added to the U. S. coins in 1864, and only a generation ago it was added to our paper currency. The Star Spangled Banner. If you have your sheet there in front of you, you'll find the fourth verse, which is rarely sung, but I deliberately wanted us to sing the fourth verse of the Star Spangled Banner. Oh, thus be it ever when free men shall stand between their loved homes and the war's desolation. Blessed with victory and peace, may the heaven rescue lands. Praise the power that has made and preserved it a nation. You see what Francis Scott Key was saying there. It is the power of heaven that has made us a nation and has preserved us to be so. Francis Scott Key was an ardent believer. He was a lawyer. He was a Sunday school teacher. He wrote At least fifteen hymns that I've been able to to find in doing some searching All three of the hymns we're singing the day, the songs we're singing the day, were written by Francis Scott Key. Francis Scott Ch was one of the editors and the compilers of the Episcopal Hymnal, the hymnal of the Protestant Episcopal Church. Now, today our national anthem is under attack because of the third verse. But this man was a man of God. He was a godly man. If you look again at your sheet, to the hymn we're going to sing at the close of the service, before the Lord we bow. And look at the second verse. Of that hymn. The nation thou hast blessed may well declare, uh sorry, may well thy love declare, from foes and fears at rest. protected by thy care. For this fair land, for this bright day, our thanks we pay. Gifts of thy hand Now, this hymn, Before the Lord We Bow, was written by Francis Scott Key for the celebration of July 4th in 1834. You see the significance there. 1834 as a celebration of the Declaration of Independence. He writes another hymn, and he acknowledges that God is our source. If you look at the fourth verse. Earth, hear thy Maker's voice, thy great Redeemer own. Believe, obey, rejoice. And worship him alone. Cast down thy pride, thy sin deplore, and bow before the crucified. And then if you look at the hymn we sang before the message, Lord with glowing hearts, in the first verse, Lord with glowing hearts, I'd praise thee for the bliss thy love bestows. For thy pardoning grace that saves me, and the peace that from it flows. Help, O God, my weak endeavor, this poor soul to rapture raise. Thou must light the flame or never Can my love be warmed to praise? That's the heritage of our nation. That is where we came from And I won't read the whole hymn, but you have the words there. Consider what Francis Scott Key was. These were the men This was the heart of the men at the founding of our nation. And then, of course, I'm sure most of you have heard of Alexis De Tocqueville. He was a French philosopher who traveled the United States in the 1830s. And let me read for you. I know it's a long introduction. We're heading to Psalm 33. But let me read his assessment of America in the 1830s. He said, upon my arrival in the United States, the religious aspect of the country was the first thing that struck my attention. And the longer I stayed there, the more I perceived that the great uh perceived the great political consequences revol resulting from this new state of things In other words, he said, I realized the great political consequences of a people who were following God, and of a nation that was based on the Word of God. I do not know whether all Americans have a sincere faith in their religion, for who can search the heart, the human heart, but I am certain that they hold it to be indispensable to the maintenance of Republican institutions. They hold their faith to be indispensable to the maintenance of Republican institutions. This opinion is not peculiar to a class of citizens or to a party, but it belongs to the whole nation. To every rank of society. In the United States, the sovereign authority is religion There is no country in the world where Christian religion retains a greater influence over the souls of men than in America. And there can be no greater proof of the unity and of its conformity to human nature than that it influences in and its influence is powerfully felt over the most enlightened and free nation of the earth in the United States The influence of religion is not confined to the manners, but it extends to the intelligence of the people. Christianity therefore reigns without obstacle by universal consent I sought for the key of the greatness of the genius of America in her harbors, in her fertile fields and boundless farlies, in her rich mines and vast world commerce, in her public school system and institutions of learning. I sought for it in her Democratic Congress and her matchless constitution. Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her great genius and power. America is great because America is good. If America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. The safeguard of morality is religion, and morality is the best security of law as well as the surest pledge of freedom. The Americans combine the notion of Christianity and of liberty so intimately in their minds that it is impossible to make them conceive of one without the other. Morality and liberty inseparably linked together. Christianity is the companion of liberty in all of its conflicts In the cradle of the of its infancy and in the its divine source, it claims. Sadly. The America that De Tocqueville was speaking of. The America that Scott Key was thanking God for. The America that is proclaimed in our Declaration of Independence and in the preamble to our Constitution is not the America that we live in. It's not the America of today. Now, what do we do? Well, sadly, we, like Israel before us, have turned from the worship of the one true God. In Psalm 106 verse 21, for they forgot God, their Savior, which had done great things for them in Egypt. And then first Samuel twelve, verse nine, When they forgot the Lord their God, he sold them into the hands of Sisera, captain of the of the host of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they fought against him. Turning to our text in verse twelve Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for his own inheritance. This verse is quite clearly and quite obviously speaking of Israel, of God's chosen people. And yet it is both fascinating and instructive that the word for nation that is used in this verse is far more often used of the Gentiles. It's used of heathens. And we know that the people of God Are not just Israel, but is chosen from every tongue, every nation, every race, every people. We are the inheritors of the promises, and don't let anyone ever tell you that the Psalms are not for the church today. They are for the people of God. And I believe they're far more relevant to us today because of our apostasy than they were to Israel at many points in its own History. Blessed is the people, the nation whose God is the Lord. And that word blessed in its root meaning means happy. And what was it that are we find in the very beginning of the Declaration of Independence? We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. Among which are the pursuit of happiness, the pursuit of blessedness. That is what we find. This same word is used in Psalm 144, verse 15, but there it's translated as happy. Psalm 144, 15, happy is the people that such is the case. Yea, happy is the people whose God is the Lord. I would have us to see first of all that it is a specific God that is spoken of in Psalm thirty-two, verse twelve. It's not just the idea of God with a small g. The psalmist was not saying, happier the people to have a deity. He's not saying happy are the people that are religious. Happy are the people that go to church. Happy are the people that have some social idea that hey we're good we're better than other people we do this and we do that and we don't do the other so No, happier the people whose God is Jehovah. Happier the people who worship Jehovah God. You see, when Israel went into the promised land, they were surrounded by deities There was Baal, there was Asteroth, there was Dagon, and you can go through scripture and you can name them one after the other But happy is the people whose Elohim is Jehovah. And if there's not intended to be a contrast in this verse between the true God and pagan gods, the verse loses all meaning. Happy are the people whose God is Jehovah. You see, the heathen have their gods, they set up their idols, they worship the sun and the moon and the stars, they worship the creation around them. But this nation was blessed. As Israel was blessed, because as its founding, there was one God. And it was Jehovah. And consider: when those pilgrims came to these shores seeking religious liberty, seeking freedom, they did not come to a place that had no gods. The Native Americans had many gods, and they had dwelt here for centuries. And yet their society had never progressed. You look at the history of the Native Americans, and I don't mean to be critical of them in saying this, but their society had been static. But when the worship of Jehovah was brought to these shores, there began to be a change. There began to be a prosperity. There began to be a worship. And if you want to be blessed, read the accounts of the evangelism of the American Indians. Of the missionaries that went to the American Indies. You see, the pilgrims did not come to a land that had no gods, but they came to this land and they brought the worship of the one true God with them. And they were blessed. And history has proven that wherever the worship of Jehovah has gone, the people have been blessed. You look at nations where Jehovah has been preached and proclaimed, and you find those nations to be prosperous. We're not talking about a prosperity gospel. Don't misunderstand me. But you find that the people there are blessed because they've sought Jehovah. You go to lands Where there have been other gods than Jehovah, and you don't find freedom, you don't find equality, you don't find the exaltation of women You find oppression. You find tribalism. Blessed are the people. Because God is Jehovah. And I believe that the root of this goes right back to the book of Acts. In Acts 16, verse 6 through 9, we find Paul on his missionary journey. And then verse 6 of Acts 16. Now when we had gone throughout Pergia and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the Word of God in Asia. And after we came to Mysia, we essayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not And they passing by Mysia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared unto Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia praying and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And if you look at the map of the Middle East, you find the gospel going west, going west, going west. And if you look at the world today, you find in the West there is freedom, there is truth, and in the east there is Muhammad. And the east is Iraq. In the east is Iran. And though the gospel did go up into Asia later in the area that is today Turkey. And the Eastern Orthodox Church reached into that region of the world, into Russia, and so on Yet you find that Paul was directed to go up towards Rome, and the gospel of Jesus Christ was carried on up through Europe. It came into the British Isles and it came here from there. Calvin, Luther, Zwingli, Huss, you can name the names. Where were they from? They were from the West. Now where does that leave us today? Psalm thirty-two, verse twelve, speaks of a specific God. And we rejoice in the freedom of religion that we have here, and all men have the freedom to worship according to their conscience. But today. Islam is being placed on equal footing with Christ. Today, Wicca and witchcraft and all kinds of paganism are being placed on the same level with the truth of Jesus Christ. Folks, we need to pray. We need to seek the Lord earnestly. Because these freedoms we enjoy are based on the worship of Jehovah. And when we cease to worship Jehovah We will cease to have the freedoms. They come not from our Constitution. They come not from our declaration. They come not from these great hymns written by godly men of our nation in past days. They don't come from those, they come from God. And when we cease to worship God, we will cease to have the freedoms that God has given us. Second, I'd have us to notice from this text that not only is it a specific God that is spoken of here, but it's a specific people that are spoken of. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And we touched on this already. That where the truth of Jesus Christ has been preached, In the lands who worship Jehovah, they are happy. They are blessed. Blessed. Is the nation whose God is the Lord. In Psalm 65, verse 14: Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and callest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple. This verse is not talking about every man, woman, and child On the earth. It's talking about the people whose God is the Lord. Who among us chose where we would be born? When we'd be born, who our parents would be, what environment we'd grow up in Which one of you chose to encounter the person that gave you a gospel tract that you read and were saved? Which one of you chose to turn on the radio at a certain time and heard a message? No. My salvation has everything to do with the grace of God. I could have been born. In fact, on the day I was born, and possibly over even in the same moment I was born, there was another man born on this earth. And that man was born in a place where Christ is not known. Maybe in Saudi Arabia. Maybe in China, maybe in some area in Africa. And that man will live his entire life worshiping pagan gods Or worshiping nothing but himself, and that man will die and go to hell and never hear the name of Jesus Christ. Why was I not He? Why is not he not here today? The grace of God. Oh, my friend. It is a specific people. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And the people whom He hath chosen. Hallelujah! We are the chosen people of God, and we must rejoice in this great privilege, for we had nothing to do with it. He chose me, I did not choose him. And yet, does that not lay upon me an awesome responsibility? Do we not have an obligation to occupy? Do we not have an obligation to be a light and a testimony in this land where we've been so blessed? Should we not be praying for revival every day? Should we not be praying that God would give us godly leaders? For it is God that sets up princes or kings and by him princes rule. Specific people. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yea, of the Gentiles also. But then I would have us to see thirdly from our text that it is a specific purpose that is spoken of in this verse. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance. Ah, it was all for his purpose. It is all for his glory. It was not the purpose of building a great nation for which he chose his people. It was the purpose. that we should be his own inheritance. And so Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 2, of course, 1 Peter being written to the strangers that are scattered abroad, it being written to Gentile believers who were scattered throughout the known world of that time. 1 Peter 2, verse 6. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scriptures, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, erect and precious, and he he that believeth on him shall not be confounded Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builder disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence even to them which stumble at the word being disobedient, whereunto they were appointed. They were appointed to that disobedience But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation. a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Which in time past were not a people, but now are the people of God. Which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims. And that's what we are. We're pilgrims. Strangers and pilgrims abstain from fleshly lusts which war against your soul. What do we learn from this passage? First of all, I would have us to see from the latter part of this psalm that we don't put our trust in our government. In God we trust. Look with me at verse sixteen of Psalm thirty-three There is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. Thanks the Lord for our political leaders. Thanks the Lord for some believers in government. But we do We don't trust in them. We do not trust in man because a king is not delivered by the multitude of hosts. Rather, look at verse 20 through 22. Our soul waiteth for Jehovah, for he is our help and our shield, for our heart shall rejoice in him. Because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we hope in thee. Oh, we thank the Lord for our political leaders. We pray for them, but we don't put our trust in them. In God we trust. Look at verses four and five. For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. We certainly can't say that about our nation. But all of his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. In Proverbs 8, verse 14 through 16, God says, Counsel is mind and sound wisdom. I am understanding. I have strength. By me kings reign and princes decree justice. By me, princes rule, and nobles, even the judges of the earth. We do not trust in man. We trust in God. Secondly, we learn from this psalm that we do not trust in our military might, and we have several veterans among us, and we thank them and honor them and respect them for their service. And we are very grateful that we have a strong military, but we don't trust in our military. Look at verse 16, the last part, and then going into 17. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. And horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength Our nation has a great military, but we dare not trust it in God we Trust. Rather, verse 18. Behold, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy, to deliver their soul from death. And to keep them alive in famine. There's our provision in famine. Look at verse 13. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. He fashioned their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. God fashions the heart of man. We trust in God, not in our military. God made promises to Israel In Joshua twenty three, verse ten, one of you shall chase a thousand for the Lord your God, he it is that fighteth for you as he hath promised you. Take heed therefore unto yourselves That ye love the Lord your God. God told Israel, You're not going to have the biggest army. You're not going to have the greatest military might. But one of you is going to chase a thousand of them. Not because you're stronger, but because Jehovah is your God. Remember, David, thou comest to me with swords. And spear, but I come in the name of the Lord. And a little stone from the brook, and a shepherd boy with a sling slew the giant. We do not trust in our military might. We trust in the Lord. And then finally, we do not put our trust in the genius of our society or even in our country. Constitution. I read to you from the Mayflower Compact, I read to you from the Declaration of Independence, and from the Constitution. These are wonderful, marvelous documents. But we don't trust in them. Our trust is found in God and in the Word of God. Look down to verse 10. The Lord bringeth the counsels of the heathen to naught, for he maketh the devices of the people of none effect. What value is the Constitution? Without God. What value is the declaration without God? Beloved, I would tell you, for the children of God, this is our constant This is where our freedoms come from. This is where our law is laid down This is where our lives are ordered. It's all here. We are blessed to be in the United States. But our trust. Is in God. Verse 11. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. How many great political documents have there been? The Romans had their co code, the Ephesians had theirs. If if God tarries in his plan, someday the American Constitution will be known It could be null and void tomorrow afternoon. But the counsel of the Lord standeth forever. And the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Verses 4 and 5. The word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. Brethren, we are very blessed to live in this nation. We have enjoyed freedoms. That few of the millions of this world have ever known. But this world's not our home. We are s Strangers and pilgrims. We pray for this nation. We love this nation. We pray that God will spare it. But But in God we trust. Let us stand for prayer. Oh Father, may we turn our eyes away from the weak and beggarly elements of this world. And may we ever trust in thee. Bless this nation. Save our political leaders. Save them by thy grace. Make us a light and a testimony. Use us for the glory of our great God and King. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.