Genesis chapter 4, hear now the word of the Lord. And Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain. And said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. It's interesting she's concerned about the man-child, because that was part of the promise given in the third chapter, that the seed of the woman would crush the head of the serpent. So even then she's still considering and looking forward. And she again bare his brother Abel, and Abel was a keeper of sheep. He was literally a shepherd. But Cain was a tiller of the ground. You know what's interesting is that word tiller can also be rendered a server or a worshiper. You go look at it, it's uh found elsewhere in scriptures with that uh Translation. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. Hey brother Jeff, how are you doing? We're in Genesis 4. I'm now reading in verse 4. And Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth and his countenance fell. Good morning, Freddie. How you doing? That's all right. You don't formal around it. It's a house. You know, just crash on in. It's all right. It's alright, we're in Genesis 4 6. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted, and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. Wow, the firstborn of man is a murderer, the firstborn of God is a giver of life. What a contrast. And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper? And he said, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Isn't that interesting? There's a speech from that blood And now art thou cursed from the earth which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand, when thou tillest the ground. It shall not henceforth yield unto her, unto thee her strength. A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. And Cain said unto the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear. It's an amazing uh account. It's the the first account that we have of these uh two sons and daughters. Adam and Eve would have had many sons and daughters. There's no reason to think they only have the ones that are highlighted here, even as uh King David and many others of the patriarchs had uh multiple children. Uh Noah, of course, had a specific count that was uh enumerated as being those on the ark, the eight souls of his three sons and his sons' wives, of course, he and his wife making up the other two. But I want to take a couple of spotlights in here because uh we're going to look at this blood of Abel that's been shed here. And I want to look at a spotlight on the offerings to begin with, and then I want to look at on God's actions, and then we're going to go to the New Testament, look at some New Testament commentaries. on this. So I've got some questions here. So what are the obvious differences between the two offerings that were made? Some basic obvious differences. One was fruit and one was a lamb. Okay? Um was offering a lamb a good idea? How about how about that? Yes. Okay, yeah, that was a good idea. What about offering the fruit of the ground? Is that a bad idea? Because the ground was cursed. Right, the ground was cursed. Um so yes, uh offering the lamb was a good idea. You know, I often Can't help but to wonder what did Adam and Eve talk about in the early days? They talked, they had communication. There wasn't a lot of history. They didn't have to worry about tuning in fake news or anything like that. They talked about real news, things that really happened, and surely what were some of the things they would have recounted to their sons and daughters that were born to them When we send in the garden, God slew an animal. And covered mommy and daddy with The coat of that animal. And so they would have talked about that. They would have talked about that. That covering. They would have known something of that Uh you read about that in Genesis 3. 21. Now uh Cain, as Gabriel pointed out, that in Genesis 3. 17, you can just glance back on the other side of your page Uh the curse was, cursed is the ground for thy sake. It's written in the middle of that verse, and we know the ground is cursed. I I don't plant weeds in my grass. I work very hard and I invest A silly amount of money in things that kill undesirable plants, that's all a weed is, an undesirable plant And I don't plant weeds, I don't plant thorns. I really don't have if I wanted a lawn of thorns, it would be very easy to produce. You simply do nothing. Right? That backfield is a great testimony to what it takes to produce thorns. But at the same time, uh keep your finger there and consider for a moment Leviticus six, fourteen to eighteen. Keep your finger in Genesis three. We'll come back to it because I want you to consider this other offering that Cain gave, because I'll submit that it was not a black and white, it was a black and gray offering. It was okay. In Leviticus chapter 6 and beginning in verse 14, we read this. This is the law of the meat offering. Now in the Old English language, meat could even refer to grains. It just means food. You'll see that it means grain in a moment because of of of the context. This is the law of the meat or the grain offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the Lord before the altar, and he shall take of it his handful of the flour of the meat offering. pound up meat into flour that you would with grain. Again, Old English word, it just simply means food. And of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meat offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour even the memorial of it unto the Lord, and the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat with unleavened bread it shall be eaten in the holy place, and so forth. So it turns out that later God is going to have the children of Israel Give offerings of their grain. So is God changing programs here? I mean Cain offers that. Later on, it would be some type of thing that would be offered in the Old Testament temple. Um and so I would say that Cain's offering was mixed. You know, God had cursed the ground. He had not yet revealed that that fruit of the ground could be offered. So it's kind of a question mark on it, you know, at that time, is this really acceptable or not? Go back to Genesis 4, and I want to do a spotlight now on God's actions. I kind of got your thinking caps on. I I haven't resolved anything yet. I'm just kind of throwing things out there to kind of make you go, hmm. So if you're looking at me going, hmm, that's okay. Hey, that's where I want you. So how would God have accepted the offering showing his respect into it? Let's take a look at God's actions. It says that The Lord, verse 4b, the Lord had respect unto Abel and his offering, but unto Cain his offering he had not respect. How would God have accepted or respected the offering? You know? Any ideas? Could it be that he took that as a sign of rebellion that by him offered something, you know, of different texture and everything else. You got a great thought you're jumping ahead to a future question. Oh I I'll go wait for that one. Yeah, yeah. Because I'll pull I'll I'll pull you back in on that one, right? I'll be uh uh I can pick on people to answer questions. Uh did God float a note down from heaven saying yours is accepted? Or was there a green light or a red light? How would they have known? What would have been the evidence? There we go. Very good. Yes, God accepted offerings by fire. A fire would have come down and consumed the offering. Now it doesn't say this in the text, but I'll uh have you for uh consider for a moment. A few other passages, for instance, Leviticus 9. 24, there came a fire out from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat. And when all the people saw they shouted and fell on their faces. That happened at 1 Kings 838, Elijah on Mount Carmel. The Lord accepted that offering by fire. But the other offerings where they were slashing themselves, their own blood, their dancing, there was silence. There was silence, there was deafening silence. It was crickets. That was God's response to Cain's offering. Crickets. Abel's offering. Whoosh! Fire. You see that in Judges and the account of Gideon where he puts flesh in a basket to this angel of the Lord and this angel of the Lord. Turns out to be pre incarnate Christ touches that and it goes up into fire. You see, that's how God accepts it, accepts it by fire. Now look back closely again, and I may be straining at this too hard, but I don't think so. Go back to Genesis 4 and tell me what is it that God respected And in what order? In Genesis four. What is it that God respected and what was the order? You can just read the text and you'll get the order right. The first links and the and the fat. Yay, that's what he brought Read the next sentence. Yes. The man. The Lord had respect first unto Abel. And second, unto his offering. Abel was an alike child of God. But unto Cain And his offering he had not respect. Even the ploughing of the wicked, Jim, is sin. It matters not what the wicked bring before God. If God has no intention to save them, it matters not what they bring. They're damned. I have no plans to save you. There's no plan of redemption for you. Isn't that amazing? Yeah. Now, he's a merciful God. He's still going to protect Cain because in Cain's seed would But he didn't have respect the king, and therefore he didn't have respect the king's offerings. You see What kind of a doctrine do you s a doctrine do you see in that concept? If I'm on the right track, what kind of a doctrine do you see in that concept? In that tax election election and reprobation. The reprobates. See, all God has to do to send a man to hell is nothing. Crickets. Default. Crickets. Yeah, default. Right. Your default plan is to get justice Your default plan is to show up before the law of God. And if you bring this offering, it's not accepted. So if Cain's offering isn't accepted, how does Cain deal with the sin problem? He can't. He has to take account for it himself. He has to deal with it. And that's a very bad thing. What do you think? Absolutely. Absolutely. Same concept. He had no respect for the words of God. And you say, well, Vince, you may be straining kind of hard at some of these things, so let's go to the New Testament commentary on Abel as we consider this. Alright, so now we're going to move ahead, and we're going to come away from Genesis now that we've kind of kicked that passage around a little bit. Go to Hebrews chapter eleven. And then Jim's gonna get the question. Hebrews chapter eleven. We have a New Testament commentary on Abel. In fact we have uh a couple. There's three New Testament commentaries On this business of Cain and Abel. Hebrews 11:4 is the first one I want to draw our attention to, and it says this: By faith, Abel offered unto God A more excellent sacrifice. It's interesting, Wycliffe rendered it a much more sacrifice In other words, it wasn't just a so-so sacrifice like the fruit of the ground. Okay, yeah, you could bring the but Abel brought a much more excellent, a fuller sacrifice, one that had a grander picture to it, one that was more more up to God's snuff, if you will. He he got it, right? What did mom and dad talk to him about? How were our sins covered? God himself slew an animal, ripped his skin off, and gave it to us. And then God cursed the ground. And so Abel reflects one that says, okay, this is what God accepts. The death of an animal. This is what God accepts. There's got to be blood. So we continue reading. He offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts. The fact that God accepted Abel indicates that God accepted him and The testimony was that his offering was accepted. So therefore Abel was righteous. Abel's offering didn't make him righteous. Abel's offering declared him to be righteous. And by that offering, by that gift, he obtained witness that he was righteous, and it says, and by it, he being dead, yet speaketh. It still speaks to us today. We would say, oh, what a tragic loss. Abel's life was cut short. The future that this child could have brought out, the hope, any parent has that for a child. No parent wants to be in the position where you're burying your child. That's not right And yet he still speaks. Jim, what does the Apostle Paul indicate was the main difference between these two? By faith, Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. What what do what's the main difference? We're starting to go there and I'm gonna round you to it. About the blood? Bingo. Well you nailed it. Absolutely right. What's the big deal about blood? That's life that that's what brings life, but every everything has to have life. Everything's gonna have blood. Blood yeah. That's right. Life is right. Life is in the blood. Why does God make a big deal about life being in the blood? Without shedding of blood, there is no reason. Without the shedding of blood There is no remission of sin. Do you see why Abel had a more excellent sacrifice? Because it involved the shedding of blood. Right. It was a bloody offering. And that laid the premise and the basis and the foundation for all of the Old Testament offerings. The Old Testament had a very bloody, bloody series of sacrifices and ordinances. All of it to say, there is a God who demands payment for sin. You need a covering. You need an acceptable offering. You know, when you brought a lamb to the Lord for the offerings. What kind of a lamb was it? Without spot. Without spot and without blemish. Uh so I probably don't have any four H farmers around here, but maybe Joey might know something about this stuff. I'm sure you'll have county fairs. Have you ever been to a county fair before? St. You ever you ever gone to the animal showings? When they like show off the different types of steers or pigs or hogs or sheep or whatever? Well, um Who are the winners of those contests? What you had to offer before God was your grand champion lamb. You know what kind of expense that is. Yeah, uh that's exactly what I was gonna say. There's a certain repugnance to killing a living creature. You know, when we cut a tomato up for a sandwich, we don't sit there unless we're somebody's greasy see the green people crying about grass trees. But we don't the old pork tomato and where they cut it. But when you chop the head off a chicken, there is that sense of this is living and it is not going to be living soon. And uh that repugnance of the sacrifice of an animal was totally absent from that from Abel I'm sorry, from Cain. And it is a matter of repentance. Yeah. That that mm My sin has caused this, whereas here's the fruit. Right. There's no sort of stake in the game, there's not much there. So, yeah, big deal about the sacrifice. Penny hit it without the shedding of blood. There's no remission of sin. That is what God requires, and he required it all the way back to Genesis. And so you see this the plan of salvation that God had for the human race has not changed in six thousand years. It was the same for the Old Testament Jews, the Israelites, as much as it was for the Nineveh, as much as it was for uh any Assyrians that might have uh been converted to going forward. It's been the same plan of salvation. Without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. And yet by the blood of bulls and goats it will not sacrifice, it will not Pay for your sins. So the big deal is that Abel's faith was expressed in obedience and it relied on God's promises for a savior. He offered it because he knew that God would provide something. He knew his offering was a shadow, was a type, was a figure. His mother and father were clothed physically, but he understood that he needed a deeper clothing, a better, a the robe. It brings to mind about Abraham when he was getting ready off of his mind. Mhm. And he had uh the lamb in the thicket. Yes. And that's an interesting account when the lamb's horns are caught in the thicket. Uh and uh uh I'll I'll I'll leave that for your I'll leave that for later because there's an interesting point about that. Let's turn now to Luke chapter eleven and there is another commentary on Cain. Actually I skipped over one of my commentaries on on uh that I'll read it. I'll let you get to Luke eleven. And before I jump in I skipped ahead of my notes. There's one other commentary in Hebrews about uh Abel. It says this to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel. Jesus the mediator of the new covenant to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. That's Hebrews 12, 24. Jesus' blood spoke something, even though Abel's offering was a more full sacrifice, a much more full or a more excellent sacrifice, Jesus Blood, of course, is the one that tops even that. And we would expect that. So Abel's blood would typify Christ's blood of the new covenant. He was shed at the hands of men, of his own household, no less, for doing nothing wrong. All that Abel did was seek to please the Lord, and yet he dies at the hands of his very own brother, the one in his own house. Who was angry? He was angry because he was envious. You see, all the little all God is already beginning to foreshadow the coming death of the Messiah New Testament commentary on Cain. Let's take a look at Cain now. Cain is the first of a lot of worse religionists who grievously torment and kill God's children. Luke 11, 46. He said, this is Jesus speaking, woe unto all uh woe unto you also, ye lawyers. By the way, I'm going to pause for a minute there and look at that word you and ye. You is the singular you. If I point to you, hey, would you come over here? I'm pointing to an individual. But I say would all of you move forward. I have to say all of you to imply that it's a plural, but in the old English we use the word ye. If they had done the Texas King James Version it'd be y'all. You understand that? Yeah, woe unto you also, y'all lawyers. For ye laden men with burdens grievous to be born, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers. All right. The burdens they're laying, the the touch not, taste not, handle not, which all perish. They've got a lengthy set of code that expanded went beyond what God had prescribed. Woe unto you, for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed them Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers, for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres. I tell you, I for years I scratched at that as a young person, and then as I got older I began to see it They would say, oh, if we had been in the days of Moses, we wouldn't have done that by them saying that they give testimony, they're the children of those who would have killed the prophets, who in fact did kill the prophets, because they whitewashed their hands and say, Oh, we would do better than that. They're hypocrites, they're liars. Right? They're trying to change they're this is the first account of uh historical revisionists That's the seed that they're from. Therefore said also the wisdom of God, I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute, that the blood of all the prophets which was shed. From the foundation of the world may be required of this generation. From the blood of Abel is not interesting. Abel is a prophet. He was one who declared the Messiah to come because the prophets did that. They would foretell things in the future to come. And by his offering, he is declaring there's got to be a savior. You don't see that in Cain's offering. And those offerings came up in the Levitical Code later because that was simply a way to to round out the needs of the house of the Lord, because the priest would take of those things. That's how they got their food. They're going to get a well-rounded diet. But the main thing is that blood offering. That blood offering. It says the the blood of all the prophets which was shed from the foundation of the world may be required of this generation, from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias. Which perish between the altar and the temple, verily I say unto you, it shall be required of this generation. So what is how is God comparing what are some of the attributes of the people that God's comparing Cain? to. He's the slayer of Abel, so therefore he's a murderer. Alright, well what's the category he's painted into? What are the all the attributes that he's being painted into? Just average grade murderer? Did you say something? Sorry. Well again the he's rebellious. He's rebellious? Okay, right. Murder specifically of God's prophet. Yes, a murderer of God's prophets. Yeah, he wasn't just he didn't get so angry, go out and slay you know, Abel's flock in jealousy. Uh you remember Samson lit some foxes' tails on fire and put them through the running field and they burned up the field. Uh he didn't do that. He actually went after that individual. Became very personal. So I think what we see with Cain is he is a generation of self-righteous works religionists. That's the category he's painted into. Yeah, in this text Christ is addressing lawyers, those who are of the law. Yes. People who should know the law. And yet he says, Woe unto you. They handle law. Yeah. He's hitting at this part that You know, a brother is born for adversity, right? Watch out for those in the house of the Lord. They'll turn on you. Right? And I've considered the strange lot the child of God is in. Um God's children are beat up unfairly many a time in the media because the general public doesn't really understand the nature of being sheep. We are to Embrace one another, love one another. We are to be very patient and forgiving and kind and loving and so forth. All the things that the world Holds this up to. But what the world refuses to see is that They're not our friend. They hate us. And our greatest enemies come from within our own midst. It's other works, religionists, that are the greatest threats. And so, yes, as sheep, we kind of walk a little timidly. Yes, we have been bitten and we may be reluctant to want to make friendships at times with other people in a different church, because boy, they they'll come out and embrace you and love you and hug you one day and the next They're ready to slay you. The triumphal entry, exhibit A. You know? So Cain is of that type. He's of that type. And it's an a and and isn't that what our Lord Jesus Christ went through? He came into his own and his what own received him not. More what an understatement. His own received him not. Well they did more than not receive him. The other point we find out about these work religionists who persecute God's prophets is that they have the audacity to be angry with God. Did you catch that part? Cain wasn't, um I'm sorry Lord, what did I do wrong? Um man, I gotta get this thing right. I I I want to be right with you. I I I want this, what can I do to make it better? Right? Instead, Harumph, who are you to say that Cain's offering is not acceptable? I deem my offering to be the most wonderful thing out there. How dare you look narrowly upon it? He has the audacity. Can you imagine for a moment? He has the audacity. This isn't a man that is tainted with generation after generation after generation of sin and sin weakness and has a whole crowd of people Cheering him on. He has the intense hatred and audacity to hate God. Look at 1 John 3. 12, another reference in the uh New Testament. a commentary on our account of Cain and Abel. First John three twelve. We'll have to begin in verse eleven, that's where the uh actually we're gonna begin in verse ten. Go back to verse one by the time I keep looking at it. 1 John 3. 10. In this the children of God are manifest, not created, manifest, they're revealed. And the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God. And Excuse me, neither he that loveth not his brother. This is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Now this is speaking to the household of faith. That's why John's addressing. That loving one another. Try preaching a series on loving one another. See what happens. Sorry, I keep hitting on something. I'll get off that show. This is the message. Verse 12. As Cain, who was of that wicked one, so he's of the devil. Goes back to my earlier point, the Lord had not respect unto Cain. God knew God knew who Cain was of. He was of the devil. He was of the wicked one. He was sold out to the devil. And slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil. Wow. And his brothers righteous. His own works were evil. Everything about what Cain did declares him to be a evil murderous, self righteous, works religionist. He's in that household. He's even in the household of the true gospel. I mean Adam and Eve didn't have a lot of competition for what the message was at that point. They had it. They had the truth. They had the promise of God. You knew. Well, we know from the Sermon on the Mount that whoever is angry with his brother without a call shall be in danger of the judgment Whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Hmm. You know, I think Cain's response would have been better if he had had a response like one of his great great great great great descendants would later on. The Canaanite woman, yea, truth, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table. Oh, Lord, please, just that humble response, Lord, I blew it. He didn't come to God right He offered something that was close. You see how at first you kind of look at it and go, well, maybe. We know the part where we killed him was evil, but the offering, I'm just focusing on that offering. And sometimes So-called Christians in the house of God do things and you scratch your head and you wonder, are they coming out from behind the sheep's clothing a little bit? Is there a little bit of uh claws? Boy, that didn't know teeth the sheep had teeth. Right? Cain's a good example of that. Cain is also the first of a great many false prophets. Go to the book of Jude. This is their last New Testament commentary. Just before the book of Revelation, Jude has one chapter. We're going to look at verse ten and eleven. But these speak evil of those things which they know not. But what they know naturally as brute beasts, in those things they corrupt themselves. Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain. And ran greedily after the error of Balaam for his reward and perished in the gainsaying of Korah. Three Old Testament figures are brought out to illustrate To exemplify, to manifest, to teach, to instruct us the direction, the path, the way that false prophets go. They go in the way of Cain They're envious, they're angry, they murder their brother, they hate them. They go in the way of phalom, it's all about the money Pay me what you want, I'll say whatever. I'll say whatever. He sounds real good. He sounds real good. And I had a fellow roommate of mine argue with me tooth and nailed. No, Balam is a good guy. I said, No, he's not It's really not. And I had to footstalp these passages before I could get into sea. I know what Balaam said But what the New Testament says about Balaam is bad and Balaam violated against God. Even in the text you can see, oh, but it sounds good. Well, yes. God's illustrating his little covering. What he says sounds good. They honor me with their lips, but their what? Heart is far. Far from me. Man judges after the outward appearance. That's why perhaps this is a little head scratching for us. That's what I'm trying to get at. Got to pull that covering back. Let the scriptures pull the covering back and expose what's going on. They've gone the way of Cain, they ran greedily after the heir of Balaam, they perished in the gain saying of Cory. Cory of Dathan and Biram dared. dared to offer um I I'm trying I'm trying to remember the uh uh account. Um help me Joe. Strange fire. The strange offer the strange fire, that's right I knew they came in with something strange, I just couldn't remember the fucking. They came in with their own incense. They wanted to do something else. They had their own plan. I like that incense idea. I think I'll concoct this over here. No Along with that, I've often wondered if maybe Cain's offering of fruits as as opposed to blood was it trying to go back to the garden where the fruits grew to the very best. Um now there's an angel with a flaming sword saying, No, you cannot come this way again. Uh and if maybe he was trying to restore for himself what was lost in the fall. So it's an interesting insight. Maybe it's not. Yeah, uh I think I think there's some merit to that. I don't really think there is. Um so I want to wrap it up here. The story of Cain and Abel is an early indicator of the difference between God's plan of salvation by grace and through a blood-atoning sacrifice versus Adam's works religionist versus that which you're trying to roll up the sleeves because let's face it to work the ground is sweat it's work it's labor But in the house of God, trust. Lean on the promises of God, right? And that I tell you, those who are of the law, they hate those who are of grace. Those who are of that old covenant, they hate those who are of grace. And it remains true to this day. All right, well, yeah, please go ahead. I was just gonna say as you say that ironically enough, you'll see that many even seminaries that used to be fairly uh solid theologically, they would throw they throw out They throw that out to teach different doctrines concerning everything that took place in those first few pools. Yep. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the right to do? Exactly. And there I mean that's nationwide, worldwide, basically. And then they get back to what Jesus said in Luke 11. You garnish the sepulchres of the righteous. Cain was the first historical revisionists right go that far back and so these people trying to revise history let's get rid of the account see they're they're testifying that's the call mark that's the characteristic of what What they do and they bear record. They're false witnesses. Yeah. Alright. A little more heady of the study today, just trying to come at this, other than uh, you know, how do you spell Cain and how many letters are in able but Yes. Oh sorry that that's good. Uh brother would you uh close us in prayer? Okay. Lord gee, this night you're crazy today that we all can gather together today. this morning to uh just have a day of just separating ourselves from the things of the world and to uh be taught the word of God in a way that uh even goes deeper than maybe we've ever thought about before and it's far back even more than we'd even thought. That the principles was laid from the beginning. And we thank you, we praise you for uh Vince Patty Joe and all that are here today that uh our goals to know you the God of the Bible, not a God that we make up in our minds and in our hearts. But a God that we seek because He's revealed Himself to us. Thank you, we praise you and we give you the glory. Praise you bless the rest of our system today. You and your mom will be glorious. In Jesus' name of prayer, Amen.