I do need a uh opener of prayer, and I'd like to ask if you could open this in prayer, brother. Our great Father, we thank you and rejoice today that this is indeed The Lord's Day. This is the day set aside for the Church of God to come together and to worship you. Father, we thank you that today we are not gathering for social purposes. for political purposes or for uh uh anything other than the worship of the great God of heaven and the study of the Word of God And so, Father, today we indeed pray. Open your word to us, Father, that we might receive from it. Teach our hearts by your Spirit And Lord, may we be improved in grace. May we be ever growing in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. May we grow in the wisdom of God And this day, may you work upon us that we might be conformed to that image. Father, bless those that are still traveling, watch over them, and give them safety. For we thank you that the roads are such that we can gow today. And Lord, we pray that you would uh in all things be honored and glorified in our assembly of this place. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen Today we're looking at uh the book of Ruth again, and the title is Boaz Purchases a Bride. You know, to even say that language, purchasing a bride. is certainly a negative connotation in in our land. There are other religions such as the Muslims or human trafficking where that sort of thing is forced. But back in the day, in the times of Israel, it was quite the honorable thing to do. Uh times have changed a lot. The Romans accused the Christians of being atheists. That was a negative slam today Atheist is held up positively. So things change over time in terms of what's good or what's bad. This has a constant compass that points us to a good direction and we do well to heat it We'll be looking at Ruth, the book of Ruth, which is a tiny book just before the book of 1 Samuel, right after the book of the Judges. Why do we look for Christ in the Old Testament? Why do we even bother trying to see such things? Well, the Lord Jesus said, search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. The scriptures that were available at that time would have been the Old Testament, as he was speaking, and so he speaks about searching the Old Testament. Of course, we have in Romans, the Apostle says, whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. Whatsoever things, and of course the book of Ruth, as well as the Chronicles and other books of the Old Testament, would fit in that category. They were written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Well, I want to start, as has been by custom, with a few opening questions. And that is, what do you know of the Jews' land rights in the Old Testament? How did the land rights work in the Old Testament if you were a Jew? What rights did you have to it in terms of buying or selling or possessing or dwelling? What was it like? Put me back into that time, whatever you know of it. Okay. It stayed in the family, where the family would be your patriarchal head. We would know them as what kind of a name would we refer to that family? As a tribe Yeah, we would talk about the twelve tribes of Israel and your land stayed within your tribe. Interestingly enough, in Mexico, when I would visit my friend, Brother Craig, years ago down there, that the land was held in much the same fashion. you could uh uh somewhat own it in that you could possess it and you could be on it, but when you died it stayed within the uh I think it was called a Kia Dor or something to that nature. Good morning, Mr. Ross, how are you These comfy seats are over here. Victoria, could you grab that for her? Oh yes, absolutely. Yeah, Victoria will yeah, there you go. Not to worry. So yes, the uh the the land would not leave the family. It would stick within the tribe. Uh and if you became poor and needed to sell it, you could do that, but that posed an interesting dilemma. Here the land was to stay within the Jewish tribe, but now you've sold it, what happens? So Let's look at a couple of things because I want to introduce some backdrop before we appreciate what we're going to read in Ruth 4. So keep your finger in Ruth. Turn now to Leviticus 25. Leviticus chapter 25. It's a couple of short verses. We read beginning in verse 23. We read this. The land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine, meaning a traveling Moabite couldn't come through and purchase part of, say, the tribe of Judah's land. And all of a sudden there's a little Mullabite stronghold right there in the middle of Judah. So you can't sell it away forever. It's mine, the Lord says Later he says, and in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land. A redemption. And then he goes on to describe what he means by that redemption. If thy brother be waxen poor and hath sold away some of his possession, and if any of his kin, his family, come to redeem it, then shall he redeem that which his brother sold. Alright, so you fell onto some hard times. And the only source of income you could have would be to sell your land. You would then be a squatter on the property. You would be displaced, pick up president someplace else. But you could sell it and somebody else would then have the right to plant it, harvest it, they would take advantage of the grain and so forth. But you fell into hard times for whatever reason, you could sell it But there was a, you could call it a homeowners association clause, which says that you cannot utterly it has strings attached, that it had to remain within that tribe And if you wanted to buy it back, somebody in your family, you know, my brother, my sister, whoever they could purchase the land back. So the land had, when it was sold, it went out with a redemption value. It could be redeemed. It could be bought back into the family. Alright? Because why? God said the land is mine. You're not going to sell it forever. Very curious rules that God's setting up there. It's a very interesting picture he's painting. To this day there are recurring terms and conditions for homeowners associations. That's why I use that because that's something that kind of maps into our uh dialect today. Alright, then the second is in Deuteronomy 25. There are some other issues that had to do with the family lineage that we're going to look at as we try to un unpack the backdrop, the beautiful backdrop that's being painted in Ruth. So besides the land issues, the other issues that we're going to find that are going to surround this whole issue concerning Ruth, the mobile tests, and Boaz purchase of her as a bride appears in Deuteronomy 25 beginning in verse 5. I'll read that for you. It's six verses, five through ten. If brethren dwell together and one of them die and have no child. This is not an unusual circumstance. Deuteronomy 25, 5. The wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go unto her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother unto her And it shall be the firstborn which she beareth shall succeed in the name of his brother which is dead, that his name be not put out of Israel It's very interesting. Here God foresees a what you might call a edge case, a very unique niche situation where Uh if a situation happens where somebody marries and lo and behold the guy dies, but they never had children. You know, uh I've heard of people who died very early in the marriage. I know of an account uh my work where A co-worker, the this lady was a secretary. She was so happy she got married that on her uh wedding night, honeymoon night, the guy died of a heart attack Uh it was horrific. It was just horrific. It was I just can't imagine just the the the great depths of of despair that would happen. But these things happen. And God covers that case. It says, well, the brother, assuming he's married, not married already, he's eligible to marry her, will marry her, but there is a specific purpose. What was the purpose? That the name would not be put out. The c the continuation of the family name. And you can kind of see how those two are related. So if the land is to stay within the tribe, who's to say what the tribe is? Right? The Jews to this day, people who claim they're Jews, they will declare that they're Jews because they can trace their lineage through the mother. But that's not how God traced it. God traced it through the Father, through the patriarchs, and therefore records had to be kept. Well of course the Jews are stuck because all those records were burned in AD 70 in the temple, so they truly can't trace their lineage. And the tracing of the late age was very important. We learned that in Nehemiah when they came out. If they couldn't recount who they were, they couldn't, the Levites in particular, then they wouldn't be able to participate in the benefit of the Levites. So you see how these two work together. Let's keep going. In Deuteronomy 25, it says, And if the man like not to take his brother's wife, he just kind of looks and says, Well, gee, all things considered, no thank you Then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders. This would be the place of administration where decisions, official decisions, were made. And say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up unto his brother a name of Israel. He'll not perform the duty of my husband's brother. And the elders of the city shall call him and speak unto him. Hey, is this right or not? Yep, it's correct. I don't want her. And if he stands to it and say, I like not to take her, I I won't do it. Then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of his elders, loose his shoe from off his foot And spit in his face, and shall answer, and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not build up his brother's house, and his name shall be called in Israel the house of him that hath his shoe loosed Very curious thing. It's a spit it it's a shameful thing. Uh you're not going to raise up seed to your brother's name. This was considered an honor. This was considered a duty and a privilege to do, to to propagate that name going forward. You know, Mount Suribachi is famous in America because four Marines took that mountain on Iwo Jima I had an uncle who was there on a Navy ship and through his binoculars saw the flag being raised at Surabachi. He saw that. Pastor Henry Mahon was in that battle as well. He was a Navy sailor too And it's an iconic picture. These men, all of those men died, in fact, later in battle. I don't believe any of them actually returned from battle. But It's an iconic picture because it shows that they're there to advance the cause, in this case, of the Nation of America, forward. They were planting the flag. This shall not this is our territory. We're advancing the cause of America going forward So it was in Israel. If the brother died, we've had a setback in life, the battle of life, and we're going to plant the flag, we're going to advance the cause of the name of the Almighty God, because He's with us and He's given us this try. It was a badge of honor to do that. And so the guy shirking back is kind of like, you know, the the guy that the draft dodger that went to Canada instead, right? This is the fellow that was not very honorable in Israel. So that's the context here. The two laws work together. So what is evidently important of what is As you consider these laws, what really pops out at you that is just very important in the law of God? What's important about those two sets of laws? What's God really footstomping? What's the name to continue? Yes. But why not they didn't have to have monogamy? So I don't see why that would be a problem anyway. Yeah. So you just add another wife Well if the wife uh has passed. I mean I mean excuse me the wife the uh I mean i it it's not that the the the the man has a wife who passed, it's uh oh you're saying that he had another wife. Oh yeah. Yeah, that came that's interesting. I hadn't thought about that. That comes later on. Uh that that's a little askew with the question, but um but but it's an interesting point. Right, there's a another situation where um he did not want to raise Crulla because it would I think the terror must actually pollute his own inheritance. We'll get to that later, but this gentleman says I don't want to take her. And the scriptures doesn't say it doesn't give an out, you know. It just says if I don't want to take her, dot dot dot. It doesn't matter what the reason was uh it was bad news. But you're right, to propagate the name. God's He wants to propagate the name and He wants there to be possession of the land. He wants that land to be possessed. It's really a beautiful picture of how our God does not, as it were, want the name of his son, and we're in him, and we take on his name in our marriage to him. And he wants that land to be populated. He wants there to be people in his land, in heaven, with him. That's the point, right? He would not have it to be unpopulated. He created the earth to be inhabited, not to be a void and a wasteplace. And so there's a little picture there for you. Well we now turn forward to the book of Ruth. Again, it's just before 1 Samuel, after the book of Judges. And we see Boaz presents to our dear little family of Naomi, who's about a 60-some-odd-year-old widow. And Ruth, who herself is also a widow, a young widower, but a widower nonetheless, Boaz presents a complete solution to that poor little family's problem. Where we've left off is that Boaz showed great grace to her by feeding her and giving handfuls of purpose in the field, commanding the men unbeknownst to her, this tremendous grace he shows to her So that would help for the short term. That would help for that springtime. That would get them through the initial dose of feeding, kind of like the the yolk for the egg sac that gives the chicken just enough strength to grow, but once it's out, now what? It needs some more, it needs a future And Boaz is that future. We see in Ruth 2, for instance, verse 20, that Boaz is a kinsman-redeemer, and this is really the key to the book of Ruth, is that phrase kinsman-redeemer. He is of kin. We even use that term today. Who is your next of kin? You know, if there's a death in the family, you want to notify your next of kin. We still use that phrase to this day. But in Ruth 220, Naomi says to her daughter-in-law, as she hears this report, as to who has graciously enriched her, Blessed be he, the Lord has not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. Naomi said to her, The man is near of kin unto us, one of our next kinsmen. One of. Now he wasn't the only one, but he was one of them. Apparently Elimelech, who was Naomi's husband time before, had other brothers and there were not Boaz was one relative, and apparently there were others, and there was one who was closer in line. Apparently there was a pecking order. Um and you see that the Sadducees picked on that. in the account when they tried to come to the Lord Jesus asking about the resurrection. Man dies, wife bears no seed, then his brother. It kind of goes from the oldest to the youngest. So there's a pecking order, all right? Again, Ruth 3. 2 is now not Boaz of our kindred. When Ruth comes to him in chapter 3, verse 9, thou art a near kinsman. So again, this phrase is repeated, you are a near kinsman. You're close. And if you look at Ruth chapter 3 and verse 12, he says that Boaz basically says, I'm going to make this right. Now it's true that I am thy near kinsman, howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I. Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will Perform unto thee the part of the kinsman well. Let him do the kinsman's part. But if he will not do the part of the kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of the kinsman to thee, as the Lord liveth, lie down to the morning. Well he tells Ruth as she uh essentially requests, hey, I'd for I'd like you to be, you know, I'd like you to redeem me. I'd like you to to to be my husband. And so she comes and he says, well, that's great. And of course she knows nothing about what's going on. She's being instructed by Naomi to do this. And he says, yep, I will do it. But there is a nearer kinsman Now let's look at, let's put some spiritual eyeglasses on here for a moment because this is a grand picture. It's a grand story in this carried out in this tiny little remote field of Bethlehem, a little backwater village in the small tribe of Judah that is depicting uh God's great salvation. Spiritually, who do you think Boaz is representing here? Of course, Jesus Christ, he is the one who is that great purchaser, he is that man, mighty man of fame and wealth and honor, and he is, as it were, the big man on campus in this land, and of course Christ is the one who is. the sovereign of the universe. Now here's the trick question. Boaz mentions somebody else. He says there is a kinsman nearer than I. There's this other unnamed fellow. We don't know his name other than he's the nearer kinsman Who do you think that fellow represents? Who is closer in line to Redeem? Than Jesus Christ. Who would be closer in line? Who's nearer? Kind of interesting, never thought about that before We're talking about redemption, so the theme of redemption is something we understand. I would submit to you that nearer kinsman is man, is Adam, the nearer one. Or you could say the works of the law. Can Adam redeem man He was in the right position so to do, but he was unable to do, and he's unwilling to do. And you may think I'm stretching at this a bit, but let's look at some of the gospel truths that are plainly disclosed, and I think you'll see why I'm making those illustrations analogies the way I am The first part is this. Of course, who does Ruth depict? Who would Ruth depict? Let's answer that basic question first. Yeah, the church. Right. If Boaz is purchasing a bride, then Christ being the Savior purchased the bride, the church of Jesus Christ, for himself. She is his body, his bride, and so forth. We know that, we've got that. So at least those two I think you're pretty comfortable with. But I want to explore this nearer kinsman first who sort of isn't willing and can't do the job First of all, we have sold ourselves for naught. We are in an impoverished situation. Isaiah 52, 3 says, Thus saith the Lord, ye've sold yourselves for naught, and ye shall be redeemed. without money. There's an interesting connection there being made between this Old Testament rite of redemption and the fact that we have sold ourselves for not, we've sold ourselves into sin. We've done what Esau did to exchange that which was pleasant for the short term and thrown away the birthright of the long term. And we've done that in Adam, and we continue to walk in Adam's steps, and we do it every time we sin. We just continue to throw it away, throw it away. We've sold ourselves for naught. We've sacrificed our souls and have gotten really nothing beneficial out of it. That's the human plight. We are in a state of poverty, yet we can be redeemed. We're redeemable. Our bondage to the law had to be legally broken that we might be married to Christ. Romans 7, for instance. talks about this. And if you're not familiar with the passage, you can turn to the first three verses of Romans 7 that talks about this business. Know ye not, brethren, I speak to them that know the law, how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he lives. For, now here's the illustration the apostle is going to give to show the permanent dominion of the law over a person. The woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. But if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. That would be the terms by which Remarriage could occur. He has to die. That was the extent of that dominion. So then But if the husband be dead, she's loose from the law. So then if while her husband liveth she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress, but if her husband is dead, she's free from that law. She's no adulteress, though she be married to another man Alright, so fundamentally, something's got to change in order for us to be married to Christ. If I have to die, or the law has to die, but the problem is the law ain't going to die. It's got to be a change of status So we're like Naomi spiritually in a sense where we're impoverished and we're eligible to be married. Now, we go now to what Boaz wants to do in Ruth chapter 4, and I'm going to try to tie all these loose ends together here. I'm just kind of laying down you know, raw sticks of a structure, but now I'm going to try to tie it all together for us here. I love the fact that Boaz is willing to purchase his bride. We see this in Ruth 4 and verse 3. Boaz goes to the city gate, he finds the man who's the nearer kinsman, he approaches to him, he brings the elders around, he's ready to transact this deal, he wants to close it soon. He says unto the kinsman, Whoever this nearer kinsman is, he finds him, he draws him close, and he reports the following. Naomi, that has come out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land which was our brother Elimelex. And I thought to advertise these saying, Buy it before the inhabitants, redeem this thing, and before the elders of my people. If thou wilt redeem it, because redemption involved a transaction, redeem it. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is none to redeem it besides thee. And I am after thee. In other words, he acknowledges this man has a rightful first place. You see, Adam had And efforts had it had a vain attempt to redeem Eve, but he failed miserably. He didn't do it. He failed miserably. He did not complete the task. He couldn't do it for Eve. And he and the whole human race fell aside. He was that nearer kinsman. And he blew it. He couldn't do it. Christ is the next in line. He became like unto us. He had to go to a greater extent. And he's willing. We go on here in Ruth 4. So the man says, I will redeem it. He's like, sure, I'll buy some extra land. I got the money. I can do this. Ah. Boaz tells him something else. There's another aspect of the law that he has to be made aware of that the man apparently did not know. Then said Boaz, what day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Mul by Tess the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. Notice he mentions Ruth the Moabites. He kind of makes sure he slips that in there, that she's Moabite You're a Judahite. She's a Moabite. And all of a sudden, upon hearing that, the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it. You know, he pulls out the paddle and he's backpedaling here pretty quick. He's like, Nope, I don't want to do this. For I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar, or you know what a mar is on the sur surface of furniture, lest I mar mine own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. What is the nearer kinsman's complaint? Again, we don't know his name, but what is his complaint basically? Does redeem have to do with money? It does. He was willing to pay the money until he heard until he heard her name. He didn't want to raise seed for his brother apart from his own. He didn't want to raise seed for his brother apart from his own. He doesn't directly say that, so how does that you're not wrong, but I want to connect some dots here What was the stated reason from the scriptures as to why he didn't want to marry her? Lest I mar my inheritance. That's his beef. Now let's unpack that. Why would marriage to Ruth By a Judahite, Mar, mess up, scratch up, goof up his inheritance Any thoughts? Joe? There would be that that would not go to his eldest son. It would go to Naomi's son. Right. Um if um well uh that's His uh son so he would have a son and that son would get inheritance. His his inheritance would go to his eldest. Um but it would still be his child? Correct. But it would be his child of who? By an only rise. Right, and in whose name? Be a Limilex name wouldn't be his name. So his family lineage, insofar as he's concerned, is impacted. And he's going to have to raise up children. Those children are going to be what? Racially speaking. Half Jew and half Moabite. That's gonna raise a question in Israel. That's gonna be of concern to him. He seems to be That could be part of the concern. He doesn't want to mess up his heritage. He doesn't want to have children in another man's name. I think that's kind of what you were getting at as well. Or that his children would come from a cursed Moabite. Whatever that reason was behind this, I don't want to mar my inheritance. I don't want to mess up this lineage. He's not willing. The bottom line is that he is not willing. And spiritually speaking, our Father Adam was not willing to do what was needed. He he blew it, he threw it away at the garden. He partook, which he was, and he directly knew the commandment He didn't turn to the Lord God. Oh Lord God, the woman that thou gavest me has done this horrible thing. Lord, what can we do to fix this? He didn't seek counsel to try to redeem her. What must we do to pull her back from this? What must I do? How do I None of that was there He just went along with the program. That's what Adam did. Adam couldn't redeem us. Frankly, no one could through the law Let me just list several verses to you about how the fact is that there are some things in life that just cannot redeem us. Isaiah 63. 5, I looked and there was none to help, and I wondered that there was none to uphold. This is God's assessment. God surveyed the human race that would be throughout all time, and found that there was not a single one to uphold or to save. He found complete failure across the human race Therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me. Romans 8. What the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. What the law could not do. Acts 13, Paul says this: by him all that believe are justified from, and by him all that believe are justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. It works of the flesh can't redeem. It's unable. It's unable. Galatians three is the law then against the promises of God, God forbid, if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law. Hebrews 7. 19. The law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which hope we draw nigh unto God. Any bringing of pollution into the law pollutes the entirety of the law. And therefore mars the inheritance, the integrity of the law. But but grace was for those that were outside the law already. Yes, yes. Yeah. Again, these little vignettes Or just shadows and figures. We see through a glass darkly, but if you look for the patterns and you start to think about those patterns and how they map to the New Testament I like to describe, you can see pictures of Christ. I like to describe the Old Testament Hebrew as a language which is broad brush strokes of paint color, lots of color, but no definitive lines. And when you get to the Greek, you have a very sharp pencil delineating the contours and the outlines. And when you bring the two together you have a crisp picture But until you have those crisp lines, it's hard to see where the brush of the paint stroke goes. It's so watery. But it's full of color. It's full of color. And you don't have that so much in the Greek. We have very great precision there And I love the color that we have in our book of Ruth here. We turn now, notice this language that we read in Lu uh in Ruth. He says, if you will, do it, if not, don't do it. He's very fair. He's not forcing this. And yet, he says, if he won't, I will. He's declaring himself in a way to be a surety, to be a backstop. I will do this if he won't. He's a backstop to this matter Then we find, as we continue in Ruth 4, beginning in verse 7, Boaz pays it all. He pays it all publicly, he pays it all completely, and he pays it all exactly according to the law. We read in verse 7 of Ruth 4. Now this was the manner in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing. There was a change in terms of the name, family name, and ownership of the property and so forth. For to confirm all things. A man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and this was testimony in Israel. Now, whatever law Moses gave back in Leviticus Apparently, this is just my opinion here, has been forgotten the elements and the rudiments of why it was there and how it was to be done. had been somewhat obscured by tradition, kind of like today when you go in a court of law, you put your hand the Bible, say I'll tell the t the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help me God. I don't even know why they're doing that or what it really means and then they could be putting their hand on the Quran for all they care about. They won't even cut out those names. There's a lot of Christian heritage and tradition which we had, which was rooted in something good, but over time it gets snipped and cut, and so that you just have remnants of the tradition, but you forgot the basics of it. I think that's what we have going on here in Ruth You just plucked off your shoe and gave it to you. We don't see anybody spitting in the guy's face. We don't see that element of shame. But he lost his shoe in the transaction. It was almost considered just a legal form of transaction because they've grown up with that. They've they don't even bother questioning it. In Texas, there's laws in the book that if you take a piece of property at arm's length, you literally have to go out onto the land and take your arm and shake and say, I possess this land. That law is still in the books. My dad told me about that. He was selling real estate for a while. So this was the testimony in Israel. They tucked off the shoe. And then we get to the punchline here. Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew off his shoe. And Boaz said unto the elders and to all the people, Year witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelex And all that was Chileons and Malons. So also three widows worth he bought. What a great redemption. This was a huge redemption. This was a huge purchase price of the hand of Naomi. Moreover, Ruth the Mall by Tess, the wife of Malon, have I purchased to be my wife To raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren and from the gate of his place, ye are witnesses this day You know, Alumelech had a tremendous amount of honor already. The nearer kinsman didn't want to mar his, and Boaz just seems to want to jump right into that and say, yes, I will do that. What does what strikes you what does that say about Boaz in this transaction? He's willing to humble and give of himself. He's willing to humble and give himself. But Even less technically. Come on girls. Put yourself in Naomi's position or Ruth's. You come across a guy like this. The nearer kinsman said, nope, too hot, not touching her, too much liability there. Mess up my inheritance. And the other guy says, yes, I will. What does that say to your heart, ladies? Great love. Tremendous love. Look at this man. What tremendous love he has He was willing. He's willing to lose his good name that he already has. He's willing to do it to raise up our family's name, that our name be not forgotten. Yes, God gives us a new name, but glory be to God, He gives us a name that won't be forgotten. He's willing. He steps in. He carries it out. You know, even historically, did Boaz truly lose his name? No, he didn't. Turns out he's in the lineage of Christ You see, he appeared to have a short-term sacrifice that, from all perspective, would have lasted for a long time, but because he did it to the honor of the law of God Because he did it to the honor of the glory of God and to the honor of Israel. Yet God highly exalted him and allowed his life to be used as a grand picture of the Savior who would come. To do an even greater purchase of us to be his bride. You see great love? You see great honor to the law of God You see great commitment and will. The one who's willing, principally in here, is Boaz, because if he wasn't willing to do it, none of this would have happened. It would be a dead option, and she would be forever a poor widow in Israel. Jesus himself bought our consumption and our sin sickness. He bought into our poverty. This wasn't a transaction that's going to enrich him by any stretch of the imagination. But Raz isn't going to get wealthy off of the remnants of what Naomi and Ruth had. They were poor. I am the Lord, I change not, therefore ye sons of Jacob, are not consumed. Matthew, this that it might be fulfilled, spoken by Isaiah the prophet, himself, took our infirmities and bare our sicknesses Christ bought all that. He took it all upon himself. Jesus bought the kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is likened to treasure hidden the field, which When a man hath found he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. There's some similarities here, right? There's a lot of connections that we have. Colossians says, we give thanks to the Father which made it to be meet, to be fit, to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us in the kingdom of his dear Son. We've left that family name. We come into a different name. In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. And what was Boaz's stated purpose in his purchase? Look back down at Ruth. What was his stated purpose of purchasing her as his wife? To raise up seed to the name of the dead. Yep, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off. He He desires fruit from her. He desires children. He desires offspring. Even so, our God, when he marries us, desires fruit We read about that in Romans 7. 4. Wherefore, my brethren, ye also become dead to the law by the body of Christ, that ye should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God. There's a purpose in God's marriage. We're not we're we're we're not our own. We're bought with a price. Therefore we glorify God in our body and our spirit, which are God's. We're raised up, the name of the dead is not left off, and he marries us for a purpose for a purpose to bring forth fruit. So I hope you Consider that and have a greater appreciation for this aspect of salvation in Christ's marriage. That was done for a purpose, it was done according to the law, none others were willing. Christ alone was willing to redeem and was able to, and he did so joyfully. He did so because of his great love. And, you know, sometimes I like to be a theologian in the sense of kind of tracing out some of these unique aspects of the law of God But this isn't just a legal technical book. There truly is a tremendous love of God for his people. a great love and an intense concern and care for them that you know escapes the technical-minded people like myself at times but it's there he reaches and touches the hearts of individuals He truly, deeply cares for them. And that makes a tremendous difference when the going gets tough and you begin to wonder, it's like, no, no, I'm I'm I really don't hate you. I really don't hate you. I'm really doing this for your good. And our glory. Does this also emphasize um his inclusion of the Gentiles as his people? Absolutely. another Jewish girl in there. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. Moaz almost seems prescient to say, you know what, Moabite doesn't matter to me. I I I uh this great love overcomes those those boundaries and those barriers He's beyond all that. But that's a foresight of Christ going out to the Gentiles, absolutely. And that she would be in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ, specifically mentioned in uh either Matthew or Luke's account, I think it was Matthew's So yes. It's a good point. Yeah, that was kind of the the big one that I missed. All right, well very good. Um Anton, would you mind closing us in prayer? Thank you. Father in heaven, Lord, we praise you for gathering us today to hear your word and to hear this picture, Lord, of Christ and the redemption of his people. Lord, we praise you for that uh great sacrifice and great purchase made uh By and through the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, you would uh help us to be mindful of this. Help us, Lord, to be encouraged that uh you work all things together for good to them that love you. Help us to understand that there's a a deep relationship, Lord, that you would have with your people. And um help us, Lord. May that give us uh commitment and uh Uh help us to be devoted to bring forth fruit for your glory, for our great Savior who's uh died for us. Lord, we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.