We are in Hebrews chapter ten, and I'm going to read nineteen to twenty-five, which is our passage this morning, and then we've got our discussion question. Hebrews chapter ten. is our chapter. And I'm going to read 19 through 25. Hear now the word of the Lord. Having, therefore, brethren, boldness To enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, His flesh. And Having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful and promised. And let us consider one another to provoke, unto love, and to good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as ye see the day. approaching. Alright, that's our passage. We've kind of reached a pinnacle, all of the proof text for why Jesus is better, why there's something called a new covenant. All of those arguments have been completed. The case has been closed. The prosecuting attorney rests his case. And now there's a Walking out of the courtroom, okay, so now what? What did we just gain from all of this? And so to get your mind into that, I want to have our discussion question, which is this So think of some individuals you personally know or whom you've read about in the past 300 years. I'm going to limit it to within our, you know, reasonable memory. Maybe you've read history books, uh, maybe you're a fan of history. Think of these individuals, either you know personally or you've read about historically, who have accomplished so much while they were here on this earth. Who are these people? Who can you think of? One of the pissing life. Okay, the uh fellow that came up with electricity, yeah, Thomas Edison. Yeah, took us uh out of candles and wax and brought electricity to us. Wow, what a huge accomplishment that was. Yeah Who are some other notable individuals that you personally can think of? It could be in your own life, it doesn't have to be something historically, but somebody that you really looked up to who accomplished a lot I'm fascinated with the story of Shackleton in the book his book Endurance. Okay. So um explorer. So what what did these people do? So to expand on Shackleton a little bit. He he was an explorer. And he f failed in much of his exploration, didn't didn't find his objectives, but uh was able to save the life of his entire crew through his um physical and mental tenacity to sail over 800 miles across open ocean in an open open boat and across mountains and snow that had never been crossed by man before Yeah, that's an amazing story. How about some of you maybe in your family? You just look at some family member who's just accomplished so much. good for starting the church and the school and the rights for Christian education and for people who I'd be influenced in the whole thought of Christ education. Yes, McKnight Sr. truly did an awful lot of benefit to the state of Maryland and the Christians in the state uh and and many abroad. Surely that's the case. Can you think of others? Yeah, too that he was able to get us to to go to school because at that time But uh the land that owns all that pocket. My dad woke and house. So yeah, how many children are these schools or not? One. Yeah. Esteban Mora, my grandfather, who uh was born in Mexico, saw that there was no future for his people there uh fled, came to America and uh worked menial labor for a long time. And he was a fascinating individual. He was into all kinds of things One of my favorite pictures of him is him standing next to, I don't know, a Corsair P forty or some airplane standing next to propeller. He worked on some of those airplanes. He got into crystal set radios and television. He would repair televisions. When they first came out, he was just fascinated with that. Never went to school. But figured out how to do that on his own Very much a curious individual, hardworking man, and uh was quite notable. How does uh these individuals that you've made? Come on, g get a few others here. Certainly you've known some people that you've uh uh in in your in your lives. Miss Saba, there's got to be somebody in your family history that has done some incredible things. I forgot. Who was the one individual you always tell us about who was the musician? My uh grandfather Was it your grandfather who's a musician? Grandfather, yeah. Okay. That's a fascinating story. Tell us about that. Yeah, he was uh uh he he was in the army uh when he played everything, all the instruments without any notes, without any just in his head In in the army there's you know Muslims and Christians also, but the army they loved him because he is a musician, he sings and he and plays and they will loved him. And during one of the uh one of the dinners uh these soldiers are uh eating and the Muslim guy of uh he took the food of the Christian. He says, You are infidel, you don't belong you don't uh need to have this And my uh grandfather stopped him, gave it back. He said, You are a soldier, I am a soldier. There is no Muslim Christian here So Bidet respected him so much as uh they they uh allowed that not to happen then There's different individual and there's more to that story. You should ask her about it. It's a fascinating story. She's got a very interesting history, uh, and and y you ought to explore that some. So Considering these individuals, and maybe there's some you haven't thought, how does their life and their life work? How does it motivate you? In what ways are they an inspiration? I would say she was some of us uh school. There's a schools for the people who It was a great help. How did that inspire you to do further? How did that motivate you? I can do it if I can't pay you know you have and who have to keep going to try and you just keep going. That's a good example. Yeah, your older sister Jessie was certainly a big inspiration to you. To keep pressing on, don't uh don't take no for an answer. I meant to my dad. You know, I never wanted to disappoint him. Always lived in his shadow. Um, but but always was motivated by, okay, how would dad handle this problem? Um, would dad be pleased or would dad rebuke what I'm doing? Hmm. That's really good. That's a great example. Lisa. I wanted to be um my mom was a nurse. I wanted to emulate my mom and I became a nurse as well. Even in the military for a little bit. I worked as Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure we all can start to think of other examples like this as well, because I'm trying to get to this concept of, you know, inspiration and what it does for you. So let's look at our text here because I'm going to focus on one word in depth today, and that's the word boldness. I found it to be a very fascinating term. We'll look and spend a little bit of time on this phrase in verse 20 about a new and living way. I can't pass that up. You've got to talk about that. And then I'm going to look at the three, what we have, and what we are to do's I'm going to give somewhat short shrift to verses 22 to 25. That deserves its own focus set of attention. But today I kind of want to survey the forest. I'm going to pay a little bit of attention as we start to walk into the forest, and I want us to really focus on this word boldness before we get to some of the later parts of it. Boldness. In your mind, when I say boldness, what are some synonyms that that come to mind? Confidence, okay. What are some other ideas? Yes? Courage. Courage, that's a good one, yeah. Courage, yeah. What are some other thoughts that come to your mind? You say, well, well he's such a bold individual. What do we mean by that? Can you say baldly? Baldly? Baldly. I Oh boldly. Yeah. Got the kahunas, yeah I like it, right. That's what I use a lot. Right. Not afraid. Not afraid. Got some spine to them, right? They're just yeah, absolutely All right. It's interesting because this um I Pastor Joe and I are alike and that we we we do like to go digging. into the etymologies of words, just where their history is, where they come from. And this one, I didn't even have to go into etymology. Just listen to the definitions that were given. I I believe I might have left some blanks in your uh bulletin for it. But there's three withouts that are so fitting that make this such a wonderful choice of word to use. It's open, it's frank, but here's the without. It's without concealment Some of you know what a concealed carry handgun owner is. They've got the permit, they can conceal it. You're pretty bold if you walk around with it on the outside. Jeffrey, you see some guy going down the street in DC with an open carry, right, he's pretty bold, if he's not a cop, right? He's pretty bold, right? Without concealment, without ambiguity. As a kid growing up, I used to watch some of these Westerns. John Wayne, of course, was a favorite. Clint Eastwood, the Dirty Harry series, you know, these people who were bold. Right. There was no ambiguity to their word. Go ahead, make my day. Right? I mean they just made it plain that they were tough. Um Also the f uh the another without without the use of figures and comparisons. Do you see how that fits so well in here? He's just shot down and tanked the whole Levitical priesthood. He's he's just gotten rid of all the signs and shadows of the old covenant. He being the penment, he being God speaking to us through Holy Writ. We can have boldness because it's without concealment. There's no signs or shadows. It's a very plain, open, frank, you know We might even call it cocky. Some people are cocky, right? They just kind of boldly now we would call them cocky if they're bold without justification, right? They're maybe arrogant. But There's a certain boldness if you have a good moral standing and you're pressing your case and your cause. He says, we have boldness. to enter into the holiest. And he's not talking about a building, right? We have boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. Why? There's remission of sins. It's already been covered. And look at how the Bible uses the phrase, that word, excuse me, boldly. In Mark 8. I've just got two or three examples for you here. Mark 8, 31 and 32. is an example of this word boldly. It says he began to teach them, he speaking Jesus, that the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected of the elders and of the chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he spake that saying openly. It's amazing to me that Jesus very plainly tells them exactly what's going to happen. These people are going to persecute me. I will be killed. I'm going to be buried. And three days later I'm raising from the dead. That's a pretty plain, open statement. In fact, this is not the only time he said this. If you look historically at the sayings of Jesus, when they occurred, he said this no fewer than three times to the disciples, exactly what was going to happen to them. And when he was buried in the grave, they're running around like little cowards. They didn't get it. He said it boldly, plainly to them. I'm plainly telling you this is what's going to happen. I find that amazing. That's that word, but he said that saying openly. There wasn't any figures to it. There wasn't any shadows or figures. He was speaking very plainly. John 11, 14, Jesus speaking to Martha. Jesus said plainly, Lazarus is dead. Lazarus is dead. She was saying, I wish you would come, he wouldn't have died. No, he's dead. He said it very plainly, very boldly, no concealment. It's also translated confidence in 1 John 5. This is the boldness, this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And what's my point? To have boldness is to have such confidence as to speak and act very plainly very openly, very forcefully, with great assurance. That's our word boldness here. This is what you as a Christian, a believer in Jesus Christ, if in fact you believe all that we've been talking about in the book of Hebrews, that he is that Messiah. We have that great assurance. You know, sometimes boldness can be wrong. I think I mentioned the word cocky. There's a wrong boldness. That was manifested by a famous king. His name was King Isaiah. He's in the Old Testament. We read about him in Second Chronicles. Do you know the difference between the Book of the Kings and the Book of the Chronicles? You know the difference between those two? Other than they seem to be very long and confusing Well, the book of the Kings is about the history of Israel's kings. Israel was the northern kingdom. It was their vantage point and their royal records. Whereas the Book of the Chronicles is the history of Judah's kings, the southern kingdom, their perspective, and their royal chronicles. So 2 Chronicles is near the time towards the end, especially in the 26th chapter. This was probably one of their last good kings, but listen to what he did. But when Uzziah was strong, his heart was lifted up to his destruction, for he transgressed against the Lord his God, and went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense upon the altar of incense. Uzziah had done many great things. He was uh an engineer, a chief engineer. He led many great projects in building the wall, Hezekiah's Tunnel, where he stopped up the spring of Ceylon and brought it into the city so that uh marauding invaders from outside couldn't stop it up and choke the city of water. He invented it says cutting engines of war. He made things that could be set up on the wall. So he was in the defense business. He had uh probably trebuchets under torsion that could chuck rocks and arrows great distances. A really nice way to keep people getting close to the wall He did a lot of wonderful things for his country and his city. And yet, towards the end, it says his heart was lifted up to his destruction. He became very proud, and so he got the wrong kind of boldness. Now there's a good kind of boldness the scripture talks about as well, and we read that in Acts 4. 13. Acts 4. 13 is when the uh religious rulers in the early days of the church when the apostles were beginning to spread the message It says, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Here's some converted fishermen, run-of-the-mill, average guys, you know, not the top of the class, but not the bottom of the class either, just some average people. And lo and behold, they had been with Jesus Christ, and they had great boldness because they had seen the risen Christ. It impacted their lives, and you saw that work out. By application, boldness is what we ought to have in light of what Jesus has done for us. It is a truism, and I don't know how to Put it forward, it says we have boldness. It is a bold assurance that we should have because of what Christ has done. There's no more shadows. We don't need a Levitical priest, we don't need to bring all the animals. Can you imagine having to stuff a 75-pound lamb in the trunk of your car to bring it here so Joe and I could slit its throat and sprinkle blood everywhere? Can you imagine having to do that every Sunday? Once a quarter? Can you imagine? I mean seriously, Jeffrey, you got room in your car for a four-legged stinking flea-bitten animal outfit? Are you kidding me? We don't have to have these shines and shadows. In fact, it talks about a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us. That word consecration is also related to the word inauguration. We're going to have a joyful event January 20th. We have a change of administration. I cannot wait for January 20th Twelve noon. We have a new sheriff and a new sheriff's administration in town. There's nothing significant in and of that event itself. That event is not going to technically put him into office. That's just the ceremony. That's the inauguration. It's the votes that made the difference. It's the it's the campaign and all these other things he did to get people to support him. It was a lot of money spent to influence minds and hearts Anytime you have a large ceremony like that with the pomp and the show, that's the inauguration. Weddings are like that as well. It's not so much the the pomp and the circumstance and the flowers and the matching decorations, as nice as they may be, that's the inauguration, that's the consecration. That's the matter around it. That puts a seal of approval on it, a stamp saying, This barely has happened. And it says Jesus Christ has consecrated for us, he's inaugurated us into something called a new and living way. That's interesting Who often referred to himself as the way? I know you guys know this. Somebody read this passage in front of us here. Somebody read John 14, 6. Jesus said to them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Yeah, Jesus called himself the way. He also called himself the truth. I want to focus on that phrase the way for a moment. The way. There's some churches that call themselves the way. Now, for a moment, look back again at verse 20 and consider the context, particularly the prior passages. It says he's given us a new way. How are things new? In what ways are things new? What is it that's new? I know you don't. What are some ways that things are new? Considering Everything we've covered so far in the book of Hebrews, what we've been comparing and contrasting, what is it that's new? way was to uh offer up sacrifices and things of that nature for uh Forgiveness of their sins now believing in Christ or being born again is Any class. Well, it's still the same, but they know it now. Yeah, no more offerings and sacrifices, okay? If you don't have offerings and sacrifices, whose job gets cut? All the priests, the Levitical priests, yeah. So there has been ways when government's been slashed in the past. What else is new? Oh yeah, there's a new heart. The old couldn't do that. Couldn't change the heart. Yeah, so there's a change of heart. Yeah. What else is new? There's quite a lot if you stop and think about it for a moment And we later come to that along with three defeats that we're Yeah, fundamentally it's a new way of coming to God through the blood of Christ, not through the blood of animals. That's very succinctly put. Good Jeff? God's grace. Yeah. The grace of God shines more clearly in the new. There's much more grace there, there's much more graciousness there. There's I was gonna say a a new law, not ten commandments written on stone, but the law of God written in the heart man. Yeah, uh a new way for the law to come to the sinner. Yeah, yeah, that's right. There's a better hope, isn't there? A better hope There's better promises. What about some of the land promises? If you were a Jew, what were the promises you had under the old covenant? Yeah, they were expecting a physical king on the throne, right? What uh was the extent of their land boundary Anybody know the extent? What was the what could they hope for? What what was the land that the Jews had? What what do we call it today? Israel, yeah. The the nation of Israel, which, you know, uh the Jews, uh the excuse me, the Romans captured and renamed Palestine. Um That was the extent of it. And their hope would be that that would be that portion of land is theirs forever. But what's the what's the land that we have under the new The new covenant. There is some land that comes with it. Israel, I mean, Jerusalem Uh just the city? Well that certainly incl includes that. Well what do you mean the whole thing? You're right. I'm trying to figure out how big of a thing you got. Well the new is it Jerusalem and the whole area there. In the new covenant. Yeah. New covenant. Yeah, new covenant. Not the old. In the new. What's the land associated with the new City built four square, new heaven and new earth. Yeah. There's a whole new planet. It's a whole new king. It's a whole new ball game You're the new planet. Thought about that. That's a little better, wouldn't you say? That's uh You know, this this world is waxing old. I saw a video recently about the new crisis that we're about to uh have to worry about. Now first it was the planet getting too warm, now it's the planet getting choked up with too much plastic Turns out that it uh it gets clogging up eleven different spheres of ecology and not only waters but microplastics every time you do your laundry. You know your clothes have plastic in them, right? It's called nylon, right? Anybody have pure cotton clothing? No, you hate it because you gotta iron it all the time and it's wrinkly. The wrinkles stay there forever All your clothes have nylon and little bits and pieces of that nylon come out. And it gets into the sewage in the water system, which goes out to the ocean, which the fish eat, and everything else. And all of a sudden our whole water system has little bits of plastic getting out. It's getting into us. And the amount of plastic we're producing every year is exponentially exploding. That's just the water system, folks. It gets better. You're feeding the chickens and the cows. What are you feeding them? Water. That's the new crisis. This world is waxing old. It's wearing out. It's got humans, filthy humans on it. We tend to make a mess of things. And you're getting a brand new planet, which can't be defiled. I'd say that's a better hope. I'd say that's a better promise. I'd say that's new. That's just one aspect. In fact, the more you think about what is in that new covenant and the new promises and the new life that comes with it, you'll never die. So another business that's going out in the New Covenant is doctors and hospitals. There won't be any of them. Another job that's going to get cut is police officers, firemen. Undertakers. Undertakers. Wow, that's a racket, isn't it? I mean, all of it, there's a radical change. A radical change. And because of that, he says you have boldness because you have a new and living way. Jesus called himself the door of the sheep, and if any man enter in, he'll be saved. Go in and out and find pasture. I was fascinated in verses 21 through 22. Actually begins in verse 19. There are Notice the three things that we have. It uses the word having, right? So you may have to look at your Bible because you may have to flip around a little bit in your handout. Verse 19, how does it start? Having, therefore, brethren, boldness to enter in. That's something we have. We have that having. Alright? Now look at verse 21. And having a high priest Over the house of God, a high priest who accepts us, a high priest who's pulling for us. He's our advocate. We didn't have an advocate per se in the old covenant. High priest is just kind of the judge. He may or may not may not accept you. He may or may not be favorably disposed to you. But in the new, you have high priest Jesus Christ, who's your father and your brother. And your husband, he's all of that to you. The relationship is comprehensive for you. He's pulling for you. That's who you have as a high priest. And verse 22, having our hearts sprinkled and our bodies washed. We're consecrated. The benefits of the new covenant, we're already starting to see application of them Isn't that interesting? It says having boldness, having a high priest, having your heart sprinkled. Those are three things we possess. It's not going to get. It means you have them. You actually right now have those things as a believer in Jesus Christ. Let's think about that hearts being sprinkled and our bodies washed. That is a pretty clear reference To the application of the New Covenant. Jesus didn't conduct heart surgery, split open your sternum, put a reverse vice group in it, spread it apart. Sprinkle water on, close it back up, staple it together. No, no, no, no. There's nothing that crude. He's talking about this application and the fulfillment of some promises of the old. There's two classic places, Ezekiel 36 and Isaiah 52. I'll start with Isaiah 52 in verse 15. It says In reference to the Messiah, so, in this manner, so shall he sprinkle many nations. So shall he sprinkle many nations. This is the place where the eunuch, the Ethiopian eunuch, riding in his chariot, going to Jerusalem to worship, this is where he was reading. When he asks Philip about baptism, so shall he sprinkle many nations. That's what he was reading, and then he gets to 53, and Philip preaches Christ to him. Ezekiel 36, God tells the prophet this. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean. From all your filthiness and from all your idols will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you. That's what Lisa was talking about, a new heart And a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh. And I will give you an heart of flesh. Normally flesh in the Bible is bad. They that do mind the things of the flesh, you know, will die. Normally flesh is bad. This is one good use of the word flesh, because it's contrasted to stone We had a heart of stone. It was insensitive to the pricks of God. You can poke a stone all day long and it doesn't hurt. But if you have a heart of flesh. A little prick, a little poke, a little pressure, and it's sensitive to it. And that's what the believer has. He has a very sensitive heart, sensitive to the things of God He says, I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments and do them. What's my point? My point is this. These are things we have. We actually possess them right now. Part of the difference is that they're based on the merits of one man, the God man Jesus Christ. He freely dispenses them to his children. That's something that is very new. And I would submit it continues to be new. There are things that pop up theologically, which among theologians who have sought to be faithful to the Lord realize that any new thing theologically that comes down the pike, apart from the Bible, is to be avoided. Jesus is the last new thing that there is. There is nothing newer than that And it's so radically different. One of the reasons I believe the Bible is written by God is because it consistently shows two things. It consistently shows in a very plain and open way the deceitfulness, the wickedness the tendency of man towards sinful actions and behaviors. It consistently shows that, ranging from the most evil to some that you would think would never fall like a king Isaiah or a King David. It show it honestly shows man for who he is. I don't know men who would write historically about themselves that way. Archaeologists know that when you read the history of the Assyrians, they never lost a battle. If you read the history of the Egyptians, They never lost a battle. Everything was swimmingly grand. There was never any mistakes in their kingdom. They never write honestly and openly about themselves. You don't find that. Even among their prophets Who were under the thumb of the king, they would never write negatively about their kingdom. The victor always writes the history, and they're always going to write it favorably. with an eye towards themselves. But you don't find that in Scripture. You find that the truth about man is there in its naked, bald, open, plain for all the world to see. And it looks shameful sometimes. You go, really? I'm still, I mean, I kind of give Noah a pass, but one of the things the Bible records is After he pulls off the ark, he plants a vineyard, and it takes three years, before I mean he didn't just roll down to the local liquor store, it takes three years for the vineyard to grow and produce grapes. Before he can mash him, and it takes a while before you make wine. But this is purposeful. He's doing this for a long time, and eventually he gets drunk in his tent and uncovered, and this shameful thing happens and a curse falls upon Ham. And you go, wow. For 120 years that brother did stellar. And now this You know, every single one of the saints, there's very, very few that have anything negative said against them, but I'll tell you one individual that's consistently spoken well of. And in fact, amazes us as we consider the pressure that he was under, the grievances that he faced, the injustices and the travesty of justice and the kangaroo courts and all of the nonsense and the Stupidity he had to deal with and the tenderness he showed to some giddy women is the Lord Jesus Christ. It's astounding. He's the only one spoken of well throughout all the scripture. He's the hero from Genesis 1 to Revelation 22. All throughout, consistently. He's the only hero. And so When you're basing away to God based on the merits of one individual, that's new. Every false religion out there is based on something somebody else, other than Jesus Christ, has done. Something, a little playbook that you are supposed to do? Don't you see how that's old? That's really functionally no different than what the Jews had You bring an animal, you cut its throat, you go to the priest, you're good. Wash, rinse, repeat. Give me something to do. In its most basic, simple form This is the old way. Now the Jews had an old way that had a purpose to it. It was a little spotlight, a little tiny light that would shine on someone to come, the Lord Jesus Christ. The new way to God, that living way to God, has nothing to do with you. It has nothing to do with another individual. who is not the God man. It's altogether based, baked, banked, buttressed, entirely sitting on top of one individual, Jesus Christ. That's both humbling. But it also gives you great oldness because you're motivated. You're look, he as a man did these things, trusting the Father. If he could get through it, maybe I can too Is there any situation that Jesus hasn't been in that you can't be inspired by and to consider in your own life? From his earliest days of his youth to his latter days before he punched out, he faced incredible circumstances and he got through it. And so that is something very significant about this new way. Like I said, I'm going to do short shrift to verses 23 to 25, and I will get back to those next week because I don't want to go short on them. There's a lot of good things. But just like we saw In 1921 and 22, that word having, there's also three phrases there that show up. And it's the word let us Having, having, having, because of Jesus, we have this, we possess this, we possess this. Therefore, let us. I mean the oratory is excellent here, really. It's it's it's like it's a great Great, great oration here. Let us draw near. We can draw near to God. You know, if you've done some pretty evil things in life If there's some things you look back on and you're maybe quite embarrassed. Now, those of you who've had Christian families and have been spared from being given over to the ravages of sin and stupid lifestyles, uh You're not missing anything, I'm telling you. But I'm telling you, it's really nice for even the lowliest of sinners to know that they can draw near to God They can draw near to him. It says, let us hold fast the profession of our faith. We can draw near, and we've got to hang on to something. Well we have to hang on to, Jeffrey, is faith. You can't give up faith. You've got to believe. Why is faith important? Well, that's your lifeline. You're hanging on to the merits of one man, which means you've got to believe what this one man has done and is doing and will do He's not dead. He's risen from the grave. He's seated at the right hand of the throne of glory. From thence he shall come to judge the living and the dead And so you lay hold on him. You hang on to him. That's your life. Let us hold fast the profession of faith. Because this new way is based on one guy. And I shy to use the word guy even, he's the God man. And lastly, the other let us is let us consider one another and not forsake the assembling. But to exhort one another. Considering, not forsaking, exhorting. That's the other let us. And so my observations, there's this new way is one person, the Lord Jesus. Our earlier discussion is thinking about an individual who has done something that brings you boldness. You've seen what they have accomplished and it's been very impressive and it's inspirational to you Why do some people live such a defeated Christian life? Because they don't know what they have in Christ Jesus. They don't know who their captain is. They're ignorant of what Jesus Christ has done. They haven't thought it through They haven't realized how sure those promises are to them. Maybe they're still thinking, well, I'll go to church when I when I get good enough someday. Oh no, no. If you find a perfect church, don't join it. You'll mess it up. Right? That's a trite old saying. And I'm not saying there is a perfect church, and I'm not saying to not go to a faithful church. My point is this, it's the merit of one individual. And so people leave live a defeated Christian life because they're not thinking about who Jesus Christ is. The new way is basically one person the Lord Jesus, and that means that there will be an impact on your life When you truly understand who he is, what he's done, what he's promised, how he's always delivered on his promises, how you can be assured those promises apply to you and to you personally And how you can know in fact he is operating in your life, it's a glorious thing And therefore, believers in Christ operate as a collective, because God's promises are to you individually and to the church of God collectively. He is cleaning a bride. That's a bunch of people that are brought together in a figurative form known as his church. We are to operate as a unified collective, and Jesus' life work gives all of his people great boldness to direct all of us to useful ends. We'll explore that more next week and I I hope I haven't done this short shrift, but just think of that oldness. If you go away with one key word, that's the word. Oldness. You don't have it, you have to think about it. What is it I don't know about the Godman? Well let's close there. Pastor, would you close us in prayer, please? Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, for your truth. We thank you, Lord, for who Jesus Christ is and the knowledge of this truth, Father. Indeed, the unsaved man, the unbeliever, lives in great fear. He fears death, he fears sickness, he fears judgment. The Lord, the child of God, has boldness. Death wears thy sting. Lord, there's nothing in this life that can take away the joys of or the anticipation of heaven. And uh Lord, we we thank you that we have that blessed hope, uh, that we look look on looking onto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Father, bless these truths to our hearts. May we meditate on them. May we be reassured in them. Lord, when we find ourselves in fear, may you grant us that godly boldness to trust in Christ in all things. We thank you for your word expounded to us this morning. Bless it to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen