First John chapter five, and we'll be considering verses one through five of the chapter. First John chapter five, and I'll read verses one through five. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And every one that loveth him that begat, loveth him also that is begotten of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not grievous. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we come before this holy book, this Bible, this word of God that you have so graciously given to us. We pray, Lord, that the Holy Spirit would be the interpreter, as Christ promised, that when the Holy Spirit has come, he would guide us into all truth. And so, Lord, today may man's words not be seen or heard or considered. But Lord, may your word be inescapable before us. May your spirit open our understanding and open our hearts, Lord, and cause us to rejoice in the truth of God. And Father, we pray today that Christ will be magnified and honored and glorified. Father, we thank you that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing comes by the Word of God. Father, we thank you for these glorious truths and glorious explanations and glorious warnings that we find in your word. And Father, we pray that you would apply them to each of us this day. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ, Is born of God. Here John returns to the theme that we find throughout the Gospel of John In the Gospel of John, we find the words of Christ repeatedly: ye must be born again. And we read in our responsive reading: that which is born of flesh is flesh. But that which is born of spirit, it's spirit. It is something different than flesh. It is something other than flesh. It is something that cannot come from the flesh, because all the flesh can ever produce is the flesh. But there is that which is born of spirit. And Jesus said in John chapter six, again, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. John has heard Christ through his ministry for three years as he followed Christ again and again tell the people, ye must be born again. And so when we come to this book of John, and now to the final chapter, John is beginning to wrap up his argument. And we've seen throughout the book this theme of believing in Christ, this theme of love, and this theme of unity. And so John once again returned to these familiar words. And that's a lesson to us. Because John, throughout this book, is repeating what Christ had taught him. You see, the word of God is not the word of man. God used human authors to write his word, to record his word, but this is inspired. This is the very Word of God. I have nothing inspired for you this morning. But together we have the Word of God. And what a treasure. What a blessing. And we have the promise of the Holy Spirit that when the Comforter has come, he would testify of Christ, and he would guide us into all truth. And so as we come before the Word of God today, we come blessed to have it, and we don't come alone. We come with the Holy Spirit, who is the interpreter and applier of the Word. And so, when Christ spoke to the woman at the well, he said, He that believeth in me. Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. And if you glance further into chapter 5 of 1 John, in verse 10, which we didn't read, he that believeth in the Son hath the witness in himself But he that believeth not hath made him a liar, because he hath not believed the record that God gave his son. And then verse 13 of the same chapter, the last phrase And that I think, well, let's read the whole verse. These things are written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. So we need to stop here, folks. What does it mean to believe Well, James tells us that the devils believe and tremble. You see, when Christ encountered evil spirits, they knew who he was. They knew he had power. Did they believe on him? Well, they had an intellectual knowledge of his truth. They knew he was God. But that was a thing certainly far apart from saving faith And so what does it mean to believe? You see, to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ is not simply a mental knowledge of facts. Most people, when it comes to Christmas, and I don't like that word because there is no mass for Christ But when it comes to the season of the year when Christ was not born, he was probably born in the spring, but we celebrate the incarnation, most people you talk to would say, Well, yeah, I I believe that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. But that's a thing apart from believing, as John is expounding to us here. And we read of Nicodemus And there in verse 10, Christ said to him, Are you a master in Israel and knoweth not these things? You must be born again, Nicodemus. And he says, But how can I go back in my mother's womb and be born? You see, he did not believe in Jesus Christ. And so we're told here that we must believe, but it's quite obvious from Scripture that this believing is not simply an understanding That a certain set of facts are true, there's got to be something more. In Hebrews We read that without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6. And then in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 8 we read, For by grace you saved through faith. Faith. Without faith it's impossible to please him. For by grace you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast Now, the demon spirits that acknowledged that Jesus was the Christ. They had the knowledge and they knew it was true, therefore they believed the facts. But what was missing? Faith. And Nicodemus there in John 3 says, no man could do the works that you do, verse 4 three or four, I forget the exact verse. No man could do these works except God be with him. He acknowledges that there's something about Jesus that's different. God must be with him. So he had a form of belief. He had seen miracles, and those miracles had said, hey, this guy's special. So what was he lacking? He didn't have faith. He'd never been born again And so we repeat the words of Christ again and again and again, ye must be born again. For there's no other way. That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. But whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ. And oh, we have to stop on that word again. You see, the man who celebrates Christmas believes that Jesus was a man. He was born. But that title, we think of Jesus Christ as his name, but rather it's Jesus and his title. Jesus the Messiah. Jesus the anointed of God. Jesus the Son of God. He that believeth that Jesus is more than a man. He that believeth that Jesus is more than the son of Joseph. He that believeth that Jesus is more than the son of a virgin. But he that believeth that Jesus is the Christ. But the preaching of the cross is foolishness to them that believe not. It was foolishness to the Jews. This can't be our Messiah. Can any good thing come out of Galilee? That little town? How can it be? No. Our Messiah is glorious Our Messiah will ride in a white horse to deliver us. He was despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. There's no beauty that we should desire him. You see, the true Messiah is not on a white horse in glory yet, yet. The true Messiah is on a bloody cross. The true Messiah came to seek and to save that which was lost. The true Messiah came to give his life a ransom for many. And you will never believe on him if God doesn't give you faith. For faith is the gift of faith And so we read again in our text whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ The Messiah. Something's happened to that person. Some dramatic change has happened. He is no longer simply born of flesh, but he's born of God. You see, there was a man named Saul. He was one of the most religious Pharisees of his day. He had more zeal than anyone else for truth. He had zeal for the law. He had zeal for righteousness. And he was very vocal in his zeal. And very active in his working out of his own religion. And he went about seeking Christians everywhere that he might arrest them and drag them into prison, that he might punish them. He persecuted them without measure. And he was as lost as he could be. But on the road to Damascus, something happened to this man, Saul. He was given faith by God. He was born again He was transformed. And he could say from personal testimony and experience If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. The old Saul is passed away. And the new Paul is totally new. And of course, I've adjusted the verse a little bit for you to understand the point that we're considering. But if any man A Joe, or whatever your name is, put it in the verse. If you are in Christ You are a new creature. And old things are passed away, and all things are become new. And we see down the last part of our text in verse 5, faith is the victory that overcomes the world. And my friend, put your name in the verse, but if you are not a new creature and you have not been made something, then you were other than what you were born, you are not in Christ. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone that loveth him that begat, loveth him also that is begotten of him. You see, the one who truly has been transformed by the power of God One who has been begotten by Christ, begotten by the Father, he will in turn love those that are begotten by the Father. Christ, sorry, Paul never beat another Christian. He never persecuted another church. He never made another arrest, but rather he said, I could wish that I were accursed from Christ because he had such great love. For the lost, and love for the church. And he said, if I be offered up on the sacrifice of your faith, He was a new creature. He knew what he was talking about. He lived the testimony that he preached because he had been made new. He had been made to love the brethren because he knew the love of God. But Jeremiah tells us that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Our hearts, by nature, are deceitful more than anything else And our hearts speak lies to our minds. Our hearts speak lies to our conscience And so Christ declared, many will say to me that in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we done have not we prophesied in thy name, and have not we done cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works, then will I profess unto them I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Folks, friends, this is serious stuff. We're commanded to preach Christ and Him crucified. I was at a pastor's conference a few weeks ago. I've shared With some of you, some of the blessings that I received there. It's an amazing conference. In the first service of that conference, in an auditorium with 380 preachers. Certainly you wouldn't have a salvation message there. You're preaching to preachers The man who had been assigned by man and ordained by God to preach that message stood up in front of 380 preachers and said, You must be born again. And he said, certainly in a crowd this size, there are men in this room who are not born again. And he was preaching to preachers. You see, the heart's deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. And so, what we're considering this morning, we must consider. We must preach. We must proclaim. It doesn't matter, the audience, the message is the same. You must be born again. Because the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. The standard of our congregation and of our presbytery is the Word of God. The Word of God is the final rule of faith and practice. But we have a secondary standard. We have the Westminster Confession, which is an exposition on the Word of God. Let me read to you a brief paragraph from the Westminster, from chapter 10, which is the chapter on effectual calling. And the fourth paragraph. The third paragraph talks about infants that die in infancy and their uh status before God. But then paragraph four says, others Not elected, although they may be called by the ministry of the word, and may have some common operations of the Spirit Yet they never truly come unto Christ, and therefore cannot be saved. The Westminster Divines understood that there would be those within the community of saints. Those within the fellowship of the body of Christ, who had been attracted by the call of the word, And who had some common operations of the Spirit of God. They showed some evidence of some sort, but they had never been born again. But the Westminster Divines, when they wrote those words, were not speaking alone. For our Lord gave the parable the tares, or sorry, the parable the sower. And in the parable of the sower, we find that some seed fell on stony ground, and the seed on stony ground was received with joy, and it sprang up. It gave evidence of life. But there was never a root, and it didn't last. So, my friend, we must each look into our own hearts and into our souls, work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. Beseech, Lord Lord, is it I? Is it I? Is it I Because the heart is deceitful above all things. Christ said in Matthew 22, verse 44, Many are called, but few are chosen. But whosoever believeth by faith that Jesus is the Messiah, he is born again. And he loveth the brethren as an evidence that he's born again. Verse two By this, we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep His commandments. By this we know. This is the test. This is how we know. This is the evidence when we love God and keep his commandments. Turn with me to John, the Gospel of John, chapter 15. You can keep your finger or keep a bookmark there in 1 John, because we're going to return to it, of course. But turn with me to the Gospel of John, chapter 15, and verses 9 through 14, we're going to consider there. The verse we're considering in 1 John is by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. The commentary on scripture is scripture, and John 15 gives us a commentary on what it is to love truly. John 15, verse 9, as the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. That word as we understand in our English is a word that means there's a comparison here. There's a similarity here In the same way that the Father loved me, I have loved you. Continue ye in my love. If ye keep his commandments, okay, we're talking about there how we know we love God. If we love uh we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments If you keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. Verse 11. These things have I spoken unto you, that your joy may, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. This is my commandment that ye love one another as Same word there in verse 12 that verse 9 begins with. A comparison. In the same way, as I have loved you. And then Christ tells us how he loved us. Verse 13. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Ye are my friends indeed, if you do what sever I've commanded you, if you keep my commandments. Now, what is it that Christ did? Well, he laid down his life, but what does that mean? Well, remember in the garden when Christ prayed, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Yet, not as I will, but as thou will. Christ set aside his own will For the will of the Father on behalf of the elect. That's how He loved us There's no greater love than this, that a man lay down himself. Everything he has, every plan for the future. Everything he wants, everything he thinks should be this way or should be that way. It's all just lay down in the love of Christ. That's how he loved us. That's how he tells us to love one another. That's the commandment. And he says, ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I've commanded you. And so naturally we can extrapolate that. If you don't know what I command, do what I've commanded you, you're not my friends. And that's exactly what we're talking about here. That's what the text is telling us in 1 John. And so here's a test. We love God, therefore we love his children. We keep his commandments. Therefore we love his children. If we do not love his children, we do not love him either. If we do not love his children, we are disobedient to the commandments of God, because the product of God's loving me is me loving the brethren. Turn with me to another passage, please. Let's go to Galatians chapter five. And there we're going to consider the fruit of the Spirit. Probably most of you can quote these verses. Galatians chapter 5, and we'll start in verse 19. Galatians 5, verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifested. What's the flesh? Well, that which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. You see this link back to our context. The flesh is the old man The flesh is Saul. That which is born of Saul is a flesh. What was born of Saul? Hatred. Despising the church, persecuting, prison. That which is born of flesh is flesh. Now the works of the flesh are manifested, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft Those are pretty heavy sins against God, aren't they? But look what the context continues: hatrance, or hatred, variance, emulation, wrath, and strife. It's all in the same sentence. It's all linked together on an even plane. There's not big sins and little sins. It's all joined together. Seditions, heresies, verse twenty-one, envyings, murders, drunkenness, rebellious, and such revelings, and such like, of which I tell you As I have told you before in time past, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. If we're born if we believe that Christ is the Messiah, we're born of God and we love the brethren. Verse 22 But the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit that comes from the Spirit, the fruit that comes from the new man, the fruit that comes from the heart of the true believer is love. Joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness Goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. If we live, verse 26, if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. And then returning to our text there in 1 John chapter 5, we consider the third verse. Appreciate your patience with me turning to a lot of passages this morning. 1 John 5, verse 3: For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not grievous. Isn't that glorious? We keep his commandments, and they're not grievous. That word grievous is a word that essentially means heavy. It's not a burden that we have to drag around with us. You see, the man who says, Oh, living for Christ is so hard. He's not been saved, folks. And that does not mean that living for Christ is easy, but it does mean it's joyous. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for my burden is light. You see how God's word fits together. His commandments are not grievous How many like to change dirty diapers? Let me see some hands. I don't see any. How many have you ever changed them? Yeah. Why? Because you love. Because you love. It's not pleasant. How many of you ever changed adult diapers? I see some hands. I've changed quite a few. Hundreds, literally. You don't do it because it's pleasant. You don't do it because you want to do it. You do it because you love. You lay down your own will and desires because there's someone that you love Because their need outweighs your own. If it be possible, let this cup pass But not my will, but thine. That's the mark of true love. Nobody loves to clean up vomit. But we don't get angry with our child when they vomit. Because they're sick. They need mommy and daddy to take care of them and we love them. And so we don't mind the vomit. That's true love. That's what Christ is saying our love for each other should be. And that is the motive of the child of God, that I might love my brethren as he loved me. And if we don't have that love, we're not keeping his commandments. And if we're not keeping his commandments, we're not his friends. And if we're not his friends, we're not saved. And so we go back to verse one: Ye must be born again The word of God is clear. And so when our child is sick We don't say, oh, I don't want it. Stay away from me. When what that child needs is to crawl up into mommy and daddy's lap and be hugged and say, I love you, honey, and I know you're sick. And I feel it because you're sick, and I would rather be me sick than you. And I'll do anything, darling, to make you feel better. And I don't care if I get what you have, I love you. And right now you just need mommy to hold you and to help you get better. And my friend, that's what Christ did for us. He came to wicked, vile sinners, and he got our disease. He got the disease of sin, the wages of which is death, and he died of that disease. And he died for that disease because what we needed was healing and cleansing. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. And so this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. And they are not grievous if we truly keep the commandments of God, though they may be bitter to our taste. Yet we keep them because we love him. And we do whatsoever he has commanded us. You see, it's easy to obey when the heart is right. But when the heart is adamant against God Obeying the commandments of God becomes very grievous. Verse 4 of 1 John 5. And here we find the glorious victory. This I I I heard Faith is the victory played earlier, and I had no idea that that song was going to be played, but it fits so perfectly into what we're considering. Whosoever is born of God Not the fakers, not the hypocrites, not the Lord Lord crowd, but whosoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. And it takes us right back to verse 1, because we have to understand that believing is not mental ascent, it is the gift of faith. And so what is the victory that overcomes the world? It is our faith. So let's dissect that a little bit. What does that mean? Well, first of all, Jesus Christ overcame the world, and we in him overcome the world by faith. That's the victory. And again, John is pointing this out to us many times. We saw last uh a month ago in John 4 and verse 4. 1 John 4 and verse 4, the previous chapter where we are, ye are of God's little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You see, if Christ is in you, it's an evidence that there is true faith there, and he in you overcomes the world. And in the Gospel of John, chapter 16, and verse 33, these things have I spoken unto you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Christ has overcome the world, and we are in him by faith, and in him we overcome the world. This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. But then also, Jesus Christ has defeated Satan. And we in Christ have victory over Satan as well. In John, the Gospel of John chapter 12. Verse 31 and 32, Jesus says, Now is judgment. Now is the judgment of the world. Now shall the prince of the world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men to me. How did Christ cast out the Prince of the World on the cross. And you see, if I believe that Jesus is the Messiah, As I said earlier, we're not believing he's coming in on the white horse to deliver us from Rome. We believe in the bloody cross, the crucified one. The man of sorrows is acquainted with grief. And so Christ has overcome Satan, and we through faith in Christ overcome in Christ. And then again in the Gospel of John chapter 14 and verse 30, hereafter I will not talk much with you, for the prince of the world cometh and hath nothing in me. He has nothing in Christ. He is none of his. And remember I gave the illustration earlier of the demon spirits that knew who Christ was, but they had no opportunity for any redemption whatsoever because there was no And remember That we looked at the Westminster Confession, and it too talks of those who had some spark of good in them, but they knew not Christ. Christ and the seed among on stony ground, on stony hearts, it springs up. But there is never any life. In John sixteen, Christ declares that the judgment of the Prince of the world has come. that judgment was on the cross. But also we overcome the world because the world is passing away. But we in Christ abide forever. 1 John 2, verse 17, the world passeth away in the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of the Father of God abideth forever. And what is the will of God? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and keep his commandments. It's all right there. It's all the same thing. It all interlocks. And so this world is passing away. This world is permanent. It won't last forever. But I have overcome this world, because when the world passeth away in the lust thereof, I will be. with the Father. Faith is how I got there. And so faith is the victory that overcomes the world. And then we overcome the world because the war is already won. It is finished. It's finished. Christ declared the end of the war. Oh, we're still fighting battles every day. The skirmishes go on. There are still foes to fight, but the foes that we fight are more within ourselves than in him. In Satan, because his doom is sure. Yes, he's a roaring lion walking about seeking who he may devour, but it's our own lusts that war against us. The flesh lusteth against the flesh. And the Spirit against the Spirit, and the two are contrary one to another, Paul told us. And so in 1 John chapter 1, verse 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The battle, the war is won, but I'm still fighting the battle, and I have to confess my sins day after day. But faith is the victory that overcomes the world. In Proverbs 24, verse 16, For a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again, but the wicked shall fall into mischief. Psalm 37, verses 23 and 24. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hands. Ah, you see, I overcome the world. I fall, folks. I'm as big a sinner as anyone. I stumble, I fall, but the Lord upholds me with his hands. And I go to Christ and confess my sins, and they are forgiven, and I overcome the world. In Micah seven, verses eight and nine, Micah says, Rejoice not against me, O mine enemies. When I fall, I shall rise again. When I sit in darkness, the Lord shall be light unto me. I will bear the indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against him Until he plead my call and execute judgment for me, he will bring me forth to the light And I shall behold his righteousness. That text is Micah 7, verses 8 and 9. I would encourage you to make a note of it and go back to it sometime this afternoon. We're all sinners, folks. There's not one in this room that's not a sinner except for the presence of Christ with us. Because He's promised to be here. We're all sinners. We all fall. We all stumble. But we can overcome if we have faith. Faith is the victory. And so verse five of our text, 1 John chapter 5, verse 5. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God, and it takes us right back to verse 5. Verse 1. Dear friends, brethren, what is the state of your soul My intent this morning by the Spirit of God and in the Word of God is not to make you doubt your salvation. But it is to make you sure that you have salvation. It is to point each of us to Christ. And understand that our hearts are deceitful, and we must seek him not in the will of man, but seek him in the faith which God alone Are you born again? Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you, Lord, that your word is a sharp, two-edged sword. It cuts two ways. We thank you that your word divides asunder of soul and spirit and joints and marrow, and that your word is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. And so, Lord, we pray as David prayed: Search me, O God, and try my heart. See if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Oh Lord. We plead before you today that if there's anyone in our midst, Lord, that you would reach to them. With your saving grace, grant them faith to truly believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. Father, bless us here at Pilgrim. Lord calls us to love one another in the model of the love of Christ. Make us, Lord, in your image, we pray. May Christ be seen in us. May we truly be Christians. May we be imitators of the Messiah. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.