All right, let's open our study tonight with a word of prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you for this opportunity to gather around your word. And I ask one thing tonight, Father I asked for clarity. I asked that the simplicity of the gospel would be clearly, clearly spoken and revealed. And that it would comfort, challenge, and encourage a great many hearts. I ask this in Christ's name. Amen. The title of tonight's study Is Brother Vince meets a Muslim? Brother Vince meets a Muslim. Just recently, in February of 2004, my wife and I ate lunch at a local hole-in-the-wall, Mediterranean restaurant. There we met a young Muslim family who were rather nice and friendly, and who initiated a conversation about spiritual things. Well this fellow opened with some general comments about the world being full of evil, as evidenced by the rise of homosexuals. He and his wife said they homeschooled their children to better shield them from all these evils. He talked of the need to repent of sins and that sin is man's problem. And so far it resonated with what Angela and I believe, but then he started to quote from the Quran. Well we responded with some Bible verses and then he got deeper into his beliefs. In the space of 10 to 15 minutes, he talked about three points which I want to summarily address today. The first one was this. He did not believe in a blood atonement for sins, but rather a self-atonement whereby our good works would satisfy a quote-unquote merciful God. As an example, he said that hell was temporary, like purgatory, which would refine us to be able to enter into heaven. Secondly, he said, he added that he did not believe that Jesus died on the cross. Rather, it was Judas who died on the cross, and there was a uh rumor propagated that it was really Christ. And what Jesus did instead was went straight to heaven and will return one day. Well, of course, if Jesus didn't die on the cross, then guess what else goes out the window? The resurrection. And the third point was that he also looked for Jesus, the coming Messiah, to return and to physically reign in Jerusalem. Palestine, and that all who look for him, Jews, Muslims, and Christians, will follow the one true Messiah when He returns. Well I said uh I was really trying to eat my lunch and he was ignoring his lunch and evangelizing me and I got tired of hearing all this. And I said, you know, I'm confused, and I cited several verses of scripture that contradicted his views. And basically I cut it short, seeing he was more interested in evangelizing me with his religion rather than in listening. As I parted, he offered me some of his fried chicken and gave me his moss's business card. The meeting was cordial and unflustering. Girls, shh. I decided to do a Bible study addressing this Muslim's assertions Figuring three things. Number one, it would be of general interest to you. Number two, it might help you understand how to address these kinds of beliefs And number three, it would be helpful to reaffirm in our own minds why we believe the way we do. Now this man was nice From all outward appearances, uh it looked like a respectable family. The children were well behaved, they were two nice young girls, in fact they were the same age spread as our two daughters were One was six and one was four. We have one that's five and one that's three. Nice man. It's obvious he had what we would call a works gospel And that he put more stock in the words of a man, Muhammad, a prophet without any prophecy or miracle, rather than the God of his servants, the prophets, who had numerous miracles and prophecies, and in his son Jesus Christ who fulfilled those prophecies. and confirm them with more miracles as well. You know, I suppose if some folks were not really anchored in the scriptures or at least didn't have the gospel preached often in their ears, so that this sort of thing struck them as some strange thing, somebody might get confused. Somebody might really begin to question, well why do I believe this way? Maybe he's okay. I mean he seems like a nice guy. There's a whole lot of other churches that have different views on sin and the atonement as well. And you can be shaken in your faith if you start to listen to these people and seriously question, well, it's just this book versus that book. Why do I believe this? Well I hope that after this study tonight, all of that kind of nonsense will be gone I hope you will be absolutely assured of the truth of the matter. Because it really boils down to one big question. What does it take To atone for my sins. What is required? What does God require? How big is the price tag? And I seek to answer this in a systematic form from the Bible. And the first question may be, somebody thinking that this ought to be a a fair kind of response, well Vince, why answer from the Bible? Why not try to reason with him? Why not try to logically persuade him? Well, I direct your attention to Luke chapter 16 and verse 31. There's a number of verses I'll cover tonight. We'll not turn to all of them because we will not have the time, but there are some Which deserve your attention. And in Luke 16 is the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. And they both died, and Lazarus wound up in the bosom of Abraham, and the rich man ended up in hell. Do you remember the parable? And there's this conversation going on. It's a parable. There's no real conversations going on between God and the sinner in hell. Between hell and heaven. There's a great gulf there. But in the last verse, as the rich man is in absolute torment, he's concerned about his five brethren and says, send Lazarus to them. They'll listen to him. And the answer of God is, and he said unto him, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, they don't hear the Bible. Neither will they be persuaded. The one rose from the dead. And one in fact did rise from the dead, and his name was Jesus Christ. And they still don't believe that. You see, the scriptures are such that we have a very powerful word. Peter describes this in 1 Peter 2. You don't have to turn there. Excuse me, 2 Peter 1 he says That we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were I witnesses of his majesty? And he talks about this mountain experience he had, that he was up there on the mountain with James and John, as well as himself, and they heard a voice from heaven speak, This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. Hear him Now that's pretty impressive to hear God's voice thunder from heaven, to see Moses and Elijah appear and then disappear, to hear the voice say, you better listen to Christ That would impress me. How about you? Peter says, this voice which came from heaven, we heard When we were with him in the Holy Mount, we have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto you do well that you take heed. As a light that shines in a dark place. That more sure word of prophecy he's talking about is this. The Bible. This is more sure Then a voice booming from heaven. Believe it? That's the power that God ascribes to his word. He's magnified his word above his name. You see, the bottom line is, if they don't hear the word of God, they're sure not going to hear you. They're sure not going to hear your reasoning. Your vain attempt at logically reasoning people into the kingdom of heaven will utterly and miserably fail. Men are not convinced of the doctrine and then brought to Christ. They're convinced of Christ and then brought to the doctrine. And except they hear his voice, they don't abide in him. 1 John 4 uses this kind of language. It says in verses 5 and 6, they are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world hears them. We are of God. He that knows God hears us. He that's not of God hears not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. You see, a believer can actually make a fairly good determination as to whether or not somebody might actually be a child of God or not. He can certainly say, if they don't hear me, as I come to them with the word of God, if they're not getting it They're not of God. The world hears them and understands it. Oh, that's a condemnation. No, sir. That's the word of God. That's what the scripture says. 2 John 1, 9 and 10, Whosoever transgresses and abides not in the doctrine of Christ has not God. He that abides in the doctrine of Christ has both the Father and the Son. So you see it's a very Bible-centric mission. It's a very Bible-centric determination. If they hear the scriptures, you've won your brother. If they don't, God's not dealing with them yet. They don't know God. And so the issue really is, what does the scripture say about this? We must of necessity answer that. Well let me break down this big question that I've asked into several very important and logical ones. Again, the big question, what does it take to atone for my sins? Can I really do a few good works? He even gave this absolutely ludicrous story of a man who had killed a hundred people. And he did tremendous tremendous murderer and uh went to the Prophet Muhammad and said, uh what can I do? And he says, Well uh good people are around other good people so you need to go to this city where good people are at And as the man was en route to this city, he died and didn't make it. And God determined that the man was just a little bit, uh, wasn't quite far enough to the other city So he moved one city closer to him so that in the balances he was at least closer to the city of good people than the city of bad people, and he was accepted. Just the the least amount of effort was all that was required to be accepted in heaven. You know, frankly, this is not really an alien idea. A lot of people really think, myself included, prior to salvation. That uh if I'm just religious for a while, I go to Brother Vince's Bible study or I listen to it, maybe I'll go to church, give a sizable offering Uh I do something for an air of religious respectability. Uh I uh uh help some poor slob out in the church that needs some help. Uh uh I I I Go help a widow or some old lady from paint her house. I do something good. Surely God's going to look on that and boy, He's going to multiply that tremendously. Doesn't that count for something? I mean, I'm not like Hitler. Well, the first question is, what is sin? What is sin? Simply put. While you're in the book of 1 John, look at 1 John 3 and verse 4. Sin is very simply and can be very simply defined. It says, Whosoever commits sin transgresses also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. Sin basically is a violation of the law of God. That violation can occur one of two ways. By commission, you commit something against it. That's the way most of us think of it. Or omission. You neglect to do something that the law demands. I didn't love my neighbor as I ought, for instance. Now, this is a very simple point. Look at verse 8 of the same chapter. He that commits sin is of the devil, for the devil sins from the beginning. John, when he uh excuse me, Jesus, when he was speaking to some Pharisees, told them, or some Jews, he says, You're of your father the devil. He was a murderer from the beginning. He who sins is a child of the devil. That's a pretty heavy-duty thing. Now the bottom line is that sin is a violation of the law of God. And if we don't know what God's law is then we will be tempted to assume that we know what it is, or we'll go with what some other respectable man has to say about God's law. But there's one problem with that. Ignorance won't help you in the day of judgment. There's no leniency from any court for being ignorant. So I asked my next question, what's the big deal about breaking God's law? That's a reasonable question. First of all, what's sin? It's breaking God's law. What's the big deal with that? You know, if I break the speed limit and I get caught, I get a traffic ticket. Having been through this recently, I can speak to this somewhat intelligently My driver's license is at risk, as well as my auto insurance rates. How do I buy down this risk? Well, I go to court, uh I explain my circumstances to the judge. get the sentence reduced and pay out of my pocketbook. Off the books. It wasn't too bad. Now if I did something more severe, I may have to have a little bit more exercise, I may have to get a lawyer, there may be more involved, but that seems straightforward. Well, is that how this works with God on a point-by-point basis? No. Look at the book of James. James chapter 2. James chapter 2 and verse 10. gives us this profound and shocking statement about God's law There we read, for whosoever shall keep the whole law. Great. Jeffers an upright man. He's a wonderful, warm individual. He's a marvel of the lawkeeper. Up. He keeps the whole law, yet offends, yet stumbles in one point. He's guilty of them all Galatians 3. 10 says, cursed is every one that continues not in all things which are written in the book. And if you want to read God's curses, start in Deuteronomy 28, right around verse 15, to the end of the chapter, in verse 68. You see, the big deal is this: that unlike man's law God's law all hinges together. It's based on two key tenets, namely, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And all thy soul and all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. That's what it's based on To continue the previous analogy, if man's laws were constructed like God's laws, my lowly traffic ticket would mean that in the eyes of the court I would also be guilty of capital murder. I would be guilty of insurrection, trying to overthrow the government. I'd be guilty of grand theft, larceny. I would be guilty of, I mean you name it, I'd have broken every single law in the land. I would be appearing on America's Most Wanted. I'd be on the FBI's top ten list. There'd be a $25 million bounty on my head, and in no time flat, I'd be apprehended and on death row awaiting. Execution. That's what Romans 623 says. For the wages of sin is what? Death The paycheck, the payment of sin is death. That's what it buys you Somebody may say, well, gee, that doesn't sound very fair. That sounds rather extreme. Well, that's because they're reasoning according to man's laws. In my example, the laws of the land are basically founded on the idea that folks should just get along with each other. Make sure you pay taxes and don't end up becoming an expense to the government. That is, ending up in jail or on welfare or in the emergency room, etc. That's basically the the tenets, the the founding principles of the laws of this land. Just as a state, let's let the people dwell in peace and not try to overthrow the government. That's their basic intent However, God's laws has a different basis, and it's based on perfect love. You must love God and your neighbor perfectly. Failure to do any one of God's laws perfectly Personally, eternally, and continually results in a direct violation of not loving God or your neighbor Because all of God's laws are a direct extension of loving God or loving the neighbor. All of them are broken when you break one in one way or another. Good example. Tenth commandment. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thy neighbor's wife, etc. You shall not covet Let's say I covet. Well, if I covet, I've just made an idol out of something other than God. I've not loved my neighbor because I've not desired his good, I've rather desired mine, and to steal from him You see how it begins to break the others? They're intric intrically tied together. What is this penalty for sin called death is my fourth question. What is this penalty for sin called death? You know, it sounds like an easy question. We all know what death is, right? We die. Our relatives hold a funeral service. I end up in a pine box six feet under the ground. That's where death is. But the scriptures indicate that man has three components. Now they're integrated. They're all wrapped up in one package. There's three components to pay attention to. Body, soul, and spirit. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 23 talks about that. Body, soul, spirit. What does death mean to a person? What does it mean to these three components? Well, let's look at them. Let's go to Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Ecclesiastes chapter 3. There in the 18th verse We read this. I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men That God might manifest them and that they might see that they themselves are beasts. For that which befalls the sons of men befalls beasts. Even one thing befalls them. As the one dies, so dies the other. Yea, they all have one breath, so that a man has no preeminence above a beast, all is vanity, here it is, all go into one place All are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. Who knows the spirit of a man that goes upward and the spirit of a beast that goes downward to the earth Solomon here is speaking to the matter of the death of the body. Man is made of the dust. God formed Adam of the dust of the ground, breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and Adam became a living soul. He's alive. His body's made of dust. That's what we are. Vessels of clay. Vessels of dust. And in the same book of Ecclesiastes, and in the eighth chapter in verse eight, it says There's no man that has power over the Spirit to retain the Spirit, neither has he power in the day of death. That is, when God Almighty takes my spirit, I'm a body without a spirit And James says a body without a spirit is dead. If your body, if the spirit of life is taken from you, your carcass hits the ground faster than an orange dropped from the ceiling. Splat, down it goes. This is very basic. That's the definition of death. Not when my brain stops functioning, not when my heart stops beating, but when God the Spirit is removed from me Those who claim near or afterlife experiences, oh, I was dead and came back. No, the medical profession just declared you dead. You would be dead if God the Spirit was taken from you If the spirit of life was gone, you wouldn't have any experience or memory of any of those things. Your brain recorded some wild things because it was deprived of oxygen and blood for a season, but the spirit was still there That's God's definition of death. What about, however, my soul? I've talked about the body. It dies and goes into the dust. The soul is given by God. It's the spirit of life and it's hiked back up to heaven. What about my soul? You know, Jesus says, don't fear him who is able to destroy the body and afterward can do nothing to the soul. Rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell Well in hell the Spirit of God isn't in you. That's not called life in hell. Hell is nowhere referred to as life. What you have down there is the individual, body and soul. The body and soul that committed that sin. And enjoyed that sin and loved it, will be the same entity enduring eternal damnation and the wrath of the holy and just God in hell It says in Revelation chapter 21 and verse 8, it tells us about something called a second death A death that is dreadful. In Revelation 21, 8 it says, But the fearful and the unbelieving and the abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars. Well, if you didn't get caught on all the first ones, you got caught with a liar business. All liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Here the Apostle John talks about a second death. You see, when I'm in the grave, I don't feel or see anything. So maybe my soul just goes to sleep. What's the second death like? Well I think you know what I'm going to say. Because the second death isn't humorous at all. It's very dreadful The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture, in the cup of his indignation. And he shall be tormented, not annihilated, tormented. With fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and the presence of the lamb and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever. They have no rest day nor night Sin, here's my point, sin results in a complete destruction of the human being. both body through physical death, typically preceded by sickness and some debilitating disease. And my soul, eternal damnation, forever under the wrath of God. It is definitely not temporary. It's definitely not a A place of reform. It is a place of torment. It's not a place of purification, but an intense Wrath at the hands of a holy, just, overwhelmingly powerful Creator who has been highly offended. Fifth question. We're all sinners, aren't we? Sure, we're all sinners, but some seem to be just fine. What's my current state if I'm unsaved? Well, Ephesians tells us that we're dead in trespasses and sin. Dead in sins. You see, my current state is that I have a dead soul. The unsaved person walking around has the spirit of life. God's given him life. He's got it at birth, he'll lose it at death. It's from God. It's not God the Holy Spirit in a covenantal way, in a salvation way, but the Spirit of Life, who is from God, which is from God rather But his soul is dead. The Bible gives a lot of symbolic descriptions to describe a dead soul. There's a lot. Here's a sampling of them. Job says, How much more abominable and filthy is man which drinks iniquity like water? A dead soul loves sin. I take a sip of water here Tasted pretty good. Doesn't bother me. I I have no conviction. I have no guilt conscience over having drunk a cup of water, a little bit of it. I may have another one That's how sin is to the natural man. It's almost a refreshing to him to do evil. He delights in it. Isaiah 59, one of my dad's favorite passages, says, we walk in darkness, we're like the blind, we we grope about. I'm blind. A natural man is blind to God's truths. He has no spiritual eyes. Oh, he has physical eyes. He can see the stars. He can see other people. He can He can see children, he can see all kinds of things physically. He can go to college, he can get a degree, he can be very intelligent, he can have tremendous insights into the expansion of the universe or two atomic subparticles of quantum physics, but he's dead blind to the creator behind all that and to his word. Absolutely blind But I think the most telling and pivotal verse, at least in my opinion, is in Jeremiah 13 and verse 23. What is the state of a natural unsaved man? Jeremiah 13, verse 23, says this. Can the Ethiopian change his skin? No. Or the leopard his spots? Then may ye also do good that are accustomed to do evil. In other words, if I go out into the wild, And I find a leopard. And I take this beast inside my house and I put him in my basement and I say, Beast, I don't happen to like your spots. Would you please change them? I would rather see stripes on you. No, I'd rather see a coat of white fur. You'd think I'd lost my mind. You would come and visit me and make sure I was seeing a psychiatrist in short order, because it's foolish to have a leopard in the basement, even more foolish to try to be reasoning with the beast, and even more ridiculous to think that that animal actually has some form of power and ability to get rid of his sparks. I may shave him I may shave him over completely and dip him in a big paint bucket that's white and guess what? The new hairs come out and the spots are still there. Because the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. I have a corrupt heart. It's my nature. And guess what? I love it. That's how far gone it is. It's so corrupt that it's quite content with it. Romans chapter eight and verses seven and eight say this that Romans eight, verse seven the carnal mind, the fleshly mind. The mind of the flesh, the word carnal means flesh, is enmity, hatred against God. It's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot can not please God. You know the point of this is very simple. That unsaved man has utterly no interest, he has no desire, he certainly has no ability. to do the slightest thing that would even remotely please or impress God. In fact, on the contrary, man has joyfully and willingly corrupted himself to such a state That his every thought, emotion, and action are offensive to God. You know it says up in a place in the Proverbs that the ploughing of the wicked is Just to go out into the field, hook up a couple of oxen or fire up a tiller, and run it over some dirt God says the plowing of the wicked is sin, as far as God's concerned. Why? Because the man's abominable. What's this abominable creature doing touching my earth? What does he think he's going to do? Is he going to get food that I will bless him and curse me at the dinner table with it? The ploughing of the wicked is sin You see, it's as impossible for a sinner to please God, children, and I want you all to understand this. Y'all are little people right now, and these things are not hard for you to understand It's impossible for a sinner to please God ever bit as much as a leopard can change his spots. So when you look at these little children books that come along about little animals, baby animal things, Victoria And you see a leopard or a lion that has spots, that's a picture of you and I as sinners by nature. That's how we started. The natural man from my baby daughter to Adolf Hitler is spiritually bankrupt when it comes to comes to pleasing God or doing his will. I have nothing of value to offer God. Instead, I have a massive liability on my hands And it grows deeper every minute of my vain life. Well, Brother Vince, that's pretty depressing. I hope it is depressing, because that means you're hearing me. That means you're hearing me. What's the value of an unsaved sinner's alleged good works? What's their value? You know, maybe the Bible indicates that there's some merit after all to my efforts. Maybe. Maybe I can buy down my debt one chunk at a time. Oh, it may take a long time. It may take me a lifetime. I may have to make a trip to Mecca. I may have to go uh to Mount Tibet in uh uh some Himalayan mountain. I may have to sacrifice something very dear and precious to me, but but surely there's something I can do to lessen that debt. You know that's the $62 question, or should I say, the $500 billion question that the Bible asks. Do you know that? Job 22 Job chapter 22 says this. Job chapter 22 and verses 2, 3, 4, and 5 Eliphaz the Temanite, very wise man, says this. Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself? Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that thou art righteous? Is it gain to him that thou makest thy ways perfect? Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? Will he enter with thee into judgment? Is not thy wickedness great, and thine iniquities infinite? Infinite. You know in mathematics I I did fairly well in math in college and uh And in high school, I was very fortunate to have a number of good math teachers throughout my day. I even had an uncle that was a math teacher. One of the concepts that fascinated me was the number of infinity And infinity means eternity. And there's nothing bigger than infinity. Infinity squared is not a bigger number, it's infinity. The rules of math basically break down when you throw in the number infinity. You know what zero times infinity is? It's not zero. It's infinity. Huh? That doesn't make sense. I was always taught that zero times uh- uh uh you throw infinity into it? Not so The rules of science and nature and all kinds of things break down with infinity. So does my reasoning and man's law break down with infinity. Because as far as God's concerned, that's how many sins I've got. They're endless. They're endless. Utterly endless. Because remember, if I break one point of the law. You're guilty of them all. That's the design of the law of God, to catch and snare sinners. And it does a good job of it. The law of the land is not designed to apprehend and throw everybody in jail. They just want you to kind of get along. Not so with God's law. He's He's a jealous God. He's jealous for His purity and for His holiness. He has a perfection and a righteousness that must be guarded and maintained. And that will be upheld and exalted because it's perfect. There's none better. And it demands that kind of recognition. Anything less than that is an affront to it, and it must be punished to the highest extent. These are the laws that are based on God. In Job 36 and verse 18, again I'm on the question, what's the value of an unsaved sinner's alleged good works? In Job 36 and verse 18 it says, Because there's wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke. Then a great ransom cannot deliver thee. Will he esteem thy riches? No. Not gold, nor all the forces of strength. In the Psalms it says, they that trust in their wealth and boast of their riches cannot by any means redeem his brother. You see, the point is this. My righteousness does not please God, and as such, it's not profitable to him, neither is my money In fact, if I do try to offer it, if I do try to offer it, here's what God says about it. In Proverbs 21. Look at this. In the twenty-first chapter of Proverbs and verse twenty-seven, it says the sacrifice of the wicked. The wicked is anybody who's unsaved. The sacrifice. A sacrifice. I mean this fellow really gave something up. The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination. How much more when he brings it with a wicked mind? The mind and the heart are tied together, are they not? There's a very interesting verse in the book of Malachi. I'll read it to you. If you want to turn there, you can. It may be hard to find. It's uh actually if you go to the book of Matthew and back up one book, you're in Malachi. In Malachi 1, 8 and 9, there's this very interesting analogy that God makes. He says, if you offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? If you offer the lame and the sick, is it not evil? And indeed, would not my good works be lame and sick before God? He says, offer it now unto thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee or accept thy persons, saith the Lord of hosts? In other words, try to offer that to your just your your civil ruler. He demands that you bring in uh some substantial taxes and you bring in something that's far less than that. Is he going to be pleased with that? Of course not. Of course he won't be pleased with that What's the value of my works? You see, my offering in any form is not acceptable before a holy, just, infinite, and powerful God, period. Psalm 39, 5 says, Verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. My best state Is vanity. Well, I'm poor. Maybe God will respect that. Or maybe I'm highly esteemed of others. Psalm 62, 9 says, surely men of a low degree are vanity, and men of a high degree are a lie. In Isaiah 40, 17 he says, All nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted to him as vanity, lighter than the lightest dust in the balance. You see, this is God's assessment of what an unsaved person is capable of. Nothing. A huge liability is all he represents. A dead soul. You know, I have a radio over here That radio can have a C D plugged into it and it'll work just fine. And maybe I can plug in an eight millimeter, I mean a a a a cassette player into it. And it'll play that just fine. But if I try to turn it on to the AM station, to an AM tuner, without a an antenna I'm not going to get anything. It's not going to work. It's utterly broken. It's useless. And that's how I am I got a dead soul. My antenna, my receptors to the word of God are broken. It just doesn't register. It doesn't register It doesn't affect me, it doesn't move me, it can't communicate, and it just doesn't there's just no it's just dead. That's the analogy. Well what is the price of redemption Just what does it take? Job asks this question, how then can man be justified with God? How can he be clean that's born of a woman? David says, if thou, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? This is the big question in all of Scripture. It's a very serious deal. It's not a light matter to be cleared of an incredible debt let alone overcoming the issue of a dead soul that's incapable of offering anything good. But oh and this will be the best word in the whole study. But In the Old Testament, along with the law, it had many curious offerings, blood offerings no less. Why? I want all of you to turn to Leviticus 17. This is a very important verse. Leviticus 17 and verse 11. What is the price of redemption? How much does the atonement cost? Because I've got a big debt on my hands. It says this. In Leviticus 17, 11 it says, For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls. For it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul. You see, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. The price of atonement is blood. That's the price of atonement. Blood then. Because basically you need your life back. I've lost my life. I don't have a soul You have to give a life in order to get yours back. You need a new life. You have to have blood. Blood's got to be shed. That's a basic precept. We can see that from that from God's perspective. That's reasonable Is it not? If the wages of sin is death and I've got a dead soul, it needs life. And the life is in the blood, so I need a blood atonement. It's very straightforward if we are thinking along the lines of God's law and understand how it's designed and operates. That's very reasonable. Blood atonement. You may think, all right, I just need to offer up some animals now. I can do that. I can hunt. Uh I can buy some animals. I'll I'll bring them to some holy place and follow the s procedures and shebang, the debt's paid. Great, it's not a work, it's just a blood atonement from an animal. Wonderful I'll find the bloodiest creature out there. But there's a problem. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 4 tells us That it's not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins Uh oh. I'm back to square one. I need, and this is the point, and this you can see where I'm going with this right now, I hope People, I need a blood atonement. And it can't be that of an animal. It's got to be a blood atonement that's acceptable to God. In the Old Testament, you know, Brother Mahem told a story about a man that came to him who had been reading the Old Testament and said You know, Brother Mahon, or Pastor Mahan, said, I've been reading the Old Testament, I've been concerned. And everywhere throughout the book it says, you've got to come to God With a lamb. If you're going to come to God and be accepted, you've got to have a lamb. Brother Pastor Mahan, he literally asked him this. He says, Where can I find a lamb? Where can I find a lamb? Oh my. Where does Jesus Christ fit into all of this? Well now we've reached the very good news. John the Baptist stood there. And pointed out at the Savior, behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. Romans chapter 3, you've got to turn there with me. Romans chapter 3 and verse 21 says this. You see, this is where Jesus Christ fits in. In Romans chapter three and verse nineteen we'll have to start there. It says, Now we know that what things soever the law says, it says to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. I think I've just endeavored to do that tonight. Therefore, by the deeds, not the disobedience, but by the deeds, the doing of the law, there shall be no flesh justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. I've already covered it with you that keeping them all ain't gonna help. But the best word in the scripture sometimes, but but now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. For there's no difference. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Here it is, this blood atonement, verse 24. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation. through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past That's where Christ fits in on all this. Skip over to Romans chapter 5 and verse 9. It says Much more than being now justified by his blood. We shall be saved from wrath through him. Through him The Apostle John has given many visions in the book of Revelation, and in the opening chapter, you don't even get past the fifth verse when he says About Jesus Christ in verse five, who's the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins. in his own blood. Again, a blood atonement In Revelation 5 and verses 6 and 9, this message is what's echoed throughout the pages of the Scriptures Verse 6 says that he beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb, as it had been slain having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And in verse 9 it says they sung a new song saying, thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God. By thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, a blood atonement, a blood purchase. That's what Christ did on the cross. You see, if Jesus didn't go to the cross, it's like when Peter said to him, as Christ said, that's where I'm going. He said, Far be it from thee, Lord, that you should die on the cross. May it never be. And he said, Get thee behind me safety. You savour not the things which be of God, but of men. Man's thinking about comfort of the flesh. Let's let the flesh be okay. God's looking at that dead soul inside that living flesh and saying Behold my I have a bunch of elect that have a huge debt on their hands, and for love's sake he went to the cross, gave his life. No greater love hath any man than this, and that he lay down his life for him Christ, friends. That's what Christ did. He laid down, he gave us his life. It was imputed to us. He took upon himself our death the debt that we owe. Oh, what an infinite debt and penalty he paid. But oh my goodness, what an infinite life and recovery, I have. I've not been restored to life like Adam had, because Adam's righteousness was mutable, that is, it could be changed. He could fall. He was created righteous, but he had a righteousness of the law that could be lost upon disobedience. I have the righteousness of Christ. That can never be lost, that can never be broken by disobeying some other kind of command. Even now I'm kept by the power of God through faith unto the end. Ephesians says in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. Colossians talks about his dear son in whom we have redemption through his blood, having made peace through the blood of his cross. By him to reconcile all things, whether in heaven or in earth. This is where Christ fits in. This is essentially the good news of the gospel. And to them whom God opens their eyes to have a sense, a deep sense. Of their heart's need and desire. Oh, yes, indeed, it's good news. The last verse I want to turn to is in Hebrews 13, and then we'll close out You might think, well, I I hear you about having been provided a righteousness, but Brother Vince, I still see a whole lot of that old man still kicking around in this flesh. And indeed you do. The body still lusts after sin. It's an integrated person. Oh yes, the Spirit of God comes in and dwells in them. They have a resurrected soul that bears witness with my spirit That I am the Son of God, but my body's not redeemed. It's still affected deeply with sin. And it's a battle, it's a struggle, it's a warfare. That doesn't let up. And in Hebrews 13 and verses 11 through 13, it says this Talking in reference to the Old Testament and those animals, it says the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned without the camp. That is, outside the camp. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood Suffered without the gate. You see, not only do I have a blood atonement, but the blood on the cross accomplished more than just My atonement, which in and of itself is a marvelous redemption. It is a it's a payment for a debt that I could never have paid. And yet on top of that, it says He sanctified the people with his own blood. I'm sanctified in Christ. I'm justified in Christ. He's my wisdom, he's my glory, he's my righteousness, he's my everything You see, a blood atonement of a perfect man, the God man, Jesus Christ, is the only possible A blood atonement from Christ is the only possible way a dead soul can be redeemed from the curse of God's law with its eternal consequences. He's the only one with any life available that can be given to such dead ones. His life is everlasting because his merit and his righteousness are everlasting. It's an alien righteousness. It's not one natural to me. It's a free gift of grace, not of my works, by any stretch of the imagination, and to those who are his elect. It's good news indeed. So to my Muslim thinking Acquaintance. And it doesn't have to be a Muslim. There are countless thousand so-called Christian organizations that feel that Their good works will also merit something before God, and they may even do it in the name of Jesus rather than the name of Muhammad, but I guarantee you it's another Jesus being preached. Because this Jesus offers a full atonement, complete payment, not a partial job. That's good news. That's the price of atonement. And that's the study for tonight. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for this great and glorious salvation, this complete and full payment. Oh Father, how complete, how perfect, how comprehensive this salvation is. May we ever praise and thank you for it.