Turn with me in your Bibles to Psalm fifty-one. And I'm sure when you hear the text, Psalm fifty-one You will recognize right away, know from memory that this is David's Psalm of Repentance after his sin with Bathsheba. I don't intend this morning to do an exposition of this psalm entirely, but want to focus our attention on one verse which has stood out to me for its oddity within this psalm. Psalm fifty-one. I'm going to read the nineteen verses of the psalm as we begin. Have mercy upon me. Let me read the title as well. To the chief musician, a psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came unto him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities, and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mayest be justified when thou judgest, and when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquity. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God. For thou God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise, for thou desirest not sacrifice, else I would give it Thou delightest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings. Then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altars Let us bow for prayer as we begin our consideration this morning. Gracious Father. We plead the guidance and direction of thy Spirit as we consider Thy Word. Father, no man is capable of human wisdom to impart spiritual truth to any man. Spiritual truth is imparted by the Word of God and by the Holy Spirit of God, who is our comforter and our guide and teacher in the Word. And so, Father, this morning, I pray that your spirit would speak truth to the hearts of all who hear. And Lord, though I will endeavor to make comment upon this word, upon thy book. Indeed, it must be of thy spirit that thy people are edified and strengthened. And so, Father, may you take the little boy's lunch And may you bless it and break it and distribute it to your people, for then indeed your people will receive of the abundance of thy truth The precious diamonds and treasures of thy word will be evident to the hearts of thy own elect. And so, Father, may you bless our gathering today. May you bless our study in thy word. May your people be convicted. May your people be encouraged. May our eyes be turned to Christ. And may we indeed love Thee as we ought. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The verse I would like to focus our attention on is that 18th verse of the chapter. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. What does that verse have to do with the rest of the Psalm? This is David's psalm of repentance after his sin with Bathsheba. And so how does verse 18 fit in? Well, some of the commentators have said it doesn't. There are A multitude of commentators that say that verse 18 and verse 19 were not part of the Psalm originally But they were added later during the captivity when the walls of Jerusalem were destroyed. Because you would see when David prays, Build thou the walls of Jerusalem, the walls of Jerusalem were built. The walls of Jerusalem were standing tall. The walls of Jerusalem were not in ruins when David prayed this. And yet David prays, In thy good pleasure, do thou good design, build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Others will say, well, the title's wrong. Some of the liberals will say David didn't actually write this. It was actually written during the captivity and it was similar to David's sin and so later someone decided, you know, that that sounds a lot like what David probably would have prayed. And so they added this title. It The the title's wrong. But folks, this verse is vital to understanding the song. Its place within the psalm is toward the end. It's the punchline. It's the culmination. It is the focus, just like a great funnel that leads down from the very broad to the very narrow that focuses our attention This verse is vital to the psalm. And so before we begin to unpack the verse itself, We have to understand two things. There's two considerations by way of introduction. First of all, what is meant by Zion, and what is meant by the walls That's sort of a a duh moment. There's two elements in the verse, what is Zion and what are the walls. Well In the Old Testament geographical context, Zion is a reference to Mount Zion or the city of Jerusalem. In 2 Samuel 5 and verse 7, nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion, the same as the city of David. Not a reference to the city of Bethlehem where David was born, which is also called the city of David. But the city of Jerusalem, where David ruled. And so, geographically, this is the location. In 1 Chronicles 11, verse 5. And the inhabitants of Jabah said to David, Thou shalt not come hither. Nevertheless, David took the castle of Zion, which is the city of David. In our call to worship this morning, I read from Psalm 48. Turn over there with me, please. Psalm 48 and verses 12 and 13. It should be maybe on the same pages you have open in Psalm 51. Walk about Zion. Go about her. Tell the towers thereof, mark ye well the bulwarks, consider her palaces, that ye may tell it in the congregation follow Generation or I'm sorry, generation following. That's talking about a physical location, isn't it? That's talking about walls that get to see. Remember in Christ's day Christ and the disciples walking about and we read about the walls and Christ talking about the temple in Jerusalem. And so Mount Zion in the Old Testament geographical sense is is a literal city. That's where the city was. But in the Old Testament theological sense, Mount Zion or Zion or Sion, if you want to pronounce it, spell it with the S. has far greater significance than a geographical location. In Psalm nine, verse eleven Sing praise to the Lord, which dwelleth in Zion, declare among the people his doings. And again from our responsive reading in Psalm 132, the thirteenth and fourteenth verses For the Lord hath chosen Zion to be he hath desired it for his habitation. This is my rest forever. Here will I dwell, for I have desired it So here we're talking about Zion, and God says, This is where I'm going to dwell, this is my habitation. But does that mean that God is limited to He's got to be here? Does that mean that he's there and he says he's going to dwell there forever? Does that mean that when Jerusalem was under the control of Babylonians and destroyed, that that Jehovah still was dwelling there? And so, in the Old Testament theological sense, Zion cannot simply be tied down to a geographical location. It is a figurative location in those verses. Psalm 135, verse 21, Bless ye the Lord out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. He dwells there. Do you think Jehovah dwells in Jerusalem today? Is he concerned because the Muslims now have a mosque where the temple used to stand? Does that bother him? Has he been displaced? From his dwelling place. And so, in the Old Testament geographical sense, it's a physical location, it's the city of Jerusalem. In the Old Testament theological sense, it is the sphere where God reigns or where his worship is conducted. In the New Testament future sense, Zion is the place where God rules. It is the place where He holds sway. Zion in the New Testament and future sense is the city of God. It is the new Jerusalem, and it is not a designation of location. But rather it is a designation of authority. Today, when we speak of Zion And we read of Zion in the Old Testament, and we read of the city of God, the kingdom of God, the New Jerusalem. It is talking about the place where God holds sway. And even in the Old Testament, that authority of God was foreshadowed. For in Isaiah 2, verses 2 and 3, we read this. And it shall come to pass in the last days. We're living in the last days today. It shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains. And shall be exalted above the hills and above all na and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come, let us go up into the mount of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, he will walk in we will walk in his paths, for out of Zion shall go forth a law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem Is the word of Lord coming from a city in Palestine today? No. No. And so, the city to which many nations will flow is a reference to the church. It's a reference to the people of God where God rules and reigns. And so, in the New Testament and future sense Zion is the realm of Jehovah. We find this as well in Revelation twenty-one, verses two and three. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. A clear reference to the church. And so at this present time, Zion, the New Jerusalem, is the place where God rules. It is the kingdom of God. It is his church. And he rules and reigns within the heart of the believer. He rules and reigns within the families. of the believer. He rules and reigns among his people. Luke seventeen, verse twenty and twenty-one. And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come He answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation, not a brick and mortar city with walls Neither shall you say low here or low there. I can't take Google Maps and give you directions on Google Maps to get to the city of God. For behold, the kingdom of God is within you. It's within you. Does God rule and reign in your heart? Are you part of that kingdom of God? And so the first thing we consider is what is meant by Zion, what is meant by Jerusalem? And so David in his sin, praise Lord, in thy good pleasure, do good to Zion. Build the walls of Jerusalem. For God I have sinned And I am indeed the temple of the Holy Ghost. But then the second consideration, the first is what is meant by Zion. The second consideration is what about walls? Because remember, we've observed already that when David sinned with Bathsheba, the walls of Jerusalem were in place. Those walls were not destroyed. What is the significance of walls? What do walls do? Well, walls keep people andor evil out. Walls establish boundaries. Walls unify those who are within the walls. Walls provide a line of defense, and walls distinguish between the citizens and the non-citizens, those who belong and those who do not belong. Let me read that again but very quickly. Walls keep people andor evil out, establish boundaries, unify those inside the walls, provide for a line of defense, and distinguish between those who belong and those who do not belong. Now, after the service today, we will have a time of discussion. And folks, let's not talk about a border between Texas and Mexico. Or a wall there. Because that's not or a lack of them, because that's not what it's talking about. The border between the United States and Mexico was first established along about 1830 with the Republic of Texas, 1848 when Texas became a state. And that border means nothing. And that border will not outlive the church. Right. But here the border we're talking about is the border between good and evil. The walls of Jerusalem, which David praised to be built. Or the spiritual walls which defend the believer from evil, which keep the evil out of the believer, and keep the believer from going into evil. It is the walls which set a boundary through which the believer is not to pass. Don't touch the evil. Flee also, youthful lust. It is the walls around the family that protect the family from evil. And so David says, in thy good pleasure, do good to Zion. Build thou the spiritual walls of Jerusalem. Now with that foundation, let's go back to this 18th verse and consider what David is praying. For you see, David had violated his family. David's sin had violated his family. Proverbs 24, verses 3 and 4, though are through wisdom is a house building, and by understanding it is established. And by knowledge shall the chambers thereof be filled with pre with precious and pleasant riches. By understanding. But David acted foolishly. David did not act in wisdom. David acted to the destruction of his own family. For every wise woman buildeth her house, but a foolish woman plucketh it down with her own hands. So that's what David did Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. David violated his own family. Turn over with me to Second Samuel chapter twelve. Second Samuel chapter twelve and verse fifteen. And Nathan departed unto his house. And the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick. And in verse 18, and it came to pass on the seventh day that the child died. David had violated his family. Uriah was the wife of another. This child was born in sin. This child was a sinner, though an infant. And yet this child paid the price for the father's sin. David violated his own family. And then we find that David's sons would be at war with one another perpetually. Adonijah made himself king without David's knowledge. And then Solomon killed Adonijah. Absalom rebels. David takes to himself multiple wives, which never worked out for any man in Scripture. You look at every man in Scripture that had multiple wives, and it was a problem. But then David's son, Solomon, takes his father's indiscretion and multiplies it a thousand times. He had 300 wives and 700 concubines. You see, David violated his own family, the place where Jehovah was to dwell, the place where Jehovah was to be welcomed, the place where Jehovah was to rule and reign. And now in his confession, David says, In thy good pleasure, do good design. Build the walls of Jerusalem, for Lord I've made a mess of them. Lord, my sin has torn down the walls of my family. Rebuilt the walls of Jerusalem. But then we find also that David's sin not only had violated his family, David's sin had endangered his nation. Again in 2 Samuel 11, verses 14 and 15, and it came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. And he wrote in the letter saying, Set Uriah in the foremost of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him. that he may be smitten and die. And then down to verse twenty-four of second Samuel eleven. And the shooters shot from off the wall upon thy servants And some of the king's servants be dead, and Uriah, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also And David said unto the messenger, Thus shall she say to Joab, let not the thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one as another. Folks, this is treason of the highest order. David is committing treason against his own nation. Uriah is one of his most noble and faithful soldiers. Uriah loved Jehovah and loved the king so much that he would not go down to his own house. But slept at the King's Gate. I watched a thing recently about the the Pentagon Papers, which came out at the end of the Vietnam War, which proved that the Pentagon officials understood That fighting a war in Vietnam was not going to work. It was not going to be successful. It was going to cost massive casualties. But they had to keep going with their program. And so they sent multitudes of young men to their death, knowing it was a worthless struggle. David's sin is no different. You see, folks, our sin doesn't just affect ourselves. We read We read of Bathsheba mourning for Uriah. She loved her husband, and her husband was murdered by her second husband. And scripture does not expound on this, but it may well be that you're that Bathsheba had no choice but to marry David because she would be destitute. The woman didn't own anything. Her husband's dead. She's a pulper, and she has an illegitimate child in the way. And she may have been a poor woman with no choice But to marry David, even though she loved Uriah. You see, David destroyed his own nation. And think about this. David seemed somewhat successful in hiding his sin, but Joab knew what happened. Joab knew why Uriah died. And so now maybe Joab might think, you know what, if I step out of one, he'll kill me too. You see, when David violated his nation, it became a conspiracy by definition. It was a conspiracy, it was a cover-up. It was the first Watergate, folks. And so indeed, it was needful for David, after his treasonous actions, to pray. O Jehovah, in thy good pleasure, do good to the place where you dwell. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem, though because there are stones and mortar that stand tall, I have made a mess. I have torn apart this nation which was supposed to be the dwelling place of God. I have destroyed the people of God. I've destroyed the nation of Israel. David's sin violated his family. David's sin endangered his nation. But thirdly, David's sin hindered the worship. In Psalm 51, the Psalm we're considering, in verses 16 and 17, for thou desirest not sacrifice, else I would give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God or a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, thou wilt not despise. And in Psalm 66, verses 18 and 19, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. But verily, God hath heard me. He has to tend to the voice of my prayer. In Isaiah 29, 13, wherefore the Lord saith, Forasmuch as this people draw near to me with their mouth and with their lips they do honor me, but they have removed their hearts far from me. And their fear of me is taught by the precepts of man. Imagine the pious king with a crown on his head. And his robes flowing in splendor, and all of his courtiers following him And he, in great pomp of procession, goes into the tabernacle, into the place of worship. Ah, the king is here, the king has come. And he knows that he's an adulterous murderer. And yet he has to stand before the people and say, oh, God is holy and wonderful Imagine the hypocrisy. Imagine with me if it had been Achan that walked in to that same assembly. And what would God's presence have been in that assembly? Remember, Zion is the place where God rules, it is the place where his authority is known. It is the place where he dwells, and yet the king As walking into the worship in iniquity. The king is the Achan of his own court. Restore into me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. In Job 13, verse 16, Job says, and he shall be my salvation. For an hypocrite shall not come before him. A hypocrite shall not come before him. Proverbs 11, verse 9. And hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbor. David destroyed Uriah. David destroyed the unborn child. David destroyed Bathsheba. David destroyed the trust of Joab. Think what a destroyer David was with his mouth. And Isaiah thirty-three, verse fourteen. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness has surprised the hypocrites. David's sin has destroyed the worship of the entire nation. God was no longer in the sanctuary because of the king's sin. And so how aptly, David Phrase, in thy good pleasure, do good unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem, because my sin has made a mess and a wreck of it all. Fourthly, David's sin had assaulted his own Soul. David's sin violated the family. David's sin endangered the nation. David's sin hindered the worship. And David's sin assaulted his own soul. Proverbs 8, verse 36. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul, and they that hate me love death. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul. All they that hate me love death. But what a text that is. David sinned against God, but the wrong was against his own soul. And when David prayed against thee, thee only have I sinned and done this iniquity in thy sight, he knew that he had sinned against Bathsheba and against Joab and against Uriah and against the unborn child. He knew all those things. But it was his own soul that he assaulted. He punched himself in the face. You're talking about shooting yourself in the foot. David shot himself in the foot with his sin. He assaulted his own soul. In Proverbs six Verse 27: Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? So is he that goeth in to his neighbor's wife. Whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. Verse thirty-two of the same s proverb, Proverbs 6. But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. A wound and dishonor shall he get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away And so David prays, O Lord, I've sinned. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me, purge me with hyssop, O Lord, in thy good pleasure, do good to Zion. Build out the walls of Jerusalem. My friend, when we sinned, when we sinned, it is our own soul that we have assaulted. And God is the one who can rebuild the walls of Zion. He can rebuild the do good design, restore the fellowship, and rebuild the walls of the soul. Psalm 32, verse 4, or 1 through 4, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered Blessed is the man uh uh uh Blessed is the man whom unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones wax old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned to the drought of summer. But then, finally, and I believe saddest of all, David's sin had destroyed all fellowship with God. Hmm. Again, imagine with me David going into the house of the Lord. No, he can't pray. Have you ever been in that situation? Believe every believer has been I believe everyone every believer at some time or another has been in a situation where, Lord, I can't pray. Lord, this sin, this thing I'm hanging on to, this thing I have done Lord, until we get this right, nothing will be right. Until, Lord, this is confessed, I have no place before thy throne I remember Esther when she was going into the king and she wasn't invited and she waited for the scepter to be extended that her life might be spared. Do you ever feel that way going before God? Oh Lord, oh God, if you do not extend your forgiveness, I shall die. Mm-hmm David's sin had totally destroyed the fellowship he knew with God. David, the sweet psalmist. David, who played upon his harp, the beautiful Praises of God, and now the praises are stuck in his throat. They cannot get out, for God will not hear. And I could pleasure do good design Build thou the walls of Jerusalem, because my sin has torn down the fellowship that I have known with God. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones which Thou is broken, may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins. Blot out my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old My roaring all the days long. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie. And do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. Ah, folks, this verse is vital to the Psalm. For the heart of David's confession was a plea for God in God's good pleasure to do good to the dwelling place of God. That dwelling place is within the family. It was within national Israel. That dwelling place is within the heart of the believer. That dwelling place is known to the fellowship of God. That dwelling place with God is the most precious relief we could ever have in trials. And yet that dwelling place, the walls, are destroyed by our sin. And so David prays, Do good and thy good pleasure to Zion. O Lord, build the walls of Jerusalem that my sin have destroyed. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that thus shall every man that is godly pray when a time in a time when thou mayest be found. Bless thy truth to the hearts of thy people this day. O God, may we never breach those walls. May we indeed resist the devil that he may flee from us. Oh God, may we not give in to temptation. May we yield ourselves to thee and not yield to the temptation we pray But oh God, we thank you that you are the one who did us good and your good pleasure to Zion. You are the one who rebuilds the walls. In Jesus' name. Amen.