Marianne Keefer back with us. Haven't seen her since her camel ride. So good to have her back with us and doing so much better. If you don't know what I'm talking about, you have to ask her after church. I think she got the camel that wasn't trying to bite you. And uh Mrs. Lane got the one that seemed to be a little hungrier that day. Looking at first Samuel chapter twenty-three this morning, being verses fourteen uh through twenty-eight Title of the message, but actually in this chapter there are three buts. Someone once said the truth always comes after the word but. And uh so the title is from this morning, but and you'll see it throughout the message, I trust. Verse 14, and David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, those are like caves, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Zif. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand. Verse 15. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Zif in a wood. And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose, and he went to David into the wood. and strengthened his hand in God. And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee. And thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee, or in second place. And that also Saul, my father, he knoweth it. And they too made a covenant before the Lord, that's David and Jonathan. And David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house. Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah. Now the Zephites live in the land of Judah. They're a family of David's. The Ziphites to Saul to give you, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the woods, in the hill of Hakilah, which is on the south of Hesaman Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down. And our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hands. What a traitor these this group of Ziphites were. And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord For ye have compassion on me. Go, I pray you, prepare ye and and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who has seen him there, for it has told me that he dealeth very subtly. He says Go and find out a sure where he is and come back and get me. See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he that is David hideth himself, and come ye again to me with a certainty And I will go with you. And it shall come to pass if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah. And they arose. This is the Zephites and Saul, and they went to Zip before Saul. But David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Hesheman. And Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David wherefore he came down into a rock and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mountain. And David made haste to get away for fear of Saul. For Saul and his men encompassed or surrounded him And David's men round about to take them. So as they ran off the other side of the mountain, Saul had a large contingency of men. He has totally surrounded David now. And verse 27 But there came a messenger unto Saul saying, Haste thee and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines, and therefore they called the place Salah Hama Lakath. And we'll just finish it right there. In verses 14 and 15, we find David is hiding out in the wilderness from Saul. Saul has sought him every day. And every day it says, God has delivered David from the hand of Saul. David's got about 600 men. Saul's got about 200,000. You know, you thought the battle between David and Goliath was something. You've got 200,000 men chasing you, surrounding them on a mountaintop. They finally encompassed him about. 200,000 men surrounding that mountain and David in the center of it with 600 of his men. David has a hard time here, but God delivers him every time and every day. And I just thought we ought not to expect a whole lot from this world, pilgrims, either. We ought not to expect a whole lot from a world that crucified the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, called Lord of glory in 1 Corinthians 2 and 8, if they would crucify the Lord Jesus Christ, the man who was sinless God come in the flesh, if they will crucify the sinless man God, God man, come in the flesh, how can we expect the world to treat us any better? Afflictions, as we all know, I think we're all old enough by now, we've had some afflictions. Maybe it was a bad case of the flu, maybe it was a death of a family member. Uh maybe it was a loss of a job at Christmas time. We've all had some afflictions. Afflictions come. Some of them come from within as we're conflicted in our own hearts and we struggle with sin Sometimes these afflictions come without. Sometimes they come from our friends. The Zipites here were David's family and friends. Sometimes our afflictions come from our friends. More often than not, from our foes Some of our afflictions come from the hand of God. We know the story of Job and how God sent afflictions through the devil. God sometimes permits the devil to afflict us as all. Psalm 34 and 19 tells us that this is what we should expect as Christians. Many are the afflictions of the righteous Or of those who love the Lord. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but there's not one tear that you will ever suffer in this life. It didn't first come through the hands and the permission of God Almighty. If there's any tears you've shed, if there's any painful afflictions you've gone through, none of them came without the permission of a loving God who has a purpose. in sending that affliction to you. Here we have this morning in Psalm 54, David's been betrayed by his own family and kin in Judah, the Ziphites. And we read here in fifty-fourth Psalms, we ought to reread it one more time. There's not time this morning to do it, but you ought to read it with the sobs and the tears and the anguish that David wrote it We find all through the Psalms David's sorrows and David's sobs and David's fears and David's tears And it's all for David's good, we find in the end. It's all for God's glory, we also discover that in the end. And it's recorded in the Psalms. to guide us when we go through horrible times, when friends and foes and afflictions assault us, how can we survive? We can read the Psalms and see how David got through it. We can pray those same Psalms to God that David prayed The Psalms are our guidance for us, they're a comfort for us when we're afflicted. I won't go through all the things I've been through and some of you have been through, but many of you can attest to the fact that when things were tough, when you had cancer or some great medical problem, you sat down and started Psalm one and you started to read it and it didn't make any sense to you. Psalm two didn't seem to apply to you, but by the time you got to the thirtieth Psalm, you had peace. You had comfort This is shared in Sunday school class this morning that John Stostell, who I think was with CNN and now he's with Fox. Gone from being quite a liberal to quite a conservative. And the John Stosso said he's been seeking for peace and comfort. He's gone to the Buddhist religion, the Hindu religion, the Baya. He's been everywhere. He can't find peace And then they said that they showed the cameras panning on them as they sat down. And he said, I seek this peace and comfort. And he said, I even cried out to the Christians, God, and I don't have it yet. Pray for John Stossel. I believe as you cry out to God for peace and comfort, he'll answer that. He'll give that to you. Over national television, John Stales says, I've called out to Christian God. Give me peace and give me comfort. He's a man who's greatly afflicted and conflicted. May God answer his prayer. We read the Psalms, so God answered David's prayers. And we read the Psalms and we put them back to God that He might answer our prayers as well. Afflictions are good for us. David said, I had not been afflicted, I would not come to know and love the law of God. Afflictions cleanse our heart Afflictions increase the frequency of our prayers and communication with God. We call out to God every time we're afflicted, and if we weren't ever afflicted, we probably never call on God. So the affliction is good. It cleanses our heart, it keeps us from sin, it drives us from sin, it increases our frequency of our prayer, and it also increases the fervency of our cries unto God. Scripture says it it's the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man that availth much. It's not just the prayers that availeth much. It's not just uh the if you want it to be effectual prayer, there's two things that are required here. Uh uh ask this morning. Uh pilgrim, do you want to have effective prayer? Well John or James 5. 6 tells us, if you want to have effective prayer like this is how you get it Embrace holy living, because it says the effectual prayers of a righteous man, embrace holy living And then it says here, expect affliction. Affliction makes our prayers fervent If you want a good prayer life, pilgrim, ask God for some afflictions to make you fervent in prayer and ask God to make you a holy young man or young woman. woman. And then you'll have your prayers answered. Now as David's out running from Saul and he's being chased by hundreds of thousands of soldiers We find in verse 16 that Jonathan, Saul's son, went to David. Isn't it amazing? Saul's got 200,000 men. He's got the Ziphites in Judah. He's got spies all over. He can't find David. But Jonathan, David's dearest and closest friend, he knows where to find David. Do you know where to find peace and comfort, friend? That's right. here forget the book of Quran, forget the book of Moroni, forget the Watchtower magazine. Do you know where to find what David found? Peace and comfort in the Lord. It's found here in the scriptures. Jonathan knew where to find David, and David knew where to find the Lord. And Jonathan comes to David. Saul couldn't find him, but Jonathan could find him. In fact, Jonathan risks the wrath of his father by going to be with David. He knows that Jonathan has abdicated his throne basically, that when you die, I'm not taking the throne. It's going to be David's. You really have to wonder why Saul's out to kill David. When when Samuel tells Saul, King Saul, you've you've irritated God, you've you've you've sinned against the Lord, and he's taken away your throne, he will not pass the throne on to Jonathan or your family, it's going to go to someone else. God never says to Saul, I'm going to kill you and give your throne to somebody else. Rather, it it's just Saul when you die, David's going to he doesn't say David, but he said, Saul when he dies, someone else can have the throne. It will not That crown will not be getting anybody in your family. There's no reason to kill David. God doesn't have to replace you right now. But when you're gone, your crown will not go to your family So why kill David? He's going to be dead by the time David's the king. Just irrational hatred of this of this King Saul. And he's so irrational that if he knew his son was with David that moment, he would tell him to kill his son as well. And he has given that order before to kill his own son. And he's thrown a javelin at his own son. King Saul is so irrational And so finally, Jonathan risks his life. He comes to David out there in the woods, and he comes out and says to strengthen the hand of David in verse 16. Do you treasure your fellowship with other believers? Can you imagine how David must have treasured When Jonathan came through the woods and came to the wilderness and and somehow he got to the lines of stalls, two hundred thousand men, they didn't spot him, and he finds them. Can you imagine what a delight it was to have Jonathan walking up Hailing you? How did you get through? How'd you find me? How'd you get here? If your father finds you, he'll kill you. So I've come to encourage you Wow. Do you treasure fellowship with believers? And would you risk the wrath of your government, because that's what Jonathan was. His father, the king, was the ruler, he was the king, he was the government, as it were. Would you risk the wrath of your own government to gather with believers Now that may not be a question you think is applicable to you today, but you look around the world. Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Afghanistan, those people, those Christians are risking their lives to gather with believers. It's not a decision that we're making every day, is it? But it's coming to a country near and dear to you soon. Isn't it? We've already seen people who made a decision to stand with the scriptures over the issue of whether they would uh bake a cake and support uh uh a gay marriage and a florist wouldn't do it and a photographer wouldn't do it and a gardener uh and a uh a baker wouldn't do it. They they say I I just I can't support something that in my conscience in the scriptures that God has told me isn't appropriate and they've lost their businesses. The judges of have told the fa these people that they can they can sue the family, they can sue their house, they can sue their bank accounts. It is a question you'll have to ask yourself soon. Will I risk the wrath of my own country to gather with believers? As here Jonathan did. He risked that wrath. In verse 17, he says, Fear not my father. He's come to encourage David. He says, Fear not my father. Fear not my father, he shall not find thee, and thou shalt be king someday, and I'll be next to thee in a second secondary position that is. And my father knoweth that. My father knows that I'm not going to be king. My father knows you're going to be king. He knows it And he can't stop it. And Jonathan reassures David of God's promise to make him king And if we were to go back a couple of chapters, remember when Samuel came to David and the prophet Samuel anointed David and and he was going to be king and and this was what God had told Samuel and this was the promise that was given him. And here comes uh Jonathan. Now he didn't talk to Samuel, and we don't know that God has talked to Jonathan. But Jonathan has found out that this was a promise given to David and reminds David all over again. This is the promise of God My father wants to kill you, but God has promised you will live. My father wants to kill you, so you won't wear the crown, but God has said you will wear the crown. My father doesn't want to give up his throne to you, but God says he will give up his throne to you. And he reassures David. Christian fellowship is really important. We talk about it all the time. or Christian friendship, getting together with Christian friends and sitting down and having a cup of coffee and uh breaking bread together. Christian fellowship is wonderful. But it is the sharing of God's word that really encourages another Christian. We can we can sit down and and break bread and and we can uh you know go to Thanksgiving dinners together and Christmas meals together and we have a meal today downstairs And that's all a lot of fun. And we say we're uplifted and so forth. But the real encouragement is when someone shares a Bible verse with somebody else, it hits their heart. That hits him where there's a conflict or an affliction going on that really lifts them, that really helps him. And Jonathan comes through all of this, but he he what he does, he encourages David by reassuring him and by embracing and quoting back to David. David God has promised you you're going to be king. You're not going to die. It's just not enough for one Christian to get together with another Christian. You've got to share some verses with one another. Hey, look at this great verse. I saw it in the Bible. I never saw that before. And sometimes they say, whoa, I just came across that verse yesterday too. That's really neat. We both read the same verse this week. And the problems of God were talking about the same. There's reason to share verses with one another This verse really spoke to my heart when I was going through this and I heard you're going through something similar today. And we share those verses. When my wife had cancer, the verses that people mailed to us, she had no idea. I hug and kiss every one of you. I don't know who sent which verse, but I remember that one verse that said, Though the hills depart and the mountains fall away, my love and my mercy shall never leave you. You know what that did to my wife and I. The mountains can crumble, the hills can fall away, volcanoes can blow up, but God says the mountains will disappear, hills will disappear, but my mercy shall never leave you. What a Bible verse. The scriptures are full of verses that encourage us. John 18, 9, Christ said, All the Father is given me, I have lost none. Isn't that great? The Father gives Christ millions and millions of people. He dies for them on the cross, sheds his blood for their sins, so they may go to heaven. And out of all those millions of people, and you've got Satan out there with all his demons and all his devils out there, and God says, by the way. You're not going to lose one. You're not going to lose one. John 18, 9. I love 1 John 1:7, that the blood of Jesus Christ the Son cleanses us from all sin. Oh, I can make up my life first. All sin, any kind of sin, any number of sins, no matter how horrendous they are, he cleans them all those sins. Paul talks in the Corinthians about some of these people who had led the life of Sodomy and they left the life of Sodomy. He says, Such as some of you were, but now you are saved. He talks about people who have been murdered, but Paul had been a murderer. Paul had been putting Christians to death. Anybody here killed any Christians lately? You can be forgiven for killing Christians. You can be forgiven for born a baby. You can be forgiven for anything The blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanses us from all sin, makes us white as wool, white as snow. What more can you ask for? What a verse to memorize, 1 John 1. 7. How about the Apostle Paul? Paul says, of all sins, he says, I am the chief of sinners Paul is the chief of sinners. 1 Timothy went by, I'm the chief of sinners. There's nobody who ever sinned more than I did. I was coming Christians. I was persecuting the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no one worse than me. And there never will be, Paul says. He said, now I'm saved. Now I'm saved. Because the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us. We repent of a sin. It's gone. It's cleansed, it's washed in the blood of Christ. Great verses. Have you memorized some verses of promise for yourself? Have you memorized some verses of promise that you can share with others? This is why David was so lifted and strengthened by John. He came and quoted, You shall be king, David. The prophet Samuel has said so. God has told him so. And then it says in verse 18, And then Jonathan went to his house. Now at first read we we think, okay, he went to his house. That's what everybody eventually does. They go home. Jonathan and David are closer than twins. I mean they are so close. They might have been born the same mother and the same father. They are so close. And now Jonathan leaves and goes home And David will never see him again. And Jonathan, on this side of life, and this the world, Jonathan will never see the man that he holds so dear. And David will never see the man that he would he would die for. Do you make the most of every moment you're together with someone? I mean, do you really think tomorrow is guaranteed? Do you really think they'll all see him in about an hour? People leave church, they say, hey, I gotta room, change clothes, I'll catch you afterwards, and we'll do this, we'll do that, and and you And an hour later they're they're killed in the car crash. An hour later they have a heart attack. Do you make the most of every moment you have together as if it was your last? We need to do that because we don't know when we go home today if we'll ever see one another again. He asked my wife. Ask my wife how often when she steps out of the house and gets in the car to go grocery shopping. Ask her how often I run out and grab her and hug her and kiss her. Because I don't know if I'll ever see her again. And I've heard so many people say, my wife drove up, I thought I'd see her and and before the day was over, she was gone. And I never got to tell my wife one more time I loved her. There isn't a day. We wake up in the morning. If it's 1. 30 in the morning, 2 30 in the morning. I know if some of you heard this whole before, but some of you haven't. And if if I notice she's awake 1 30 in the morning And I say to her, Have I told you today that I love you? Because she might not be around by six or seven o'clock in the morning. I might not be around. You make the most out of the time you're with one another, as if it were your last David and John will never meet again on this side of the earth. But there's another meeting taking place in verses 19 and 20. It's the Ziphites. The Zipites of Judah, family and friends of David. And they're meeting, and the Ziphites go to Saul. And they said, David is on the south of Hesheman, it's the Saul of a mountain city area Our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand. Isn't that nice to have relatives like that? People are gonna backstab you, backbite you, destroy your company, destroy your future. Isn't this just wonderful? We're gonna deliver them in your hands, the Ziphites of the tribe of Judah, David's own tribe. This is a big time betrayal. This is a big time betrayal. Saul, King Saul never saw it. King Saul didn't go down into Judah and say this if I say, I can read it, you're worth your while if you betray David. He never saw it coming. He never who The people of Judah aren't going to betray David. There's nobody in Judah that would betray David. He never saw it coming. He never sought it And David never expected it. In fact, when he flees with Saul, of all the places in Judah he can flee to, he flees down to the area of the wilderness of the Zipps. He figures that's a safe place to be Their family, their their blood, their kin, I'll be safe down there. He never expects it. The Zipites didn't care. If David's blood was shed. The Zipites didn't care if David was innocent of all the things that Saul had been charging him with. The Zipites didn't care if innocent blood was shed, so long as they had the favor of those in power. The Ziphites just want to be in the favor of Saul. Saul's in power. He rules. They just wanted to have his favor There are people like that today. The Zipites are still alive. They don't care who's in government, they don't care who's ruling, they don't care what kind of rules are coming out of the White House or what kind of rules are coming out of the Senate of the Congress. They just want to be in favor with those who are in rule. They'll sell their souls. And they'll sell you out. Just to be in favor. With the tyrant or the ruler or the one that governs over them. That's what the Ziphites were. The Ziphites didn't care. And that's why David is writing here in the 54 Psalm. He is so betrayed by the Zephyrites. He writes a whole psalm about them. And if you look back at Psalm 54, it it says right there, and I don't know how many of you it should be in all your Bibles, but in Psalm 54 At the very top of the Psalm it says, To the chief musician, a psalm of David, when the Ziphians came and said to Saul, Doth not David hide himself with us? He writes the whole the whole psalm about his betrayal and of quite a betrayal it was. He calls him in Psalm 54 strangers, oppressors, evil. These aren't really strangers. He knows them by name and by blood and by kin. But but the way they're betraying them, he calls them strangers of the gospel, strangers to the God of Israel, strangers to the God of Abram, Isaac, and Jacob's God. They are strangers, oppressors, and evil. They're setting God aside, he says in Psalm 54, and they're setting aside God's man as well. What a devastating blow to David. What a devastating blow. Had Jonathan, the king's son, not recently visited David, I think it would have just about put him into a total depression spiral spin of some sort. I mean if if you know he's already got the the the the city of Kelok who will betray him and turn him over. They runs in the Zipites and what they've just done. Had had Jonathan not just been there the son of King Saul and strengthen him, what kind of a spiral, what kind of a depression would he have gone into? He'd have probably just given up totally But as the Lord Jesus Christ said, your father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask. And God knew that David was going to need some support, some comfort, someone to strengthen him, and he sent Jonathan there. Why not today you call on somebody whose world is falling apart? Why not today call on somebody? You know, call on somebody before they're divorced, before they're hospitalized, before they're nigh onto death. Just call on somebody. You have no idea that what that phone call might be mean. They may not have no idea what that phone call might mean, or a card might mean, or dropping by might mean. But there's maybe something just ahead that's going to just obliterate their life And you can be the one to strengthen their hand as the other shoe is about to drop in their life and make their living quite quite miserable So these bai say tell Saul, we will give David into your hand We'll tell you where he is. We'll hand him over to you. And in verses 21 through 24, Saul said, Oh, blessed are ye of the Lord. He starts out a benediction here He is so pompous, he is so pious, he says he acts like he's so godly, you know. He's quoting God, uh quotes scripture when he can. Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord. Oh, go, I pray you And I will go with you and they arose. Oh, isn't he a wonderful, godly man? I know that when you Watch TV all year long and you catch the news that the government is constantly trying to, you know, remove Bible from the cler classroom, remove prayer from the classroom Uh they don't want the chaplains to pray in Jesus' name. You hear all that anti-Christian stuff all the time. But when the elections are coming, all of a sudden the politicians are coming out of church, you know, and they're carrying their Bible. And I heard one of the one of the women running for president, I won't mention her name, but she's talking about how much God means to her and how much her church means to her. You don't hear any of this for four years, and then just about the time of the elections, all of a sudden everybody's born again, I guess So Saul is blessed be ye the Lord, go, I pray you. This benediction is disgusting. When we know what his heart is really like. He's implying here that God's on his side, the God's on the side of the Ziphites, and the God will bless the murder. God will bless the murder of David. God will bless the murder of the sweet psalmist of Israel, because that's David's title. In 1 Samuel 23, he's called the sweet psalmist of Israel. He wrote so many of these psalms, these beautiful psalms. That the church has been singing for 2,000 years, more 2,500 years, 2,700 years. And he writes these, but Saul thinks he's going to kill the sweet psalmist of Israel. And God's on his side. That same evil spirit guided the high priest Caiaphas. And he had this to say about the sinless Lord Jesus Christ. It is expedient that one man die for the people, that the whole nation perish not. John 11 50. Caiaphas the high priest had the same Spirit of Saul. Let's kill off the sinless one. Let's kill off the miracle worker. Let's kill off the Son of God. Let's kill off the Messiah. Let' And he knew that because he said, Art thou the Christ, tell me. And the Lord Jesus Christ said, Yes I am. I am the Christ And so, what kind of a spirit would kill off the sweet psalmist of David? The same kind of a spirit that would kill off the Lord Jesus Christ. Is it not the same evil spirit that promotes the aborting of babies? The abortion of a baby, that has really changed a lot. When I was a young kid and they started aborting babies, it was in case the girl was raped. And that seemed reasonable to people. And then it was if uh uh if the it was the danger of the mother's life. And people thought that was reasonable. And and I thought it was. I wasn't a Christian. That sounds reasonable to me. I can understand that that's what I thought. You know when it started to wake up when they started to say, well We need to abort babies to reduce the shortage of the natural resources. We're running out of food. We're running out of water. We need to lower the population. I thought, whoa, I wasn't saved yet, but I thought, hmm, that is a weird reason. What kind of spirit would kill babies because our natural resources are running a little low? I got an idea. Everybody thinks the natural resources are running a little low. Why don't they just kill themselves? I mean that'd be a start. And I don't want them to do that either. I just saying. So storage of natural resources, that soon changed to we've got to abort babies to cut down on the costs of welfare. And then they came up with we gotta abort babies because we wanna cut down on the abuse of wanted children I'm not going to ask for a show of hands here, but I'm going to tell you this. I talked enough of you to know this. Most of you were a surprise, weren't you, to your parents I mean your parents are we won't have been married three months, we won't have been married a year, we won a couple years or so, we weren't expecting a child as soon. We don't want we don't have a child in three or four years Most of us were quite a surprise to our parents. And in fact, if you're the firstborn in your family, you were probably unwanted until they saw that cute little face, you know, and the little cry, the tiny little baby kitten But now they let's abort them to get rid of the unwanted children because they'll be abused. We don't want them abused, so let's just kill them. What is that? Isn't that abuse? And the latest one now is that let's abort the babies because we must shrink the human carbon footprint. We must abort babies to prevent global warming. Boy, it's come a long way from the girl that was raped, or the mother who might die if she has the baby, hasn't it? What's all this death? Pull a plug on grandma, abort the baby, what's all this death? God explains it in Proverbs 836. All that hate me. Love death. Makes me wonder about the punk rockers who walk around they got all the black makeup, the black fingernails and uh the black garb, you know, they wear all the old black clothes, black boots, and black and they then they they paint their faces kind of white so they look like they're death, like they're zombies. And they love looking like death. Those who hate me love death. Proverbs 8 and 36. And most of those who hate the Lord they do love death. Of course it's usually they love the death of others, or they love the death of us. Uh ISIS, Al Qaeda, you know, the uh the the Muslims that they they love death, as long as it's somebody else's death and not theirs. They love death so much that the Muslim Sunnis will kill the Muslim Shiites, and the Muslim Shiites will kill the Muslim Turks. And the Muslim Turks will kill the m the Muslim Wahhabis, the Muslim Wahhabis will k they love death so much they'd kill if they can't find a Christian or a Jew to kill that where's the closest Muslim that's not a Sunni or who's not a Shiite or who's a They love death so much, they just They're just full of hate and destruction They love the death of others like David, who when it was told David in verses 25 and 26, he came down into a rock, or he came into a cave in the wilderness. And he made haste to get away. I'd want to get away from Saul too. He's got two hundred thousand soldiers. They're canvassing the mountain. They surround the mountain. They're working up to the top of the mountain. David's Simon higher and higher on the top of the mount on his side. They've got him surrounded. David's situation is desperate, and Saul has tightened the noose. And David cries out to God, and it's recorded in Psalm 54. David's on this hill. The soldiers have totally surrounded the Mount of Hesheman and they're climbing up the mountain. And David's going up higher and higher and higher, and they've tightened the noose around him. He's almost captured. He's surrounded. David's surrounded. He's immobile. He's in soul sight. He's in range of probably bows and slings and arrows. He's finished. He's kaput. He's done. And then David tries out. In Psalm 54 and verse 3, this is where he says, Cut them off, O Lord! Cut them off! I'm outnumbered, I'm outdone, I'm outfunded, I'm outmaneuvered, I'm bound out, I'm surrounded. Do you ever feel like that as a Christian? We're outfunded, we're outnumbered, we're outgunned, we're surrounded? Do you ever feel like crying out? Cut them off, Lord, cut them off! You're not alone, yet there's hope when there's none that seems possible. David is surrounded. He's crying out. The cry is recorded in Psalm 54. Cut him off. And 27, verse 27, the very next verse, the very next verse says, but But there came a messenger unto Saul saying, The Philistines have invade the land David's surrounded, as I said before. He's immobile, he's in Saul site, he's in range, he's finished, he's kaput. There's nowhere to go. He's finished, kind of like Jonah. In the fish, he's at the bottom of the ocean. Jonah talks about being at the bottom of the sea and how the weeds are wrapped around his head and his body is seeing corruption and he's he's dead as it were. And how by Job, Job he's he's sitting on a on the pile of of uh cinders, he's scraping the boils out of his skin, and and Joe's Job is just Job said, Job says, his children are dead, his daughters are dead, his sons are dead, his cattle have been stolen, everything is horrible. And now he's covered in boils. And Job says Pickering with the bullet says, though he slay me, I will still trust him. And that's David. He cries out to God. He cries out because he knows God can still do something when things are impossible, when things are at at the very end, when you seem finished and things are kaput. He cries out, and there came a messenger. When you're in a situation where the doctor says there is no hope When your family says, I'm leaving you, there's no hope, this relationship's finished, when you're in a situation, you cry out to God. You cry out to God. For those impossible things. Not even the devil can delete your prayers to God Ever delete things on your computer and you can't get them back? The devil can't delete your prayers to God. Now I'm not saying to answer everyone of your prayers a yes. You're going to get everything you want. But he will answer your prayers in such a way that you will praise him for all eternity You're never at a loss because you can pray. And not even the devil can delete your prayers. David cries out, cut them off! And there came a messenger. The Philistines have invaded the land. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing David and went after the Philistines. We know Saul. When they invade the land in the city of Keilah Saul said, eh, it's only Keilah, I don't care about Keilah. Hey, when they're down here, they're domestic, they say, I don't care about that. But he cares, you know why? They've invaded his land. They've invaded his property. He's got to go back up to Gibeah because they're messing with his farm and his cattle and his sheep And the Philistines invade the land. God is never at a loss for ways to preserve his sheep. Here he stirs up the Philistines, the enemies of Israel. He stirs them up to invade Saul's personal property. And thus God fulfills his promise to David. Perfect timing, marvelous rescue from the most unlikely source, the Philistines. Sometimes our darkest moment is when we've just come under the shadow of the Almighty. Psalm 91. 1 says that we're under the shadow of the Almighty. Sometimes our darkest moments, our darkest hours, it's only dark because we're under the shadow. of God's wings. We just, if it's gotten awful dark. Things are black. We're giving up. That was Saul breathing out threatenings and slaughter, coming up the mountain of Hesheman to kill David. Saul's breathing out threatenings and slaughter, and he's diverted. By an evil force, the Philistines. There was another Saul on the road of Damascus breeding out threatenings and slaughter, and he was converted. By the Holy Spirit. You go through the scriptures, I could give you names all day. Do you know that in the disciples, the list of disciples were actually two Judases? Judas was Cariot, and the other one was Judas, who they called Thaddeus. And the one Judas, Iscariot, he is diverted from following Christ. And the other Judas, a Phadeus, he is converted. Perhaps someone here has a good name, a Bible name, a Christian name. Or at least someone here is people call you a Christian. Oh, he's a Christian. But are you? Has the devil diverted you? Or has God and his Holy Spirit converted you? Many may call you a Christian. But only if you cried out to God will He save you in a miraculous way. And you will be a Christian. Have you cried out to God today? Have you cried out to God? As John Stossel did, pray he gets saved. And you make that same cry out if you haven't. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the trials and afflictions of David, how they're recording the Psalms to comfort us, to guide us. To show us how we can pray to the Lord when we're going through trials. And to have comfort in knowing that you take care of the zipites in our life, you take care of the souls in our life. You take care of all our afflictions. Until we praise you and praise you and praise you. And oh Lord, may that be the experience of everyone here today that for all that they may be going through, God is going to get the glory. It's going to be for our good. For you are the one that abundantly blesses above all that we can imagine. And it's in His name, our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, we pray. Bless us, Lord. Cut off. Cut them off, Lord, and bless us, we pray. Amen. I'm going to ask if uh Carl we close today with prayer and ask a blessing on the food downstairs as well so that When the people leave here they can just go down and and again if you've just visited day, we invite you down for the food. You didn't have to bring anything, there's always food left over.