Our Father, we thank you for the exemplary command of Christ to the disciples to come yourselves apart and rest awhile. Indeed, this vile world tries our hearts and tries our spirits. And Uh battles against our faith, as as our brother was so ablely expounding in Sunday school this morning. The things of this world tend to discourage and distract and Deter us from the pathway of righteousness. And Father, as we come together in this place this morning to worship thee, We pray that you would indeed free our hearts and our minds from all the cares of this world and the thoughts of other things. The distractions of commerce, the distractions of family. the distractions of other things, worldly entertainments that can so easily intrude upon our walk with thee. And Father, may you free us from these things. And Father, this morning, may we indeed worship Thee in spirit and in truth. May we as a body of believers do that which the unbeliever cannot do. Because you will not accept the praise of feigned lips. And Father, we find in your word that you declare, I create the fruit of the lips. And so, Father, this morning, may you create the fruit of our lips. May you lead the hearts of thy redeemed to cry out to the Redeemer in unfettered praise. For thy glory, for thy righteousness, for the majesty of thy name. Bless us through thy word. Father, we often pray meet with us. And yet we thank you that that prayer biblically is unnecessary, for it is a promised reality. That where two or three are gathered in my name, that you are in the midst. And so, Lord, we do desire thy presence. But Lord, we are made aware by thy word that you have declared you will be with us. And so, Father, may the callousness of our hearts be removed the scales from our eyes, that we might be made aware of your presence with us. And Father, we know that Christ is revealed in the Word. And so as we study thy word together, may the Holy Spirit of God be the preacher in this room. May the Spirit of God reveal Christ in his word. Reveal to us our sin before Thee. Reveal to us thy mercy for our sin. Reveal to us thy promise of help in time of trouble. And Father, may we leave this place today, being spiritually refreshed, spiritually strengthened. And more dedicated than ever to the service of the King of Heaven. Bless us to these ends, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship from the Word of God, reading from 2 Corinthians chapter 1, the third and fourth verses. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort whereof we ourselves are comforted. of God. I'm sitting reading. Good morning everyone. Turn to your blue song book and our first song is 131. May Jesus Christ be praised, number 131, also known as when morning gilds the skies. 131 is our opening tune. Beautiful song. Trust you'll enjoy it. We'll read all six stanzas. Sing all six stanzas. When Ring yells for Christ, my heart will make me price, maybe not Christ be praised. I can't work at prayer to Jesus I repair may Sleep with sleep work on me, silence spirit. May Jesus Christ be praised when he holds on for that. With this I shield my breath. Let us sadness a little more, if you're Christ giving. Or they will be quite my computer. May need praise Let air and see and sight from death to my three block. I believe it's called for life, baby. It is while my good, my can make Jesus cry. Make this age all your twice. Oh man, oh man, let's be seated. In uh preparation for our confessional reading, if you would at this time uh consider silencing your phone. Thank you. Brother Anton, if you would. Good morning. Good morning. This morning we continue the twenty-eighth article of the Belgic Confession of Faith. This one has the title, Everyone is Bound to Join Himself to the True Church. Christian, in what do you believe? And that this may be the more effectually observed, it is the duty of all believers, according to the Word of God to separate themselves from those who do not belong to the church, and to join themselves to this congregation wheresoever God hath established it Even though the magistrates and edicts of princes be against it, yea, though they should suffer death or any other corporal punishment Therefore, all those who separate themselves from the same, or do not join themselves to it, act contrary to the ordinance of God. There's two main points in this morning's confessional reading. The first is the believer is required to separate themselves from, it says here, those that are uh that don't belong to the church. Another way of saying unbelievers, for those that are not faithful to the Lord. And the second point is there's a requirement to gather with The faithful church, despite dangers that might come from the authorities that are over us. And the first point there that we have to separate from anyone that's not belonging to the church really stems from uh Second Corinthians six, which says it very well in verses fourteen and 17 It says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness? And again in verse 17, wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. This is a reference to the world and all unbelievers. Not that we're to all the way cut all communication, otherwise there wouldn't be any gospel going out if we didn't have any communication at all. And furthermore, we do have duties to some that may be unbelievers, even some that are in our families. It might be your parent that's an unbeliever, or your child. or your spouse even. But we're not to cut off all ties. But the meaning here is that we're not to take a stand with them in anything that is against the Lord. And we're also to protect ourselves from their influence, pulling us over into the world and unto unbelief. You can't take a stand with them in anything that's against the Lord. And one uh application of that is that you shouldn't worship their God on one Sunday and then come and tr worship the true God the next Sunday. Create some kind of a deal with them. Okay. I'll go ahead and serve your unfaithful God or your unfaithful idea of what Christianity is, some church where the gospel is missing or they're uh openly uh doing something that's contrary to the ordinance of God and then I'll go and serve the th the faithful, the true God on the other Sunday. No, we're we're to be separate from that. We're to say, no, we can't join you in those things. Even if their God is themselves and they just want to sleep in on Sunday and not make it out to church at all. Just give us a break. I don't want to do this. Well, you're to stand faithfully and not and be separate from these unfaithful acts. We also must be careful that unbelievers don't draw us away. Sometimes it's needful to be with them. You might Still be uh if you're living under a parent that's an unbeliever or with a spouse that's an unbeliever and they're pulling you away into the world. You still have to be around them, but you have to be careful to have your guard up, to see what is this thing that I'm being influenced in. Is it uh good according to God's word, or is it something that's evil that's drawing me away And uh Christ of course warns uh uh uh if anybody that's if there's anybody that's not taking a stand with him, that's not standing with him. They're against him. He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. We are to separate, in a sense, from all unbelievers, all unbelievable The second point there is that we have to join and gather uh with a faithful church, wherever it is, wherever we know of a faithful church, despite the danger that government might bring upon us The confession notes there's a need to gather, even though the magistrates and edicts of princes be against it. This refers to the authorities commanding. you know, uh you guys want to gather but there's a violation right now. You th there's a prohibition, you you can't do it. Despite what man says, we have to obey God instead, even though there might be some danger that's implied there. And of course we've seen this happening all throughout history. We know the devil is the prince of the power of the air, and he works upon unbelievers' minds. even putting forth rules of of uh through people who are kings or princes or presidents that will be against or that will be harmful to the people of God, even forbidding them to gather And you know if you're a true believer, you do have a real adversary. You do have somebody that's out there against you. That's the devil, and he's seeking whom he may devour. And the best way to devour somebody is have them s separated. Make a way so that they don't gather together, and then it'll be easier to pluck them off one by one. There's many biblical examples as well of authorities forbidding worship. You know, Darius, King Darius, during uh Daniel's day, he put forth a decree, 30 days, just 30 days, 30 days of no praying to God. And how tempting that is. You know, okay, I'll just take a pause for a little bit from worship. And then my my family won't be in danger, I won't be in danger, and then I'll return later. Yeah, I'll keep my job, everything But uh this is the satanic tactic to weaken the church and it's even used through rationality. This is a reasonable thing. Just stop for a little while. You don't need to be so extreme. If there's some danger, just hang out. You don't need to do that. And we had something that wasn't too different with the COVID scare. You know, we heard first fifteen days to slow the spread, and that turned into a few years. And then we heard as well that church is a non essential gathering, so that's not needful It's actually prohibited. There were uh it was forbidden to meet in certain numbers in a certain uh tight space and location. Though your God commands you to do this, we say no, you don't do it. You have to hold off. There's a danger there, don't do it And then what we saw was that even when the restrictions were removed, many members didn't return. It kind of weeded them out. It showed that, well, okay, we're not going to stand with the Lord. Of course the churches weakened all throughout. But we saw the faithful stance that Daniel took in Darius' day. Despite the king's decree. And Daniel six ten it says that now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he already knew about it, he wasn't Uh, you know, he i it wasn't a thing that he moved forward and he just didn't know that there was danger there. So when he knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house And his windows being open in his chamber, toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime And that, of course, was the thing that brought him into the den of lions. It put his life into danger. But yet he chose to be faithful to the Lord rather than obey man. And we must be like Daniel, willing to suffer in obedience to God. You know, some can't make it because their body won't allow them. But if you have an able body, what's your excuse? Why why wouldn't you gather? And if there's a danger that the government is putting upon you, uh is that really a reasonable excuse in the Lord's sight? You see that it's not If you were to face the dangers like churches do in many other nations, even today, there's a danger of imprisonment or you may even be killed if you're spotted gathered with these faithful people. Would you still go? Are you ready to obey God and to suffer the consequences for it? Well, I'll leave you with God's command in Romans 12. 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Thank you. Where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in the midst, Christ declared. Guarantee you that Christ is not in a football stadium this morning. Even though some athlete may score some play, whatever, and then point up to the sky, God's not there. And uh NASCAR puts itself out as, Oh, this is this is a a good people's sport. This is a patriotic down home sport and they have a chaplain that comes in and preaches before the Never been to one, but want to understand a chaplain comes and preach a little sermon before the race starts. Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. That's not where God is. And so we do need to observe God's holy day and keep it as such. Thank you, Brother Anton. As always, we have a long prayer list. Isn't it marvelous that we have a long prayer list? Not a list of complaints, not a list of all the world's wrong, not a list of this is this is all the problems we face, but rather, Lord You know what things we have need of before we ask. And we, in obedience to God, place before Him the needs of the body. Let us pray together. Great God, our Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you that you alone hear and answer prayer. Father, if you had have left us alone, if you had left us to the iniquity that was inherent in our fallen nature. We would be bowing before some wooden idol or some stone that we had made and set up to be our God. We would be praying to Diana or to Baal. But, Father, we thank you that in your mercy and your grace you delivered us from such folly and destruction and iniquity, and revealed to us your Son, Jesus Christ. And you revealed to us the one who said, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. And so we thank you that we do not pray to the sealing. But we pray through the heavens to the very throne of God. And we thank you that we are not informing you this morning of any needs or burdens. For you do indeed know what things we have need of before we ask. But rather we are coming before you with our petitions In faith believing that you are able to answer our prayer. And in faith believing that what you do will be good, as for God, His way is perfect. And so, Lord, we express in prayer our will before you, but we qualify our prayers with thy will be done. And Father, we know that what to us seems good and well may be the worst catastrophe that could ever happen to us. And what to us appears to be great sorrow and catastrophe may well be the greatest blessing we could ever receive. And so, Father, we thank you that we are never the victims of cruel fate, but we are always the recipients of a divine, loving, and all-wise providence. And so, Father, hear our prayer for Christ's sake, and answer our prayer according not to our will, but to thy perfect will. Father, we we pray today for our college students. Lord, we thank you for Gabe that is here with us this morning and for Julia and Kelly and Lielle. Lord, watch over them as they as they study, protect from evil influences, help these young people to learn of thee far more importantly than learning any subject. Father, may they be led by thy grace into the pathway of righteousness and life, we pray. Father, bless these ends. They stand in jeopardy as they attempt to get a good education because of all the philosophies of man that are so rife in this generation. Watch over them and protect them. Father, we thank you for the young children of our congregation. Lord, we we delight to hear their voices in our midst. And we read in thy word that the infant mouths can praise the Lord. Father, we pray that you would bring them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Because, O Lord, they are born hell-bound sinners, as sweet and delightsome and as innocent as they may seem. They will be children of wrath, except for the grace of Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray also for the children that we count as a part of this congregation that are not present with us here today. Lord, those in Alaska and in other places, Father, watch over them, bless them, draw them to thyself, we pray. Father, we pray for those of our congregation that are traveling. Thank you for those that are present with us now and will be on the road in the week to come. We pray for those also that are away from their homes at this time. We pray that they may have safety in travel. We pray that their souls may be refreshed in thy word. And Father, we pray that you would give them many opportunities to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ, to be a light and a testimony and a verbal witness in whatever place they may be. Oh Father, bless these in. Father, we thank you that you are the creator of the body. We thank you, Lord, that you know every cell of our body Indeed, not a hair of our head can fall. And Lord, how many cells does each hair contain? And yet, Lord, it is known to thee. Father, there may be those in our midst today that appear full well healthy, that show no signs of any illness whatsoever. That may not reach home today. We all know of those who have seemed to be in perfect health and have been suddenly taken from this life. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And so Father, we do not know what you know. No doctor knows what you know. And so, Father, we pray for the physical health of the people Lord, there are those this morning that we have called their name before you in prayer, praying, beseeching you, Lord, from early this morning Till shortly before the service, we have called upon you by name for individuals that they might be here. And oh Lord, they are not Father, we accept that as your will. We understand that your way is perfect. But Lord, we pray for the healing of your people Lord, we have had names on our prayer list from the very first time that Mission Bible Church met before we even had a name. Before we were called Mission Bible Church, we were calling upon you. And Lord, some of these dear saints that we've known for many years, we have called out to you for many years, beyond the existence of this local assembly of believers. And Lord, you have not failed to answer our prayer. You have answered our prayer every time we have prayed, not necessarily as we would desire, but according to your will And so, Father, if you would so ordain to do so, may you heal the bodies. If you would so ordain to do so, may you allow strength. That next Sunday those that we prayed for by name that are not present might be able to be here with us. Father, I pray for my dear lifelong friend, whom I've known since we were Three or four years old. I do not remember a day that I did not know him. He was in our wedding. Who tomorrow, now he's facing cancer the second time. And tomorrow a tumor will be removed from his spine. He may well come through the surgery. He will if you ordain. He may well not. And so, Father, I pray for him. I thank you for his witness and his testimony. May you watch over him tomorrow. Father. We pray for this poor nation. We have been blessed for almost 250 years to have freedom of religion. That is something that very few peoples in history have truly had. We thank you that we have a code of laws which are loosely based upon your law. And Lord, we thank you that we have existed in a society which at least has given lip service to the God of heaven. But Father, this nation is deserving of wrath and judgment and any calamity that may come upon it. But Father, you have told us your people to occupy till you come. And so, Lord, regardless of what this nation may be tomorrow or next week or next year May we be faithful to you. May our allegiance be to heaven. And may we not fail to be lights in this dark world. Bless your people within this Sodom, we pray. Father, I thank you this morning. That though it is placed upon my responsibility and Brother Vence's responsibility to feed the flock of God. Though that responsibility is given to man because you've chosen the foolishness of preaching, yet, Lord, you have not left us with a cup bare covered. But rather, Lord, you have given us the precious Word of God. And no man in thousands of lifetimes could exhaust the depths of the Word of God. And so, Lord, this morning in the hearing of this people, I will endeavor to read and expound upon thy word. But, O Lord, there is nothing profitable that I can accomplish. But, O Lord, there is nothing needful that is beyond the power of thy Holy Spirit to do. And so, Father, may the word of the Lord have free course and be glorified. May the Son of God be magnified in our midst. And O Lord, may this people not fail to be blessed, not by anything that I have to say, but by that which the Spirit teacheth. And when we pray these things in Jesus' name. Please turn to Romans chapter 8 for a responsive reading. Once you've located Romans 8 in your Bibles, please rise. We'll be responsibly reading Romans eight, starting in verse eighteen, and going to verse thirty-nine, which is the end of the chapter. Romans 8, 18 to 39. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation the creature waited for the manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was subject to vanity not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope. Because that the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption. into the glorious liberty of children of God. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of the body. For we are saved by hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it? Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities For we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us, with groanings which cannot be uttered And he that searches our heart knoweth what is the mind of the spirit, because he maketh intercession for saints, according to the will of God. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. For whom he did for know, he also did predestinate to be conformed the image of his Son That he might be the firstborn among many of the brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. And whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? So tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness Or peril, or sword. As it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, and altogether, nor height, nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. Very excellent and classic passage of Scripture. Clearly giving the order of salvation whom he predestined. He called, he called, justified, be justified, he glorified. It's hard to get around that. Turn to your blue songbook, number 15, an adaptation of Psalm 98. our psalm that we will sing before our sermon, number 15. It's to the tune of Duke Street as sung in Jesus Shall Reign. If everybody is there, you'll note that there are seven stanzas. The last two are uh You just have to follow the music as you learned it in the first five stanzas. Alright, number 15. We'll sing all seven stanzas and conclude with the Amen. The great relationship is improving her. Before the deal is going to run. Those praise and all of the soul of the book and all day. And Charles with choice in the voice of the place where you like. Polish five So glory raised with markets for Shall be called almost be glad when I had those grown old Then told the world comes on to show it won on our Let those we try to all be caused by scores All nations go and just go to the Open in your Bible with me this morning to the 50th Psalm, Psalm 50 in your Old Testament. It is an interesting phenomenon in God's uh providence that Some preachers tend to be New Testament preachers and others tend to be Old Testament preachers. I remember very well One of the preachers that had the greatest influence on my life, uh Dr. Bob Wood, who was a businessman Never pastored a church, but uh because of his business business acumen, he would became the executive vice president of Bob Jones University. But he was a powerful preacher. He had never been called the pastorate. His I'm gonna get way off the subject here, but his family owned you ever hear of Brown trucking I don't know if the Brown Trucking Company is still in business, but his that was his family and he walked away from Brown Trucking to be the vice president of a c Christian college. But he spoke in chapel two, three times a month and almost always preached from the Old Testament, and I gained more from his preaching. And it's it seems like in my own ministry I've gra gravitated more towards the Old Testament than the New. You know, and it's not because I pick that necessarily, but that's just where the Spirit seems to lead So this morning again, we're going to be in the Old Testament. I believe we've been in the Old Testament most Sundays of this year. But folks, there's so much here. And that is not in any way a negative on the New Testament. But there's so many foundational principles in the Old Testament. Which so buttress the ministry of Christ and give us such great joy and blessing A gold mine of treasures and principles that order the life of the believer. The Old Testament is the foundation of the new And my father used to say Christ was in the Old Testament concealed and in the New Testament revealed. He is in both Testaments. But the Old Testament lays a foundation, and we find that other foundation could no man lay than that which was laid, the man Christ Jesus. Christ is the foundation. But this morning I'm going to read the entirety of Psalm 50, and we're going to look at various verses throughout it. But folks, there's a nugget of gold in this Psalm that is so precious. Let me read it and then we'll try to get deeper into it. Psalm 50, beginning with verse 1. The mighty God Even the Lord, the Lord there is Jehovah, even Jehovah hath spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shined Our God shall come and shall not keep silence. A fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me Those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. And folks, the sacrifice there in the Old Testament was the Lamb at the tabernacle. The sacrifice by which we have made covenant with him is Jesus Christ. Those that have made covenant with me by the sacrifice of Christ. And the heavens shall declare his righteousness. That's the righteousness of the sacrifice. For God shall judge himself, Selah. Hear, O my people, and I will speak. O Israel, and I will testify against thee. I am God. Even thy God. I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifice or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me. I will take no bullock out of thine house, nor a he-goat out of thy folds, for every beast of the field is mine. Every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. I know the fowls of the mountain, and the wild beasts of the field are mine If I were hungry, I would not tell thee. For the world is mine and the fullness thereof, will I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High And call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth? seeing that thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind thee. And when thou sawest a thief, thou consentest with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers. Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue framed as deceit. Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother, thou slanderest thine own mother's son These things hast thou done, and I kept silent. Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such and one as thyself. But I will reprove thee and set them in order before mine eyes. Now consider this Ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces and there be none to deliver Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. And to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for thy word. Oh Lord, the majesty, the glory, the power, the unfathomable depths of the Word of God. Lord, we could preach a hundred sermons from this passage alone. There is so much here. But Father, enable us this morning to be able to digest a small portion of the banquet of thy truth. that is laid out before us. And O Lord, thereby may your sheep be fed, may your people be edified, and may Christ be glorified. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I would like to focus our attention on two verses of this glorious psalm. Look with me again at verse 14 and 15. Offer unto God thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. This psalm is somewhat unique from the majority of the psalms In the majority of the Psalms you find God's people returning praise to God. And in many of the Psalms of David, David will begin very discouraged and downbeat and David pouring out his complaint before God, and then in the end worshiping and praising God. But this psalm is unique in that God speaks in first person through much of this psalm. Now all the psalms are inspired. The Holy Spirit spake by the prophets. The Holy Spirit told men what to write and they faithfully recorded what the Holy Spirit said. But it is unique in the Psalms that we find God speaking in first person. Look at the Psalm again, just hitting the highlights. Verse 1 tells us that the mighty God, the Lord, has spoken. Verse 2, out of Zion God has shined. Verse 3, our God shall come. Verse 4, he called from heaven. But then verse 5, God begins to speak in first person. Verse 5, gather my saints together unto me. Verse 7, hear O my people, I will speak. I am God, even thy God. Verse 8, I will not reprove thee. Verse 9, I have taken will take no bullet Verse 10, the forest is mine. Verse 11, I know the fowls. Verse 12, if I were hungry, verse 13, I will eat no flesh. Verse 15, call upon me. Verse 21, I kept silence, verse 22, lest I tear thee in pieces, verse 23, you will glorify me. You see the difference there from many of the Psalms, where here God is not speaking through a prophet, but God is directly addressing his people. and directly addressing the wicked. This is unique, folks. And it it's glorious when we begin to look at it because Oh, the word of God is a blessing, but sometimes these pieces that kind of stand out just arrest the attention of thy people of God's people. We find in verse fifteen, call upon me in the day of trouble Jesus declared in John 16, verse 33, These things have I spoken unto you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. God never declares to his people that the day of trouble is a possibility. Look at verse 15. It says, Call upon me in the day of trouble. Doesn't say call upon me because there might be a day of trouble. It doesn't say call upon me because you know things may go off direct someday. No. God posits the fact that there will be a day of trouble Call upon me in the day of trouble. Which one of you that know the Lord have never had a day of trouble? Let me see all the hands. Right. We have days of trouble and weeks and months and years of trouble. Yea, this life We'll have tribulation, Price said. But be of good comfort, I've overcome the world God states that the day of trouble is a certainty in this fallen world. But look what God says there. Verse 14. Offer unto God thanksgiving. And pay thy vows to the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. Call it. I will deliver. I would deliver. God says, These days of trouble are coming, but in spite of days of trouble, offer to me thanksgiving. In spite of days of trouble, pay your vows. Call upon me when the days of trouble come, and I will deliver thee. But so-and-so was sick for many years and then died. Did God deliver them? Absolutely, he did. You better believe it. Absolutely, he did You see, as for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. And so the first thing I'd like to do as we approach this idea of calling upon God in the day of trouble is just to very frankly consider the nature of the trouble that God's people face. What kind of troubles? What is the nature or types of trouble that the believer faces? And the first and most obvious is we we face trouble in this flesh. We face trouble in the body, and I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this because you know it, but rather to make this point, I want to just give you a montage of scripture. Listen to the word of God And it came to pass after these things that one told Joseph, behold, thy father is sick. And the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare into David, and it was very sick. At that time Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, fell sick. Now Elisha was fallen sick of the sickness whereof he died. In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. Jehoram, thou shalt have great sickness by the disease of thy boughs, until thy bowels fall out by reason of thy sickness day by day. And I, Daniel, fainted and was sick certain days. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of fever. Now a certain man was sick named Lazarus. Folks, what's the Word of God telling us? These bodies are under the curse. These bodies are going to have sickness. It is a part of living in a fallen world. But we find that we're to offer thanksgiving even in sickness. And we are to pay our vows even in sickness. And we're to call upon the Lord in the day of sickness, in the day of trouble. If you look there at verses 1 through 5, verses 1 through 5 are talking about creation. I'm not going to reread them, we've read them already in your hearing, but it's talking about God's power over creation. Folks, did God create the body? Is God able to do a miraculous work and heal a body with with no doctors or medication involved? Absolutely. Have we seen often in scripture and in practice where God has used doctors and medications for the healing of the body? Absolutely. Have we seen all prayers seem to fail, though they have not failed? And all medical experiments failed? Absolutely. But have you ever seen God's promises fail? Never. Have you ever seen God fail to answer prayer? Never You see, this life is not about longevity or health or comfort or physical strength. It's not about any of those things. Rather, this life is about serving the Lord Jesus Christ. This life is about laying up treasures in heaven rather than treasures on earth. And so we call upon God in the day of our trouble. We call upon God in the day of our sickness. And God answers our prayers, not necessarily according to our will. But look at the last phrase of that verse. fifteen. Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. Hermit Paul said, Whether by life or by death, God is glorified And so we we know and I've probably spent more time there than necessary. We understand that we have these physical trials in the body. We have tribulation in the body. But also we find that we have tribulation in our families. I know a lot of you have unsaved family members that are a great grief to your heart, a great burden to your heart. And sometimes a great argument to your spirit, because they rail against the truth of God and rail against his word. And if you look down to verse 20, it says, Thou citest and speakest against thy brother, thou slanderest thine own mother's son. I have been blessed not to experience that. But I know that many of you have. Folks, we have trouble in our families And oh, what a grief it can be to the soul. And our only response to this can be offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High. Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee. Because God has promised there to do. In Matthew 10, verse 35 and verse 36, we read these words from Jesus Christ. Christ says, I'm not come, or I am come to set a man at variance against his father and the daughter against her mother. And the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's foes shall be those of his own household. Ask yourself the rhetorical question, if you went along with your family's opinions, would Thanksgiving be more enjoyable? If you gave in to the form of godliness, if you stopped being that agitation in your family. By declaring Jesus Christ and Christ alone, would things be more peaceful when you got together for dinner? They probably would. Well folks, that's not what God's called us to. And that's not to say that we are to be obnoxious with the gospel. It's not to say that we try to be troublemakers or stir up ill. But we have to be faithful to our family and to our elder brother who is Jesus Christ. And so, folks, with our families, call upon me in the day of trouble. Because it is a great burden. In Micah 7, 6 we read this, for the Son dishonoreth the Father. And the daughter riseth up against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law, and a man's enemies shall be those of his own household. Think Jesus Christ didn't know the Old Testament scriptures You hear the quote that Christ was giving to us there in Matthew ten. We have tribulation And troubles in our body. We have tribulation and troubles in our family. And folks, we have tribulation and troubles in the marketplace as well. In the commerce of this world. We find in the in God's word having food and raiment therewith be content. We find that if God so clothe the lilies of the field, he'll clothe us. We find that if God feeds the birds of the air, he'll feed us. And yet, there's no man on your front yard in the morning, folks. It's not going to be there. We've got to work. We've got to get out and work. And folks, how these things weigh upon us. How these things are a strain to the soul. We have tribulation in the marketplace because we see the markets. going up and down and we depend upon the filthy lucre of this world to eat And how these things can begin to trouble us. And yet the command of Scripture is offer unto God thanksgiving. Pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. As the psalmist said, I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. When I sent you out without purse or script, lacked you anything, and they answered nothing Folks, we are troubled by these things. These things weigh heavily on our souls. But God will provide. Look down to verse 9 of our text. Psalm fifty and verse nine, God says, I will take no bullock out of thine house, nor heat goat out of thy fold. Obviously there was something there on the farm. God said, That's I'm not interested with that. Verse 10. For every beast of the field is mine and the cattle upon a thousand hills. He said, I I own it all. You don't own anything. Verse eleven I know the fowls of the mountain and the wild beast of the field are mine. If I were hungry, if I were like you. See, this is Jehovah speaking. This isn't Christ speaking on earth after 40 days and 40 nights when he was hungry. This was Jehovah speaking. And he said, if I were like a man, if I were hungry like you are, I wouldn't tell you. For the world is mine and the fullness thereof. Verse 11, for I know the fowls of the air. Matthew 6, 26, behold the fowls of the air. For they sow not, neither do they reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are not ye much better than they? We visited my father-in-law yesterday and sang that old song, His Eye is on the sparrow. And I know he watches me. Folks, we are troubled in the marketplace. But not to despair. Folks, not only do we have trouble in our families and our bodies and in our marketplace, we have trouble in society. The world hates us. This world is not a friend to grace. Christ told us in Matthew 24, verse 9, then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted? And they shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. Folks, who is hated most in this country? I would submit to you that Christians are hated more than drug dealers in many instances. We're hated because we stand against homosexuality. We're hated because we stand against the transgender. You know, who's getting shot by whom? The world hates Christians. This world is not a friend of Christian. We have tribulation in this world. But we're told to call upon him in the day of trouble, and he will deliver us. I read this verse earlier, but I'll read it again, John 16, 33. These things have I spoken unto you that you might have peace In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good comfort or good cheer. I have overcome the world. Look down to verse six of our text there in Psalm 50. The heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God is judge himself. Selah. Folks, the world is against us, but God is judge himself, and God ordained us fila there. Think about it. Stop and pause. Stand in wonder. Because when the heathen rage, he that sits in the heaven shall laugh. Yeah, we have tribulation. We have tribulation in this in society, but God himself is the judge. And then we have tribulation in the nation. We are uh Christ said in Matthew 24, verse 7 and 8, for nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famine and pestilence and earthquakes and diverse places These all these are the beginnings of sorrow. Folks, there's not peace in the Middle East. Our president has not created peace in the Middle East. The Word of God declares there shall be wars and rumors of wars There are temporary pauses, but there will never be peace on this earth. Blessed are the peacemakers, but that's not talking about international relationships. The peacemakers are blessed because they lead men to peace with God. That's what that verse blessed are the peacemakers means Blessed are those that lead men to Jesus Christ, who breaks down the enmity between the Jew and the Gentile, between the races, between God and man. Blessed are the peacemakers. And so, first of all, we find the nature or the types of the troubles in which the believer is to call upon God in the day of trouble. But secondly And more importantly, what is our response? What are we as believers to do in the day of trouble? And I've already given you the outline, but I'm going to give it to you again. Offer unto God thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. Three elements there. First of all, we are to offer unto God thanksgiving, even in our trials. Secondly, we are to pay our vows unto the Most High. We are to fulfill our spiritual duties. Is that what that means? Even in our trials. And thirdly, we are to call upon God, especially in our trials. Let's take them one by one Folks, we offer unto God thanksgiving. This is a hard one, folks. Did you ever thank God for your illness? Did you ever thank God for your poverty? Did you ever thank God that He saved you, even though He hasn't saved your relative that fights against you constantly because of your faith Did you ever thank God because the world hates you? Did you ever thank God when you're persecuted in the nation for righteousness' sake? Folks, those are hard things to thank the Lord for. But if you notice there is a sequence here. Offer unto God, thanksgiving, and there's a connecting word. So this is the first one you do, offer unto God thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. You see what is here? We have three things. One, two, three. Offer thanksgiving. Pay your vows, that means fulfill your spiritual responsibilities. Live the way you're supposed to live, talk the way you're supposed to talk, act the way you're supposed to act, fulfill your vows under the Lord, and call upon him. There's three elements here. And then the colon. And it doesn't say and it doesn't say offer to God thanksgiving and pay thy vows on the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee. No, it's just a colon You do these things, I will deliver you. There's no hand there. That's important, folks. Every word is important. That's why God tells us that He'll preserve the jot and the tittle. Because these words are important, and we we know, I'm not gonna get off the subject here, but we know that many translations today don't pay attention to the details of the text or use texts that are variants. But these things are important. God says, offer thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you. And so we first of all are to offer thanksgiving unto God, pray without ceasing in everything With thank in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Colossians 3 verse 15 Let the peace of God ruin your hearts, to which also you're called in one body, and be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ Dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts unto the Lord And whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks unto God and the Father by him. Whatsoever you do, folks, that's that's in joy or sorrow. That's in wealth and poverty, that's in health or sickness Giving thanks unto God. Giving thanks always for all things unto God. Ephesians 5. 20. Giving thanks always for all things unto God. Folks This is a hard one. It's hard for me, and I know it's harder for some of you because some of you have far greater trials than I do. The harder the trial, the harder it is to give thanks for the trial. So I'm I'm I'm preaching with a pointed finger with four of them pointed back in me. Folks, this is what it says. It says give thanks. And the context is the day of trouble It says, pay your vows. Live the godly life you're supposed to live. How often does a trial come and we want to quit on our spiritual life? Our brother talked about this in Sunday school some this morning. The trial comes and we rebel against God and slack off on our devotions and and if if this is the way God's going to treat me. We're told we're told to give thanks in the day of trouble. Psalm 107, verse 21 and 22. Oh, that man would praise the Lord for his goodness. and for his wonderful works unto the children of men, and let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving Do you hear all the context of sacrifice here? God says that if I I won't take a bullock for your field, I won't take a sheep for your flock. I won't tell you if you're hungry, but then he says, offer unto God thanksgiving. Really thanksgiving is a sacrifice? Being thankful for your poverty is a sacrifice Being thankful for your sickness is a sacrifice. Being thankful for the rebuke of man is a sacrifice And those sacrifices are more acceptable than a lamb in the Old Testament. He said, I don't want those sacrifices. But then he says, offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving. And again in Psalm one nine Psalm six one sixteen verse twelve. Psalm one sixteen verse twelve through nineteen, what shall I render unto the Lord for all of his benefits toward me? I will take up the cup of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Not the health of his saints, but the death of his saints. O Lord, truly I am thy servant, I am thy servant, and the son of thy handmaid. Thou hast loosed my bonds. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call upon the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all his people. First of all, God says in the day of trouble, offer thanksgiving unto God. But also, God says in the day of trouble, pay your vows. Salvation is free. The Christian life is not. Right? Salvation is free, but the Christian life will cost you! Remember Paul? For whom I suffer the loss of all things in the but the account of the but don't. The Christian life will cost you those millions of dollars you could have made out there in iniquity The Christian life will cost you friends. The Christian life will cost you reputation. I would almost say the Christian life will cost you pleasure, but there's there's no greater joy than the joy of the Lord. There's a lot of quote unquote fun that the world has that's just off limits to us. Not because we want it, it doesn't attract us anymore. It doesn't mean anything. Folks, the Christian life the salvation will cost you nothing, but living for Christ will cost you everything. And so, pay your vows. And folks, the greatest example of this is found in Job chapter one and verse twenty. After Job has lost everything Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down to the ground and worshipped. Folks, I'll be honest with you, I don't want to fall down to the ground and kick and scream like a two-year-old, like we heard one going. Right? That's true. That's the immature spiritual response we'd want to have. But Job fell down and worshipped. Folks, in the day of trouble, offer thanksgiving and pay your vows. Live the Christian life the way you're supposed to live the Christian life. Fulfill your spiritual responsibilities. Pay your vows. And folks, do you notice that those two things, Thanksgiving and paying your vows, come before calling on him? We jump to the third one. A problem comes, the first thing we do is call on him, and yet we haven't thanked him for anything. And we haven't lived up to our spiritual responsibilities. But now we expect him to jump in and answer our prayers. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me Humble yourselves, 1 Peter 5, 6, humble yourselves therefore unto the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Proverbs 24 verse 10. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is fall small. Let me read it again. Proverbs 24 verse 10. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is fall f small. Let me read it one more time. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. How often the day of adversity comes and we we faint And I've I've preached that text before and said, you know, the Lord is our strength. It's a lack of our faith that we faint in the day of adversity. Our strength is small because we're trying to put strength in ourselves rather than trust in his strength. Job said in Job 19, Oh, that my words were now written. Oh, that they were with a pen in a book. That they may were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Oh Lord, heal me. God said no. Oh Lord, you know, take care of this. And God says no. Do we rebel? Or do we give thanks and pay our vows? After we have given thanks to God even for our troubles After we have given thanks for God, even when it is the hardest thing we ever do, after we have been diligent about our soul. Then we're given free reign to call upon God in the day of trouble. Call upon me. And call, number three, and call upon me in the day of trouble. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. That moderation, uh you know, your your patience. It ain't gonna be long, folks. What is your life that is even a vapor? I was talking about that with with my brother uh this week. This this past week would have been my uh grandfather's birthday and his nine or sorry that last week was the date of my anniversary of my grandfather's death and would have been the ninety-sixth anniversary of my grandparents this past week How quickly this life flies back. Brains ahead of my tongue How quickly. The day of the Lord is at hand. It's not going to be long. Where was I? Be careful by nothing, but everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be known unto God. And the peace of God that passeth understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Continuing instant in prayer Men ought always to pray and not faint. Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Pray without ceasing. And so we've seen so far the nature of the trials, nature and type of the trials. We've seen our response or a reaction. We're to call upon God, we are to pay our vows. And we are to give thanks to God. But there's a promised outcome. I will deliver. And I touched on this in the in the introduction. God's definition of deliverance may not be the same as yours. You may say this is what deliverance looks at. God said no no no no no. This is what deliverance looks like Folks, did God deliver Paul from the headman's acts Yeah, he did. You better believe it. God delivered Paul from the headman's axe. The headman, headman, the executioner, could not hurt Paul. But that doesn't mean Paul's head didn't come off. You see, Paul knew that the absent of the body is to be present with the Lord. And all the executioner did was assist Paul on his way to glory. And so folks, God's declared He's going to deliver. But God's deliverance may not look like you expect it to. Whether by life or by death, may we glorify him. And so that's what it says there in verse 15. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee And thou shalt glorify me. And I believe those are the five most important words of the whole psalm. And thou shalt glorify me. Isn't that what it's all about? Isn't giving God thanks in our troubles about glorifying God? Isn't paying our vows to the Most High about glorifying God and isn't calling upon God in the day of trouble, really not about my healing. But about glorifying God. Really not about my finances, but about glorifying God. Really not about my family. But about glorifying God, really not about the persecution around me, but be glorifying God in the persecution around me. And really about not about our national problems, but about glorifying God. You see, we are assuredly told that God's going to deliver us. But we are instructed to give thanks and everything, to fulfill our responsibilities, and to cast all our care. upon him. The outcome is he should be glorified. But look at verse 23 and folks I know it's getting way past time. But there's so much more here that we haven't even begun to touch on. Look at the last verse of the Psalm. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. Think about those This whole psalm's been about trouble. In the midst of our trouble, in the midst of our tribulation, we are given the choice whether we will be thankful to God and live out our spiritual duties. We can fail in our spiritual duties by sitting around complaining about circumstances. Or we can fulfill our spiritual responsibilities And he will be praised. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. That's what we find there in verse 15. No so glorify me. And to him that ordereth this conversation are right, their is fulfilling our vows. There is fulfilling our spiritual responsibility. To him that orders his conversation right, will I show the salvation of the Lord? There's the deliverance. And so the last verse comes back to the same theme as verses 14 and 15 and sums it all up. Folks It won't be long. That's right. Our light affliction. I've got a couple more pages of notes we're not even going to get into. But our light affliction, which is but for a moment. And so God may may God give us grace to thank God for our problems, to give him thanks and everything. to live out our responsibility before God, to live as Christians, to maintain our testimony and our walk, and to cast all of our care upon Him for care for us. Colon, not and colon, I will deliver them. Let us pray. Stand with me, please. Gracious Father, I pray that there's been something in the Word today that has been a specific blessing to your people. Lord, we we thank you for the majesty and breadth of thy word. Lord, how impossible it is just to take a few small phrases and and cover them in a lifetime, much less in the confines of a few hours that we have together. Lord, we thank you for thy truth. We thank you for the unfailing nature of the Word of God. Bless thy truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We turn to our closing hymn, number 129, in your Moose Song book. Fairest Lord Jesus, ruler of all nature. Today let us sing it with understanding. We've been instructed a bit in the ways of the Lord. Number one twenty-nine, all four stances Kultu, sahään musta. Felly. Amen. Amen.