Flustery cold day. We are now at the tenth chapter of Hebrews and near the very end of it. We're finally Marching our way past the very dark valley that described the horrible threatenings that says it's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of the living God. We're now uh to the exhortations that begin in verse. 32. And I'll start there and I'm going to read through 37 just to refresh your context. The bulk of my uh remarks this morning being 34 to 37 And uh some of that should be there in your bullshit and insert, but I'm gonna read 32 through following. Here now the word of the Lord But call to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions Partly, whilst you were made a gazing stock. I love that word. It means you were theaterized. You were made spectacle. both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly while you became companions of them that were so used. And here's our section for today. For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise. Yep a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry. And that ends our section today. You know, there's an old saying, nothing ventured, nothing gained. Anybody heard that saying or am I just the only one that's heard that? Alright, well it's going around beyond the boundaries of Texas. So think of an entrepreneur or consider yourself to be one who wishes to create a large business. It may be large in terms of number of states and cities It's in, it could be large in terms of revenue. How expensive would such an endeavor be in terms of time and money? Any thoughts Very. Okay, very. Could you put some numbers to that? I agree. Very. How long might that take? It'd be very difficult to start from scratch unless you already feel that some clue. But you Yeah, that's true. It's very difficult to start from scratch. Yeah. Very difficult. How long might it take somebody to do that? In terms of a lifetime. You know, a career typically for people runs in the 30-year range, maybe 40. Some people are proud of the fact that they've never missed a day of work and they go 50 years I think it said that five years to really establish a new business. Okay. So five years just to kinda get established. Yeah. Yeah, it's interesting, blueberry bushes will not produce a single blueberry until they're at least three years old. They gotta be in the ground that long. So if plants take that long, a business would certainly take longer. And that's just a small blueberry. If you want to start a blueberry orchard, that would take a while. Um what about uh you, if you were in that position, would you be willing to wait five years? Ten, fifteen, to get that venture going? It depends how much you like. Yeah. Ah, very good. Depends on how much you like it. Yeah. And if you have the wherewithal for the weight. Okay. Yeah. If you're able to endure the the time uh while you're waiting to get to that point. Yeah. At this stage in my life I say no. Well for those who have the t-shirt in the closet that says been there done that. Uh starting another one, yeah. Because we understand the sweat and the time and the toil that it takes. One famous businessman now whose name I won't mention from the pulpit, but you all would know him as soon as I say his name because he's all over the news these days. Um Wrote in a memo to his senior executives that he expected them to work 60, typically 80 hours a week, not the 120 hours a week that he puts in Here he is, he's the owner of this company, and he puts in that kind of time. That's an insane amount of time. You're eating, sleeping, living, breathing, drinking Everything, business. It's almost like every waking moment you're focused on that. It takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of effort And it takes a lot of time and it takes a lot of patience to do that. Well, you'll see why this is relevant here coming up. because we have here the text in front of us and we'll get to this we'll get back to this discussion question in a bit. I want to first pay attention to some key words as we look through this passage Beginning in 34, here the penman says, Ye, old English word y'all, had compassion of me in my bonds and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods. And That word bonds, we might begin to think, well, is that some metaphor for something else? No. Overwhelmingly it's used of in reference to somebody who's been in prison The Apostle Paul uses this a tremendous number of times. He spoke about a fifteen different verses throughout the New Testament. all throughout the book of Acts, in Ephesians, frequently in Philippians, a couple of times in Colossians, 2 Timothy, as well as Philemon. Two passages as well. Often speaks of Paul being in bonds, meaning in prison. We would say incarcerated You know, this is the old school jail where they literally chained you up. You literally were held with by your f ankles and shackles. You know, there was no uh Tom Fool or you're getting out and about, you were literally in bonds, and that would weaken the person over time. I had a splint on my hand. It weakens the hand. It takes a while for that to recover. So this was the old school prison. None of this you know, sports TV and gymnasiums out back and uh can play basketball and you know all this you can get a college degree in prison if you want. I mean it's ridiculous It's clearly talking about jail time. Those trying to identify who the penman might be might appeal to this and say, ah, well, that's absolutely the Apostle Paul. But frankly, there while that would be helpful as an identifier, it's not sufficient because we, in fact, do find other people in the New Testament who were in prison. It was not unique to Paul. He did not have a unique experience. And exhibit A would be Paul and Silas were in prison. Silas is Chained up there in prison right next to him. The Apostle Peter likewise was in prison. Uh Saul himself put people in prison, Christians, in early days. It was just The precedence was set. Take a Christian, haul him off to prison. That was the normal thing to do. And in fact, in Revelation 2. 10, the Lord through the Apostle John said, the devil shall cast some of you into a prison. So this is not exclusive to Paul, but he was certainly a prototype in this venture. He was the forerunner of that. Yeah, let me ask an application. You know, our pastor's not here today by way of sickness, but what would you do if you came to services one morning? Brother Vince has got a long look on his face. Uh Gabriel's got a long look on his face and you found out Joe is in prison. What would you do? What would your reaction be if you found out Joe's in prison If I were young I'd go visit him, see if I'd get him out. Yeah, all right, visit him, see if being spring the old boy out Right, a little bit younger. Well you'll lean on Gabriel to go do it. You'll send you send the servant uh I got a single truck saying it to the The window. Haul him out. I don't think I'd ever be big enough to do that. But I sure can talk. You might ask why is he there? You might try to You know how what does it take? Just let's be honest for a minute. What does it take to get somebody out of jail? If you were to A lawyer, okay. So you'd have to retain a lawyer. What else does it take? What's that lawyer going to say I know that none of you may have encountered this, but just imagine what I think it takes money. It takes money. Yeah, that's kind of how things operate here, doesn't it? Uh recently. Okay, yeah, protest, stand outside the prison with placards, let Joe go. Let Joe go. Well I wouldn't hire her. She'd be she's she she might have been the one who put him in there. Yeah, we would have to do we would have to marshal some resources. We would have to begin a campaign. And it's going to take it's going to be inconvenient, right? The police don't, you know, send you a text. By the way, we're gonna apprehend you, put you in prison. You might want to set some things in the fair. Go ahead and secure an attorney first, try to get your finances lined up and when you got that, you know, s we'll schedule a visit, we'll come by and we'll incarcerate you. The cops don't work like that. They tend to show up at about 6 a. m. with the sound of the battering ram on the door, and uh you're hauled off on your pajamas, no contacts in Uh hair hadn't been made, teeth hadn't been brushed, all the ladies were aghast. No. I mean it's it's a rude awakening, it's a rude incursion on everything, and it's just it it wreaks havoc What if Joe and Vince were cast in prison at the same time? Joe, Vince, Gabe, and Pastor Byrd at the same time. You know, often the Roman government would try to do a uh uh capitation effect. Go after the leaders. They went after James. They went after Peter. What would you do? All of a sudden life gets very different. All of a sudden. And do you realize the whole Christian movement started this way? This is not make-believe. They actually started this way. The early church leaders were in prison. Frequently. In fact, it's even worse than that if you read Fox's Book of Martyrs. And if you don't have that as a reference book on your shelf, I encourage you to get it. If for no other reason to read the first 5, 10, 15 pages to see how the Christian religion started. It was tough. The shortest lived job that you could have in this life right now, if you're an insurance agent trying to put somebody in life insurance, is a skydiver or a rodeo bull rider Your life insurance policy is the highest if you're that. In the first century A. D. , if you were a bishop of a church, your life expectancy was three months. You were put out of commission that quickly. And you just look through Fox's Book of Martyrs at, say, the Church of Ephesus or whatever. They rotated through leader after leader after leader quickly. But God was faithful. to continue to provide the backfire. And so yes, the devil indeed did cast many into prison and they never got out Well, what was the mindset of people that are prepared for prison? Does God just drop this bombshell on a saint utterly unprepared? I mean it would certainly would shock me if I was a woken. awakened, whatever the prime word is, rudely out of bed, seven o'clock and hauled off to prison. Uh am I mentally ready for that? I mean yeah I'm just trying to get a good night's sleep. I'm thinking about what I got to do the next day And then all of a sudden a complete wrecking ball has come right to my plans and schedule. Well, if you look in your bulletin insert in Acts chapter 20, You know, Paul certainly knew a lot about prison and he wrote a lot about it. We're grateful that he did. In fact, we wouldn't have much in the New Testament if it weren't for him being chained in prison. That was the only way he could evangelize. He personally went to many churches, he personally started many. But when he was locked up in prison, he began to write, and that gave us much of the New Testament. And he writes in Acts 20 this. This is actually not him. He's speaking. The Apostle Luke, or a sidekick of the Apostle Paul Luke, writes this in Acts 20 in verse 22. And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there. In his mind he's already a prisoner. I'm bound in the spirit. I I'm committed to this. I have to do it. I have to do it. Save, except that the Holy Ghost witnesses in every city saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. He just has Made it his mindset. Yep, uh prison's just the thing that's going to happen. Affliction is just the thing that's going to happen But none of these things move me. Isn't that an amazing statement? None of these things move. I'm not moved by that. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy in the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify of the gospel, of the grace of God. He says, I'm not moved by this. Okay. So they imprisoned me. You know, we're grateful right now at this present time to be living in a land where we have a legend of a leader in office who has faced uh several assassination attempts. He has stood down several attempts to imprison him. He has uh endured the uh disowning and the uh of some of his businesses. Uh they've tried all kinds of things to just rip him to shreds and to invalidate his work, and yet lo and behold, he still has persevered That's an amazing thing. That's an amazing thing to see. And so when you see somebody like that, you say, how do they keep going? Well, that's kind of the same mindset the Apostle Paul had. These things don't move me. Why? He's got an eye towards something greater at the end. He's focused on something ahead. He's looking beyond the present distress to that which lay ahead. And so, as Christians, in the grand scheme of things, though earth has troubles, though they're sore and great, All of those things will shrink by way of a higher perspective. In the grand scheme of God's plans, are our troubles really all that big of a deal? In the grand scheme of things, he says, I I don't count my life dear to me. He says, I want to finish my course with joy. He knows that there's a great and enduring reward, that there is something substantive at the end of all this. He then mentions the spoiling of your goods, and we've already talked about this a little bit Uh you know, the penman said he was in prison, but he speaks of the spoiling of his audience's goods. What do you think that is? What's he talking about? Any ideas? Then giving liberally of their own good things. Yeah, they uh had to liberally give of their own goods. Uh I think Mrs. Ross said, what does it take to get out of jail? She nailed it with one word, money And the bigger the bucket of money, the faster it happens, and the cleaner it happens, but that has to come from somewhere. And so you have to, as it were, go in and spoil your bank account Now it may also happen, as was another practice, in that if you're an associate, if you're the one found out there marching, let Joe go, let Joe go, you're out there marching. And they got the cameras on you and they track you down and they find out you live over on northwest D. C. somewhere. Let's go raid their house. Could that happen? Well, it has happened in America. They have uh done some horrible things to people. We're slightly becoming like Russia in some respects. It's really insane how Um those who are considered political enemies can be tracked down by the government and sympathizers can have their houses raided and their goods spoiled. It could be you having to go and and rip out some resources. Maybe you plan to do something else. Well, not now. We're going to commit it to this. He says they they joyfully took that You know, the Lord Jesus made a point about this. He said in Matthew 25, 36, as he's speaking to those on the right hand, and he's talking about the division between sheep and goats. He says to the sheep, Naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came unto me. And that word visit is interest interesting. It doesn't mean you showed up, oh I see you in prison, Joe. Wow, wow, that's a lot of roaches in there. Oh, that's sorry. Well, praying for you, brother. Oh, I gotta get out of here. This is filthy. No, visit there means to to to inspect with an eye towards relief. To visit means to inspect with an eye towards relief. It's that same word used in the opening chapter of Luke 1. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. Jesus didn't come down here on a vacation. Right? He wasn't sitting on a beach with a drink in his hand saying, Yeah, lovely day today, sure is better back home. He came here with an eye to inspect and to deliver, to relieve us, to rescue us. from the chains to hell that we were found stuck in. It means to bring relief. And I I like the The word play in this as well. It doesn't come through quite as clearly in the English, but those words goods and substance are related to each other. They have the same root. And it plays out very interestingly when it says you took joyfully the spoiling of your goods Knowing in heaven you have a better and enduring substance. Now, there's a very neat wordplay going on here. So I gave it the Vince Kluth translation And it would I think it could be rendered this way. You joyfully allowed your earthly riches to be exhausted, that you may inherit in heaven inexhaustible riches. It has that sense uh the spoiling has to do with something being exhausted. You know, you've exhausted all your money on, say, medical bills or the like. That's the sense of that word spoiling It's an exhausting. You've allowed earthly riches to be exhausted that you may inherit in heaven inexhaustible riches. It said, all right, I What good does this do me here and now? I have heaven to look forward to. My Heavenly Father has promised to provide for my every need, that no evil shall touch me. And so they took joyfully the spoiling, the exhausting of their goods. Now, Christians, I think, do three things when they substantively help other Christians that are in distress uh for the sake of the gospel and God's glory. And I caveat that because what if we go to prison and we find out that God forbid. Um the pastor did some uh ministry limiting uh thing. Uh uh you know I don't even want to speak of but something that is uh clearly contrary to the law of God, clearly uh in violation uh of of the Word of God. Just a big shock to all of us. You know, sadly there are some ministers of late who have been thrown out of their position of ministry because they have been found in positions of marital infidelity, and that with a woman a third of their age And you begin to scratch your head and wonder, how does does something like this happen? How does something like this happen? God forbid that that such should touch the leadership here at Mission Bible and pray that the devil would not send evil men and seducers our way to cause us to want to trip up. But people who substantively help Christians that are in distress for the sake of the gospel, for the sake of the glory of God, maybe uh some administration says we're going to arrest everybody for hate speech. Well, of course they're going to term Christianity hate speech because we speak against the woke LGBTQ garbage that's out there. We don't promote garbage. We put garbage in the garbage can. But those who do help others are demonstrating, first of all, and this is your fill-in-the-blank, an allegiance to Christ. They're demonstrating an allegiance to Christ, that they are aligned with him. I'm not aligned with you people, I'm aligned with this person here. Though he's in prison, we're in solidarity. Number one. Number two They need to understand that they're making an investment into a fund that never runs out and never goes down in value, only up. It is an investment. I do pay attention to the financial markets because that's how I that's the thing that's fueling the Kluth house at the moment. I sort of want to pay attention to that and try to be a good steward of it The market never talks about the investment in heavenly riches. They have no way to monitor that. They have no way to track that. And it was a missionary who gave his all who said, he is no fool who gives that which he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. That's a very good statement. If you're giving up something of earthly goods, and I mean it's a real sacrifice, and that's how the Church of God is often built by way of sacrifice, if you're reaching deep the spoiling of your goods, the exhausting of it. And it could be in terms of time as well. You may say, oh, you know, why would I want to be a missionary to a foreign country? I I I can't get a house like My peers can, uh I'm not gonna have nice countertops, I'm not gonna, all these nice things we can't have. So what You've invested in a fund that never goes down in value and never runs out. It's an eternal fund. It's a glorious thing. Wouldn't you want to invest in something that never goes down? Isn't that what's everybody's concern in the stock market? What's a good stock? What they're asking for is give me the name of a stock or a bond or an ETF or a fund or a Bitcoin or a Whatever that only goes up and never goes down. They want that. Well I know of one. It's called the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Hello, you can invest in that. It pays riches through all eternity It pays outsized gains. You cannot imagine. It's beyond imagination. The third point for Christians who substantively help others in distress is that they demonstrate a tangible A demonstrable, a visible act of faith, hope, and love. They do it by way of faith, believing, they do it by way of hope. And they're doing it as an expression of their love for the individual. And that brings tremendous encouragement to that member of the body of Christ in that situation. You saw this in the early church, and I'll read a couple of passages to you. Acts 2. 45, it says, All that believed were together and had all things in common. and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need. This is not a text justifying socialism, but it was voluntary. And that was a necessary first step to get the gospel off the ground. If people wanted to just hang on to their little rice bowl, don't touch mine, and they're just tenaciously clinging to that which they cannot keep, they would have lost eternity. I'm just so amazed that the Christian church ever even started Started in a city where its most intense persecution began. The Savior was crucified in Jerusalem, and the gospel started in Jerusalem. The very town that was trying to stamp it out. The very seat of the most religious vitriol aimed against them. Right there is where it started. And it spread and continued to grow and has gone global and universal. In 1 John three we read this, hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. It doesn't stop there, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. You know, what does laying down your life look like? When you hear that phrase, laying down your life for the brethren, what does that look like to you? Husbands, what does that look like to you? Laying down your life for your wife. Husbands, what does that look like? What's the one of the things that commonly comes up? I think just in general. general you have to set aside your own desires for what the needs are of the other. So yeah, whatever it is that You know, you might have thought this would be a good way to use my time, money, whatever it might be, but instead you you know, as a husband for your wife You know, think of what she desires, think of what she needs rather than your own needs and same thing for the brethren as well. Yeah. Other ideas? What does laying down your life look like? An armed robber comes in and he aims a gun at your wife. Husbands, what are you gonna do? Jeffrey's You're a little slow on the uptake, but you got the right answer, Jeff. Right. Take a bullet for her, absolutely, right? But you know there's other bullets we don't take for her. uh Abraham gave his wife. She's my sister. Things are dope for that. Then he do the opposite, great. Well we'll have to think about Abraham a little later. This next verse in 1 John 3 tells us a practical application of what it means to lay down our lives for the brethren. Yes, we would want to Physically literally do that if God should happen to call one of us to that. But the more practical term, Anton's covered, uh a good one. It's practical. And John says this, but whoso hath this world's good Remember of the spoiling of your goods, and seeth his brother have need. So he sees him, he perceives it. He doesn't wait for the brother to come out and say, Hey man, I I'm really, really in a hard street. He seeth his brother have need And shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? That's a really good question. So if you have something and you see something, don't Say something. Do something. Reach into your bank account. Help. Do something. Don't wait. I'm not sticking with your patients. I mean so I mean that someone can really be helpful Yes, uh she's referring to an Anton, I think you know where that one's at in James. Uh what is that passage? Uh I I'm trying to find it quickly. Yes, if a brother it's James 2. 15, thanks both of you. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace. Be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body. What is the prophet? So there's a place where speaking doesn't help. It's the joyful spoiling of your goods. It's okay to invest in the people of God And I'm grateful that here at Mission Bible we have individuals who uh ha are are are men of means and they in fact are very sensitive to that. I think This whole thing about money, there's probably a whole Bible study series I'd like to do about the Christian handling of money that might be useful. But I'm persuaded of two things, that uh if God can get it through you, he'll get it to you. Um and number two, I don't believe many brethren do have much finances because they're not faithful with got with what God has given them. If you're not doing what God expects you to do with it, why should it give you any more? Would that work in your own house? A servant? You're paying a maid, you pay her to clean the floor, she doesn't clean the floor. Are you going to keep paying her to clean the floor? Right? So God would do the same thing. He's given you what you need, and you just have to move it. And on faith, for believe, God will factfill. He'll provide. It is an act of faith. But our point here in the title is uh is to cast it all not away. Yes, there's trials, yes, there's difficulties, yes, there's struggles. Is there anybody in here who as a Christian has not been through trials or struggles as a Christian? Out there online? I'm not seeing any. I I just I don't see that. And frankly, I'm not trying to belittle it But God can really throw some tough things our way. They can be exceedingly difficult. Hey, if it's a season of good, rejoice in it. Enjoy it. Use it well. Use it as a a building opportunity. Develop good habits. Invest that time in doing things that you know you're going to need for the long run. Great But God can throw very faith-shaking things your way that you begin to wonder Well, Lord, I thought you were on my team. Well, what's this about? I don't get it. And that's what that's what this passage is about. He says, don't cast it away. Cast not away, therefore, your confidence. He says, Don't lose your confidence. Don't cast that away. Because it has a great recompense, a reward. God will be faithful to reward that. For you have need of patience. After you've done the will of God, you might inherit, you might receive the promise. Cast it not away. This is fascinating. This word is only used one other time in the scriptures, and I don't think it's by accident. So we're going to spend the next part of our study here where that word is used, this phrase casting it away. Because I think it it gives some color, it gives some character, it gives some definition to this phrase. What does it mean to cast it away? To cast away the confidence. Uh saints can have eclipses of faith Peter said, well, I I go fishing. Went back to his old job. But he was not Judas. He didn't go and hang himself. He didn't throw it all. He didn't he didn't Judas cast away What does casting it away look like? That word is used over in Mark chapter 10. If you do have your Bible, encourage you to turn to Mark 10. You can follow along. In the insert, although I have only included the portion that I'm going to focus on where the word is used. Mark chapter 10 is the story of old blind Bartimaeus. And he is The uh passage is in Mark 10 uh beginning in the the forties, 40 uh 46 is where we find blind Bartimaeus. The Apostle the uh Christ and his disciples came to Jericho And as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat at the highwayside begging. When he saw that it was Jesus of Nazareth. He began to cry out and said, Jesus, now son of David, have mercy on me. Here's a blind man. Some of you can appreciate what blindness is like. It's very limiting. It's very difficult. And he's crying out that Jesus might have mercy on him. Many charged him that he should hold his peace, but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. The guy's making a pest out of himself. He's just gonna bother the master. You know the Roman Catholics have a completely opposite view of this. That's why they have all these other patron saints, because Jesus is too busy. Don't go to him. Go to these other saints. Go to Saint Lucifer. Go to Saint They have all these other ones you go to. And go to his mother if you have to. She'll do. But don't bother Jesus. He's too busy. These are the Roman Catholics standing around blind Bartimaeus. Shh. Don't bother him. And he would cry out the louder, nope, I would see Jesus. And 49, here's our passage. Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called, and they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee. Now they've got a message, because God gave them a message. They don't have a message until God gives them one. And he, here's our word, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. Alright? So this is an opposite use of this word from our context. There's a blind man. He's heard that Jesus is calling. He's got this blanket Security blanket, I don't know, blanket for warmth, I don't know, something to lay on at night, maybe it's a multi-purpose garment. But he takes that, and what does he do? He doesn't want any of that stuff to hinder him. I'm tired of being hindered by this stinky old blanket anymore. He casts it away. And by faith, he goes to Christ. That's the point of casting away. You don't want to treat Christianity like an old garment you've hung on to forever It hasn't helped me up to this point. I don't want to have anything to do with it. You just take Christianity, you take your Christian faith, you take the doctrines of the Bible, you take your understanding of them, you say, I just they're not worth anything, and you just throw them away. Now blind Barnabas threw away a good thing. He threw away his old help, his old warmth, his old pillow. He threw away a good thing. Throw away the world's psychiatry. Throw away the world's understanding. Throw away, yes, that, but don't cast away your confidence in Christ. You've got to come Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. He immediately received his sight. And follow Jesus in the way. You know, observe carefully what verse 35 says. It doesn't say, back in Hebrews, it doesn't say don't cast away your inheritance like Esau. It says don't cast away your confidence. There is a confidence, a calm, settled confidence that Christians need to have in the Savior. They have to They have to hang on to that. And it appears that God does allow these faith-strengthening trials. Um trees and bushes are interesting plants. I now that I'm domestic, not moving from apartment to apartment, rental to rental uh you get to see trees or bushes that you plant. And in general the branch, the main trunk, wants to grow straight up, but sometimes there's it's planted in a spot which, boy, unbeknownst to you, has a lot of wind. And it starts to keep pushing that branch over. Sometimes you have to to stake it up. I I had that happen to this central maple tree out here, the one that's by the mailbox. I had planted it, and a year later is when a hurricane came through, and those 80 mile-hour sustained winds over a period of 10 to 12 hours blew that tree over about 15 degrees And I said, that tree is going to grow up crooked if it doesn't get straightened out. And so I got out there and found a good secure spot at the base of the telephone pole. Had a chains and a winch, put some padding around the branches, and put a winch on it, and I cranked that thing over. And I straightened it out. I kept cranking, cranking, and today it's straight God does allow some faith-strengthening trials that require some pulling back. You need to keep hearing the Word of God. You need to keep being reminded of those promises, that He's never failed to meet those promises. And that you have in heaven a more enduring substance ahead. So don't be surprised when the trials come. Faith that saves is the proposition of coming to Jesus and sticking with him even when you can't see him. It's trusting the voice of others saying, the Master calls thee, come to him. What blind Bartimaeus got was all his desire, sight, illumination. He could see Jesus clearly, and he walked with him and a multitude of others Who have come to him. And Jesus has never failed to deliver on his promises. You cannot find one promise in Scripture that you can point to and say, see, he has not delivered on that There are some that we have that were awaiting fulfillment, but all those that have gone before have all been fulfilled. Don't give up, even when you don't see him. He doesn't seem to be there. All you hear is a voice. Keep coming. Don't cast away your confidence So that's our exhortation for today from Hebrews 10, 34. Jeffrey, can I ask you to close us in prayer? Ah, dear Heavenly Father, thou hast said in thine word Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Oh Father, let us Bless us, Father, that uh we not look for your will to bend to ours, but rather grant us the the grace and the strength to yield our will to thine father for that is a much easier way to go though the road might be tough ahead We we hear the promises that come through your word and through your word only. What a blessing that is in Jesus Christ.