We're gonna taught we're gonna teach error today. How about that? How about that for something different? I've never made any. You've never made any? Well that's perfect. I'm glad you've never made a mistake. You'll fall into the second category that we talk about here in the past. Well, all kidding aside, we're going to talk about two erroneous views of justification. It seems that over the millennia, the decades, there are multiple ways. There's two in particular that men use to absolutely mangle the biblical teaching of how we are made right with God. It is a stain that just does not seem to leave the church. Now, the way that a worker at a 7-Eleven or a convenience station knows to distinguish between a fake $20 bill and a real $20 bill or $100 bill is to study the real thing. And normally that's what we have been doing here in our Sunday school. We study the real thing, so when something different comes along, it's dismissed But this counterfeit, these two counterfeits I'm going to talk about today are so close to the real thing that it bears some time addressing. So we're going to talk about two erroneous views of justification, but let's start off with what the real justification looks like, the Bible's view of justification. Let's look at the real $20 bill. It's on your handout. It's in Luke 18. So now last time we saw justification is a judicial. It is a legal. It is a forensic act of God. In which he declares on the basis of the righteousness of Jesus Christ, all the claims of the law are satisfied with respect to the sinner. It's imputation. Right? For instance, we see in Luke 18, 13, it's the verse right at the top. Classic passage. It was a discourse straight from the lips of the Savior Himself. It says, and the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto the Jesus said, I tell you, this man went down to his house, justified, rather than the other, for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased and And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Believers are justified sinners. They they really still mess up. But in the sight of God they're justified. Why? On the basis of another. Who's that other? None other than Jesus Christ. It's it's not going to be Muhammad, it's not going to be Buddha, it's not going to be your parents. It's not going to be your lineage. It's not going to be your the degree hanging on your wall. It's not going to be the nice car in your driveway. Some people worship that too. You are a justified center on the basis of the works of Jesus Christ. That is the real deal. That's the summary, postage stamp, explanation, justification. Now we're going to look at two wrong views. Two wrong views. My mentor, Brother Bernie, said every heretic has his verse. Boy do they ever. Boy do they ever. Every heretic has his verse. Oh, but it's from the Bible. I'm sure it is. If you look at the temptation of the Lord Jesus Christ when he was driven of the Spirit into the wilderness forty days to be tempted to the devil, the devil had his verses, right? He he knows There are two verses that people will use to twist the doctrine of justification. I'm going to read them to you, and then I'm going to explain how they take this. It's in Psalm 103 and Revelation 13. The first Psalm 103, verse 17. It says, But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children. Now that's Hebrew poetry. Hebrew doesn't make poetry like we do, where just the words rhyme, where it just sounds like a tinkling to the ear. Hebrews repeat things theologically They repeat things contextually, they repeat things doctrinally, they'll iterate again and again and again with slightly different words the same thing. So in this passage, the mercy of the Lord And his righteousness, so he's basically joining those two concepts together. The mercy of God, from everlasting to everlasting His righteousness, the children's children. You could even switch the words righteousness and mercy. And doctrinally that would still comport with what the thrust of this psalm Then we get to Revelation 13:8. I just want to lay the verses out there first, and then we'll discuss it. Where we read in Revelation 13:8, All that dwell upon the earth shall worship him. This is the false prophet. Prophet the beast, whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. in fact died twice, once long before the world appeared, and then reappeared in the on planet Earth and gave his life a ransom for many, but rather that in principle it was ordained as such And when God makes an ordination, because he cannot lie, he's the only one who never made a mistake. Sorry, everybody sorry. Um then uh in principle when God declares it it is a done deal. You can as it Now, what do people do with these two verses? Well, they hold that And this is the first blank in your handout, that God's children were justified from eternity past. There's a bunch of people walking around out here who are dead in sins and trespasses, elect of God, but they're justified. They don't know it, but they were declared righteous in eternity past. The antinomians are key in this category. This is a plague that's infected Southern California. And Brother Mark contends with that quite a lot. The Antinomians hold the justification of the sinner took place in eternity past, or in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. According to this position, we're justified even before we believe. Though we're unconscious of it, faith simply conveys to us the declaration of that fact. Oh, you know you're justified. Moreover, they make a big to-do about the point that our sins were imputed to Christ, and that made him personally a sinner. And as a result, the imputation of his righteousness makes us personally righteous. And that's the other blank in this section. We're justified before we believe, they say, or his righteousness makes us personally righteous, so that God can see no sin in the believer at all. That's how he sees no sin. Sin. We're personally righteous. We're infused with a righteousness. And they'll make a big to-do about Christ being made a sinner. And they'll take 2 Corinthians 5, 21, he who knew no sin became sin for us that we might might be made the righteous of God in him. Yea, man. That's what the scripture says. But it doesn't mean that Jesus Christ became a sinner. It means he became a sin offering How do we know that? Well the Bible plainly declares that when he rose from the dead, the body he had, Peter says, saw no corruption. David, when he died, his body saw corruption. Why? Because David was a sinner. Why do bodies corrupt? Because of sin. So if Christ raised from the dead and his body wasn't corrupt, what does that say? There was no sin If he had become a sinner on the cross, he would have failed to have become a sin offering. It has to be perfect. The lamb, when it was sacrificed, didn't change from a lamb to a goat as it was being burnt. That didn't occur And so there's many reasons why this view is wrong. So we're going to look at two primarily primary reasons why this view, this idea is wrong. If you haven't encountered it, just hang around a little bit, you'll run into it. This view is wrong, this idea that we're justified even before we believe, that we are personally righteous in and of ourselves because Because God gave us, He infused it into us rather than imputed it to us. I'm trying to be very specific with my words here. Is the Bible repeatedly teaches that justification is by Faith. It is through faith. It is out of faith. In fact it says that I just did a quick search this morning while I was preparing uh breakfast and reviewing the notes here. Fourteen times it says by faith in connection with this concept of justification. Fourteen times. Fourteen times, Jim. Seven times it says, out of faith. 15 times it says through faith. That's 36 times, folks. How many times does it say by something else? You don't find it. You won't find it. It's by faith. Romans 3, just a short sampling, just a short sampling will show you this. It's on your handout. Romans 3. 28. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified Say it loud, folks. By faith. By faith. Without the deeds of the law. Seeing it is one God which shall justify the circumcision? By faith. And the uncircumcision. Alright? It just keeps repeating it, right? Romans 5. 1. Therefore being justified by faith. We have peace with God for our Lord Jesus Christ. Galatians 3. 24, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified. And we just hit four of the thirty-six passages that deal with this. These are the premier passages which directly address how justification occurs. We don't need to try to find some tangential point and make that a primary point. What am I talking about? I know a little something about construction. I learned. I learned the hard way. My joints are still paying for it. My ankle, thank God, is starting to feel good. My wrists are still uh not as not where I'd like them to be There is a difference between a mud plate and a framing member in the wall and a sill plate. They're connected The mud plate is the 2x4 or the 2x6 or whatever the architect calls for that sits right on top of the concrete foundation and is anchored to the foundation The wall framing members sit directly on top of that and the sill plate goes right on top of that. And then from there you put your joist and you can repeat and do it again. Build another floor. Keep going. Wash rinse. repeat. Those are not the same thing, folks. One lays this way and it can be pressure-treated lumber. Wall studs cannot be pressure-treated lumber. Sill plate cannot be pressure-treated lumber. There's a difference in the orientation. But do they connect? Yes. They better connect. I hope they connect. Mother hopes they connect. If they fall apart, she's gonna have a rude awakening one morning. So doctrinally, there's a lot of things that connect in the scriptures, but when we talk about justification, this is such a foundational thing. It's by faith. But Vince, are you saying we can live any way you want to? I'm not talking about sanctification. Justification is a ground, it's a foundational, it's that mud plate. Things stand on top. Are you saying in regeneration. Regeneration's gotta occur. But it's a package deal, but these things form together tightly. They're foundational, they're structural to form the basis for your salvation And need do I do I need to tell you what the foundation is? Can anybody venture a guess what the foundation is? No other foundation can any man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. It all rests on him. So if you're if you have a bankrupt view of justification, you have a corrupt view of the foundation. You're not anchored on the foundation. And folks can build a beautiful house on a bad foundation How long do you think it's going to last? Times will come, difficulties will come, struggles will come. And if that doesn't take it out in this life, judge Day will come if it's not founded in Christ and face an absolute catastrophe. Jesus gave a parable about that. So, the Bible repeatedly teaches justification is is by faith. In other words, I lay hold of this truth. Second, this view confounds, and here's the other uh fill in the blanks on your page, first page. This view confounds justification with the eternal decree of election. It confounds justification with God's eternal creed of election. There are a great number of elect people walking around on this planet at this time. How many? Don't know Can I see them? No. How do I know they're there? Because God's Son still rose today. And the earth is still moving. And When all the animals are in the ark, folks, God shuts the door. There's no more salvation. The selfsame day that Noah entered the ark, the flood was upon the earth. Even so it will be. The last of God's elect are saved. God's not slack concerning his promises. Some men count slackness, but as long-suffering to us, to his elect. They're out there Do they know they're alike? No. Are they bona fide sinners? Yes. Are they living after the f flesh? What do you think, Jim? Absolutely. It's all they know to do. But time will come Faith comes by hearing. Somebody will get to him with the word of God. God will see to it, that his children will hear. It could be in a hospital bed, it could be on a golf course It could be on a stormy ship in the sea. It could be in a tumultuous marriage. It could be in the heartache of having a miserable, rotten son that's driving you to great affliction, or it could be Who knows what? God will bring it to you through whatever circumstances. He'll seek and save that which is lost. He'll find that sheep. The word of God will come. And bless my soul, there's a conversion and growth begins. There's no turning back. There's no stopping it. What God begins, he's not going to I didn't really count the cost on that one. Boy, this old boy's a little too hard to save. No. Whatever God intends to save, he will. So there is no proper distinction in this other view Between the divine purpose in eternity and its execution in time. Some of you have been to performances. Uh the most recent I was at was probably two or three years ago when we went to see Handel's Messiah. Really was impressive. The Baltimore Symphony Orchestra did a spectacular job. of of Handel's Messiah. I was really impressed by that. Just so much scripture coming forth and filled with music. And even though I would dare say most of the people on that stage were unbelievers, and yet Handel's import of all so many godly themes just rushing through is just really quite overwhelming. But when you show up you get a little a little bulletin It says what the order is going to be. That's election. It's divinely called out what shall happen. But folks, that's not the performance. They gotta play. I'm expecting I paid for them to play it. They better play it. Even so, Christ, God Almighty, made an ordination called election. Christ paid the price, but it will be executed in time. Don't confuse the two. The execution didn't occur back then. It's got to happen in time. In space-time history it has to occur. For instance, we find in Romans 8. 29 a salvation order. And I want you to pay close attention to this in Romans 8, 29 through 30. This is a very key passage, and it's extraordinarily helpful. It says in Romans 8. 29, speaking of God for whom he did foreknow. You see, God foreknew people. It doesn't say he foresaw their faith. It says he foreknew them. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to hell, no, to be conform to the image of his son. All that God calls in Christ shall be conform to the image of his son. Why am I facing so much affliction? Why did the Savior face so much affliction? Why am I having so much pain? Why did the Savior have so much pain? Have you thought about for a moment, just one moment, that maybe God's actually conforming you to the image of His Son through the sufferings you faced, through the pain, through the heartache? If you want to know how much heartache or savor went through, you might want to take another trip through the gospel accounts. You might want to go through the Passion Week. You might want to study his life and see who accepted him and how many. Numerous people rejected him, twisted his words, slung all kinds of falc false accusations at him, hated him, despised him. Oh, but he was never married. Oh yeah he was national Israel. Boy what a bride she was. What a piece of work she was He knew marriage heartaches. You better believe it. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. That's a purpose statement. He might be the firstborn, that is Jesus, among many brethren. Moreover, and here's the deal, here's the sequence, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. We studied that before. There's got to be a calling. How are you supposing that works? Foolishness of preaching. This isn't hard. This really isn't hard. And whom he called, then he also justified. They've been called. The Spirit of God comes. They hear. There's a change. They're justified. And whom he justified, then he also glorified. Am I glorified just yet? This ain't the package, folks. This ain't the final deal. God, but it says glorified, past tense Did you notice that? Then he also will glorify them? He says he glorified them. Why does God speak in the past tense? Any thoughts on that? You're not glorified at this moment, but it says you're glorified past tense. Any ideas? Why would God speak? That way. Because of the certainty. Because of the certainty of it. Absolutely. He has decreed it. It shall come to pass. God looks upon it and says, I have glorified thee. It's a done deal. He says, I'm looking at it. He can see ahead in time and see, yes, it there it is. We can't see that far. We see by what's that word again? Faith Because you believe what God said. Also justification is a declaration. And he declares they they should That's right. That's right. So justification, according to this passage, stands between two acts of God in time. It stands between calling and it stands between glorification. If you're a child of God, you've been called, you're in a justified state now, which doesn't end, and there is a time when you'll be morphed. That's his program. We're justified by faith at the moment of belief. At the moment of belief. Alright? Our faith appropriates, it lays hold of Jesus' righteousness to us. So that's the first thing I would have you to consider. And the second is this. The second room view, and this is on the back side of your handout here. I have had people sit in a Bible study with me and try to present this view, mostly from the Roman Catholics. And they believe we are justified on the basis of our good works. This is a very common view, by the way. This is probably the most common view. The first is a little cancer that runs amuck among the faithful and is easy to slip into and is a little more insidious, and I wanted to cover that first. This one's a little bit further outside of the ecumenical ring. It's not even in our ecumenic ecumenical ring, frankly, it's uh beyond that We're justified by our good works. Guess what? Every heretic has his verse. Guess what verse they go to? James chapter 2. In fact, so powerful is James speaking here that Martin Luther, that great Protestant reformer, thought the book of James shouldn't even be in the Bible. He actually wanted to kick it out because of what he read here. Because he was so enamored, so blown away with the Scriptures' voluminous teachings on justification by faith, he said, Surely this can't be a divine. Book. So let's tackle this. Let's read it first to understand why they look at this passage and why they think, well, we're justified by our works. James 2, 21, and we're going to read through 25. It says this. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers And had sent them out another way. Well, that would seem to just really put the nail in the coffin, shouldn't it? That should just answer it upright. It says wasn't, it talks about Abraham. And it talks about Reab the harlot. It says, see, we're going to hold these two Old Testament characters up as great examples of justification by faith and works. And we're just going to emphasize works. So, what are they trying to teach from this? Rome teaches the sinner is justified on the basis of the inherent righteousness infused. into his heart. That's your next fill-in-the-blank there, the inherent righteousness infused into his heart, and which in turn is the fruit of the cooperation of the human will with God's grace. They use the word grace. They use the word justify. Use the word faith. Use the word works. They're using folks' terms from the Bible. But they are Connecting them wrong. Right? They say this applies to their first justification and in all following justifications, plural. They even make it an ongoing activity Because of course if you're justified by work, but your work isn't, well, shall we say, too admirable that day, you got upset with a guy in the church park and a lot and you punched him out. You don't know anybody like that, do you, mother? Somebody got punched out in the church park parking lot. Um her brother did that. Anyway. Good old Uncle Lou. Hello Lou. And um so that wasn't a good work so we gotta get re-justified. So they'll talk about multiple justifications. In other words, it's not a one-time deal. And as a result, Jim, you have to keep working And if the work just wasn't good enough, well, you know, brother or sister over here did do a pretty good job. She's got a little extra in her in her bucket. you to get to it. Somebody's gonna have to pay to pull it out. And they're gonna have to spring old Uncle Henry out from purgatory because He got close. His bone is on the green, but it's not in the hole. We just gotta putt it over there. You just gotta A jingle in the coffer will get in there. You see how convenient this is? It just it all feeds together doctrinally into Rome's whole system. Every heretic has their verse. So what is going on here? What is really going on? Well, the um the problem is that In all of these justification ideas, good works are coming into consideration as the formal cause, the ground of justification. Good works become the foundation. It replaces my work and it looks at Jesus Christ's work and says, eh, nice try, but this is better. And that's blasphemous. It's almost blasphemous to say it that way. But no. The Bible repeatedly stresses that we are justified without the works of the law. We're justified by faith, but it also stresses without the works of the law. Romans 3, 20-21. Therefore, by the deeds of the law There shall no flesh be justified in the sight. No flesh means how many? How many people is that? None, nil, not asil. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, meaning apart from it. Therefore we conclude, verse twenty-eight of Romans three, therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Alright, that's pretty plain. He goes out of his way to address Romans 11, 6. And if by grace, then is it no more of works? Otherwise, grace is no more grace. If there's an ounce of work in it, it can't be of grace. If there's an ounce of grace in it, it can't be by works. The two don't mix. They're oil and water. They just do not mix. Galatians 2:16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ. The Apostle Paul is adamant on this. This had to have been one of the main discussion points he would have as he would go from house to house teaching As he spent two years in a place reasoning with the Jews, they would just shake their heads and resist, because the Jews of all people went about to establish their own righteousness, and they would not submit themselves to the righteousness of God. Alright, so what is James talking about then? Because he clearly says that Abraham our father was justified by works. What is going on here? James is not contradicting Paul. We don't need to take an extreme view like Luther and say, well, just chuck the book of James. I don't like it. Many a time the Bible presents paradoxical ideas. They're not there because they're a contradiction, but they're an apparent idea contradiction. They appear to contradict, but as you study it more you begin to see, oh, there is some resolution here. I actually see why it happens this way. Paul, in fact, is addressing the error of antinomianism. He's addressing that first error we talked about Alright? That great I'm I'm justified and I've always been justified and nothing can take that away. It's in me personally, therefore whatever I do is right That's the idea that they're trying to get away with. They've taken that pendulum and they've gone to the other extreme. They've said, oh, everything I'm doing is right. That's a belief, that is what I believe the apostle is dealing with. And so James is giving us a tool to identify a real faith, not a fake faith. He's giving us the tool. And what he seeks to justify is not the soul, but the faith of the believer. That's what's being justified, the faith of the believer. He has a a real faith. He has an actually correct faith. How do you know the difference between that little plastic baby doll that you get at the store? uh uh wetty wee wee or whatever the silly things are called where you put some water in them and the the child if you tip it a certain way wets the diapers and so the you know the the child can play with the little doll and pretend like they're child Changing diapers, as if that's a fun thing. But anyway, they whatever. Oh, but its hair is so beautiful. Oh, the eyes are so blue. Oh, it's the right size. Oh, it wears the nice clothes. That's not alive. It's not alive. And though the the real child may be more of a mess some days other than that little plastic doll, yet I can tell which one's real and which one's fake. And that's what James is helping you to identify. How do you know a real faith versus a faith, fake faith? Basically he is contrasting, and this is the key to look for as you study James, the difference between saying And showing. There are those who say, and there are those who show. He's comparing two faiths Look at James 2. 18. It's in your handout. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. It's the difference between saying faith and showing faith. That's the things that he is distinguishing here. He is not contradicting these Apostle. He is not coming up with some new idea. How do we know Abraham really was justified by faith? In fact, it was even in James 2. 21. Did you notice that It says not 221 but somewhere around 23. It was imputed unto him for righteousness. See, the doctrine of imputation is right there in what James is teaching. He's not confused. He understands that faith is imputed But imputation is kind of a judicial thing. You know, some accountant from the back room of heaven is, you know, reckoning this over on my column here. How do I know that transaction occurred in heaven? How do I know that? How can I know that Joe's a justified sinner? How do I know that? Well, I look at his life. I look at his message. I can see a difference. And so this is what we're looking at. Second point here, a third point, Abraham was justified in Genesis 15. Long before Isaac was around. James's point is that you see that he offered Isaac his son on the altar, and so that's what justified him. Yeah, but Abraham was justified long before that. How long did it take before Isaac came around? It wasn't right away It was after Ishmael. I mean Abraham was old. Isn't that part of the miracle of the whole story of Abraham? And so the Apostle Paul has already addressed Abram's righteousness. He talked about it in Romans 4, verse 2. He says this: for if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory, but not before God. What saith the scriptures? Abraham believed God and it was counted unto him for righteousness. James says it was imputed unto him for righteousness. They're quoting the same thing. James is not confused about the foundation, but he is talking about how you and I perceive it in real life. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. Jim, what they're saying is, God, you owe me something. I helped a little old lady cross the street. God, you owe me something. I fill in the blank. I did this and I gave a sizable donation to the church, sizable in their estimation God, you owe me something. Can you imagine? Can you imagine That's the problem. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. And that's what we Read back in Luke 18. Smote upon his breast. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus looks at that one and says, I tell you, that man went to his house justified. How do you know a man is justified by faith? Because he smites upon his breast and says God be merciful to me a sinner. Only a child of God knows they're a sinner. Only a child of God can freely acknowledge I'm a sinful person. Only a child of God can. A worldling cannot, nor will they It it means they have to repudiate too much and their right their identity, their sense of self-worth is wrapped up in all the wonderful things they've done, and they just can't let that go, Jim. They just can't let it go until God Almighty comes in and opens their eyes and then they realize this is a bunch of garbage. This ain't gonna work. This is junk. Lord deliver me from this stuff. The problem with good works is the first Right. Our works are not good. Not in the sight of God. You know, Gog goes on to say that keep uh good works like filthy rays. Yes. And when you look at it like that, I mean what way do you go from there? Right. Yes, not yeah. Right. Yes. I mean, if if our works was anything at all, why would we need Jesus? Exactly. And that and for the Roman Catholic Church, he's kind of an optional add-on because they need Mary, not Jesus. It is crazy. It's not attached to the foundation. Yes, what's the point? And if you have the Pope, you don't need Jesus. Right, you know that right. If you got the Pope, you don't need Jesus either. Oh, it's a problem. You know that phrase if you notice, if Abraham were justified by works, it uses the phrase by works in connection with justified by Well that phrase by works three times appears in the negative, meaning justification does not occur by works. Three times Now it's not on your handout, but let me read to you Titus chapter 3 and verse 5 because this is a I I really should have included it on this, but uh I was tight on space. But Titus chapter 3 verse 5 is most instructive in this matter It says, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the holy So right out the gate he makes it very plain your salvation, your justification, all of that business that brings you into that salvation order, not by works of righteousness which we have done. Yes, Carol. This view, what makes this any different than all the other religions, right? Fundamentally not so it makes no sense that we Christianity because every other religion says by words. Here's what you do. You're absolutely correct. What difference then does this make? And the answer is none. And I know of family members who say that say, well, you know, like your GPS, um um uh you know if there's a roadblock here there's a different way. I think all these religions, you know, lead to the same place. Well, in his estimation, that's why. Because they're all a works based righteousness. And they all do lead to the same place. It's just not where they think it's going to. You're correct. It is totally the opposite of Christianity. Last point. Scripture never says we are justified dia ten piston. It's a Latin term. I'm not into Latin or anything, but who never says we're justified on the account of faith. Faith is not the grounds of justification. Only Jesus' work can do that. Another way to put it is I don't have faith in my faith. Okay? I don't have faith in my faith, and it's faith in Jesus Christ, who he is and what he has done on the my behalf. Only otherwise faith would take the place of Jesus' righteousness. So bottom line is this we lay hold of Jesus' redeeming work on our behalf by faith. You hear that message of God? That promise and you believe it. This justifies the soul. Some say, well, it's just too simple. That's just too easy. Well, yes and no. If it's so simple, millions will not do it. Billions will fight against it. It's an i it it insults their integrity. It insults their self-respect. It insults their pride. What? What? Somebody else really? No, I can do this. Naaman Assyrian was a good example of that. I thought the prophet would come out and shake his hand and do s he wanted the fireworks display, right? He wanted some big thing the prophet would do. No, he just said go dip in the river seven times. See, God's salvation would have you to put your nose in the dust and kind of rub it there a little bit. The way up is down. No matter what I did, it didn't make any difference. Nothing changed. Nothing changed. You can get a good job, you can get a husband, you can get this, you can get that. There was still a void there where I knew how it was nothing. Yeah. It wasn't working. There was a void there. Nothing was changing it. There was no joy. No joy, no peace. No assurance. Okay, brother. No assurance. No, no. And you can just feel dangerous like lurking all the time. Yes. Like hell was this lurking all the time. Yeah, amen. Reminds me that always ham. All my life long I had thirty interested for a drink for some full string full stream hallelujah I found it. Yes. Yes. So um Yeah, another thought for consideration here when we're thinking about James is that the Bible actually uses that word justify in several different senses. Justification, just because you see that word justify is not always referring to your soul. For instance, in Luke 7. 29, it refers to unbelievers justifying God. Let me read that passage to you, Luke 7. 29. It says, and all the people that heard him and the publicans justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. Does that mean God needed to be declared right? That God needed to be fixed? No, but what it does say is that that with their statement, they are declaring that God's testimony is correct. It's a declaration, right? So just because you see that we're justified, you don't always have to jump to, oh well, it's talking about how I made right before God It just simply is a reference to a judicial, legal, forensic act, a declaration that this is in conformity to some standard. So I leave that for your consideration today, and uh I hope that helps. Um it it is uh it's a stain. Works righteousness again is that stain that just never seems to go away. It just it is all around, it takes great big deep root and boy for it to just be driven away is is so hard. Joe, would you close us with prayer? Gracious Father, we thank you that you did not leave us to perform works of our own. For Lord, we can never work enough. We can never fulfill all righteousness, but Christ has fulfilled all righteousness on our behalf. Lord, we thank you that we are indeed freely justified by grace through faith alone. And Lord, though our all of our works are filthy rags, yet Lord, we endeavor to do that which we pleases our Heavenly Father not to gain acceptance in thy sight, but because you are so deserving of our all. Lord, we thank you. For your mercy, for your grace by which we're saved. Lord bless our worship service to follow. In Jesus' name. Amen.