Two offices of the three that Christ has, and it was Christ our prophet, as one who would foretell the word of God, Christ, Christ our priest. One who is sympathetic with us, who is our intercessor as well as our advocate. And today we look at that third office which he occupies, which I still continue to find astounding It's tough enough to have a job, say, as a vice president, but to be vice president and chief financial officer and chairman of the board at the same time. other than the wickedness of man, which would have tremendous conflict of interest, but you would also have an overwhelming amount of responsibilities, and Christ executes all three of these offices perfectly Simultaneously, and he can do so eternally. And so we're grateful for that. Christ our King, in your handout that is slowly but surely making its way around to you, I've got a number of Topical points I want to assert and put forward. The first is that the second person of the Trinity rules over the universe Make no mistake about it, Jesus is in fact the King. He wasn't the King after the cross only, he was the King before the cross as well. In fact, in your handout, you can look at Psalm 2, or you can turn in your Bible to Psalm 2, that short Psalm. That second Psalm tells us a lot about God and his opinion of this world, as it were, the view from the top. In Psalm 2 we read, Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together, so this is what we have here on this earth, there's a lot of kings, there's a lot of rulers, they're getting together. They're conspiring against who? Excuse me. Against the Lord. And against his anointed. That's Lord Jehovah, which answers to Joshua, which answers to Jesus. And against his anointed, again, referring to the Messiah, the Christ, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, cast away their cords from us, referring to the laws of God. He that sitteth, Old English word meaning he has sat, he is sitting, and he will sit. He sitteth, he reigns, he sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. Notice we had they were taking counsel against the Lord Jehovah, and it's the one L-O-R-D, the ruler, omnipotent ruler in heaven, that is laughing He shall speak in them as wrath. Verse 6, God says, Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree. The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. By the way, this is a proof text that's used in the book of Hebrews for the divinity and the sonship of Jesus Christ. Unto which of the angels has he said, Sit thou at my right hand till I make thy enemies thy footstool. Here he's referencing this. Thou art my son. Today have I begotten thee. Notice, my son, I've begotten thee. Actually, Hebrews quotes the next verse. I'm ahead of myself But notice he says, Thou art my son, again a reference to Christ. And then in verse 12 of Psalm 2, he says, Kiss the son, lest he be angry. So there's a clear messianic reference. That Jesus the Son, God the second person of the Trinity, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the one who is that King Then in Psalm 45, 6 and 7, this is the one that Hebrews 8 refers to. It says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Therefore, God thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Hebrews is the one that references this psalm. Unto the Son, he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever. It's a great proof text for the deity of Christ. Also a great proof text for his kingship. And I trust you know these things Psalm 103. 19. The Lord has prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom ruleth over all. Short verse, Psalm 103. 19. God makes it clear. Jehovah has prepared his throne in the heavens. It's a prepared throne. It's not random. I heard a video not too long ago about some college students that lived near the Dominican Republic or somewhere in the uh in the um uh southern part of the Gulf of New Mexico who uh wa who who who did a little college prank and washed ashore on some little island uh about a hundred miles away from Cuba and set up their little flag and declared that they own the island. Well the little island happened to be a CIA outpost as they were broadcasting uh propaganda into Cuba and uh the uh agents on the island were like, okay, what do we do with these guys? We go and shoot them because they're not supposed to be here, they're just a bunch of silly college students No, the Lord has prepared his throne in heaven. He just didn't decide to plant his flag here. It's a prepared throne. It's an established throne. It's a throne that predates all other thrones In Isaiah 9:6, classic verse of Christmas time, unto us the child is born, a son is given, and the government The government, which government? Yes. All government. The government shall be upon his shoulder. His name should be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God So clearly the second person of the Trinity rules over the universe, according to Scripture, according to the Old Testament. When Jesus Christ came, Did he believe he was a king? Did he teach that he was a king? Any thoughts? I know you know. When he came to the earth. Earth, yes, in his incarnation, yes. Did he teach that he was a king? Did he believe that he was a king? I think he believed. He certainly believed it, or did he teach it? He taught it as related to a heaven. Okay. So there must have been some implication about his kingship and his authority to rule. because there were people who wanted to make him a king and he would flee from their midst because they were thinking of an earthly kingdom at that time. I would submit to you two passages that Christ definitely asserted that he is the King. He definitely asserted that He's the King. In Luke 19, he gives a parable, and he gives a parable uh of a uh uh of a of a of a of a king. and the parable is about a king, and he uh expects those that he is over, those that he is given. Um uh it uh it it's the Luke nineteen uh where Am I at? I want to get to twenty-seven. The parable begins in verse twelve. I'll just read this for you just briefly. It's the nobleman that goes into a far country. to receive for himself a kingdom to return, he called his ten servants and delivered unto them ten pounds, said, Occupy till I come. And you know the account. One gets 10, one gets five, one gets one. And they all have some profit from it, except the last one, he didn't have any profit from it. And he concludes, he says in verse 27, but those mine enemies which would not that I should reign over them bring hither and slay them before me. Christ using that parable as a reference to himself, those mine enemies who would not, who did not desire that I would reign over them God calls them his enemies. They are supposed to submit themselves to Jesus the King by right of the fact that he's the Creator. He says, Bring them here and slay them before me. So that was Luke 19. That's one of the parables that Christ taught. The most powerful testimony he gave to his kingship was before a certain powerful ruler in the region, whose name was Pontius Pilate. And the more I read that account, Of Jesus before Pontius Pilate, this good witness, this testimony he gave, the more impressed I am with the Son of God. He definitely had Pilate back on his heels. Pilate had never met an individual like this. Pilate is asking very politically. Barbed questions. They are questions aimed to catch Christ to making a statement of of um That would be a considered a threat to that Roman emperor, that Roman ruler. In Rome, the rulers had always a violent transition of power. You were killed by a near relative, perhaps a brother, an uncle, a rarely an invading enemy out there. Cl nearer were you know the the the fan there's the in laws and the outlaws. The in laws were the outlaws that could kill you because they wanted to be in charge and you had to really watch your back So the slightest hint that anybody was after your seat meant the death sentence to them. And as an emperor he could certainly do that. He would simply ask for the executioner to come and be done with it. Power him Pilate himself said, Don't you know I have power to crucify you? and to release you. And he did. So he's asking very sharp and pointed questions to Christ. And he asked Jesus in John eighteen, I I just love the account. I I Gabriel, I told you I'm going to make a rabbit trail, and this is one of those places where I could really do it because John 18 is a fantastic passage about this. Pilate asked him, Art thou the king of the Jews? Now what does Pilate mean by that? Well, he's the king of the Jews He's the king over that region. He was the one that is the ruler over there. And so if he asserts himself to be a king, then he's challenging Caesar's appointed man, Pilate, and therefore is guilty of insurrection by his own testimony. Pilate has no further need of witnesses, and the man's head is going to be off. Jesus answered him saying, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? In other words, is this your idea of it, or did you get this from somebody else? He answers the question with a question, very smart answer. Pilate answered them, I a Jew, thine own nation, and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? What have you done? And notice Jesus answered, he says, My kingdom. Alright, so out the gate he says he has a kingdom. What does that imply? He's a king. My kingdom, so he's not denying that he has a kingdom, but he says, my kingdom is not of this world. It's not of this world, Pilate. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight. Who are God's servants? Let's start with something simple. How about the heavenly host? How about when Christ was at the Garden of Gethsemane and Peter said he draws out his sword? The ant pulls out his fangs. He's really going to attack all these people. Jesus tells him, put your sword back. All those who take the sword shall perish by the sword. Do you not think I can presently pray to my Father, and he will send me how many angels? He said, more than twelve legions of angels. I did a little breakfast time back of the envelope calculation. My old military intelligence hat came back on. What kind of a threat is twelve legions of angels? How powerful of a force is that? We would say powerful. But numerically, tell me. Well We know that a Roman legion has about 5,000 to 6,000 soldiers. That's a typical complement. Let's take 5,000 for a low number to make the math easy. 5,000 angels. He said he can call more than 12 legions. Let's just say he summons up the bare minimum of 12. He could do more, but he's going to call 12. That's 60,000 angels. It's a lot of angels. How much damage could one angel do? Well, we have an account in the Old Testament where 185,000 Assyrians in one day Not a week. One day. The implication of the passage is that it was about an hour. It was a very brief period of time. It couldn't have taken more than a four-hour shift, frankly One day, one angel, 185,000 dead. The scoreboard is ridiculous. Zero to 185,000. I mean it was That's one angel. Multiply that by 60,000, I come out to over a trillion people dead in one day. In other words, I think Jesus is saying, don't you think I can snap my fingers and it's judgment day? I can wipe out the planet. Peter, what do you do with the sword? So that is the power of Jesus' kingdom. My kingdom is not of this world. He says, if my If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to the Jews? He's also telling Pilate how he's going to be delivered. Well he'll be delivered to the Jews. That's what you're going to end up. So he's hinting to Pilate what he ought to do. He's directing, he's managing from below. But now is my kingdom not from hence. He underscores to Pilate, my kingdom is not from here. So does Pilate feel the threat from that? No, Pilate thinks he's just dealing with a nut job. Somebody who thinks he's got some kingdom offair somewhere he's not talking about here. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, You say, Pilate, you're the one that has said this, not me. Thou hast said that I am a king. To this end was I born. And for this cause came I into the world. Pilate, you're right, I'm a king, and I have a purpose, and I have a mission. This is my cause. This is why I'm here. It's to rule over Palestine, to get rid of the Romans. That's what the people wanted. That's not Jesus' purpose. He says, to this end was I born a king. He came a king the first time And he says that his purpose, this is his cause, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone Every single individual without exception that is of the truth, that is born of the Spirit of God, that is comes from the truth of God, everyone that is of the truth hears my voice. What a powerful testimony before a pagan man. He gave ascension to it. He gave truth so much that Pilate would answer, I find no fault in him. Pilate, who's asking barbed questions, just baiting him. He's always poking into this king. Because if he can get Jesus to say that he's a king that's out for Pilate's job, no problem, crucify him. I don't have any qualms with it whatsoever Pilot says, he's talking about being a king. Pilate's answer, response to him, whatever politician's response is, what is truth You want to be in political office? Every politician has to have a relative truth. They're lawyers, for the most part. A lawyer has to argue both sides of it. Is he innocent or is he guilty? This is how attorneys work. I've got a great joke for that, but this isn't a place for jokes. So question, we talked about this a little bit earlier. How is Jesus' kingdom not of this world? Of this world. When he says not of this world, what does he mean by that? Of this world I would say he's not striving for uh a mass uh uh population to rule over that he'll be a king over here in the earthly realm that is I guess physically seen with the eye He's not looking for mass approval. He's not trying to draw men as does, you know, to to to to be under him in that capacity. What else do we see of kingdoms that are of this world? How are of this world kingdoms constructed? He's not interested in being king of the doghouse when he created the dog. Right. To be king of this world would be a great step down. A huge demotion. From the king of heaven. Yes, absolutely. It would be a big demotion. Yeah. How do people become rulers of this world? How does that operate? What do you got to do? Be born or kill somebody. You gotta kill somebody You saying people do that? Nominated. To be nominated and then what? Some people have got to say, hey you, be thou ruler over us. Sounds like something has happened in the Old Testament, in fact. You be ruler over us. Yeah, I was gonna say you have to find favor with the people. You gotta find favor with most of the people, right? Enough of them have to like you. It doesn't matter that a few people don't like you, but enough of them have to like you That they want you to rule. What kind of people do we tend to vote into office? Likeable. Likeable What are the what are the likable quality characteristics? They look pretty. They're tall. Tall. Have you ever noticed that? All these political candidates are tall, handsome, right? They're tall, they're handsome. They don't really argue with people either. They kind of bypass. Yeah, they don't argue. They can they can all they can agree with everybody. They're kissing every baby out there Right? They they can agree with everybody and they just have a common cause. Jesus says he's not his kingdom is not of this world, it's not political, it's not corrupt, it's not self-serving. He aims for truth. Isn't that a very huge difference? None of you said, well, to be a to really get into office in this world, you have to be one that can demonstrably prove to the people that you're for truth. That you're for truth and righteousness. People go, yeah, that's the guy we want. That's not how the kingdoms of this world operate. Jesus says, for this cause was I born of the world His kingdom is aimed at truth. And everyone that is of truth will hear his voice and appreciate that kingdom. Very different kingdom, isn't it? In fact, we get to our third point, is that it's not an external kingdom of the Jews. It's not an external kingdom of the Jews. In Matthew 8, Jesus gives this astounding statement very early in his ministry. He says in verse 11 of Matthew 8, I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Alright, so there's Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob He says, but many are come from where? The four points of the compass. Gentiles. Non-Jews. They're going to come and they're going to sit with. Sit implies a ruling position. Fellowship, you're at the same table. But the children of the kingdom, that's interesting, shall be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth Obviously Jesus has two kingdoms in mind. What two kingdoms do you think he's talking about? There are those who join Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, and then there's The children of the kingdom that are kicked out. What's he talking about? He's talking about heaven and hell. Okay, well certainly that's the the two destinations. There's heaven and hell But who are these two kingdoms? What are these two kingdoms? Any ideas? The national Israel, and then there's the the true Israel, the true people of God. There's the true Israel of God, the spiritual, heavenly Jerusalem And then there's the Jerusalem that now is and is in bondage with her children. National Israel. The Jews who occupied what should have been that place of holy testimony, they'll be kicked out They're cut off. Not all. Some. Because Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are Jews, so they're there. God's always had a like people for himself. But then there's these others that come into the kingdom that Hear the voice of Jesus and hear truth. So it's not an external kingdom of the Jews. You made that very clear. It's not something that is external Matthew 21, Jesus said, Therefore I said unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. You know, that was one parable that the Pharisees got, because they said they perceived that he spake this parable of them. Because they answered. He says, what will he do to those miserable uh vine dressers that he lent out his vineyard to? He says they'll Take and destroy those divine dressers and give it to another that will bring forth the fruit thereof. He said, You rightly answered it The kingdom of heaven is going to be taken from you and given to a nation bringing forth fruit. We are part of that nation, that kingdom of God that's bringing forth fruit unto God, which is what he'd always been seeking for. That national Israel failed to deliver Luke 17 in verse 20, Jesus was flatly asked by the Pharisees about the kingdom It says that when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, now again, they're thinking earthly. If you're that Messiah, you're here to rule. You're here to take in charge, so if you're that king, as you claim to be, they're not believing that, buying into it just yet, but if you're that king, when is it going to appear? Which timeline? Give us your vision, your vision statement He answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Huh? The kingdom of God does not come, it doesn't manifest itself, it doesn't grow with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. It's an internal kingdom. Well that's a very different kingdom, isn't it? It's a kingdom that's within you. How can you tell when someone changes from a bloodline descendant of Abraham into a spiritual child of God. You don't see any external thing. They may show back up into their job the next day, the same as before. They Still keep their wife, they they'll start to see a different behavior. But it doesn't come with observation. There's no flag planted, flying and waving, there's no guards posted at the borders, there's no control gates, there's no signs. It doesn't come that way. So it's not an external kingdom of the Jews. And then we turn to John 3, another famous passage that I like concerning the kingdom of God. This is a very different kingdom. This is a different kingdom. You remember this discussion that Jesus had with Nicodemus? What was the main topic of that discussion? It's about being born again. If anybody wants to talk about being born again, you go to John 3, right? That's the place. But it's a topic that is also talking about the kingdom. Notice this, John 3, verse 3. Actually, Jesus is answering a statement From Nicodemus who says, we know your teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. He's saying I don't understand it, but you're doing miracles, and unless you're from God, you can't do this. We know this. We know this. Edo, we know this. Jesus uses that same word to answer him back. Jesus answered and said to him, Verily, verily, I'm in verse 3, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see, Edo, he cannot know The kingdom of God. Jesus, we know you're from God. You do miracles. He says you can't know the kingdom of God unless you're born again. Because the kingdom of God is within. It's a spiritual kingdom. He goes on in verse 5. Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter. into the kingdom of God. So there's three things we've learned about the kingdom of God. You can't see it, you can't know it, and you have to be born into it. So tell me, what's the implications of this? What does this say about this kingdom? Not typical. It's certainly not a typical kingdom. In some ways it kind of is. How do you know you're a French citizen? Can I just up and say I'm a French citizen? I speak French. Vive les Français! Whatever, I'm a horrible French speaker Why don't I just claim it? Why don't I just declare it? Show me your birth certificate. Were you born in that kingdom? No, then I'm not a French citizen. But I could become one. I could go over there, I'm sure, pay a healthy sum of money, do whatever it takes to short circuit the process. Um Put on a rag head and to dot on my head in a prayer mat and you know or whatever and just then they'll they'll embrace me with open arms. Uh that's not France. Oh that is France. It's uh Arabia. You wouldn't believe how many Muslims are crawling in over in France. They uh have a very big problem And in England too. In England too, absolutely. I've had the head of MI6 tell me we see it happening right before our eyes and there's nothing they can do about it. CIA has been talking about the Islamization of uh Eurabia is coming and is Because they don't kill they don't kill their babies. They have them. And so they've got a multiplication ratio of 1 to 7, 1 to 1 to 8. And in France it's like 1. 43 or whatever. You need 2. 43 average population reproduction to just stay level. So the native French are declining. The Muslims are exploding. So in Jesus' kingdoms, you can't see the kingdom unless you're saved. So this implies that the unregenerate cannot perceive this kingdom. If you're dead in sins and trespasses, you won't get it. You don't perceive it, you don't even believe it exists. It's just just like a UFO. In fact they'll believe in UFOs before they'll believe in the kingdom of heaven, which is standing at two feet from 'em. Ready? Oh, it's perceived by the spirit. It's perceived by the Spirit of God. Dwelling in the heart of you that testifies to the same. Absolutely. You can only be born into it, and it implies no passports There's no temporary visa. There's no, you've got to be born into it. Unless you're there, you can't see it, you can't know it. Only if you're in it can you perceive it. It's a very different kingdom. That means that kingdom can operate in the middle of other kingdoms and they're not even aware of it. You can give that testimony right in front of Pontius Pilate. Yes, I'm a member of a different kingdom, though I'm a Roman citizen. The Apostle Paul could say with a great that he was free-born as a Roman. He didn't have to pay. He was a Roman citizen, but he was a citizen of a better kingdom. He's translated as into the kingdom of his dear son. That's certainly part of that mystery. That's part of the the this is a teaching of the gospel, and the whole gospel is a mystery to them that are without to include This business of this kingdom. So if they can't even see the kingdom, how could they even perceive Jesus as king So let me ask this question then. Is Jesus Christ a king over the entire world? Depends on how you define world, okay? Give me some definitions. Extra voice Okay. Give me some definitions. Okay. King in their um parlance. was those that they paid taxes to. Sure. Taxes to. Mm-hmm. Um didn't need to pay anything to Jesus. So he was not a king in their parlance. Mm-hmm. Does he does that mean he's not a king over the entire world? Well he definitely is. Okay, he definitely is, alright. Some say he definitely is, alright. Is he a king over the entire world? We saw that you can't get into his kingdom unless you're born again, so how does that work, Joe? He's definitely a king over the cosmos world. All all creation bows to him. Um but he is king over the elect among people. Alright. So you're getting into some distinctions in terms of role. Alright, so let's talk about that some. As a judge, as the creator, yes, he's King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's over the entire universe. They those that would not reign those the servants that would not have me reign over them slay them. They reject him, right? God expects obedience, not just of his children, but of the unsaved as well, though they bend not the knee. So he's a king over the whole world, and who is it that will make that final decision? Heaven or hell? As the emperors would do, the Caesars, thumbs up or thumbs down? Whose thumb is that? If it's not Jesus, I know of no other. So as a judge over the entire universe, yes, he's a king, absolutely. As a redeemer, as a savior, as that kind of a king, only as elect He's only our Redeemer. Alright, just get your brains thinking here, food for thought. Let's look at some kingdom parables. Some kingdom parables that Jesus gives. There's three of them. One is the it's in people's hearts. Romans 14, 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink. But righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. These are the characteristics of the Kingdom of God. It's a kingdom of God of righteousness. Jesus says, everyone that is of the truth hears my voice. He's into truth. His cause is truth. His cause is righteousness. Those two are connected together that which is right and true, righteousness, and peace, because as a result of righteousness, when things are done right When you have right discernment, when you have a right judgment, when you have a judge that's judging correctly, when we're not coddling the wicked and suppressing the good, when you do things that are right, you actually have peace in the land. When a wise king brings the wheel over the wicked, and they are suppressed and subdued, and evil and wickedness is stamped out, and all horrible, evil, unrighteous ways are suppressed, guess what? Peace reigns, righteousness reigns, and with it joy. That's God's kingdom. That's his way. It's a place of great peace. There has to be righteousness with it. You can't have peace without righteousness. It just doesn't work. When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. Yes, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. And the flip side is true as well. Another kingdom parable is Jesus likens the kingdom of God to leaven. You ladies who fake know what leaven is. You put a little bit in there. And it does its wonders. Another parable, spake he unto them, the kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. Just dealing with the earthly aspect of leaven for the moment, do you see, physically, how leaven operates in bread? I don't actually see the leaven and the yeast multiplying and feeding on the sugar. I see some end results. It starts to get bigger But it's almost imperceptible. You'd have to put a slow-motion camera and capture the action to see that loaf of bread rising. I recently finished a book on a uh missionary story. And I won't do a spoiler on it because it's worth reading. But it's a mission work, Christian mission work is a long, slow process. But fruit does come. Fruit does come. I had a man recently at an event I was at sit and talked to me and uh he uh discovered that I had something to do with uh house church and He wanted to know what my mission was. What's my mission statement? How are you going forward? Pull out your calculator. You know, he's gonna show me how to do it. So I pulled the calculator. He says, you can disciple one person a month. So how many is that? Fourteen? No! How many is that in a year? It's 12. Alright, and they go and they disciple one person a month. How much is that? He says. And in such and such a period of time you'd have tens of thousands of disciples and said, yeah, they'd be all like Billy Graham converts. You got a real shallow. I'm here to tell you, kingdom work is very slow. It is very slow because you're working on the heart. It's a heart work. I'm not trying to convince you to do something. I'm not trying to convince you of a fact that can be put in a three by five card It's you need to be persuaded concerning Moses and the prophets of all that Jesus Christ came to do and to fulfill. It's slow work. It is a slow, heartfelt work, but it's an eternal work It's an eternal work. It ain't going away. It's going to keep going. And it's going to keep growing. There's another parable Jesus gave of seed in the earth. These are excellent. He gave two specific examples of seed in Mark 4. Mark 4, 26, Jesus said, So is, in this manner is, the kingdom of God is if a man should cast seed into the ground And should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up. He knoweth not how He doesn't know how that's or when it's going to happen, what precise conditions need to be met. It seems to have some variance. We know some general things. He says, for the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, then the year, and after that the full corn in the year But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. Now in the Bible, harvest is always a reference to the the the bringing in of all the child children of God into that heavenly kingdom. It's the end of the age, that harvest. But he likens that whole time a seed that grows bears fruit. But he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? With what comparison shall we compare it? It's like a grain of mustard seed. Which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth, but when it is sown, it groweth up and becomes greater than all the herbs. and shooteth out great branches so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it. You know, modern translations try to rescue Jesus from alleged uh scientific error. They said, ah, well the seed of the iris, which was in their area, is smaller than mustard seed. I'm sorry, an iris is not an herb. It's not an herb. Doesn't count. Read what he said. But here it's something that's less than all the seeds. It's isn't that the case? If you're going to run for office, are you going to put strong conservative Christian as the leading title on your placard? Is that going to get you in office? It's like Just kind of keep that quiet. Just use just talk about God bless you and don't go any further than that. And you know, just just do the bare minimum to just Kind of just touch it and don't go beyond it. In this world, the kingdom of heaven is the least of all. It's considered the least, I can tell you. When I was living in the world, I had a list of things I would love to do on a Friday night. I guarantee you, teaching the Bible on a Friday night was not on that list. Jim, was it on your list? Not by long shot. Not by a long shot. It wasn't anywhere near that list. It is the least. The le it is so far away. But when you enter in that kingdom, all of a sudden What was down becomes up and what is up becomes down because we got turned around. You know how you missing this thing the way you're doing. Uh you look at this incident that happened in Texas. They keep talking about the guns being a problem. It will never come to where the problem is in the hearts of men. Right. And that's the easiest well it's a e it's not an easy case, but until you inject that into the situation, there is no answer. Correct. Correct. Right. That is the problem. Right. That's the heart of the problem. Is the heart. Let's talk about entrance into this kingdom. Let's talk about entrance into this kingdom. We read earlier about being born. You had to be born into it. And Jesus also gave another couple of astounding statements about entrance into this kingdom. He said in Matthew 7, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. How do you do the will of the Father in heaven? Well, if even studying or looking at the Bible is the last thing on your list, yea, not even on your list, how would you even know what will to do? Nary a chance you'll get in. But Jesus raises the bar even further, because there are those who say, Lord, Lord, have we done not done many mighty works in your name? And in thy name cast out devils. Judas cast out devils. He was one of the twelve that went out in Matthew ten and in Luke ten to do all these miraculous things. And in thy name, many wonderful works. We've done many things. In your name. He says, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity, I never knew you. There are those who, for some strange reason for some devilish reason decide to try to grab the name of Jesus as if though it's a magic talisman that they can wave around and all kinds of incredible worldly things will happen to try to achieve this world's kingdom, to try to achieve this world's following, to try to achieve men's popularity and gain their their favor. Jesus says, you're not of the truth. You weren't born into my kingdom. You weren't really doing the will of my Father which is in heaven. You weren't feeding sheep. You weren't loving the brethren. You were divisive. There was all kinds of problems. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you. I never knew you. That's a stunning statement. I'll never forget when I first read that. As a awakened sinner It knocked me out of my chair. I was like, this is not the Jesus I read about. Excuse me, this is not the Jesus I thought I knew I had never really read the Bible. I started to read it, and all of a sudden, this is a very different Jesus I'm reading about than what you hear out there. Very different Jesus, and it blew me away. Last verse, Matthew 19, Jesus said unto his disciples Fairly I say unto you that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven Again I say unto you, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, and no less now talking about the needle gate in Jerusalem, some gate in the city called the Needle Gate where a camel had to unload some of his burden in order to get through because if it was stacked too high it hit the roof Ain't he talking about that, ladies? You know exactly what he's talking about. A needle, the eye of a needle. You try to shove that big hairy two-hump beast through that. He says it's easier for that to happen Than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Those are stunning statements. Now, of course, Mark adds, The helpful phrase, those that trust in riches, how hardly shall they that trust in riches? And your Bullis and insort today speaks to that as well. But Jesus says that a rich man shall not end the kingdom of heaven. Why do you suppose that is Why is it hard, Jim, for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven? You know some rich people. Why is it hard? Well, it money is more than what they're about than not. They're all about money. That's what they're minded about. They're worried about losing it. Right? The Apostle Paul said, what things were gained for me, those I count. Not only money, friends and family. It all goes with it. Yeah, many seek the prince's favor. They get a lot of friends because he got a lot of money. Put that old boy on the sidewalk with a suit with holes in it and a little cup saying donation, see how many friends he's got. Right. They all flee. They go on. So the point is this, by no mere human endeavors Fill in the blank. Favor, wealth, intelligence, doing signs and miracles. By no mere human endeavors can the kingdom of God be established in the heart of a single man. or a woman, or a child, nor can any man be brought to a true recognition of God's kingdom through human effort. They've got to be born Again, twice born, born from above. Ivan, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, Lord Kingship of Christ Lord. Soul hope, Lord, of action, Lord, this this earth Lord, knowing that He does rule over the hearts of men, Lord, and even has uh quickened the the dead and stony hearts of his elect, Lord. parts of flesh Lord that uh sense and feel and and are pricked by the word of God Lord. um testify of the truth, Lord. Uh yeah. We uh pray that You would continue to guide us in this uh dark world that does not know you, Lord, and uh continue to encourage us by thy word to preach thy truth. Um that we might draw out those that are dying, Lord, and uh be a testimony, a savor of life unto life, and of death unto death Uh keep us faithful, Lord, in this mission. Through Jesus Christ name of Christ. Amen.