I had shut that off too. Very good. Okay. Well good morning. Good morning. All right. So today we're doing our last study on the days of creation. And this is not so much a Bible study, though we're clearly going to reference the Bible and look at it. I'm not exegeting a passage But I'm going to help you. I'm going to help you as particularly young people sail the ocean of ideas and you will encounter some very interesting people. who have different views of the days of creation. There's four different views. So those watching I will say view number one, view number two, etc. So you can skip ahead if you are familiar with one and one of our about the others. These four views are called the literal 24-hour view, also known as Young Earth Creationism. That's where we're at. That's where I'm at. The day-age view, also known as Old Earth Creationism or Progressive Creationism, there's something called the analogical view from the word analogy, like a parable, and then there's the framework view And the difficulty with these views is that they're subtle. They're subtle because of the people pushing them. These are people who agree with the inspiration of the Bible. They agree that it's infallible. They agree that it's inerrant They agree that scriptures do speak at times with parables or analogies. We agree with them in that as well. They reject evolution uh as a mechanism. They reject that. They hold to supernatural, divine fiats. God says, bang, he speaks, and things happen. They do believe that. They believe that the first three chapters of Genesis are factual and historical. So you can see from that, you would say, okay, I can't immediately stamp these people as heretics on that basis alone. They may be heretical in other areas of salvation. But for the most part, I'm going to mention some names of people that hold these views, and you're going to say, yeah, I can't pull out that heresy stamp and put it on them just yet. They would agree that science can function as a warning for our use of scripture. They would say scripture is first They would agree that Scripture has interpretive priority, that when the Scripture says something and science says something different, they'll weigh to Scripture, not to science And um they would uh uh assert that yes, science does take time to catch up to theology. So that's the frame that's that's the pool of people we're talking about. And having defined that you'd say, well Vince Is there any problem there? We can't possibly have a problem if they hold to that, because that's what I hold to. Um So the issue and the debate turns on how the historical and factual narrative of Genesis 1, 2, and 3 are constructed. They strain very hard at words. They do make decent observations of the natural world around you, and then they come up with what I believe, unfortunately, are some uh fallacious conclusions in some areas. You can buy some of their books and you can profit from some of their arguments against the evolutionary camp uh against those who we would truly put the stamp of heretic on. Very insightful arguments. But in some areas I simply think they have a very erroneous view. So I did want to dedicate a study to this. When I've gone through this before, I said this bonus material gave you a link and you know exercise left to the student. But this is going to have the soundtrack, so I thought you appreciated it. View number one, the literal twenty-four-hour view. And I believe this is the correct view. This is the camp Joe and I are in. We have no debate about that whatsoever. We will defend it tooth and nail. That's a sword worth dying on because so much resides on that position. It's the most obvious. It's the most straightforward. When you read Genesis, it it um It it sounds like normal solar days in a sequential order. It's linear, it's progressive, it very much sounds like God is defining how we are to understand this new thing called time. God deals in Ionas, a timeless eternity. That's where he lives, but now he's creating something called time, and so he's showing us how to measure it, how to define it. The general arguments in support of the 24-hour view, you can go back and listen to the previous study. Jeff you had up? Oh. Oh, okay. You're adjusting your glasses. Okay, I saw a movement over here and In many other passages, the Hebrew word yom does mean a literal 24-hour solar day. It's found that way. And you should take yom literally, and thus there's good reason to do so otherwise. This is the day the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. You know, those sorts of things. In the day of trouble, I will redeem thee, call upon me. That doesn't mean there's only one day in your life you're going to have trouble. Boy, that would be nice. But um the non-literal, nonsequential views are unconvincing and appear contrived. So those are some of the strong arguments for the the 24-hour day in addition to the other things we've mentioned previously. Specifically, the grammatical structure of what we had read before The time indicators, the genre of the book of Genesis, all demand a sequential reading. You know, Genesis as a whole very much comes across as a historical book. You've got Adam, and then you've got Eve, and then you've got the first children, and then you've got murder, and then you've got it just reads like history. It goes all the way through uh with Abraham and the patriarchs and up through the time in Egypt when Joseph becomes ruler. It just very much sounds like a historical narrative. Why not Genesis 1? Why not Genesis 2? Why would the narrative just so suddenly shift in the 11th chapter all of a sudden to Abraham and now we're now we're literally historically that time. If that was the only book you had, why would you take Abraham's days as a 24-hour day if God introduced it first as something other than that? The use of the wa consecutive grammatically, I don't know Hebrew, I'm just throwing this out there for those of you who know Hebrew because I read this, indicates consecutive days. So Hebrew grammar would indicate there's a consecutive sequence of days. An ordinal, meaning the number one, two, three, first day, second day, followed by the phrase Yom in Old Testament again denotes a straightforward historical sequence. Day one, day two, day three. That very much sounds like a sequence The phrase evening and morning very much suggest an ordinary solar day. There's some interesting places where this shows up, and you may want to turn in your Bibles to it. For instance, Exodus in the book of Exodus, you see in the 27th chapter. Exodus 27 and verse 21, the ordering of the operation in the temple It says about the lamp that's burning in verse 21 in the tabernacle of the congregation, without or outside the veil, which is before the testimony, before the Ark of the Covenant. Aaron and his son shall order it from evening to morning before the Lord. It's a statute forever. In other words, this was a Daily assignment. Their daily jobado was to go in there and make sure all of that stuff in the tabernacle was arranged. When did they do it from evening to morning? It was a routine that they were to do. You know, when the children of Israel faced the champion of Gath, a fellow named Goliath, we see that phrase in 1 Samuel 17, 1 Samuel 17 and verse 16. It says, the Philistine drew near morning and evening and presented himself forty days. That's really interesting. You tend to think of this battle with David against Goliath as the army of Israel shows up, whoops. Goliath shows up, yikes, next day, David shows up with some cheese. Hey fella, how's it going? And, you know, really bad, and then of course you know the rest of the story. No, no, no. Goliath came out and was threatening these people for 40 days. He would come out first thing in the morning and he'd come back out in the evening. I mean, these people were absolutely put to shame. for forty days. That's what had happened at that event. And again, we would expect that to be a normal life cycle. David wasn't a million years old when he finally picked up his sling and stone and slew Goliath. So that phrase does clearly suggest an ordinary day. Now let's talk about view number two. Okay, second view I've described the literal 24 hour. The second is the day-age view, also known as old earth creationism. Now before I go there, I I made a note to myself and I need to mention some of the people who believe these views Alright. So let's talk about the literal 24-hour views. So the good guys in our camp would be Ken Hamm with Answers in Genesis, uh Dwayne Gish and Henry Morris of Institute for Creation Research, both of whom have passed. Dwayne Gish's material is spectacular. He is a very godly scientist. He and Denny would have been buddies. They're just really excellent people. Kent Hovine, he's popular in the South in many Baptist circles. He is a 24-hour. Joseph Pipa in the Reform Camp is that view. and a fellow from Creation Ministries International, or the whole Creation Ministries International group, Jonathan Sarfordy, Dr. Jonathan Sarferty is unbe Believable. This man can do the scientific workload of two or three scientists. It's incredible how prodigious he is. This man can write and write and write and it's clear, it's understandable. He's known for going to these events and being blindfolded will play as many people as he wants in chess at the same time and win every game. He's just one of these six hundred pound brains that's just phenomenal, has a memory like Like a herd of elephants. It's unbelievable how this man operates. And thankfully he's in our camp and he's got some very powerful arguments The website is Creation Ministries International. Just go to creation. com. They have a wonderful search function. You search for anything in there, you'll find it. And you'll find some excellent arguments for it. They're a great resource to have. Great resource to have. Answers in Genesis is the other one, Institute for Creational Research. The denominations that hold these views, the Bible Presbyterians, still hang on to that. Some fundamental Baptists will still, although there is some erosion in there because of what's going on in Louisville and other seminaries. A few PCA churches and a fewer OPC churches will still hold to a strict 24-hour view. Now let's talk about the day-age view. What is that view? It's also known as old earth creationism, meaning the earth was created, but it's actually quite old. Well how do they get that? Well they say, well, a day there probably means really a long period of time. Alright. It's also known as progressive creationism, that there was some progress made in between those days, and there was six sequential long periods of time. They attempt to integrate science and scripture, but they do give priority to scripture. I'll give them that. But as you know, scripture oftentimes just tells you the main points and doesn't fill in a lot of gaps. Bible is a lot of principles Gives you a lot of principles. Now the arguments they use is this. They say there's a long time needed for the events of the sixth day to transpire. So let's put our thinking cap on and go back to what happened at the sixth day. Here's what I've heard personally happen on the sixth day that they say is just too long. They say Adam and Eve were created. Adam had to name all the animals. And then Adam had to arrange for a marriage because then Eve came along, and you know how long it takes to prepare for a wedding. So those are the arguments given. Okay, tossing the silly one about the the the wedding preparation and all I'm sure Adam didn't have any protocol to go with woman, man, thumbs up, alike. This was not a complicated decision. You and you only do I love. Well yeah, you I great, I beat out the baboons and the elephants Makes me feel great. Maybe she took it as a compliment, but I digress. So we have uh this idea that there was just too much stuff that went on the sixth day. That couldn't have possibly been twenty-four hours The other arguments they use is that the seventh day is everlasting. On the seventh day, you don't read evening and morning. So, and it lasts, you know, the rest of God lasts forever. So why couldn't why does day always have to fit a 24-hour cycle? They would say that other days in Hebrews chapter 4 when God talks about his rest, you don't see the phrase evening and morning in there. So they will say that there is a lack in their God's days, they will say, are not necessarily like our days. They'll quote Psalm 90. Day with the Lord is as a thousand years. Psalm, let's look at Psalm 90, verse 4. I'm actually quoting uh something else there, but it's pretty close. Psalm 90, a psalm of Moses For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night. Well, okay, Scripture says, a day in God's sight. It's like a thousand years. All right, that's fair enough. That's its scriptural definition. But science demands more than a thousand years. They want millions of years. Joe? They're going to take that view, they're going to have to fight with verse ten. Oh yes, absolutely. The days of our years. Or three four years. If you're going to take that interpretation, then we've got to live for a million years. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there's obviously some some some difficulties, and so I'm just laying out the arguments they use, and I'm glad you're sharp with a hammer to come back and knock it out, because that's good stuff. They will point out that in Genesis chapter 2 and verse 4, uh the uh uh the the the the s the quote unquote second account of the creation and it's not a second account. Uh Genesis one is like the astronauts' view, you know, at the 10,000 foot level. Genesis two is the lunar lander coming down and roving around. It's from man's perspective. You know, here's what Adam perceived. That's the the the description of Genesis two. They would say in Genesis two, four, these are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. And they would say, ah, see, that uses the same word yom. So that's obviously not referring to one time, and maybe Genesis 1 isn't either. So they would also point out, and this is really straining in a gnat in my opinion, turn to the book of Hosea, Hosea chapter 6 and verse 2. In Hosea 6 and verse 2, there is an interesting phrase there. Um and uh it says this. Hosea six and verse 2 says, after two days will he, speaking of God, after two days will he revive us, and the third day he will raise us up and we shall live in his sight. And they would say, there the ordinal plus yom is not taken literally. And so they point to that Hosea passing and say, well, you know, that's not a literal thing So what are the response to those arguments? And I'll take them in the order in which I proceeded. Well the first I kind of shot down Adam didn't need a wedding event planner. To Mary Eve, give me a break. He didn't need extensive time to name the basic kinds of land animals. Remember, um all that was needed for the wide variation of not only the human race and all the different skin colors Nose shapes, ear shapes, head shapes, you name it, were already packed in the genes of Adam and Eve. It had yet to unfurl into the different individuals. Same thing with the dog kind, which would go out into wolves and canines and other things that you and I would look at and call dogs. He didn't need to name each of them, he just had to name the basic fundamental kinds So there wasn't that frankly big of a job. It would be the same quantity that Noah would pack on the ark. This is not uh that large of a number and not impossible. Adam had Pretty pretty good functioning brain at that point. I mean he had not been contaminated with sin. I would dare say he was a hundred times smarter than you and I and had a powerful memory. Could remember what he named the other one earlier and not rename it Also, God had established Yom as a 24-hour day six times. Why does he need to repeat it the seventh time for the seventh day? He's already said it six times Out of the mouth of two or three witnesses, a matter is established. God gave it a six-fold witness. Why do we need to keep going? He's already established that. And in Hosea, Jesus in fact did rise on the third literal day, and we are united in him. Why can't that be taken literally? And in fact it's interesting when you start dealing with Old Testament prophecy, it's hard to try to draw a dotted line. between what's to be taken historically, literally, and what's very figurative, it's very difficult to do that. For instance, I've called my son out of Egypt. And that whole context It's very spiritual, but did God call Jesus and through Joseph and Mary out of Egypt? Yes, he did. He really did. And he was referring in that context to Israel being brought out. And so It's kind of hard sometimes to footstom on prophecy as your proof text for something non-literal in the old. So those are the day-age views. Who are the people that hold these views? One is a gentleman named Hugh Ross at the ministry called Reasons to Believe. He's a Canadian astrophysicist scientist, brilliant mind, but I would sharply disagree with him on a lot of his Don Fortner, some of you might listen to Pastor Don Fortner, he holds the day-age view, and I shockingly discovered that when he sent me an a prepressed copy of his commentary on the book of Genesis. And I wanted to get back to him before he passed, so if I could argue with him and correct him on that, but I was unable to do so Gentleman named Wayne Grudham holds that. He's big in the Sovereign Grace, which is quote Reform Charismatic camp. Those are some of the people, denominations that hold this, Baptist, OPC, PCA. and um uh reasons to believe is one of the most uh one of the largest organizations that push this day-age view. Alright, so that's view one, literal 24 hour day two, uh the second view, day-age view Take a take a break here. Throw the brakes on. Third view. I need a different hand signal. I don't know. What do the flagmen do on aircraft carriers? I don't know. The third view is the analogical view. That's a 12-cylinder theological word, which comes from the word analogy. The scripture makes analogies, it uses parables, it uses metaphors, it uses similes, and they say, you know what, God could be doing that in Genesis 1 just as much as he can elsewhere. Now, to a degree, I agree with that. To a degree. For instance, in the very opening chapter of Genesis 1, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth uh and the earth was without form and void and darkness upon the face of the of the deep and the spirit of God moved across the face of the waters and God said let there be light and there was light Gee, what's going on there? Well, we have New Testament commentary on that in 2 Corinthians 4, where he says, For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So there's a parable already being laid down in the very opening verses of the book of Genesis, that that is a grand picture of how God saves us. Hint. It's a miracle. It's a miraculous creation. It's a if any man's in Christ, he's a new creature, not a revitalized pagan, he's totally different. There is a radical change on the inside. Every but as much as the radical change occurred in Genesis 1 So there is some a measure of agreement that Scripture allows us to introduce into the text of the opening parts of Genesis and say, yep, there's some analogies there. They would say, however, and this is their arguments for this analogical view. That's kind of the technical term for it. Um I don't know if they've got a different phrase for it. The days of Genesis they would say are God's days of work, not man's days. So the days of Genesis 1 are analogous to, but distinct from our days of activity. Meaning Boy, when God rolls up his sleeves and works, they would say, frankly, he can work pretty quick. It was Augustine of Hippo who said, frankly, he thinks it was all created in an instant, and God just simply described it in a way that we could understand. So that's giving some deference to the fact that our God is powerful and indeed can, quote unquote, with a snap of the finger, with the blink of the eye, Puff, make it all appear with the breath of the mouth, yeah, to be used as a more biblical analogy, and they would agree with that. Right? And I, you know, can give some credence to that But here's the arguments they give to extend that further. They say the seventh day didn't end, so it can't be 24 hours. They say the rest of God And the rest of humans is compared analogically. It's compared in the Ten Commandments, uh, for in six days the Lord thy God made heaven and earth the sea All that in them is and rested the Sabbath day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. And so therefore you're not to work on the Sabbath day, because God rested, you're to rest God rested one day, you're to rest continuously. So there's not a 100% match. They would also point, for instance, to Exodus 31. 3113 Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my Sabbath, plural, ye shall keep, for it is a sign. sign, shadow, symbol, between me and you throughout your generations, that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. So they would point to those passages and say, see, God is making a comparison. He's comparing two things. They would say uh Genesis uh one, one, and twos are a background to the developing narrative. They're just background information to give you a foothold, to give you something to hang on to to understand what's to come later. Just don't take it too literally. That's how they would view that. They say there's two problems with a sequential interpretation on day one, God said, let there be light, and day four, when the light bearers, the sun, the moon, and the stars, were created. They said there's a problem. They say the production of light, that the results of God's creative fiats are the production of light and are identical functions of light production. How can that be that God created light in in Genesis 13 and again in 1. 17. So that's that's an identical function being created twice. And they say the separation of lights that God, His created fiat's on days one and four, are the separation of light and function and darkness, and again, an identical function. in verses four and eighteen. Kind of kind of technical, kind of straining and looking at it hard. The uh response to those arguments is as follows. I mentioned this earlier, I'll repeat it again, the this business about lights, let's talk about that, because that does seem to pose a problem for some people. In my mind it's quite clear. It's very straightforward. Day one light was light as a physical phenomena principle. This physical phenomenal principle known as light We still struggle to truly understand our models. We have two models that conflict, but they both answer it, and we use both. It acts like photons and particles, and other times it acts like waves. But frankly, it's both. How does that work? Is it packets or is it waves? The answer is it's both. Okay, so we're dumber than dirt. We don't understand how light works. The very first thing God made we're still scratching our head at And that's the physical principle, and it would be emanating across a spinning mass, and that would reflect a 24-hour day. Your local light bearers when God makes something much more local to not only provide light, but to provide heat, from whence all the plants and animals plants and then by extension the animals received their energy from. That would be the local light bearer to to give it some heat, as well as local light. And for signs and seasons and days and years. Otherwise this one source wouldn't give it. And I think that source was good. God himself. So I don't have any problem with that, and uh you're getting appropriate levels of energy to the plant to the planet to receive it. Um and uh so I I don't see any difference between uh uh any difficulty in seeing day one light as a principle, day four as the local illuminary bodies. And also the day age and the and the other view framework people have arguments against these people as well. They would say the luminaries become visible, but the problem is the texts say they were made. They were in fact made. These things were created. And so it's not uh identical functions. And um Uh and then we get to this uh the uh uh before I go to the framework view, let me tell you who holds the analogical view. Uh these may be names you're not as familiar with. Uh J. Dresden Machin held that view. Uh Machin was the uh uh founder of the uh Bible press as well as the uh OPC uh and later the PCA which spun out also. Bruce Walkey, William Dembski and Michael Beehey, Stephen Meyer, these are the intelligent design proponents. They make some second to none. videos on intelligent design and arguing for the fact that God is the creator. Really excellent scientific material. It was their uh and they don't claim to be a religious institution Uh they have Jews, uh they have uh uh uh a variety, uh as I understand it, of other religious views within their organization. I I don't think they have Hinduism Muslim or anything like that, but uh they don't claim to be one particular uh Christian view. But I would commend to you their intelligent design uh uh videos I'm trying to think of the name of some of them. They've got at least three out. uh remind you of it. But uh uh Stephen Meyer is just a brilliant individual. I just really like listening to him. He's just sharp, clear, to the point. uh you can profit much from listening to it. Michael Behe wrote an excellent book about Darwin's dilemma to show the complete fallacy of evolutionary thinking when it comes to biology. He is a uh uh biological academic researcher and and uh professor uh as soon as he published his book he nearly lost tenure I think he's still allowed to teach But he is truly a a wrecking ball in their camp. Same thing with uh William Dembski, just incredible. Just big brains. Really s really sharp yes. Then we've got the framework view, and I have no problem pulling out my sledgehammer and beating the snot out of this view, pardon my French. This view is just uh I'm like I got you know I'm wondering what these people are doing behind closed doors of the seminary because I don't know what they're smoking to come up with this one. The framework view is what this one is called. Alright, so you're gonna have to twist your head a little bit for this one, alright? You know how you get to be a college professor, right? You gotta go all the way through, you gotta get your PhD, and then you gotta come up with some new thing, right? You you you have to the Doctor of Philosophy is supposed to advance the field in a new direction that nobody has ever thought of before. Well, there's more PhDs than I have blades of grass on my lawn. Okay? Uh and frankly I never hired them because they're not very directable. Uh I didn't like hiring PhDs because they were hardened iron oriented one direction and if the job was two degrees off from where they wanted to go I wouldn't get the result I needed. They just couldn't I never liked hiring PhD. If you have a PhD, you're a good guy, you're on my team, that's fine. It's okay. But I'm just saying that I'm not impressed because you got to come up with some really weird ideas Okay, so that's where this thing emanated from. Alright, hold on here. Here's the framework view. They introduced new terms. It just drives me crazy. Why can't we keep it simple? Alright, but here's the view There are two triads, two sets of threes, day one, two, three, day four, five, six, a triad. Now they don't make it linear, they make it like a triangle. 1, 2, capped by 3. 4, 5, capped by 3. by six. So they look at it as a triangle. There's two of those. I think I've twisted my that's as much as I'm going to twist right now. They say days four through six thematically recapitulate days one through three. There's a thematic recapitulation. The theme repeats itself. Okay? And they also say that there are kings in their kingdom. The king of day three, the plant life. rules over their kingdom. They got dirt, water, sun. They rule in that area. They grow, they take advantage of all that, that all is there to support them In day six, you've got man. He rules over the animals, sun, moon, and stars, the birds and the fishes of the sea. He's got all that. He rules over all that stuff They would say the climax is in the Creator King on the seventh day, day of rest. Interesting observation. I'll grant that, that they look that somebody's taken the time to look at it and say there's kind of a theme here, and you can kind of see that the greenery is king over its little day one and two domain, and the man is king over his domains of Four and five, yeah, okay. Guess I can go along with that to some extent. And they would say there's literary artistry here So that God is being an artist. He's pulling out his pen and he's using artistry with his pen. God's being an artist here. It's a chiastic arrangement. Boy, what's a chiasm. So in Hebrew you've got A, B, C, B, A. There'll be some themes. You'll see this in the Psalms a lot, and what a chiasm is, is that The thing in the middle is the thing of importance. And I can't think of one off the top of my head, but you will read this in Hebrew literature a lot. There'll be a look for two themes. If you see something repeated Go back and see if in the inner flanks there's something repeated and the thing in the middle is the thing being emphasized. It's kind of a verbal way of making a bold underline and you're emphasizing the thing in the middle. They say the same is true in Days two and five. There's a chiasm. The second day, the fifth day are at this peak of the triad. You remember the little triad thing? I showed and the two are or offer an arrangement for that. The two creative fiats on days three and six of vegetation and man, very, very artistic. I've got something in here. I don't even understand what I wrote. Jordan's objection. What is Jordan's objection? I don't know. In Genesis 2, 5 through chapter 6, verse 1, they said there's ordinary providence But its structures is a twofold problem. There's no uncultivated versus cultivated plants. There's a twofold reason. There's no rain and no man. So there's a twofold solution, a rain cloud and man. So they're looking at these different themes that are going on. It's very much just a thematic view of the form and function of what God made. What do we do with all this? The uh it gets even worse. There's a two-register cosmogene, you talk about a head twister, the upper and lower registers and analogous days. Alright, so this is all some I mean, you know, you gotta go to s you you gotta pay to get your head confused this bad. Um thank you. I I don't I don't I don't I don't care to pull up to that line. So there's some objections to that. First of all, who even comes up with this idea? Well the main proponent is a fellow named Meredith Klein, who recently passed Melbourne. decade ago. He was a seminary professor at Westminster Seminary on the West Coast in Escondido. And it actually is taking root in the OPC and the PCA. This idea had been kicking around kind of in the ash heap of evolutionary, excuse me, of creation ideas. He was the first one to actually popularize it and for people to actually give it a measure of credibility. He was able to write eloquently and articulately about it. Uh and so Westminster Seminary in California is a big proponent and pusher of this. It is in the OPC a lot, you'll find it. Yes. So does this mean they don't literally believe God creates Um they're basically making the whole thing out to be this is you what you're reading is a parable, don't take it too literally. God's just laying the groundwork for some really interesting points about the function of creation. Don't get hung up in the 24-hour day, even though it sounds like it's talking about 24-hour day. That's kind of the idea of where it's going. Um so there's some objections I have to this You know, the straightforward first reading approach just really precludes this view. I never in a million years would have come up with anything close to that view from reading it. I don't know how God's sheep are supposed to arrive at that conclusion across every tribe, Kendra, Tonga, and nation to all, hey, oh there's a framework view. That's the first thing that hit me when I read that, brother. How cool is that? No, no, this is too hard The passage establishes the very concept of space, time, earth, history. Upon any which analogy or framework Giving a heavenly picture is based. For instance, listen to what Jesus said. I mean, we don't have to make this hard. Turn to John chapter 3 and look at verse 12. We get so smart we become stupid. We kind of wrap the axle around. There's a fine line between genius and insanity, right? I think we've crossed the line on that one. Jesus says, if I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how shall you believe if I tell you heavenly things? Alright. When Jesus gives parables, A sower went forth to sow seed. We don't have to go, well, actually it wasn't really a sower. It was a John Deere tractor and it actually had, you know, a hopper in the back. And what? Where are you getting He would give you very basic, simple to understand. This is something that really does happen. This is something that really can happen. I get it. I understand it. And based on that simple, down-to-earth common man understanding, from that you can then build and look at some parabolic teaching that might come out of that. But you have to establish the ground basis first. That's the foundation on which any kind of metaphor resit rests. If the whole thing is a parable, then What is ground truth? Where do you attach to the real world, right? I mean you've you're it's it's a house floating on nothing, right? You you don't have any support for that. You have to have some basis Frankly, the another point I like someone to put, there's no exegetical breaks. Where does this literary structure stop? When do you stop looking at things that way and say, well, you don't have to look at it too hard literally physically What's the break? You just keep going off on some wild tangential idea. Um verse four, why is man expected to work a literal six days? If the days of creation are not a literal six days, for in six days the Lord God made heaven and earth sea, and is the rest of the seventh day where for the Lord blessed the Sabbath day. How am I supposed to work six million years? How long am I supposed to work before I get a break? How are a nation full of Jews hanging out in the wilderness to understand this when they get into Canaan? What are they supposed to do? I mean that's confusion. I I I I just can't I can't see how people in the past it would mean God lied to us somehow. He he has to kind of, you know, sp He's he would be covering his tracks to what he really did just so us dumb creatures could get it. That just doesn't sound consistent with God's character. That's God doesn't need to lie to us. Um, uh to to to to make an interesting point. You know, Genesis 2 only describes the Garden of Eden, not all of creation. Uh they uh the title of his uh of Meredith Klein's book uh uh And there was no rain where he really strains at that passage, and there was not a man to till the earth, he makes a huge deal of that point. It says, For the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth. There's not a man to till the ground, but there went up a mist from the earth. And I mean he just runs haywire with that. He pulls stuff out of that that I'm like, I I I don't see why we need to go crazy with that. Um Ordinary providence exclusively uh uh exclusively was operative during the creation period. God's providence was the only thing really operating there. We didn't need man, we didn't need evolution. We strictly see God's hand in this. I'm not sure what that point is trying to frame. The meaning of Yom in connection with evening, morning, ordinal numbers would be seriously called into question elsewhere. In other words, was the wilderness tabernacle dedication real? Uh that's in number seven when they start to de th they they they dedicate it and they talked about evening and morning and all that. Uh if if that's really how you view that That's foundational for many other books. In fact, Jesus quoted the book of Genesis more than any other Old Testament book. So You know, where's the brakes on this thinking? I mean that's some interesting insight. You know, I I get that, you know, you need to come up with some interesting ideas to keep your job, right? Publish or perish is the old phrase, but this is just a little over the top Just to round it out, let's talk about those who truly have off-the-wall thinking. And these would be heretics. I would uh I would be comfortable saying, yeah, I think we've got some uh heresy going on here. And that would be the theistic evolutionary people, those who say that God uh created, but he used evolution to do it. That was the tool in his hand Evolution was designed to exclude God from the picture. Why would God use a tool that's designed to exclude himself from the picture to create evol to create everything? It doesn't make sense. Who's in that camp? B. B. Warfield, a big name in the Reform Camp. Howard Van Till. Van Till is another big name in the Reform Camp. Camp Antillian Apologetics is one if you're familiar with that. There's another fellow who uh appears to be a nice and good and godly man. His name is Dr. Francis Collins He was the director at NIH for the Human Genome Project, claims to be a Christian. And, you know, wow, that's pretty impressive to head up the Human Genome Project. And to actually identify all the genomes for whatever our sequencing is, that's huge, and we're able to start to poke into some incredible things with that. He uh formed an organization called Bio Logos. And they have the stated view. He was the founder of that. I think someone else is running it now. that if we just get Christians away from this naive 24-hour view day and get them in sync with science, their faith will be stronger. However, comma, the exact opposite has happened. Because those who hear and see, well, okay, if Genesis, the opening chapters of Genesis are just figurative. As parables, what do you think goes through people's minds? If I'm telling you the first few chapters of Genesis are just figures of speech, what goes through people's minds? How do you think people are really going to take that? But it's false. Yeah, it's false. And if God's wrong there, where else is he wrong at? Maybe hell isn't real. Maybe it's just a figure of speech to say, don't do that. It's like when mom gets really mad. If you don't stop that now, I'm going to really whack you good. Don't make your head spin. You know, she's just, you know, foot stomping, just really trying to sound tough. And maybe that's all that God's doing. Maybe there really isn't a hell. Maybe there really isn't a sin problem Maybe there really wasn't a fall. If there really wasn't a fall or sin problem, then there really isn't a need for a savior. Jesus is just, you know, an interesting construct. It's a opioid for the masses and so forth. And that's what happens As soon as you kick out the foundation of Genesis 1 where God really does this, you lose a lot. Do you know what business card God pulls out more often than not? I call it a business card. I'm the Lord thy God that created thee. God very often in the Old Testament comes back and says, hey, I'm the creator. He comes knocking on Israel's doors through the prophets. I created all things. He foot stomps that point a lot. That's his business card. That's a pretty impressive business card. I think I'd want to pay attention to that Oh, yeah, you're the owner. You're the boss. Oughta listen. You know how everything's designed. You're in charge of this show. But if we undermine any kind of clear evidence, when that business card comes out, oh well, you're just barring the purple dinosaur. Don't care. You didn't do that. We now know better. The scientists. My trust has now been transferred to the scientists. My trust is transferred to the academic community. Why do you put your trust in man who breathed through his nostrils? Who dies, who hits the dirt and takes nothing with him, who is not the eternal, everlasting one. Why transfer your trust there? Yes. Yes. They you know they knew better than everybody else, and now they're trying to dictate to everybody else. And the disciples were simple men that just went back to the Old Testament scripture. Yep. Yep. As opposed to all these theories and ideas and additions to scripture. We don't want our minds to uh move from the simplicity that's in Christ. There is a simplicity to the scriptures. And so Christ said except you've come as a Yeah. Yes. Just accept it, believe it. Yes, right. We don't understand how God speaks and everything comes into existence, but that's okay. God's God and I'm not. I would expect him to be able to do something I can't figure out. Well, alright, so that's the four views. You will encounter these, you'll encounter them, and again, these some of these people are you can learn a lot from Uh they they've got some interesting things. Forget the framework view, just chuck that in this entire don't even listen to it, don't read it, don't buy it, don't waste your money, please. Just go buy a brownie instead. I wouldn't waste my money on anything Can you help passing off the quiz? Right. Yeah, the upper registers and the cosmogenes boy, that's where my head went really, really. Anton, would you close this in prayer? Yeah. Father in heaven, thank you Lord for time to consider what your word says about creation and uh consider the the warning Lord from all the false views that are out there. We uh pray you would indeed help us to distinguish between the holy and the profane. Clean and the unclean, those things that come out of uh men's mouths and uh Lord help us to be able to discern. What is of you and what is of uh our adversary the devil? Please uh help us to hold to that which is true and not be tossed about with every window doctrine. Thank you for this time and pray you be with us uh this day in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen