Think of church government. We've covered uh the extraordinary officers, the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists. Uh we began to look now at the ordinary officers talked at length about elders and that was a really big topic. It's unfortunately bigger I I bit off more than I could chew, but I'm trying to keep it one Sunday school lesson per officer There's uh from the Holding Fast website, if you go to the material on the Elders and pull up the uh teacher's notes, which I post after the messages, there's an um additional links to further studies you can search certain email, text, ping me, however you'd like, I can get those in your hands. Because it is a big topic and it's an important one because that's the normal office that you're going to be dealing with in terms of church government when you go to select a congregation. But now we look at the next in line, which is that of deacons. You would think that this would be a fairly straightforward, easy office to deal with. And it is for the most part, biblically speaking, it's one of the simplest offices to describe and to depict It's an excellent entry-level office for those who are clearly gifted in the congregation but need to be proved first in terms of the use and the administration of those gifts And sadly, it is also the first point of entry for the devil. He will also invade that office and take it over And we'll cover that in the second part of the study. But first, what is it and how did it even come about? We actually have a record in scriptures as to how the official office of deacon began. And if you want, you can turn to your Bible in Acts chapter 6, where in the first four verses we read how this whole office got started, four or six verses, I forget which. Acts six. in the first verse. It's also in your handout, uh but I'll uh let you take a look at it in your Bible if you'd like. It says this in those days when the number of disciples was multiplied. So now we have The early church starting as a measure of, dare I use the word, success in their evangelical efforts. People are coming to Christ. The fields were indeed whitened to harvest, as Christ had said. And there's a lot of disciples coming about, and with any kind of growth, you know that there's going to be some new challenges that come with that, a different set. Maybe Mission Bible's not ready for growth yet, because we're not ready for the expansion. We couldn't handle the challenges It says they were multiplied, and there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. So now we have the first tension between the traditional Hebrew-Judaic background with the Greeks into whom now the gospel is coming. They are coming into the Christian fold And the Greeks are complaining because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. You get the sense that there was a care for the widows, a care for the poor. This is a very different approach of the of the God of the Bible because his disciples care about the infirm, the aged, the poor, etc. in their midst. They care about them. that wasn't so with Rome and Greeks other gods. So uh they began to come on to the church payroll, if you will, uh and to the church support. And that word there daily ministration, or actually that word ministration is related to our word deacon. There's a footnote there, it's the word diaconia. It can be Noun, and it's typically female. That's the female version of it, their daily administration, ministry to these female widows. We continue. Then the twelve called, this would be the twelve apostles, called the multitude of the disciples unto them. So now they turn, the apostolic band turned to The disciples who were there, and it says, said unto them, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve, and that's our word diacaneo, that's a verb, serve. Tables. We shouldn't deacon tables. I'm just going to keep hitting that word so you see how I'm drawing from the pet from the text. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you, these are males, seven men, it's males, of honest report. Full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and ministry of the Word. So you see the reason why deacons were called. There was a legitimate need the church had. The apostles said, yep, it's a need forget about it because it's beneath it. No, they didn't say that. But they themselves couldn't go deal with it, and so they did what any wise administrator would do. Delegate. But you need to just not delegate to anybody they delegated to an appropriate party. In this case been with these preliminary sets of qualification. They had an honest report full of the Holy Ghost, full of the Spirit of God, and they were very wise, wise in how in how to deal with this, because as you might imagine uh dealing with an angry widow is going to take some wisdom. You don't want to send the most base, foolish individual in your midst to go deal with this. They're going to have to assess what the needs are, how best to deliver the need, what the frequencies are, the instructions may not uh from the widows may not come out clearly, etc. There there may need to be some give and take, and there needs to be somebody who's wise enough to be patient, even keeled uh an honest individual, patently obvious, one who would be received both by the brethren who were putting a lot of money and resources in their hand, as well as the received So this was their role, vital role, good role. They must have done their job well because clearly God's plan uh included deacons and they set it off to a good start. We don't hear any further complaints about that. We don't hear that they did their job miserably, people got fired, there was no scandals associated with it, and it obviously worked out well. So you get the sense that the word deacon is simply a church servant who can be entrusted with various tasks that are necessary to keeping the function of the church going, in particular to people. This wasn't a brick and mortar service. This was a flesh and blood service. And so their principal area of responsibility was to people Not to material. Well, lesson one, just because the guy can take care of the building and mow the lawn doesn't mean he's a good deacon. That's not the chief criteria. Literally, the word means, and this is your first fill-in-the-blank, servant. Just like presbyteros or presbyter in the New Testament Greek means elder because it's talking about a guess what? Elder, older person. Deacon likewise means servant. And these offices, these titles that God gives, just God gives a real simple title. A real simple title. You are a servant. That's the title. And so the word deacon actually is a transliteration of the Greek word into English. They've just taken every individual Greek letter, brought that over into English, and turned that into an English word. We really don't have by It it's a it's a Hellenized word come into our language. We don't have a native word for that. We would just say servant. Isn't that nice? You know, a little aside here about titles and and I maybe I've said this before, but I kind of want to flit stop it. Um if you if if your company is is succeeding barely. You're just getting by. You maybe didn't meet your financial targets for that year. And you got a number of employees staff that you you'd really like to hand out a lot of raises, but you can't And uh you just you just the money just doesn't stretch. Well there's something else the company can give, and let me tell you what, it goes a long way Give them a fancy title. Wow. We used to call it psychic income. You'd be amazed how well that works among the sons of men. Put the word chief in front of their title and boy they just they're in the skies. They go home, they got bragging rights, their whole family. I'm the chief filling the blank today You know, it could be cook and bottle washer. He's now the chief. Cook and bottle washer, it's a big deal. But it ought not to be so among you. Right? The servants of God ought not to get excited about the title. I think that's why God gives such base titles. Just servant. Just just servant. Just keep it low. And that's a freebie. So literally that word does mean servant. That word shows up 28 times in the Bible and only three times is it translated deacon. It actually normally is rendered servant, and a good example is in John II at the wedding of in Cana of Galilee, where Jesus' mother said to the servants, whatsoever he Jesus saith unto you, do it. This was not a church function, this was just at a wedding writ, which happened to be at some location where they had servants The same concept is found in the Old Testament. In Genesis 24, Abram's in verse 2, Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house that ruled over all that he had. So here he had a ruling function, but he was a servant in the house. Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh. He's commissioning this individual to go out and find a wife or a son. Pretty responsible job. And verse 17, the servant ran to meet her and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher. So it was a ruling function within the house. He had a responsible job, but that was his role. It's the same concept, not a snazzy title, it's derived from service, ministration, serving tables, ministry of the word, all of that has to do. And there's several examples of this ministry, and that's why the study of deacons is such a very uh easy one to cover in scriptures because there are some very relevant passages to it that just lend itself to a very good study. For instance in Acts 1129 Acts 11, 29, and verse 30, we read this, then the disciples, each according to his ability, determined to send relief. To the brethren dwelling in Judea, this they did also in Senate to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul And so Barnabas and Saul are working to minister, and they're going to send relief to the brethren in Judea, some financial needs. Well, this gets back to the qualification of an elder, excuse me, of a deacon, probably going to be an individual with whom you want to entrust a substantial amount of money and funds. This is a person that you don't want to question. Are they going to handle the money right? Are they under financial distress themselves? You know, when you're applying for a job which might require some type of a security clearance and they start to ask a lot of private information, they're trying to get at whether you're trustworthy. They're going to go looking at your financial records. They're going to ask to see what your credit rating is, how good are you at paying your bills? Are you under financial distress? Because if you are you might be tempted to compromise. Well in 2 Corinthians 8 and the first five verses there, the apostle is writing to the church at Corinth. He's trying to how shall I say it shake them down so they do their part. They're they're not exactly contributing because uh in Macedonia, which is where the church of Philippi was at, they were doing a far better job. And he points this out to them. He says to the Corinthian church in Second Corinthians eight verse one, Moreover, brethren, make known to you the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. He's going to tell them about their sister churches in this land. Kind of like a missionary report. That in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty, so he points out that they were afflicted, they had great joy, but they also had He says deep poverty. We might consider these folks to be in extreme poverty. Yeah, America, if you're making less than I think uh I forget the dollar amount it's uh uh I think it's around uh 40,000 a year you're considered to be in extreme poverty. If you only own one computer in America you're in poverty. That's considered poverty level Uh two TVs and one computer is considered, you know, you're below that, you're you're in poverty, you're in deep poverty, uh, which I find astounding. The uh he continues, he says, that their deep poverty and their abundance of joy abounded in the riches of their liberality. He points out that they were very generous. They didn't count that as a As a roadblock, I bear witness that according to their ability, yea, and beyond their ability, somehow even beyond their means They were freely willing, employing with us much urgency that we would receive the gift and the fellowship of the ministry To the saints, and not only as we had hoped, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and then to us by the will of God. Paul was pointing out to these Corinthians, might I add, wealthy Corinthians that this Philippian church tended to be one of his primary supporters. And he says, I find that very interesting because They are a hotbed of joy and a cesspool of poverty And yet, in spite of that, they are able to minister, as our word deacon, to serve the Lord. They're serving not out of abundance, but because Of great joy. I knew it was coming, excuse me. Well, that's a little message in and of itself, but it does give an example of ministry. Uh you can minister by way financially. I don't know why I've got the sneezes right now. You can minister by ways of service such as that which the Greek widows needed. Now Let's talk about what the office is. Let's talk about what the office is, and then we'll look at what the office is not. The last fill-in-the-blank on your sheet. It is a joint job. It is a joint duty with the bishops, or the elders They work together. They are part of what we might call the leadership team. They are to be involved. They are not to be excluded. They are to be involved. Paul, Philippians 1. 1. Paul and Timotheus, the service, the diaconus, it could be male or female, of uh in as a noun form. Context tells you, the servants of Jesus Christ to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are Philippi with the bishops and deacons. So here Yeah, it's interesting because he's using that word both to indicate as an apostle they serve. Again, it's a very common word elevated into the form of an office. And he says, we are serving with the bishops and the deacons. Again, this is now an office title. Because the bishop is in office, so is the deacon. And they are together writing to this Philippian church. Then we get to the explicit qualifications, and I'll have you turn to 1 Timothy 3. 1 Timothy 3 and verses 8 to 12. Again, the apostle is very clear In two sections of Scripture as to what constitutes a biblical bishop or elder and what constitutes a biblical deacon He's actually not unclear about this. It's some of the most stunningly clear passages that articulate what they are to do and what they're how to be evaluated what the character qualities are. And we'll look at these qualifications here with a note to the fact that this is more than just temporary duty. This isn't a temporary assignment like happened in Acts 6. It wasn't, oh, well, now that the widows are served, we can just decommission the office of a deacon. No, no. This is something that God through the Apostle And through Timothy and on through the church to this day, has instituted an office that ought to continue. I'm curious, uh I'm gonna pick on Ivan for a moment. Does the Orthodox Church have deacons? Do they Yeah, I I believe Okay, so they have some office still called a deacon. Okay. I was just curious about that. First Timothy three in verse eight Lists the qualification for the deacons. Here we go. My throat will let me get through this section here. Likewise must the deacons be grave. So these are sober-minded people. They're not giddy. They're not full of comedy. They're not clowns. Not double-tongued. You don't want them saying one thing to one person, something else, somebody else Can you imagine what disaster that would bring about? Sending that kind of a person to widows no less. You were going to talk, just like anybody else would. Hey, he said this to me. Well he said this to me. Boy, what kind of a reputation would that bring to the church if you have a double-tongued person? Not very good. Not given to much wine. Doesn't mean he's a drunkard. Uh there were biblically medicinal uh benefits to a tiny amount, so it's not saying he's totally uh uh never touches it. It's not not an entertainment for him. Not greedy a filthy lucre. This isn't an individual who's a greedy one. He's actually quite generous. He'll pull from his own pocket if he needs to make up the difference Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. Notice that he he holds that faith. He hangs on to it. He's got a pure conscience. He's not uh convicted by some hidden sin. There's nothing in him that might could surface later on to embarrass the church. It says, and let these also first be proved And so you see this from the apostles when they called out. He says, why don't you call out some men? And this was the preliminary proof. This was the entrance. criteria back from Acts. They wanted men who were uh of good honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom. There had been sufficient amount of time In the presence of the at the time church leadership, that they said, Yeah, I think this individual would be worth further inspection to see if he's a candidate for deacon. Being found blameless You don't want to have an individual that's going to be found with blame. And there's a period there to get to the second section, but I just want to mention something. One of the things that really hurt my heart was there's a uh King James using church not far from this house, uh that uh was uh reasonably sound in the faith and they We had a deacon which one day in the local newspaper was splattered across the, I don't know if it was the first page or the third page. Uh now was a registered sex offender. He was um uh had uh was taking uh he he was the he was doing he was the photographer, he was taking photos of the different members of the church for the church directory, and uh there were some questions that came up about uh uh photographing some young women in private. And so there was a an air of doubt about it. So I don't know much more of those details other than to say uh uh as the parents of this daughter brought forth a charge uh that he accepted a plea bargain or whatever rather than going through a nasty trial and uh was unable to to serve in that congregation. He was a deacon And, you know, the world is going to spin it the worst possible way. Uh they're not gonna show that, you know, maybe the girl's parents were were uh overlooking things and and I don't know the individual and and uh uh you know just to what extent it went. There wasn't any discussion of impropriety in terms of the touching or anything like that. But still It's a cause of blame. It brings shame upon the name of Christ. And it did have an impact for that church. It did begin to impact the membership, and there were people that began to leave. So blameless is important. Oh I'm still clean yeah, but the devil's got long arms and he reaches over and just tries to drag you into the mud. And so you really got to stay clean and clear. Well then we get to the second half of the qualifications. It says, even so must their wives. Well, the implication then is if he is the husband of one wife, that this is a man. We're talking about a man here. Even so, their wives must be grave. He's grave, she's grave. If they say opposites attract, well in this case they both better be grave. They both better be have some gravitas to them. They're not light, fluffy, airy people carried about with every wind of doctrine They're individuals who are grave. They're not slanderers. That word slander has to do. It's from a root word that has to do with a false accusation. They don't falsely accused people. They are careful with their tongue in this area. This is the wife of the deacon. She's evaluated as well. She's sober, meaning she's uh has a a sound uh mind of thinking, and she's faithful in all things. She's uh can be trusted to do something. If you loan her something, she's going to return it. If you ask, can you provide this on such and such a date, she will provide on such and such a date or make accommodations to do it. She's faithful in all things Let the deacons, he gets back, be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well. So then you get back to a similar qualification that you have of elders, that they have to have children, because a Person's first ministry is to his own home. His first diaconate is to his own house. Does he serve the children well? Are they Is the husband and the wife living in great luxury and convenience and the kids are scrounging to make ends meet on them on their own? You know, you can be poor, but they don't have to be dirty and filthy. They don't have to be unruly. Uh they don't have to be uh uh uh have social disgraces that embarrass the parents. So this is examples of of uh of the things we're looking for and these are the qualifications for the office. Alright, first 20-some odd minutes, what it is, and I hope you appreciate that rounded view. Let's talk about what the office is not The first entry point of the devil, and I want to try to speak uh as uh carefully as I can here, but I I do have to bear it scriptural. reference is that a deacon is not a female church officer. It is not and it cannot be. But as I've said many a time, every heretic has his hearse You can go to the OPC's website and pull up Women in Office, and you can find a minority report from a number of years ago. probably over ten or fifteen, maybe twenty, as to why they believed in this minority report as of the current time that I'm in now, I don't believe they hold to this, but they have a minority report that says that women can be deacons. The Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, the ARP, fully believes that women can be deacons. Unconservative Presbyterian Church, Nealsville Press comes to mind, has no problem with women being deacons. I've visited such churches, not realizing that they had women as deacons. I wouldn't bother visiting if I had known that in advance. And what I have experienced and seen in that is that they are a whole lot more than deacons. They are very vocal. They are very controlling. They are very leading. Very ruling. They're up front in part of the worship service. They are guiding, directing. uh even bossing the pastor around, okay pastor, now it's time for you to do this. Okay, now it's time for you to do that. I mean they are they are the spark club. They are whipping things along. They are moving it forward and uh and so it's not just uh Boy, she's just really helpful, and we just decided to make her a deacon. Where do they get this idea from? When the passages we just read, it's one concise area. You don't need to jump all over scriptures, 1 Timothy 3 I mean, seriously, four or five verses? That's not difficult. And in that short span, says they must be the husband of one wife. Well, that kind of makes it a duh moment The test for the wives, well how can the female deacon have a wife? Sadly in our day I think I understand how that could happen, but uh that should run astray of another qualification and violation of of God's commandments and they should be ruled out completely. You don't want to have a lesbian in that office. How do we get there? Well they get there from Romans 16 Romans 16 and verses 1 and 2. And this is where the beauty of the King James comes through, and the corruption of the other translations shines out. Because you find in Romans 16, 1 and 2, these words. The apostle says, I commend unto you Phoebe, female name, name for a woman, our sister, clearly a woman. Which is a servant of the church, which is its syncria. Guess what that word servant is? It's a form of the word deacon, and we'll look at that form in a moment. That ye receive her in the Lord as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you, for she hath been a succorer, a helper, a comforter of many, and of myself also. So the Apostle Paul is writing to the church at Rome that there is someone who is at Centria. Perhaps she's going to be visiting them soon, or they will have some dealings with her. And they're just writing a letter of recommendation about this sister Phoebe. She's a servant in the church, and she is a servant in the traditional sense of the word, not the official title. However Those who are trying to find verses to promote women into office will hold this out as an exemplar. And they say, see, she's a deacon at the church. And some modern translations will render it that way They'll say she is a deacon at the church. And so because of that, they say, well, we need to relook at these qualifications. And down they down the path they go. And then they go into the Old Testament. And they find that Deborah was a judge. See, she was a judge, so therefore we can have New Testament deacons. Now it's a mighty far stretch to go from judge to deacon, and it's another mountain to get over to go from Old Testament to New uh because you would expect the office of judge to be introduced and then you might have a comparison but you don't. And even in that case, Deborah was concerned that the man in that case would uh who was kind of a wimp, he said, Well would you go with me? And she says, Well, I'm paraphrasing, what are you gonna do? Because it'll be said that a woman has done this thing. I mean she herself was concerned of the imagery of it What do we do with this passage in Romans 16? Well, I actually thank Gloria for this finding many years ago because as she was looking through Green's literal translation. uh she pointed out to me that there is a similar word form that is found earlier in Romans. And I want you to see with your own eyes. So what you have on your handout here is a Photocopy of Green's literal translation where you have the Greek words, and so you can see the types of the letters and the endings. And then over to the left column is the translation of the word. So in Romans 16, you see it's number 1249. If you're just going by strong, strong just gives the base root form. He doesn't give all the different cognates, the endings, whether it's a noun or a verb. 1249 is kind of our word deacon, but there's different endings. That means it's a noun, it's a verb, it's female, it's not. And so you see it's the word that she is a diaconon. Diakonon, N-O-N is that ending there. And that differs from the 1 Timothy 3 passage. It's not the title, 1 Timothy 3. And that's the next little blurb. You have diaconus and diaconoi for uh for deak uh deacons uh in in both the singular and the plural. Then, however, that word diaconon is the very same word found in Romans 15 and verse 8, that Jesus Christ is a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God. He is a diaconon. for the minist for the ministry of the to the circumcision of the uh uh for uh get it right here he is a minister of the circumcision for the truth of god well if jesus christ is listed as a diaconon How does that word always insist that it's a female officer? Because Jesus Christ is not a female officer, and so it can't be talking about an office. Jesus Christ has not been demoted into a deacon. He's the Lord of glory. He's not talking about an office. You can't say that that Greek word is pointing to an office. So even I Who has not had formal Greek training, I've dabbled into it enough to know where things lay, you can't use that passage to justify female church In fact, there's other passages in the New Testament which are explicitly clear about this. 1 Corinthians 14 says, for instance, um that women are not permitted to be in a ruling or a teaching position over men. However, they can teach women. He says in 1 Corinthians 14, 34, let your women keep silence in the churches. For it is not permitted unto them to speak, but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. First Timothy two, I suffer not a woman to teach nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence So when you pull those two together, the sense is not that she is not to sing, she's not to sneeze, she can't talk, she can't say anything until she gets home. That's not the sense. The sense is that her voice is not to be used in a teaching capacity. She is not to be lifting up her voice. She's to be under obedience. She's to be discreet, chaste, and that's the sentence here. But she can teach other women. And to do that, you've got to speak. And she can do that. She can teach women. She can teach children. Have no problem with that. Titus too, in fact, says as much Titus 2. 3. The aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, so she can't be a teacher, again, not ruling in an authority capacity over men. That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet chaste keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blaspheme. She is not to be the doctrinal arm of the house. That's not her role. She can be a sounding board, thank God for wives who are sounding boards. Uh she can support. Uh she and the husband can have vigorous discussion about where uh doctrinal matters are. But at the end of the day The husband finally says, okay, this is my judgment, my ruling on it, that has to be the end of the matter. There can't be any further pushback, otherwise she's beginning to be into a teaching role. Women can be very helpful ministers, and that's our last fill-in-the-blank. They can be very helpful ministers in the normal sense of the word. Because again, that word deacon is both A title as well as a service. And women, frankly, the church oftentimes runs on the arms and legs and brains of the women. Uh they do an awful lot of work and in support of the congregation. And they are to be thanked for that. Now you see a good example of this in 1 Corinthians 16. I tell you there's There's some people I want to meet in heaven. I know that my chief joy will be Jesus Christ, but on this side of glory, uh there's some people I want to meet. I want to meet Noah. I'm going to talk to him about that art business, because that was a mighty big project he was the best engineer that ever was. He did a mighty fine job on that work. But I'd also like to talk to these people here. He says, I beseech you, brethren, you know the house of Stephanus So here's Stephanus. He had a household. House of Stephanus refers to a man with wife and children. You never find a man and a woman who are married with no children referred to as a house. House always includes children. No children, no house. It's Abram and Sarai. uh you know it's just uh Zacharias and Elizabeth. It wasn't the house of Zacharias. He didn't have a house. He didn't have children, so there's no house there. House of Stephanus. that it is the first fruits of Achaea, that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. What a wonderful testimony. These people were addicted They didn't sit around Thanksgiving and say, okay, we're going to line up the popcorn and the beer. We're going to watch football. No, they were, oh, is there some saints we can minister? How can we minister to saints in the day after? Well what can we do in preparation for the the worship of and the service of the people of God next? And through the week, okay, how do we gonna uh make uh Wednesday night prayer meeting. What can we do to just spice it up a little bit? They just addicted themselves to the ministry. They're always thinking ahead for the service of the saints of the people of God. You know, and some of you out there have struggled and asked, you know, what can I do? I'm retired, I'm old, or whatever, I have nothing to do. Think about Stephanus. They've addicted themselves to ministry. They've found some ministry niche. How can I serve in the house of God? Oh, I've tried before and it failed. Well, forget those things which are behind. Reach forth to those things which are before. They've addicted themselves. Mrs. Ross has found a way to serve. She's our eldest member. Great day. Yeah, we have a few excuses, don't we? Matthew 8. 15. Here we find another example of women being ministers. And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and ministered unto them. She found a way to help. Wow, this is somebody who helped me. I can turn around and help them. And isn't that true? When the Lord Jesus touches your heart And you found a great source of joy. Lo, him whom my soul loveth. You love him, and you love those who are loved of him, and those who love him back, and there's an interest in serving the people of God Matthew 15, 40. There were also women looking on afar off, among whom was Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the Less and Joseph, and Salome. Who also when he, this is speaking about Jesus on the cross, when he, Jesus, was in Galilee, she followed him and ministered unto him, and many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem. Well I tell you, at the resurrect at the cross scene, and also at the resurrection, the women were the heroes. They were there standing at the cross. They were there watching. They were following. The disciples fled. They were scared of cats, not the women I'm going. I don't care. He's my Lord. I'm going to serve him. They were there crying, giving him some moral support, I suppose. In his shame in that hour, it's amazing to me that women can do tremendous amount of support. And it is an encouragement. It really, really is an encouragement to the ministers It says, many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem. That's the other than the Apostle John, I don't know, and the thief on the cross, I don't know many other people were there at the at the crucifixion of Christ. And of course the thief from the other side, but he doesn't count. Luke 8, our last passage here. It came to pass afterward. Speaking of Christ. That he went throughout every city and village preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him. So here's the apostolic man. They're going around different cities. I often wondered, how does that work? I mean their job, it seems to be, was to preach. And the certain women which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils. And Joanna, the wife of Chusah, Herod's steward, and Susannah, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance. They said, Well, I've got some bread at home, I've got oil and fine flour, I'll make some bread for the disciples I'll help that way. Oh, we'll figure out how to get dates and raisins and cheeses and whatever it takes to feed the apostolic man. We'll help that way. And they did. You know, uh I would be uh a fool to think that people for years came to the Cluth House Bible study on Friday night because they only wanted to hear me They also got fed and they got fed mighty well. And there was plenty of food on Friday nights. I mean we had uh Uh uh great crowd coming through here. Why? Because there was a woman or two or three who were interested in helping and ministering to the saints. Food is a draw. Somebody's got to make it. And I'd rather have a woman naked to be honest. Well, that's our study on Deacons. I'm sorry I did not have time to pepper in some questions this week, so you heard a monologue. A coughing one at that, uh which is all the more reason why the men need assistance, ministers, servants, helpers, because we're needy. We're needy people. Brother Pastor, would you close us in prayer? Yes, sir. Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that there is a place in the service of the Most High God for everyone. uh Lord, from the from the uh pastor who is out front all the way even to the young children who can uh find a a place where they can serve and something they can do. And Father, our service. has nothing to do with ourselves, but rather everything to do with about who we serve. We are servants of the Most High God. Well thank you, Lord, for these studies. May they uh educate us, Lord, in the truths of Scripture. And may they equip us to give an answer of the hopes that lieth within us. Lord, to every man that asketh, Father, for there are many false assumptions made about the teaching of Scripture. And Lord, they need to be confronted. uh for the purity of the body of Christ. Lord, bless us in these things. I thank you, Father, for Brother Vince and for his diligence and preparation, for his uh clarity in presentation of truth. Bless now as we prepare our hearts for the worship in Jesus' name.