Right, right. Okay, well we are covering um a new topic this week. We're in the seventh chapter. We have finished up the other divine attributes of God, His righteousness versus His love, trying to compare those two, long-suffering, mercy, grace. We looked at his goodness, his kindness. And those are attributes that can be communicated and shared, made into the creature in measure. The human race does illustrate that. Some of his attributes, his eternity uh and so forth cannot be shared with us. We do not claim to have existed from eternity past into eternity future. That's not something we have. Well, this week we get into one of the most difficult to fathom attributes that God has, and it's reserved for a little chapter all by itself. And that most difficult attribute for us to truly comprehend, I don't believe any of us can, we can apprehend it, we can get our hands somewhat around it, but can't dive deeply into it. And that would be what is known as the Trinity. Some have referred to this as the tri-unity of God. Even just to describe it is very difficult to do. So in your handout that you have there, we're looking at the Trinity. And today we're going to touch really just going to scratch the surface a little bit, and we're going to rely on some ancient confessions and creeds to help guide us as to what 300 years or so of church history have come up with. So the first is the Jews. Let's start with the Old Testament. The Jews, in fact, did have a view of God that was, for the most part, biblically based. They did see God as one God. Now they were not pantheists, but they definitely saw that there were three aspects. They saw plurality in the Old Testament. For instance, in the introduction to the commandments in Deuteronomy 6. 4, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Now, to us Americans, it doesn't quite come through singular versus plural. But when it says the Lord, it uses the word Elohim, which is plural. Anything ending in I am in Hebrew, em is plural. Ephraim, that would be plural, Elohim, plural. Our God is one Lord. So here it says, actually that word, excuse me, that first word, Lord, is Jehovah, our God. The word God is the word Elohim. I need to correct my notes there. Jehovah, our Elohim is one Jehovah. That's an interesting construct. God announces himself as I, God's, am one. So he right out the gate in that introduction puts himself that way. In fact, at the very creation of the human race and the uh sixth day in Genesis 126, and God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Here God speaks in the plural. Let us make man after our image. Some have then picked up on that and have attempted to explain the Trinity of God by saying man has body, soul, and spirit, trying to illustrate those three aspects to him. Others have attempted other ways. But that's this is how the Jews viewed God. They did recognize this in the Old Testament, and that's why we've limited to those first five books of the Bible. But the bad is they did not recognize God as a personal God. They did not acknowledge the role of the Son as one who would come. There's a famous passage in Isaiah 61 speaking about the Spirit of the Lord hath the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. It's a glorious passage of Isaiah 61. Well, lo and behold, Jesus Christ appears on the scene in his hometown, no less, and as was the case, the ministers were there, and Jesus picked up a copy of it. He found the place in the book of Isaiah where this was written. He read it to them. And then he makes this most interesting statement. In Luke 4. 21, he, Jesus, began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. Well, that must have hit them like a ton of bricks, because Isaiah is being very prophetic concerning the Messiah. This is a test. How would they have viewed God Almighty? How would they have viewed the Spirit of the Lord being upon one to come and preach? He's preaching, he's been sent He's going to preach good tidings in the New Testament that we would call that the gospel. He's proclaiming liberty. He's opening up the prison. He's doing all the things we would expect a Savior to do. And in verse 28, in all day in the synagogue When they heard these things, they were filled with great joy and rejoicing. Now it's not what we read. It says they were filled with wrath. They were quite upset at this. Why do you think they were wrathful Well they felt like Christ was putting himself in the place Jesus, not Christ. They felt that Jesus was putting himself in the place. Okay, and what he was Christ. Yeah, all right. So if they saw Jesus as a local hometown boy who declares himself to be Messiah And they get angry at that. What are some key words about that? They believe Jesus was committing what? Blasphemy. Blasphemy, yeah. Heresy. Blasphemy. He's making himself being God, but he was clearly a man. He was born among them. They saw him grow up. And furthermore, that showed that they didn't believe he was God, and it also disclosed that they didn't believe God could come in human form. That that was not possible. So it's a disclosure of their insight into that. So this was the way that the Jews had viewed God. When Christ shows up, it was a mind-blower to them. Well, then we get to the introduction of Christ in the New Testament. The angel Gabriel appears to Mary, and he says unto her in Luke 1. 35, notice the three elements of the Trinity here. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. The power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. So here you have the Holy Spirit, power of the highest, Son of God, all of the entire Godhead involved in Mary's conception of the God man. Now, I think our Catholic friends would have difficulty with this today. And I'm sure they've twisted this passage of Scripture, though I have not checked But they would insist because of their doctrine that that holy thing that was in her was because Mary herself was holy, that Mary herself was uh divine. That's why they called her the Meth Mother of God. That's why they refer to uh the um uh the Immaculate Conception is not speaking about Christ, talking about her, that she was holy, and therefore that holy thing was in her because she was holy. But the scripture makes it very clear that God in Almighty was the offering, was the part of the holiness that conceived in her. She simply offered him a body, a human flesh. Well, we see the Trinity at the announcement of the imminent birth. And then we have Luke chapter 3, where Jesus is baptized. Now when all the people were baptized, and boy I'd like to go off on a springboard about all the people being baptized, Wikipedia says there's about 200 to 600,000 people that were alive during the time of John the Baptist in the region he was baptizing at. And so if if you allow three minutes per immersion, uh if John was going to be doing that, he would spend 3. 2 years baptizing that many people, and if you give him ten hours straight shifts and somebody else bringing him wild locusts and honey to eat. He'd kill his back and he would have spent his entire ministry doing nothing but this one thing, therefore immersions technically, physically impossible to have done. He would have done it the way that was recorded of Old Testament priests, with the sprinkling of the reed and with the hyssop. Which was recorded in Numbers 7 and Numbers 19. This is how baptism was done in the Old Testament. For him to physically immerse people, they would have looked at him and said, Where are you coming up with that at? He was an Old Testament priest, he was a Levite. Where would you come up with that? So anyway, that's a story for another time in another uh study and summary of Christian doctrine much later So all the people were baptized, it came to pass. Jesus also being baptized, notice Jesus, and praying, the heaven was open and the Holy Ghost descended in bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved Son. Those who are the God haters and the Bible pundits who seek to undermine faith in Scripture point out, see there's three elements right there, and they're three distinct separate things. Three elements, yes. That doesn't mean they're distinct or separate. They just God is calling attention to the entire Trinity at this point. point. Jesus is being ordained and installed now at this point of his ministry. He's now 30 years old. Again, back to the Old Testament, Levitical priesthood requirements as to when they began to minister. They began to minister at the age of 30. That's how old Christ is, so he's now starting his ministry officially at his baptism And you see all three of the elements, God is simply drawing attention to these three aspects. It doesn't mean there's three separate individuals. And there's much else in Scripture that talks about that, which I'm just gonna uh of which I'm gonna take you to one in the next section. When Jesus departs in Matthew 28, As he's giving instruction to his disciples, it says, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the, what's that next word? In the name. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. What I find interesting, and somebody pointed this out to me years ago, it doesn't say names plural. It says, name. The Lord our God is one God. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, one God. So I put the question to you now because I've begun to scratch at this a little bit. Why do you believe it's hard to answer the question, who is Jesus Christ? Or who is the Holy Spirit? What difficulties would we face? What difficulties do we face in trying to describe who Jesus Christ is? Anybody? Attorney? I don't think there is any problem. Okay, you don't think there's any problem? Alright. I'm gonna go to your plow and drop it down a notch here. So somebody comes to you and says, uh, so Jesus is a man, right? And you would say, No. You'd say he's not a man. So who walked the shores of Galilee? Was it a spirit? Yeah. An apparition? Yeah. Can a spirit in human form. Okay, in human form. But does does a spirit have flesh and bones? He did. Okay. So is he a man? No. Okay, we have a problem there. He is God. He's also fully man. So let's help this. Go ahead, Victoria. What problems do we face? You see the struggle? If you say he's not a man, then we just have An angel dying on the cross, but angels can't pay for sins. But he bled and suffered. Okay, he bled. Do spirits have blood? You're not bloody. Uh they're immaterial beings. Spirit has not flesh and blood to see me. Yeah. That's why I'm dropping your plow down a notch. I'm poking at you something. Victoria, what difficulties do we face? Mrs. Ross has helped us Poke at some of these. No, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, right, right, right. How do we explain who this one is I like your point in that you hold him as God and nothing less and you embrace him as God and though you may not understand or can comprehend or explain these things, you know when you talk about Jesus you're talking about God. Alright? Victoria. That come to mind would be you would have difficulty trying to explain the three persons as distinct. Like i it it would be hard to try to separate them and say, well, the Spirit is the comforter, but the Father is over all things and the Son, you know, is our Redeemer. But and so it's it's it's difficult to try to if they're all one and yet how do you explain Okay, there's different relationships between them and that there are unique distinctions between them. Okay. Any other thoughts? Why is it difficult to explain To to build them up for George Saint, she's absolutely right, because you have three that are one. Now Penny and I are one because we're husband and wife. But you can describe us because we are still separate. You know, you you can't describe us and say, well, he wears a dress. Well, obviously he doesn't. He wears the dress. But we're one because She wears a pants sometimes too. Well sorry. I'm sorry, I I dug a hole and pushed you in it. But um we're trying to describe a concept which is so far above our experience level because we explain things like our experience level. Um and so it has to be taken by faith, but at the same time you're trying to describe three people that are one person. And just like you when you try to describe a husband and wife, you you separate them, even though they're one It's the same with the Trinity. There are individual distinctions within the Trinity, but one Trinity, there's not three Trinities, there's one Trinity and one Trinity. So Benny, you raised your hand. I'm going to get circle back to you in just a moment to use a phrase from the White House. So here's some difficulty. You use an illustration of husband and wife, and as they are one, biblically speaking, the husband and wife scenario there is Christ in the church. The church doesn't enter into the triune Godhead. It's a relationship, but it's not part of that Godhead. But let me do an illustration with uh Joe as a husband, as a father, and as a pastor. Alright? So there's, we could say there's, it's old Joe But depending on the office he's in, he's executing the office of pastor, executing the office of husband, executing the office of father. Now, that falls short As well. That's called modalism. And that's a problem in the scriptures. And we'll touch on that a little bit more. I think I have a problem explaining it because I can't fully understand it. It it is God is so incomprehensible in this whole idea of the Trinity is so impossible for my finite mind to wrap around that I therefore can't explain. So why is it difficult for you to understand? What are the requirements that you're trying to fit together which you can't bolt? Not It's not reasonable to the human mind. It is beyond my experience. Um anything that I know. I have to take it by faith because God says To expand on what she's saying, God describes himself in contradiction Seeming contradictions. Right, exactly. I refer to it as paradoxes of parents contradictions. You mentioned flesh and blood, but Christ said to the disciples, a spirit hath not flesh and blood, as you see And so he described himself as flesh and blood. Because as Christ, as Jesus born in the manger, he absolutely had flesh and blood, and he absolutely was a man Except does he spent how many days without food or drink when he was in the desert? Hm. Well, others did as well. Um Elijah went forty days and forty nights in the strength of that meat. Wow. It's literally right at the medical limit of how far you can go. One more day, your toast. But d did they have water Did Elijah have water? You can't go that long without water. He was by the brook to eat. Doesn't doesn't mention drink. That's a valid question. So yeah, there are certain things about the God man we look at, certainly his ability to heal. So I think we're wrestling with this, and frankly, what I've asked you to do is summarize the questions that the early church for the first 300 years of its existence struggled to understand. That was the main topic that needed to be hashed out for the first 300 years. of Christianity's existence on this planet. It's like Jesus Christ came like a tornado that just s touched down, went ripping through Jerusalem and Samaria and parts of uh uh Jordan and went back up to heaven and they sat back and what was that? What just hit? Who was this? Think about it. Everything he declared and said came to pass. He healed people miraculously. His fame spread abroad because of it. He declared that he would be crucified, died, would be buried, and three days rose again from the dead. And he did. What kind of a man is this that can raise himself up from the dead? And it was a real person. Forthwith, after he was feared, came blood and water. Who is this individual? And so the church was truly struggling to understand. They wanted to not commit blasphemy. To make any old mirror man to be God, but they couldn't deny that this was a distinct and unique individual So around 196 A. D. , and this is where your little handout is going to come in, a fellow named Tertullian, who was an attorney. And he, though he was Africanized and knew the Greek, he preferred to write in Latin. And in 196 he began to turn his massive intellect toward the subject of Christianity, being a new convert. And he entered into this arena of dealing with the Trinity And he used terms that came out of the Roman legal system. And what he came up with was this. He said that God is one substance consisting of three persons. And that's much of the language we use today. In the Latin, it's interesting from the legal terms because he drew his terminology from the Latin word substantia. Now it doesn't mean material, but property rights. The same substance has the same property rights. And God's substance is his turf. Persona doesn't mean person. It referred to a party in a legal action. The way I put it is that God is one property, meaning a set of attributes. Consisting of three claimants to that property. The Father claims that, the Son claims that, the Holy Spirit claims that. So that brought it much closer to a circle of truth. It actually is a pretty sensible representation of how the Bible presents it, because the Bible does really attempt to resolve this apparent discrepancy from our perspective. There was an interesting logo that then came out several hundred years later, I believe the uh at the Council of Chalcedon this uh uh was introduced. Think now of a circle that has a center ring that says uh a center circle that says God, and then there are three circles connected by an outer ring. In the center circle you have spokes So you have a circle, a spoke goes out, a spoke goes down, a spoke goes over, another circle here. The middle circle says God. The other three circles say, guess what? Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And the word is, is written in each of the spokes. Father is God, Son is God, Holy Spirit is God. That connects the three But on the outer ring is the word is not. Father is not the Holy Spirit, is not the Son, is not the Father. So it was a helpful way to illustrate that there were three distinct entities. Entities is in wrong. Persons, personas, substance. But one central claim. They all were God. And so that was another helpful way. It's hard to boil it down and yet be reasonably accurate because you're not going to be precise and accurate The uh uh uh uh later origin came along and he be attempted to preserve the unity of them, and he subordinated the Son and the Holy Spirit in essence. uh too much was made of them. Getting them to the right level was difficult. And around that time a group called the Arians popped up. And the Arians popped up, by the way, no cheating in reading the back page because that's the You're only allowed to read the middle part right now. Oh reading about it. That's right. Um the Arians came along and they allegedly solved it by referring to Jesus and the Holy Spirit as first creatures. They found a passage in Colossians, which is describing the rights and the entitlement of the firstborn. He's the firstborn of every creature. It doesn't mean he was the first created. It means he has the right of the firstborn. And they said, ah, so on day one, God created Jesus, and Jesus created everything from there. And does anybody know how the Aryan heresy continues to this day? Which common sects do we have in our land that have embraced Aryan heresy, that Jesus is a first creature? Jehovah's Witnesses hold that claim. They do not believe in the Trinity. They believe that uh There is God the Father, and he happens to have a spirit that's over to the side, and the Son is the first creature. He was created, he was made. Mormons also have similar problems with that as well There's a lot of people that have wrong ideas of that. And it's wrong because that doesn't make Jesus God. He's a creature. He has to be God. He claimed himself to be God. He declared himself to be God. If you've seen me, you've seen the Father, he says The difficulty with, I mentioned earlier about modalism is a problem, and I use the illustration of Job being pastor, husband, and father. The difficulty is that he is not all three of those at the same time. Other illustrations, I suppose one could say that, but from the pulpit you don't exercise the office of the father too much. You're not, you know, gonna reproved Joey used from the bully pulpit, that's not the home. Others have used the illustration of water being vapor and liquid and solid. And they say, see the Trinity is like that. Now water has three different properties Yeah, but it's not that way all at the same time. God speaks of himself in the plural. Jesus speaks of himself in the plural. So it's difficult for us, as Penny said, to get our head around. We don't have anything to compare that. In fact, God states this much in Isaiah 45, to whom then will you liken me? How are you going to compare me? He says, I'm beyond compare. There's nothing that is out there that compares and equals me. So this is God's definition. So what eventually happened to defeat the Aryan heresy, and that was particularly nasty little cancer running through the church because they were using the language of the Bible. They would use Bible language to describe their heretical views. And what they meant by those words were not what you and I understood to mean of those words. So how in the world is the church going to deal with this? We're now 300 years into this. So far we've been relying on thus saith the Lord. And now you've got heretics who are using also thus saith the Lord, but their thus saith the Lord is not your thus, saith the Lord, because they have a totally different meaning behind it. They've twisted the meaning. So what would you as an elder, as a bishop, in those early days they had bishops, not elders, what would you as an early bishop in those days have done to defend the faith? What are you going to send out to the churches? As a simple formulary that says, have them read this. If they agree with this, they're good. If they disagree with this, they're bad. And remember the problem is these heretics are using scriptures as well. So what came out of that was the Nicene Creed, and that's in the middle on the opposite side of the picture of Tertullian, which came from a painting of him back. And we're going to look at the creed that has been amended by the First Council of Constantinople in 381. That's the one we find in the Trinity. Hymnals, the most common expression of the Nicene Creed that we have. It intentionally did not use Scripture. It intentionally used words that the heretics could not agree with. And there's one word in particular they did not agree with. And we'll get to that in a moment. So looking at the right-hand column, we believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of the Father, before all worlds, God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten, not made. You see, they're trying to get at this Aryan heresy. He's not made. Being of one substance with the Father, that was the sticking point. That word right there, one substance, and again that goes back to Tertullian's language. One substance. The Arian could not tolerate that word. He is not the same substance as the Father. That is the word they immediately bristled at. They kicked at and they rejected. That turned out to be the phrase that would filter out and kick out a lot of the Arians from the early church. He's not one substance. They'd say he's made. They would even look at begotten as a form of being made, you see. being of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made. Notice it says in the first phrase that God the Father made heaven and earth and all things visible and invisible. God the Father made them. And what did the Son do? By whom all things were made. So it attached that to the Son as well. Arians couldn't handle that. They can't have God the Father making as well as God the Son Who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary and was made man. And so they show the incarnation. He was made incarnate. He came into a carnal form. He came into a fleshly form, fully flesh, fully man. He was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, suffered, was buried, died, and was buried. I'm not sure where the died, Jim. Somehow that got dropped off. And the third day he rose again according to the scriptures and ascended into heaven and sitteth on the right hand of the Father. Notice he's now they're trying to put a little more biblical language in there. Sitting on the right hand means in your power of authority, your position of authority. He has all authority that God gave to him. From thence he shall come again with glory to judge the quick and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end. Now, if you'll notice to the first council of Nicaea, that column to the left, where it says, and I believe in the Holy Ghost. And then it goes down to say, but those you say there was a time when he was not, I'm looking at number four, the bottom left corner of that table And he was not before he was made, and he was made of nothing, or as he is of another substance or essence, or the Son of God is created or changed. All of that is language of the Arians. They went further to specifically attack the Aryan language and saying if anybody says this, they're a heretic. Well, the problem with identifying What heretics say is guess what? They have no integrity. They change their language. They'll just change their language. Right? So they had to scratch that. But notice the big gap on the Holy Ghost, because what the Church did in its race to protect the deity and the humanity of the Son of God They paid short shrift to the Holy Spirit. I believe in God the Father. And in the Son, Jesus Christ. Brrrrrr. A whole bunch of stuff. And in the Holy Ghost. Move on. They kind of shortchange the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost is a very important part of the Trinity. Yea, it is the essence of the Trinity. And so the First Council in Constantinople 381 had to amend that. And in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and giver of life So if he's the giver of life, he had to have been present at the creation, because life was created there, who proceeds from the Father and the Son, who with the Father and the Son together is worshiped and glorified, who spake by the prophets. And we believe in one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. In other words, they're now cutting out all those who don't hold this view. And acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins, and we look for the resurrection of the dead, life, and the world to come. Amen. Alright, well that was the rest of it. So you see how Hundreds of years transpired as they were struggling with this to try to keep heretical ideas of who Jesus Christ is out of the church. And to try to preserve the entirety of the biblical language about just who Jesus Christ is. So you see why it's hard to answer this question, who is Jesus Christ? We have in the space of 30 minutes surveyed some 450 years of church history and how they've wrestled with it and some of the more larger landmarks of problems that have arrived. Now we go to the back page which deals with some earlier answers to the question that I posed to you. Why is it hard to answer the question, who is Jesus Christ? Well, the Bible teaches that we have three named individuals. You've got somebody called the Father, someone called the Son, comes someone called the Holy Spirit. They have the same divine attributes, but they insist that there is one God. Okay. That's sort of the conundrum penny you were hitting at, there's a requirement. All three declare that they can create. Each one comes to us revealed at different times, and it implies a rank or having been created. You hear in Genesis 1 In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. And you have what? Pretty soon you've got the you have the Trinity in the very opening chapters. Darkness is upon the face of the deep. The Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said. So right there you have all three. Spirit of God, God, and He said. That's his word. And the Word is Christ. And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. So you have the Trinity involved right there by at Genesis 1. 2. If you look at further illumination later on, you go back and look for it, boom, you find it in the very opening section. So we sense that God as creator is obviously more complex than us creatures, right? We would hope that our God is more complex. Than us. So he's not fully comprehensible, but he's come down to us in a very personal way, a very intelligible way, a very uh level headed way that's easy to reach and it reveals a lot about his character in simple terms. In fact we argue for the simplicity of the gospel. And yet here is a nugget that is beyond our ability to fully understand. understand. Getting back, Mrs. Ross, since you love to uh uh be first into the swimming pool and just dive right in, I love that spirit. So let's talk about the paradox of Jesus' body as one example. Alright, we have in John 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. So here we have an equation to it. In my very, very youthful early days, thought the church got it wrong. It wasn't a deity, there was a quaternion, there's four. Father, Son, Spirit, and Word. It says the Word was God. Talks about the four spirits before the throne of God. I had four down in my dictionary. Well, that fell apart pretty quick. Because then we have in verse 14 the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. So now this word becomes flesh. I've said this before. If you put flesh and blood on this book, you'll have Jesus Christ standing in front of you That's what we talk about. We say the word became flesh and dwelt among us. Then leader Jesus himself says God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. He's not saying he's not God. He's simply making a declaration concerning who God is. God's a spirit. And then in Luke 24, as he appears to others after his resurrection, he says, behold, my hands and my feet, that it is eyes. He told Thomas, put your hands in there, thrust it into the side, be not unbelieving, but believe. It is I myself, handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have So, yes, Penny, it does come to us in paradoxical language, an apparent contradiction. But the Bible doesn't attempt to resolve it, and because there's nothing to whom we can compare God. He simply is who he is. So there is some paradoxes that require precision to explain. And when you uh wind up at a seminary someplace, you start to pick up certain words uh that attempt to describe God, they talk about ontology of God versus the economy of God. This doesn't mean God has a you know control in the central bank or anything. It's talking about how he uh uh allocates uh uh uh roles and responsibilities within the Godhead. The ontology, that's a word I'm more familiar with as an architect that talks about the wiring diagram. Think of boxes and arrows, how things are connected, how they relate, the relationships Mode, rank, essence, all of those are words that have been recycled in an attempt to describe the Trinity. But it does demand simplicity to be understood. I don't know any of us who could understand the biblical concepts of ontology, right? That's gonna soteriology is a doctrine. All those things are thrown about as if though the average person in the pew can grasp this sort of nonsense. I say nonsense because it doesn't make sense to us in a common way. It needs to be commonsensical But over two millennia the church leaders labored to successfully and succinctly communicate Bible truth to the sheep to try to fence out wolves who also had a Bible in their hand. And that's no small. Task. It's very, very hard to do. And so all of this, in spite of this, the largest umbrella of Christianity, including Protestants and Catholics, hold to the doctrine that triune God is expressed in these confessions. Shockingly enough, even this is beginning to face erosion in our day. Dr. Elliot, who came and spoke to us last Sunday after the sermon, maybe it was during the sermon, but I think it was after the sermon when he announced that the newly elected leader of the Southern Baptist Convention has on his website doctrines that deny the Trinity. Wow. Um we're not moving forward if we regress back and erase the history and the tradition of the word of God that's been handed you over the millennia. And it's shocking to think that this is going so far backwards as to have that loss. Lastly, we have the Westminster Confession of Faith, which summarized it this way in the second chapter. It says, in the unity of the Godhead there be three persons. of one substance. You notice that word substance reappearing. It seems to be a sticking word, a good and useful word, the same substance. It carries just enough simplicity and enough precision to kind of help us along there. Of one substance, of one power, they added that word power. Power in both ability as well as authority. Uh and eternity. And that's very good. So they've captured three elements, substance, power, and eternity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, and then they give the scripture reference. The Father is of none, neither begotten nor preceding. The Son is eternally begotten of the Father, adding an eternal aspect. not a one-time deal. The Holy Ghost eternally proceeding from the Father and the Son. So you see the Westminster Divines were attempting to tie in an eternal aspect to all three You cannot have three separate eternal entities. It will not work. Only one can make the claim of being creator. If the others are there, how did they get there? Somehow they have to have been created. You can't have co-eternal. things. So yes, this is the struggle. Now I have a track on the back table you can look at, a fellow named Henry Edward Bickersteff, many, many years later. put together a book about the Trinity and he identified twelve points. The Westminster Confession has three. His uh person uh substance, power, and eternity. There are twelve points of the Godhead that all three members of the Godhead share. And it's very succinctly captured in that track. So I commend it to you. It's an excellent defense and reading, and uh this is the uh topic today. Next week we'll cover one more lesson on the Trinity and then we'll move on to uh uh some of the more interesting things that this god does his divine decrees those are very interesting. Any other comments or questions which I can't answer? Alright, very good. Yvonne, would you close this in her? Thanks. Yeah, only bother Lord uh we Thank thee Lord that thou hast given us thy word to uh look into Lord to begin to understand Lord who thou art Lord, um, even as thou hast chosen to reveal thyself, Lord and Father, uh, though there are many aspects to our earthly Understanding that uh we don't and even can't comprehend, Lord, Father, uh we we ask that you would give us grace to uh see thee as thou art, Father, to to shine light upon thy nature, Father. Um, that we might uh draw Oh Lord, uh we praise thee for the salvation that is in Christ, Lord. Father, uh we pray that you would continue to grow us in thee. We ask this Father in Jesus' name. Amen.