The series of government, a topic that we're shy to talk about from time to time. Last week it was the House Government for Men. So men, you got your beating last week and uh This week we get beat up again. We're talking about wives. So your handout is a little different than normal because I have a lot of interest interesting quotes on the back which will I trust be helpful for your own reading later on, but it's all on the front side today. I don't have any fill-in-the-blank stuff So this is kind of a follow-along activity with the scriptures in front of you. But we're going to talk about wives, and boy ladies, your role is under tremendous attack and has been under attack for some time The concept or the idea of a woman simply wanting to be a keeper at home, a housewife, is such a despised activity. Oh, how can you do that just stuck with dishes and kids and diapers. Ugh, that is so archaic. No, it's not. It's actually quite biblical. It's a biblical model. It is a wonderful model. And we're going to look at the biblical data on this to show that this is entirely within the swim lane of women and what God had intended. And so we're going to talk about that some. Okay, the first is that where do we even get this idea of a wife to begin with? Well, Scriptures introduces it right off the bat in the opening chapters of the book of Genesis, where we find this. And I direct your attention to your first passage in Genesis 2. These passages are often recited and used at weddings. We see in Genesis 2, beginning in 18, and maybe we can bring this up because we're going to go all the way through verse 24, Genesis 2, 18, and the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him an help. Meat for him. Help meat is not one word. It's a helper. Meet means fit. She's a fit aide, a fit assistant. She is the ideal counterpart. She's just what he needs And then it continues, out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field, every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam, see what he would call them, and whatsoever Adam called every living creature. That was the name. And then we get down to the next passage. Adam gave names to all these different creatures, but for Adam there was not found in help meet for him. So, right off the bat, God makes it very clear that bestiality was never an option from the beginning, that man and beast isn't, there's no possible fit. Yes, they say that a dog is man's best friend. Yeah, but it'll never make help meet for the full role that God intended. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of the ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof, and the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. There's a lot in that passage and a lot I'd like to comment on. Suffice to say that she had a perfect role from the beginning. In fact, it appears there was intended a co-regency. They were of one flesh. Adam was to rule over the creation. She was one with him. And so they both had, apparently, at the beginning, this united authoritative rule over God's creation. They were one. And of course, we know from the New Testament, the bride of Christ is a picture of believers, and it says in Revelation, we will reign with him. So this there is a restoration of that co-regency between the church and Christ. This business here of Adam going into a deep sleep, a picture, I believe, of Christ in the grave for three days, taking this rib out. It's very messianic, but in shadowy form. Sounds an awful lot like Christ and the church. And of course the Apostle Paul picks up on that in Ephesians. He says in your next verse here, Ephesians 5. 31, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined into his wife. They too shall be one flesh. He goes on, this is a great mystery. It's a great mystery, but he's speaking concerning Christ and the church. The very next verse is, nevertheless, see that every one of you reverence wife, reverence your husbands, husbands, love the wives. So the wife was a perfect role from the beginning. That was her assignment, that was her lot in life. What a joyful combination. Some of the strongest strongest features, if I look at things from an engineering perspective, come in pairs. Uh a a nut and a bolt make a very strong combination. You can remove one, put it in, it it it holds things together well. This combination of two things is often a a a dynamite uh package. We we evangelize going out two by two, and so there's a lot of wisdom in God's excuse me There's a lot of wisdom in God bringing the man and the woman together. Obviously it reflects the glory of Christ. It says the woman is the glory of the man. Likewise the church is the glory of Christ. Look at what he has brought forth. And the wife not only having this perfect role, she has a very noble purpose. And we read that again in the opening chapters of Genesis. Genesis 1. 28, God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, fowl of the air, over every living thing He said he blessed them, said unto them. Again, having dominion. It was a joint role, a joint leadership. They were to have some ruling aspect over the creation that God had made. But notice the comp the the the direct and the first admonition to be fruitful and multiplied. God wanted fruit. What is he seeking in believers? He wants fruit. What is he seeking in our lives. He wants fruit. God's, what does the farmer want from his field? He wants fruit. He puts all these components together because he intends to have fruit. In this case It's reiterated right after the flood in Genesis 9, God's talking about children. Genesis 9. 1, God blessed Noah and his sons. And said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and you be ye fruitful and multiply. Bring forth abundantly in the earth and multiply therein. That's Genesis 9. 1 and Genesis 9. 7 This is her noble purpose. She's fundamentally a house builder. That's the builder. That's the role that is described in the New Testament. In Proverbs 14, we have this passage. Every wise woman builds her house, but the foolish plucks it down with her hand. The house builder. So talk to me a little bit about what enters into your mind when you hear the concept of being a house builder or a home builder. What are some thoughts that come to your mind? there. We've already mentioned children, but I think it's more than that. What else what else comes to your mind? Helping her spouse. What's that? Helping her spouse. Helping your spouse, okay. That's part of house building. If put it another way, if I were to tell you if you were to instruct your daughters uh you're to build a home, what are you asking them to do? To be a home builder. We're really drawing a blank today, aren't we? Okay. So I think it involves the role of being in the home, um, keeping that home nice for your family, taking care of your family, bringing up Your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Um it says that she builds her house on wisdom so she better know the Lord and know his word and be able to teach her children when she rises up and when they lie down and then say walked in the way. Mm-hmm. So there's a lot of components to being a home builder, the to make it a place that uh and mom you can probably talk to this as well, because you wanted to give dad a home. Dad, my dad practically speaking was an orphan. Uh his father abandoned the family when the uh wife uh and oldest daughter of the family died, and he was about six to nine months of age and was brought up under the care of uh His grandmother who did not care to inherit eight children, so it was quite the catastrophic thing for her. And mom you always said that you wanted to provide a home for dad. What did that what did you mean when you say you wanted to to give him a home? Because he didn't have one. Oh he didn't have lots of um a home that um um that cares for him. Okay, a place that cares for him, right? The place to be able to come to, yeah. And it'd be uh a loving home. A loving home? Orderly. Orderly? Yeah. well behave. Um it's a peaceful home environment. A peaceful environment. Mm-hmm. I'm gonna even add the word welcoming environment I've seen men who would rather be at work at their desk than go home. Why do you think that is? Why would a man rather be at work than go home? Chaotic. Chaotic in the home. The home is chaotic. Chaotic environment, right? There's no rest or comfort there. He doesn't know what crises he's gonna have there. You know, that's pretty sad. when the man finds that his work environment is more hospitable to and more comforting to his spirit than the home environment And I'm here to tell you, ladies, that the work environment in the corporate world is out there to make sure your husband is very comfortable being at work. Google has it so that at their place they will feed you for free. You can go in any Google location. They will feed you breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And it's not the same thing. It is Think of a market of restaurants that you can choose from. There is a wide variety of food. Oh, by the way, plenty of organics and all that natural stuff They at Twitter, Elon Musk has established, since he's fired a bunch of useless executives, he has set up all kinds of former offices as places to sleep and rest People get tired. You get tired? Check it out in the calendar. Go in and crash for an hour. May a little bed, little desk, little night, quiet, soundproof room. You can go in Smart corporations are learning that if you keep the employee there and they're comfortable, they like it there. They'll be more productive. They want you there. And I believe that's a subtle ploy of the devil to take you away from the house. And so the woman doesn't want to be there alone. She has to go out and work too. Everything the devil does is aimed at splitting the house, is aimed at wrecking the kids. The devil is after your children. Homosexuals can't have kids. They're after yours. And so this is all the tone, the tenor, the finger marks of the devil. Fundamentally, a wife is a house builder. Her role is to make a peaceful environment, a welcoming environment, one where her husband wants to come home, one where he's comfortable to come home, his fiefdom, his little private nest, and that's his area. This house, as we mentioned, isn't wood, stone, drywall, grounder, granite countertips. It's children in the Lord fundamentally. Look at Ruth 4. 11 on your handout here. It says, all the people that were in the gate and the elders said, we are witnesses. This is when Boaz purchases the land and thus the right to marry Ruth and Moabites. The Lord make the woman that is come into thine house like Rachel and Leah, which two did build the house of Israel. Do thou worthily in Ephrata. Be famous in Bethlehem. Rachel and Leah, these two wives of Jacob. built the house of Israel. They had many children, and through those children and through the influence of Father Jacob and his teaching as well as their teaching, an entire nation came forth In Deuteronomy 25, in fact, so sharp was this that the expectation in the New Testament is that children would be brought forth. It says in Deuteronomy 25, 9, Then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders and loose his shoe from off his foot, spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not build up his brother's house. This is the case if a man dies, his brother is to marry. the widow of his brother and to raise up seed in that name. Now of course this is the time when the Christ had not come yet, but it shows the importance that God had on bringing forth godly seed. He was very interested in that You see this kind of language likewise in 1 Timothy 2. I debated whether or not to include this passage because there's uh a little awkwardness in the text, but just stick with me here as we're focusing on this business of child bearing. 1 Timothy 2, the Apostle says this, for Adam was first formed, then Eve Adam was not deceived, but the woman, being deceived, in the sense there is that she was thoroughly deceived, she was fully deceived, was in the transgression Notwithstanding, she shall be saved, literally made whole or completed, in childbearing. And there's uh a range of meanings from the Greek on that. It literally means in the childbearing or through the childbearing. uh uh she shall be saved through the childbearing if they continue in faith and charity with holiness with sobriety. what's going on here. Well, uh number one, notice the focus on childbearing. Number two, notice the high estimation of it, the result of it, she shall be saved. And that's such a strong bold assertion that you wonder how can that be? Well perhaps ultimately that points to the Christ to come, the Lord the the the child to come, the Lord Jesus Christ. But wait a minute, this is New Testament. Christ has already come And it says, they or uh she shall be saved if they continue. So she would be the females. and they would be women of the New Testament going forward. How is it that they are saved through childbirth? Well, how else are the elect of God going to come into the planet? The the the elect have got to come forth. And even through this Curse that she has in childbearing where it's difficult and even as she works through that, still the elect of God come forth. There's a lot to this. I'm brushing over this very quickly with it to kind of give you a uh toe hold on. You can go look at other commentators on this passage. Suffice to say there's an emphasis on childbearing that has not disappeared even in the New Testament. Now, how is she going to pull this off? Well, she has authority over two very important bodies. God never gives a person a task with which he does not give them an ability So you find here in 1 Corinthians 7, 4, it says, the wife hath not power. That's the word authority. It's the Greek word exusia. over her own body but the husband, and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body but the wife. So the wife has authority over her husband's body not all of him his entirety, but she is in charge of that. So that's necessary component for children to come forth. Likewise when the children come forth, now what? Oh great, there's chaos in the house. I don't I can't do anything about those little rug rats This is going to be a disaster. No. Children obey your parents and the Lord for this is right. She has rule over her children She can be a phenomenal influence, and indeed is. They say the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world and ultimately guides, drives, and directs that next generation. I've heard it described this way, that the man has the public role and the wife has the private role That's why she's not in the public role of teaching, she's in the private role of homemaking, and builder of the home, and instructing children there and having rule in that to bring about the peace and the order and the uh the artistic layout and all of that in the house. That's her domain, that's her dominion. I've heard it phrased this way and this is one we've used at the Cluth House Uh she's the minister of the interior and I'm the minister of the exterior. So I get the lawn, the dirt, the sweaty stuff outside. Uh that's kind of my arena and but if it's in here If she says, move that couch over there, salute the flag, that couch gets moved over there. I hate that piece of furniture. That furniture's gone. That's her domain. Well, what is this then about children? What is what let me ask a question here. What do you believe the world's view of children is today? An inconvenience? What else does the world think about children? What do you think? I don't want to be a little bit more. Children are rulers? Yeah. They uh they can follow whatever the child wants. Oh, okay. Does the world see children as a tremendous blessing? Something that would prevent you from pursuing your career? Ah. What I want to get done. The scriptures make it clear that children are a tremendous, huge blessing of the Lord. Absolutely so. Psalm 127, verse 3. Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. And indeed that is the case. In each of my children as I've seen them grow up and get older And I see their gifts and their talents mature and what God has brought in them. It does bring a deep joy to the parent to see those skills and talents come out. It it it is a is a delight. The next Psalm, Psalm one twenty eight, three and four, thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. It is indeed a blessing. It's not a cursing. And even still to this day, though the world doesn't openly acknowledge that children are a blessing, and the world doesn't openly acknowledge that, yet in polls given consistently The happiest women are those who are married and have children consistently to a pretty high percentage. come to realize after a while, wow, that little one's actually pretty cute. If it's somebody else's kid who's screaming and kicking and fighting and making a mess in the aisle in the grocery store, I don't want that. But when it's your own child, they look up and the first time that little one smiles at you. You just can't replace it. Your heart just melts. It's just unbelievable. The Lord Jesus also likewise speaks of the blessings of children. In Matthew 19, 14, Jesus says, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven is like little children. I tell you, part of me wonders, I like to engage at times in thinking, what is heaven like? You know, it's our home. If you've ever had the opportunity to buy a house or move into a new house, you spend some time thinking about it. You know, where you're gonna put your furniture, what it's gonna be like, and how we're gonna live and what we're gonna do in there. And y there's a expectation. Well you too have a new home you're moving into. It's called heaven. And the Bible gives you some description of it It's useful from time to time to consider what that's going to be like and the blessings that will come to it. And this has always been an interesting one to me, that of such is the kingdom of heaven. Have you ever thought uh that what if heaven is as if though all of us were one more time five year olds? Boundless amounts of energy you can fall on your knees, Joe, and it doesn't hurt You can chase uh beagles around and run into a branch and it doesn't hurt your head like I did when I was five years old. I mean, just the again, this is just I don't know that it that heavens depicted like that, uh the scenario that I'm crafting out that we're back in kindergarten again. Funny 'cause I see it that way too, where like you can do all these things that And like you fall, you don't get hurt, you you nothing like you're says there's no more pain. Yeah, so there's like animals, you're not afraid of anything, there's no pain. Sure. Nothing will hurt you. Right. Brother Mark Leakey shares with me a Facebook post from uh a grieving family at his church. A literal five or six-year-old boy, I think his name was Eden. I probably have that wrong. He had some kind of childhood cancer and it was taking his life. And his father filmed his some of his final words a few weeks before his death And his father, the boy was asking him, Father, do you think I'll go to heaven? And his father asked him, well, do you believe in Jesus? He says, Yes, I do believe in Jesus. And uh and Mark Leakey thought about that and said, you know, how would childlike faith come through a child? He's not a theologian. He's not going to read Burkhoth anytime soon. He's not going to sit down and listen to hundreds of hours of sermons. What does childlike faith look like? And who's to say that a five year old can't go to heaven? I believe there's plenty of children that God has ordained that enter into heaven. Absolutely. And so when Jesus says, Yeah, of such is the kingdom of heaven, what a joyful thing. Who wants a bunch of old people? So it's just a thought that I put out there for you from some of the scripture language. Again, don't hold my feet to the fire on Vince said heaven's gonna be a bunch of kindergartners. I I I'm not saying that Adam and Eve were ageless before the fall. The the aging process, the aches and pains are part of the fall, which has been removed. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, absolutely. So, my point is simply this, this role that God has given this woman, perfect from the beginning, as a house builder, she has the rightful claim to the sole use of her husband's body, the sole use of his love. The soul use of his tender affection, she and she alone deserves those things from the man. The man has to be very careful at work. He can't begin to have Uh lunch dates with the boss if she's female. Yeah, you may be talking about work things, but there better be other people besides just the two of you at that lunch uh table. And this claim, this rightful claim, this authority she has allows her to build a physical and a spiritual house, and all that's required for success lies within her power. It's all right there. So that is a a blessing of the Lord that she has everything she needs to build her house. It's all right there within her power Now we look in the next column at a couple of women in the Bible who use this power. One who used it well and one who did not. Let's look first at Sarai or Sarah. And we're going to start in Genesis 12. And if we can pull that up, that might be useful to look at. Genesis 12, 1 through 5. In Genesis 12, beginning in verse 1, we're going to look at Sarai. Now the Lord said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred. And from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation. And I will bless thee and make thy name great. And thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee, and indeed shall all families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed out of Haran. And Abram took Sarai, his wife, and Lot, his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and all the souls that they'd gotten in Haran. They went forth to go into the land of Canaan. And into the land of Canaan they came. Familiar passage, but I want now for us to just dip our toes, ladies. I want you to put yourself for the moment in that ancient tent of Abram's. And Abram walks in one day and says to you, hey hun, the Lord spoke to me. He did. What did he say? And he repeats these words to you. So if you were Sarai, what would concern you about Abram's plan? How would you feel about this insight that he had You're shaking your head, Penny. You've got this quizzical look on your face. Okay, it would be rough. Leave the home I've known Settled in me for my family, not knowing where we're going. Ah, we don't know where we're going. How the Lord's gonna provide for us. Um We don't know how the Lord's going to provide. There would be a few questions there. Yeah. Hun, where are we going? Land of Canaan. Okay. Let me ask it again. Where are we going? But if the woman has built her home, that travels with you. wherever you go. That that home that you're talking about creating that goes with you regardless of where the physical Sounds good in theory, don't it? But uh for the woman you know that would be quite oh she's packed up and followed me before, so you've heard the discussion. That one for the satisfaction, but um your year five came to me the day before Thanksgiving. He says, This was a bomb he got on me. He showed the hall by the later. And he used to say Yeah, day before Thanksgiving, Dad tells mom I don't have a job. Yeah, that would cause a little bit of consternation. That would uh He had a plan, he just didn't include you in on the plan. God had a plan for Abram, didn't include Abram in on the plan, and Abram of course couldn't share what he didn't know with his wife Sarai. So yes. So um maybe she would have said, Well you can should have consulted with me first about this before you you know owned up to this with the Lord. She might have pushed back that way. She didn't. It was only a general destination. She left her family fairly quickly, and uh there was a loss of security and comfort, but she honored God's commands And she honored God's command. She could have said, well, I didn't hear that. I don't know what you heard, but I sure didn't hear it last night. You sure you hadn't been drinking? She knows she didn't resist, she didn't push back. What's notable here is that Sarai complied. What we focus on is Abram's obedience, because the New Testament does focus on that. But don't miss the fact that Sarah went with it. She was there as a helpmate. She's going to support him. Then we read in Genesis 12, skipping ahead to verse 10. Another interesting encounter. So it was bad enough to pack everything up and leave. We read in Genesis 12, 10, and there was a famine in the land. And Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was grievous in the land. So this is the land of Canaan. It's north of Egypt, and so Egypt still has food. They've always been uh a beneficiary of the Nile, in the Nile Delta. And it came to pass when he was come near to enter into Egypt that he said unto Sarah his wife, Behold now I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife, and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive. Say, I pray thee, that thou art my sister. That it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee. Alright, ladies. What would your thoughts be if Abram came to you with this interesting plan? There's some head shaking going on here. You're almost blushed to share the thoughts. What do you think, Mom? I've been thrown to the dogs. I've been thrown to the dogs. I've been thrown to the dogs. What else would you think about this? How would that make you feel? Come on ladies, you talk about your feelings, huh? No trusts anymore. Yeah, no trust. Boy, I don't trust this guy. Wow. First he yanks me out of town and now he's gonna Throw me under the bus in Egypt? Okay, what else? Ladies? You're not a lady, you can't raise your hand. You're just scratching my business. Okay, well that's all right. from. So I'd be like, okay, yeah, why not? I'll be your sister for so you don't die. Right. Right. Exactly. Right. There's a lot of opportunities, I suppose, we could look at this in a cynical way and find fault with this. A Western woman looking at this with Western eyes would certainly frown deeply upon this, that he seems to be concerned about his flesh, not hers. Uh maybe she'd feel like he doesn't love her anymore. Uh she might uh end up with another man and couldn't disclose the fact of her marriage, and his whole plan seems to be based on unbelief So there's all kinds of things that might enter her mind. But in the uh in the Oriental world, it's not quite as sharp of a distinction. But nonetheless, it's still shocking so that scriptures would record it Then lo and behold, we get to 1 Peter chapter 3, because we know how the Genesis account went. She carried out the plan, God providentially spared her through a dream to Abimelech. who was told, you touch her, you're dead. It's real simple, pal. You cannot touch her. And Abimelech reproved Abram for it. Lo and behold, then we get to 1 Peter 1 Peter and the first six verses, verse 1. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection, that's a word that gets repeated a lot here, to your own husbands. That if any obey not, that's another word that gets repeated here, that if any obey not the word, they may also, without the word, be won by the conversation of their wives. Now I didn't give all of the context to 1 Peter. 1 Peter 2 talks about the word of reviling. Reviling, cursing, arguing back. It's not saying without the word of God. It's mostly talking about without the word of reviling, not to revile back to the husband. If any obey not the word, of course, that would be the word of God. They may also, without the word, either not reviling back or just keeping the scriptures just low for the moment. They may without the word be won by the conversation, the conduct of the wives, while they behold your chaste conversation. Notice that word used again, coupled with fear. It doesn't mean you're cowering in the corner, uh the that word has the sense of reverence. Uh when he says fear the king, uh it doesn't mean you cower in the corner. The soldiers can't cower when the king comes by. They have a reverence to him. There's a respect. Whose adorning? Now it's going to turn to the adorning of the woman, and it speaks about this outward adorning, not that, but it's to be the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit. Which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner in the old time, holy women also. So now we're introducing holy women and an example from the Old Testament Holy women also who trusted in God. Their trust was in the Lord, not in their husband. He's not your ultimate head. There, but he's not that ultimate head, trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection, there's that word subjection again, to their own husbands, not to their bosses at work but to their own husbands, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Now what's interesting is that she's doing this in her heart. We don't find, at least I'm not aware, maybe there's a place in the Old Testament where that word my Lord utters out of her mouth. I'm just, nothing comes to my mind on this. Sarah obeyed Abram, calling him Lord, whose daughters are ye as long as ye do well, and are not afraid, not fearful with any amazement. What's interesting about that is you see Sarah obeyed her husband in some very unusual circumstances, hard circumstances Circumstances you could say might be bordering upon, uh you sure we need to brush up against the law of God this close? You sure we need to tout the line? Aren't we going over a little bit here? But she obeyed him She obeyed him and she called him Lord. Now, let me be clear here. Sarah did have obedience. She had obedience with reverence, but that does not demand obedience regardless. Uh I'm I'm not saying that a woman should, regardless of what uh lawless thing a man does, and I'm not pointing to what Abraham's doing here is lawless, but this cannot be used as an example of doing something that is so far off the ranch that that that you're gonna also fall uh in into problems. Think about Annias and Sapphira. You remember those two in the New Testament? Ananias, they concocted this plan. Yeah, we'll sell some land. We'll say we're given it all, but we'll keep part of it back. We'll get a bigger tax credit that way. Or I don't know what their thinking was. And as they laid it down, Ananias died But Sapphira went right along with it. There does not appear to have been any resistance. There doesn't appear to have been uh you don't want to do this, so that is not a good example to follow there So, uh, but likewise, ladies, it doesn't justify chewing him out. It doesn't justify tearing him down. Uh you don't need to be ripping apart. I've heard some women who were had a good Christian testimony, I'll put it that way, among others. And uh As is not unusual in some marriages where the woman has more education than the man does, uh, when she wants to insult him publicly, she says, Well it'd be nice if you used your head for something more than a hat rack I've heard a woman say to that and I cringed when I heard that, I was like, ooh, that was kind of nasty. Uh she doesn't need to be tearing her husband down publicly, she doesn't need to be tearing him down privately, she is there to be his helpmate Now, there is another woman who used the power within her authority in a negative way. So we looked at Sarai, because the New Testament comments on that. And then we also looked at Jezebel. And we have one Sad commentary on Jezebel, and I think that's will suffice for us to consider. It's 1 Kings 21 and 25. It says, But there was none Like unto Ahab, which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of the Lord, and notice this next phrase, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up. She stirred him up. It was bad enough that he was a weak king. He could have gone one way, could have gone the other. When he confronted Elijah, it was Elijah who came up with the idea for Mount Carmel and the showdown between him and the prophets of Baal. And Ahab went with that. He was a moldable, malleable king. He could have been brought to one way or the other. He was kind of straddling a fence, but she stirred him up and pushed him He uh wanted this vineyard of Naboth and couldn't get it and went home and sulked because he couldn't get it. He just is pouting. And who is there quick on the scene as with a solution? Well, it's his wife. And she stirs him up and she comes up with a wicked plan. He says, Ah, that's a great idea, hun. Let's do that. And has an innocent man killed. And the prophet comes to him and fingers him for that So there's a good and a bad way for the wife to use for power. Again, the man with the public sphere, I like this distinction, he's got that area and those tools to operate in the public sphere, but the wife and the private sphere. And don't underestimate the wife's ability to effectively utilize that private sphere. Boy is that powerful. I see channels sometimes on YouTube about this is what happens when parents don't say no in the criminals that the police officers have to deal with because they have zero respect for authority. You know, the Board of Education had never been brought to the seat of their children's knowledge to get them to comply and learn how to be obedient to authority A woman can do that, uh, as well as the man. She can be the stiff witness against the child. If she's too tender of a woman that she can't swat him with a stick, well Bring that report, bring that video home to the husband and show him, and and he can help correct that. If we don't have these uh sorts of women that are godly house builders, we we have problems. Let's look at some highly effective habits of a gospel house builder. What are some highly effective habits that women can attain to and look for. Well, Titus 2 gives us some of these, and it's some instruction that the aged women are to give. It says in Titus 2 in verse 3, That the aged women teach the young women to be sober, sober-minded. They need to be sober in their thinking, to love their husbands. You know, part of loving the husband, I suppose, means you need to be sober-minded to begin with. Don't immediately ascribe an incorrect motive to him. You need to kind of try to bring in a lot of circumstances as much as you're able to before you make this harsh judicial sentence against him. To love their husbands, to love their children. Again, taking many things into account, uh, to be discreet, to be chaste, a chaste woman, to be keepers at home. And I want to talk a little bit about that. To be keepers at home. Let's just pause there for a moment. I believe the best way for a woman to be a keeper at home is to be at home. But I don't believe the scripture places an absolute prohibition on a woman not having a job outside of the home. I believe she can do that, but she has to understand she's still a keeper at home So she needs to find a job so that it helps and enables her to be a keeper at home. Now, there are some jobs, especially in our digital age today, which greatly lend themselves to a woman being able to do that But that house is her domain, and that home is her domain, and those children are her responsibility, and she has to see to it that that gets done. The career is not first and foremost. I said this before, I'll repeat it. I would counsel young women during uh annual reviews. Once again, this is about the time of year. When uh supervisors are collecting feedback on their employees and then they rack and stack it, figure out how much profit they have at the end of the year and come February, March, they slice up the pie, you know, whatever extra they're going to get, and then the supervisors get the pleasure of handing out pay raises or not and having a little discussion. And uh I do recall that the the females that would uh that were working in my group as we would have these uh discussions. They would want it all at the same time. They'd want to be in charge. They want to advance their career, want to go to school, want to have a family. I said, look, you can have it all, just not at the same time. There's only a very narrow window of time when your children are small and malleable and impressionable. And boy, you don't want to miss out on those years. Those are not the time. The point is, there's a window of time when there's hope. After a certain point of time, you ain't getting through. I mean, they're not gonna listen. Your your ability to influence that is a narrow window of time. But You're not dead after the last one leaves the home. There's still plenty of life skills and talent and energy. There's all kinds of things that you can do after that Uh and indeed uh uh mothers who have raised their kids make excellent employees because it turns out there's an awful lot of mothering that has to be done in corporate America. Because The kids in other people's home that never grew up, well they go to work. So you still gotta hurt them and it's nice if you have some experience and you straighten up and fly right over here. Keepers at home. Next point, good. They are to be good, obedient to their own husbands. And I get back to this point that You know, when the boss says, hey, I need you to work on Saturday, you got to come in, and the husband says, oh yeah, we're planning to do such and such on Saturday. She's got a choice, do I listen to my husband, do I listen to my boss? She has to tell the boss, no, I can't do that. Have prior commitments. You can always say prior commitments. That's generally a safe one And uh if you then bring in the personal work things, well I have work things I have home things to take care of, well can't you change it? Uh No, you're not priority of my home life. Sorry, you can say it with a smile. Sorry, you're not in charge of my home life. There's other things I have to take care of. Maybe some other time, but not now. Sorry, I can't do that. Obedient to their own husbands That the word of God be not blasphemed. Alright, did you catch that? Why does the woman, why is she encouraged to do all these things? Well the scripture is clear. This is a gospel reputation issue. God so highly values, ladies, your role as a homekeeper and as a as a keeper at home, as a house builder, he so highly values that that he says, that's a picture of the gospel. What you're doing in your home depicts to the world the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's a noble purpose. That is a very noble purpose. That's a very noble reason, and that's a very excellent reason Women highly exalt and honor the Word of God when they demonstrate these things. It shows that they have a reverence and a respect and a fear unto the Word of God. And those who don't are dismissing the Word of God. They're undermining it, they're undervaluing it. And they're like the foolish woman who's plucking the house down with her own hands. That would be very foolish. They are little miniature pictures of Christ's glorious church. is perhaps a way for you to think differently about this business of being a keeper of the home. Um So this is addressed to the men. If you hadn't figured it out yet, men, the church is an all-volunteer organization. And it requires non-dictatorial leadership skills. You you cannot dictate things. You you can't flame somebody for lack of performance thereof. The carpet doesn't get cleaned every Sunday the way you like it. You can't go barking at the lady who's doing it. Even if she's getting paid, it just won't result in a cleaner carpet. Church members have to want to work for the good of the whole, and that same turns out to be true in marriage As husbands, we ought to praise our wives on a daily basis for their love and their companionship, for all the wonderful things they do for us. Thank you so much for this. Thank you. That was a wonderful meal, Hunt. I really appreciate that. I don't care if it's well. I mean if it's burnt and black, you don't have to give false praise to something that's a disaster. You can beat yourself up for not being there to help restor it and watch it on time. Or it could have run up when you smelled the smoke coming out of the stove. You know, you can find something you did that was basically wrong. You don't need to roast her because she makes an honest mistake. So we ought to praise our wives, and I think this is something all husbands here can agree. We need to do that Likewise, if you're a child, you should be very thankful. Elias, heads up over here. Knock off the sleeping. You need to be thankful for the nurturing and the love that your parents give, because they've certainly sacrificed a lot. One of the things mentioned in the Proverbs 31 woman is and she shall be praised. Mm-hmm. And she shall be praised. Indeed. Indeed she shall be. There's women who successfully accomplish their mission. I bring to your remembrance Timothy when he says, I call to remember the unfaded faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice. And I'm persuaded indeed also. And so, ladies, I give you a handout on the back of a whole lot of other women who very successfully accomplished their mission. You can read about them in scriptures, and I hope that's an encouragement. Joe, would you close us in prayer? Oh, we do thank you. Uh indeed, the wisdom of God was so evidently present when you said it is not good that the man should be alone. We know the value of a godly wife and the fulfillment, the wholeness that they bring to a person. Uh Father, help us as husbands to be the husbands we should be. Help our older ladies that are such a valuable part of our congregation Lord, to fulfill that role of instructing the younger ladies and being able to be a guide to the young wives and the young mothers to help them in their spiritual growth. And Lord bless our wives as they care for the children and have that palpating training up position within the home Lord, I pray that you would bless Mission Bible Church with more young families and more young children. Indeed, Lord, they are a blessing to us and we rejoice in them. Thank you, Lord, for Brother Vince's teaching. Lord, so much good information. So biblically uh biblically biblically saturated for it. We thank you for it. Let us know if you're prepared for worship in Jesus' name. Thank you. Amen