Tail end of Mr. Burkoff's book, Using It as a Springboard into the Bible's Teachings. And today we cover, I think, one of the favorite lessons that all saints ought to hear. And that is, where do believers go upon death? You know, this is the big ultimate hope, right? This is our whole, there's a French phrase, raison d'etre, reason for existence. Why we're still here, we're waiting. for that blessed promise for the death of the believers and what happens. I have an opening question I think we want to consider If you ask someone, where do you go when you die, what kind of answers do you think you might get? Purgatory. Alright, purgatory. And uh purgatory. Uh how many of you have heard of the term purgatory before? I think sadly everybody's heard of it. It's supposedly a a holding ground. It's kind of like the uh the part on the collar of the green of the golf course. It's not quite in the hole, but you're close and You're just kind of hanging in the balance, you know. It may go this way or that way, depending on whether somebody hears enough money hit the coffers back at the local parish. And you know, even though the guy was a drunk and a wife abuser and cheated on his job and he never showed any punch people out in the parking lot. You know anybody like that in your family, Mom? Punch people out in the church parking lot? Well what a doozy that wasn't. Yeah. Hear a sermon of love, go out and hit the guy in the parking lot because he parked in the wrong spot. But he's in purgatory, right? So there's the we'll talk about those strange ideas next week. That's one. What Else, where if if you ask somebody where do you go when you die, what kind of answers do you think? They think they didn't have it. Yeah. A lot of people will simply say they're that we're going to heaven. Yeah, yeah, we're all doing. Or just gone. What's that? Well it's just we're just gone, that's it. Or just poof gone, uh just uh part of the universe Just part of the universe, right? Restored to some celestial pile of mass, you know. Or they came back as a bird. Okay, reincarnation, right? I'm coming back around as a bird this time. I didn't live too good, I wasn't good. Mrs. Ross comes back as a tiger, I'm coming back as a sloth or whatever. We we don't believe in reincarnation because if that were true, Penny was bad in her last We'll reserve your proof text for that next week uh while you uh Figure out dig your hole out of that one there. I'm not gonna get into that problem, Divine. I'm smart enough to know to touch that's a hot bullet coming my way, not gonna touch touch that one. You've all heard these different items. Sorry, somebody else? I hope so. No, yeah, they they say I hope so. A better place. Have you ever heard of that term? They won't even use the word heaven, they'll just say a better place Well, the uh it's only the believers in Jesus Christ who truly have that hope of heaven and all of its glories. I put before you uh three uh uh uh confessional uh statements from the Heidelberg, the Westminster Confession, the Second Helvetic Confession I want to make a statement though about b about them before I go reading into it. You know, for years I actually militated against confessions. I didn't like them because and the reason I didn't like it is not because I studied them carefully and agreed or disagreed with them. That was not the main reason. The main reason I disagreed with them is because when every sort of conflict appeared in the church The men in the pulpit, the leadership, would appeal to the confessions, and they wouldn't go to the Bible. Well, this is wrong because the confessions say. And this other thing is wrong because the confessions say. And it soured me on the confessions, and it's unfortunate because it wasn't until about 15, 20 years later as I began to dig more deeply until I went You know, the confessions that these guys are holding actually militate against exactly what they're doing. Because the confessions themselves will say it's not by councils or the the creeds and the written will of uh and the and the documents of men, however excellent they may be, but the final appeal, final appeal might, ought to be the thus say of the Lord. And the confessions that we use as substandards, as useful guides here at Mission Bible, is that is those standards that give you scripture-proof texts for all of their doctrinal points to show you where they're getting the idea from. And so in time of distress, you don't need to go to the confession. You can go to the confession and look for the scriptural support And then read it from Thus Saith the Lord and present it that way. So it was a matter of presentation that turned me off from it. But actually there's a lot of really good things that are in here. You know, we're not the first humans to whom the Word of God came. We don't want to be just so arrogant as to think nobody else has seen it. It's me in a corner with my Bible. There's others that have trodden these paths before. You need to be in the corner in your Bible searching the scriptures daily whether these things are so. You need to do that But uh that that's no reason to to throw the confessions away. So there's three of them I'd like to read. We've been going through the Heidelberg Catechism this past year. We covered Lord's Day 22 question 57, and I'll repeat that for you. The question, it's a Q<unk>A format. It says this. What comfort does the resurrection of the body afford thee? This, of course, is referring to a little later state. We'll get to the subject of the resurrection in another study And the answer, though, relates to our point, which is that not only my soul after this life shall be immediately taken up to Christ its head, but also that this my body raised by the power of Christ shall again be united with my soul and made like the glorious body of Christ It's that first part that talks about the soul existence. You as an individual, you as an entity, you with a specific name continue to exist beyond the grave. Proof. Who showed up at the Mount of Transfiguration when the Lord Jesus was there with three of his disciples? Moses and Elijah. Moses and Elijah. What were they called? Moses and Elijah. Who do you think they were? Moses and Elijah. Moses and Elijah, right? Their identities were retained all that time. They still had non-stop conscious existence From the time Moses would take up at Mount Nebo and Mount Anelijah in a chariot of fire. He still existed. And that's a tremendous hope. We fear, we dread separation of body and soul. We fear, we don't want, we don't really look forward to necessarily the pains and the pangs of death. But know, saints, that your soul continues on to the Lord. Your identity is not this. We've already talked about that. It's not this. It's not flesh. That's not you. The real you is the person inside. As saints age and get older, I'm okay with their bodies falling apart first. But when their mind goes, you lose that connection to them. Right, to them. That's that's the hardful thing to say. So my point is that the soul goes to heaven. The Westminster Confession, much longer one Uh chapter XXXII. Aren't you glad the Arabs gave us real numbers? The Latin numerals continues to mess me up. When was that movie made? I don't know. Why can't you put nineteen seventy five as opposed to MC? C M L X. Anyway, I digress completely. So glad we have Arabic numbers. The bodies of men after death return to dust and see corruption. But their souls, which have, which neither die nor sleep, that's a very important part, they say your soul doesn't sleep, having an immortal subsistence immediately returned to God who gave them. So that's another big point that is made. It's not that mommy had half a soul and daddy had half a soul and those two half souls came together. No, God gave the soul upon the initiation of life. The souls of the righteous being then made perfect in holiness, meaning at your death, are received into the highest heavens. There's three heavens. where the birds fly, where the stars are at, and where God dwells. Where they behold the face of God in light and glory, waiting for the full redemption of their bodies. So there's uh a tremendous benefit. You're going to see God in the face in your soul existence. What's that like? Can't tell you other than what the scripture declares And then, of course, the flip side, and we'll talk about this next week, and the souls of the wicked cast into hell, where they remain in torments and utter darkness, reserved to the judgment of the great day Beside these two places for souls separated from their bodies, the scripture acknowledges none. So they seal it off, folks. There's two options. There is a distinct hard Fork in the road that you cannot change and come back. There's a great gulf fixed between the two. Confession continues Which talks about the last day, I'll skip over that. I'll skip over two and three because that's really more of a topic for later Second Helvetic Confession, another classic one from the period when the Reformers were trying to break out of the Catholic Church. There was another confession. And it reads very simply, we believe that the faithful, after bodily death, go directly unto Christ. There is no Shortcut, there's no holding tank, you don't got to go to purgatory and make a little detour, it's directly to Christ. And so this is the hope Now, having said that, what scriptures could you give to support your views of where you go when you die? The one they talk about Lazarus. Oh, that's an interesting one. Yeah. The moment he he died. There was a certain beggar named Lazarus who was laid at the gate of the rich man, and uh this despicable, horrible state of this poor believer outside the gates of a wealthy residence. Lo and behold, upon his death, they both, it says they both died, and we find that Lazarus is in, I think it uses the phrase, Abraham's bosom. He's comforted in Abraham's bosom. Abraham there being a picture of God himself. And Lazarus in hell. Yes, that's uh very good uh scripture text. Luke sixteen twenty. It's Luke sixteen twenty. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Luke's full of sores and design. Yep, it was a pathetic lot. So I think he's really held up as an example of just how much suffering an individual may go through in this life. And then at the end, and heaven, as God is answering to Lazarus, you know, send send uh God is answering to the ri rich man uh who's ri who's now interested in evangelism. He wants Lazarus to go to his five brothers, and he says No, he says, In thy lifetime thou receivest good things and Lazarus evil things, but now he is comforted, and you're tormented. As it were, God saying, That's fair. That's fair. So take heart, saints, those of you who are facing great difficulties in this life That's kind of the counterbalance what you pay for now for the tremendous investment in heaven of all the great things that God has for you. That should be a good comfort. What other verses of Scripture come to your mind if you were to try to answer to somebody who says, well we go to purgatory. What other verses come to mind to support where you go up on death Christ said to the people on the cross, this day thou shalt be with me in the paradise. I love that passage in Luke, the thief on the cross, yeah, this day you'll be with me in paradise. You know, if ever there was a purgatory candidate, he was it. If anybody had to spend a little time making some payments, thief And if you do a little study and you'll find that the only reason you would crucify a thief on a cross, I mean think about it, it's capital punishment for theft In our land, if you are trying to defend your home and property, somebody comes in, starts to steal, I don't know, a laptop or whatever from a house, I can't take out my gun and shoot them. That's not a a Treat that level of crime doesn't warrant complete removal. Why would you crucify a thief? And I think if you do a little research, you'll see that in the Old Testament, if you stole a man or a woman into slavery. In other words, a slave trader. Yeah, then you could crucify him. He was a slave trader on the cross. He was a stealer of men, and he was crucified. And at that hour, Christ, when that man confessed and says, we indeed justly. receive our rewards. But this man speaking of Christ hath done nothing on this. Great passage. There's so much in that that'd be hard preached hard hard pressed not to preach on it. Yes. was in Philippians, uh Philippians chapter one, where Paul says, For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. And then later he says, For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful. That's an excellent one because it kind of gives that aspect that your physical body isn't with Christ. He says to depart and be with Christ, or he's departing something. He's departing his body, he's departing this earth, he's departing, and he's gonna be with Christ. Philippians is an excellent one to talk about that. Yeah, that's a complete action. I was just gonna say for his appointed on command once done after this the judgment, not after this undefined waiting period and then the judgment Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's appointed in the men once to die and after this the judgment. Yeah. Absolutely. That's very powerful. One more and then we'll move on. And mine eyes shall behold him and not another, though after my body worms destroy my Job declared the resurrection. Job is, I believe, can rightfully be declared to be one of the oldest book in the Bible, the oldest record. Um and of course we you know have Genesis and the like, but uh the That's a whole other story. But yes, Job declared his belief in the resurrection that he himself would see God and that he would behold it. All right, well, here's some of the the the plainest passages in your handout and um uh direct you to that. Those of you who have one, maybe Tata can share with Gloria, and you all can get benefits of that. Second Corinthians 5. 8, we are confident I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. That was one that Victoria was mentioning. Actually, Victoria is mentioning Philippians 1. 23. I am in the strait betwixt two having a desire to depart and to be with Christ Which is far better. It's a phrase that some saints would say in their groaning, oh Lord, just take me now. Just take me now. Get me off of this nut train. I've had it. Yeah, it's far better to be with Christ. In fact, death all of a sudden becomes less and less of an issue. Listen to this language in 2 Corinthians 5 in the opening verses Verse 1. It says, We know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle, that's an interesting phrase, he's referring to your body, an earthly house, earth, earth like dirt Yeah, you're made of the dust. Earthly house of this tabernacle that's a dwelling place where you happen to live. This is your house that you happen to live in. Not this set of wood and drywall and roofing material. We have a building of God and house not made with hands. eternal in the heavens. You know, Jesus says, I go to prepare a place for you. You know, it took me nine months to build Mother's Edition on the side. It took the original builders about six months to build this house. It was built in a factory in Front Royal, Virginia. They could ship it here very quickly and set it up. It was built three days in a factory in Front Royal, Virginia. And so, but the Lord Jesus, uh uh when he created uh the initial earth that we live in, how long did it take him to create this whole planet out of nothing? Six days. Six days. Have we explored everything on this planet? Do we have we categorized every species that's out there with Alright, so we know for Lowe that God in six days could make some pretty impressive stuff He says, I go to prepare a place for you. When did he do that? When did he go? Right after his right after, I mean at the ascension, after the cross. And how long has he been gone? Folks, he's been working on a place for you to live in for 2,000 years. Have you thought about that for a moment? They say, well, Rome wasn't built in the day. You give Rome 200, 300 years to be built, don't matter. Jesus Christ, the ultimate creator, is building a place for you that he's been working on for 2,000 years. Are you kidding me? You're going to look at that and you're going to go, get rid of my rearview mirrors. I don't want to see anything in the past. I am enamored with this. It just makes me bristle. The hairs raise up on the back of my head. When you think about that, I go to prepare. I go. It's not you, Jeffrey. in the building permits of DC and whatever you gotta go through to get something built. You can't even remove rats for crying out loud. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. That that's just astounding. The terminology Foursquare is beyond our ability, you know. Four four square is perfect in every dimension. Yes. And equal in every dimension. It's just beyond anything that we really comprehend. And it's really beyond you mentioned that four square because what Pastor is referring to is the description of the uh New Jerusalem which comes down from heaven and it's got all these different layers and it's four square and all that And what's impressive about that is it is built out of uneven building material, out of the likes of you and I, with our discrepancies and differences. It's this massive multidimensional jigsaw puzzle that all of a sudden comes together perfect How's God do that? You ever seen a brick wall? Brick is easy, it's all the same size. Stone walls, when they can make a stone wall that kind of comes up nice. Well this is even more jacked up. Out of out I'm talking about the material that God's working with is even more messed up than that Hebrews 12. 23 describes it this way, that we are brought not to Mount Sinai and Moses, but rather to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven. Brother Mark Leakey for years when people say, what church do you go to? He said, Well I go to the church of the firstborn written in heaven. I think that's a pretty good answer And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect. Perfect. Wow, what a beautiful, beautiful statement. Those are some of the clearest passages that start to describe the future of the believer. There's other proofs. Penny, your passage is right here, Job 19, 26. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold. Very plain language You can translate that into multiple languages across the planet, and they would all get the point. You are going to see God. And not another, though my reins be consumed within me. In other words, though I'm rotted out, God's going to raise it up, and I'm going to see God Psalm 49, 15. There's a lot of juicy nuggets throughout the Psalms. You should commit yourself to just read through them in a season of time. It says, God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, for here's how, for he shall receive me. O grave, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting? You see, God's going to redeem that. Carcass in that six-foot pine box suspended over that eight-foot hole? It's not you. Next time you break an eggshell. The egg is out. That's just the shell. That's the hind. That's all that's there, the shell. We honor it. We don't need to defile it. We don't need to burn it. A good Burial is appropriate for Christians. They believe in the resurrection. Cremation was used in the Old Testament, but always by those who were unbelievers, always by those who were the wicked. They would burn the bones. Believers should have a good and decent burial. And yet his set it's the psalmist says, God will redeem my soul, my soul from the power of God. Psalm 73, 26, My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. This is the point we need to meditate on. The life, the eternal life that has been given to a believer. God The Lord Jesus says, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never die. You see, you will not have any cessation of consciousness. You will always have a conscious existence. There's no blip. There's no, oh, I'm really feeling bad. Oh, this is not looking good. Oh, I don't think this is going to end well. And then You know, many, many, many, many, many years later you wake up and it's like, wow, what happened? Time machine. Oh, there's a whole bunch of things that no, it's a transition I don't know, folks, and I'm speculating here, okay? I'm speculating because I simply want to share with you some things I've heard that I cannot explain and I I have no reason to doubt are credible. These are people that I have known. These are families that I have known. The attorney that represented our house in the case against the ICC, when they were coming to bill, they wanted to take part of the property, and they wanted to pay me a buck a foot to put the corner of the bridge on and says that would be sufficient compensation. I said, hardly, so you have to go and sue. And he was a Christian attorney, a fellow I could trust. And uh I apparently was his last large case. Shortly thereafter he contracted some nearly always fatal form of cancer, which uh statistically he proved to be correct, and he had departed shortly thereafter. His wife Susan at his funeral when I was there. Um she said that as he was in the hospital, you know, on the deathbed as it were, that in the final moments of his life lit up. Just lit up And he just lifted his arms and says, Oh Jesus. I I can't explain that. I think there's a thinning of that veil between the time that now is and that final hour That God gives great comfort to the saints. Gives them dying grace, as the old the old reformers used to talk about. I can't explain that. And I I don't see I mean, I guess you could take Elijah as an example, right? God sends his angels, the rich man Lazarus. Stephen, there's a very good example at his death, says, saw the Lord Jesus standing there. So I think there's, even at that dying hour, right, the saints still have comfort. Yes, I know you're going through something hard. Fear not. I'm with you, even to the very end. That's tremendous. Now we see through a glass darkly with face to face. I have no reason to believe, uh no reason to doubt, I should say, that the Lord Jesus will be gracious to us at every moment of our life. He knows our frame that we're afraid, but of dust. Yes, Victoria? Just a quick comment on the continuation of existence. It reminds me of a hymn that uh is very dear to me called Jesus Lives and So Shall I. The fifth stanza I love how it says Jesus lives and death is now but my entrance into glory. Yes. Death is that is a beautiful hymn. Jesus lives and so shall I. That's a great one. And Matthew, uh I like the insight the Lord Jesus gives. to the Sadducees who doubted the resurrection. They taught there was no such thing. And in Matthew 22, 29, Jesus answered and said unto these Sadducees, you do ye, all of you, old tech, if this were the text of the translated version be y'all, ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. From the resurrection, this is describing a little snapshot, a little view of heaven. It says, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as, but are like the angels of God in heaven. But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. It's a brilliant application of that portion of Scripture. The Lord Jesus is using the first, a proof text in the first five books of the Bible because the Sadducees did not hold the rest of the Bible, the Old Testament, as canonical. So he went to a section that they would have believed to have been canonical, suffering them their ignorance. He's already told them you error and you're ignorant of the scriptures. And he points out that at the uh foot of Mount Sinai where God encountered or excuse me at the burning bush on the backside of the desert, He told Moses, take off thy shoes, for the ground on which you stand is holy ground. I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And so the point is, these fellows still exist. Why would he claim to be the god of the dead? Oh, we've already looked on the back side of your handout. We've already looked at the um um Uh oh wait, this is not that account. This is Luke 9. Oh yes, this is Peter, James, and John up in the mountain. We've already looked at that one where there appeared unto him two men, Moses and Elias. Um Elias, how cool is that? Elias. And uh uh who appeared in glory and spake of his deceased, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem Gloria's already pointed out, Acts 759, they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Again, the spirit is what he seeks to receive. The body they had there and and they nothing more they could do with it after they stoned him. And then Job pointed out the thief on the cross. Jesus said unto him, Verily, today I say unto thee, thou shalt be with me in paradise. Now, that word paradise. Uh our Catholic folk would say, aha, that's a reference to purgatory. It's a nice part of purgatory, it's not the nasty part. You know, there's kind of a range. uh of experiences there, but paradise can only refer to heaven, and that's your first fill in the blank, not some other intermediate location. Can only refer to heaven. Because of Second Corinthians twelve In verses 2 and 4, the Apostle Paul writes this, I knew a man in Christ above 14 years ago. Scholars believe Paul's speaking of himself. Whether in the body I cannot tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knoweth, the apostle, under inspiration, much like the prophets, bringing the divinely inspired word of God and how scripture came to these men is interesting. There's some records of them and writing their experiences. Ezekiel talks about this. David speaks about this. Paul writes this. He says, I can't tell whether I'm in the body or not. He says such and one caught up to the third heaven. You know, earlier I mentioned that there were three heavens. This is where God is. Third heaven. And I knew such a man. Whether in the body or out of the body I cannot tell, God knoweth. How that he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable words, which is not lawful for a man to utter. In other words, he was not permitted to speak the things of heaven at this time. He just was told to shut those words up. So he was caught up in the paradise. That's a third heaven. That's not purgatory. That's where God himself dwells So it's not intermediate location. The condition that we have in heaven is that we are fully alive and conscious. fully alive and conscious that you're next fill in the blank. Uh Laura, could you get me a napkin, I seem to have a tissue seem to have a little bit of a Allergy attack coming on here. Luke 16, 19. There was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen. We we we know about this account, the litch rich man and the uh beggar. And it says that uh It came to pass, the beggar died, he was carried by angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried into hell. He, a rich man, lift up his eyes being in torments See Abraham afar off and Lazarus in his bosom. They cried. And so there's a conversation that occurs. And it's just a horrible account. All you read is the horrors of the rich man. He is fully conscious. So if the rich man is fully conscious, Lazarus was fully comforted. The bulk of the uh uh it's really a tale of two miseries, that whole account. The misery of Lazarus on this side of the grave and the miseries of the rich man on the other. And uh the uh the opposite is true. The the luxuries of the wealthy now, and this is all they have, and the the the riches of the saints in Christ. And I want to make one comment, you know, I When you drive down the Capitol Beltway, you get to that one curve on the outer loop where you look ahead. And there's that big Mormon tabernacle. And it's got that little golden statue thing And I look at that and I just um I feel sad for them. Folks, that's all they've got. That one little bitty building. That's it. That's it. We have a new heaven and a new earth. It's a whole new thing. What they have is is pathetic When Christ returns, all the elements will melt with fervent heat and all the works therein shall be burned up. Include that. That's all they've got. I mean that's like getting excited, you know, the kid at Christmas time. He gets more excited with the box and the gift inside the box. He'd rather play with a big box. Woo-hoo, a box. That's all they've got is a box. Who cares Well it's it's interesting with the beggar, he's hungry, he's begging, he has sores, his only friend's the dog, there's a multiplicity there. When it comes to the rich man, he is in torments plural. But the beggars comforted singularly. Yes. Yeah. There's much going on in that account. 1 Thessalonians 5. 10. Speaks of the Lord Jesus who died for us. One of the purposes of his death is this. That, where you see the word that, that's a purpose statement. That, whether we wake or sleep We should live together with him. Do you believe the Lord Jesus actually accomplished everything he set out to do? Does anybody doubt for a moment that Jesus, oops, forgot to check that box on the list Oh, rats, I didn't do this task. No. One of his purposes, Jeffrey, in dying, is that whether we wake or sleep, meaning whether I'm dead or alive It doesn't matter. None of that presents a barrier to him. We should live. Live together with him It's even beyond what the Garden of Eden had. Because the Garden of Eden, there was still a testing program. Don't touch the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The new heaven and new earth, you have access to the tree of life. And there's no testing program. There is no tree of knowledge in good and evil. There's no chance, so to speak. There's no opportunity for failure to enter in. It's not there. And we will live with him. That's part of the purpose of his death. It's a glorious promise. It's a glorious promise. For the believers, it is a stake, my last point here, of rest. An endless bliss. How many of you wake up sometime you go, you know, today was a good day? I haven't had one of those in a long time. You know, you wake up, oh, this is a great day I think back in two thousand four I had one of those days. I had some last week. You had some last well yeah, you're just getting back on vacation. Work We're here to remove a lot of those for you in the next couple of months. The message of Churchill, right? Of nothing but blood sweat and toil or whatever his quote was at the onset of World War Two. But for the Saints Today was good and tomorrow's going to be better. And you'll be saying that every day. How does that happen? I mean, we we can't even I can't even imagine that. How does one day just get better than the next? How how does it keep getting better? Remember he's been working for two thousand years. Okay? Yes, Betty? For them that love him. Yeah. Yeah. We haven't seen it. And but the very next verse says, but he has revealed them unto us by his spirit. So there's a glimpse. We have a glimpse. And in the end of Revelation, you have a glimpse into heaven's gated community. It's a gated community, because nothing that defiles shall enter therein past those gates. It's the ultimate gated community. You know, we have real estate agents here and uh you know what it's like when you sell a home in a gated community. Very scutted And he hoy he toy. We keep the riparath out there. Shut the gate. Don't let him in. Lazarus experienced that. And yet God also has a gated community that's reserved for you if you're a cr a believer in Christ. And it says in Revelation 14, 13, I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, blessed are the dead. Which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. Oh, you hard-working people. Oh, you who are pulling a heavy load. Paying off your mortgage, paying off your taxes, paying off this, your heavy load, that burden, that they may rest from their labors. And their works do follow them. Works is not talking about Oh, I built a nice house. No, works your people. Works in the Bible. When it references believers, talk about people. And that you have ministered to other saints and they have been matured and brought up in the faith. They'll be there with you. He'll be there with you. Those following works are not a record of your deeds, but rather all the people you've helped form into disciples of Christ. Ephesians 2. 10. We are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in Him. We, we, it's us, people. And 1 Corinthians 3 speaks of the same thing. 1 Corinthians 3. 9. We're laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. So I put before you the glorious hope of heaven, and I would encourage you to not cast away the confidence of your faith. These are dark times we live in. I cannot predict which way this American train will totally come off the rails and crash in the underbrushes or whatever. I I I don't know. It will But the Church Victorious will stand at the grave of America. The Church Victorious will stand at the grave of Rome and China and Russia. Because he has come to make an everlasting kingdom. And you're a member of that kingdom. And you have eternal life. You have an existence that doesn't stop. So don't cast away the confidence and the hope that you have. Don't be as Esau, that fornicator, who for one morsel of meal despised and cast away than heroins. Brother Mike, could you close us in prayer? Gracious, loving Heavenly Father, God, righteous father, Holy Father, again we thank you and praise you for your mercies to us which are new every morning. Your mercies to us through this word. You have brought us to this part of our lives. And as Vinces challenged us and exhorted us that we ought not to and should not cast away any confidence through despair or through grief and grieving over the state of uh this country we live in and where it's uh come from and where it's going, apparently. Or but they would that we would see increasing with eyes of faith And uh he hearing with ears of uh uh faith so to speak uh and that we would uh not uh cast away these Exceedingly great and precious promises. Yes. But that we would hold fast to them in faith. Walking by faith, not by sight. Lord God, enable us more and more through thy grace. We plead with thee for huge supplies of grace to walk by faith in these increasingly dark and depraved times. O Lord God, we love you. We do not love you as we ought to. Show us therefore how to love thee with the first love more and more, and to love our brethren, to love our neighbors as ourselves, and to show forth that love for love must be expressed. And by loving we would encourage one another and comfort one another. And these ex Again, increasingly dark and depraved times. Lord, we seek to worship you in spirit and truth this day. And uh we ask again that you would restrain the powers of darkness around us greatly And uh let us walk in planes of light. Uh grant us smooth paths for our feet by the Spirit. Again, it must be by thy spirit, Lord. We have no in the in a we have no ability in of ourselves So we pray again, enable us to walk by the Spirit, to worship you in spirit and truth, and to serve you in this life. That you, Father, Heavenly Father, would be glorified and that Jesus Christ would be magnified and that we would do everything to be well pleasing and hear us again for Christ's sake, for we know that you see us in Christ, for we abide in him to bear much fruit. To thy glory everlasting, Amen. Amen.