Your handout from last week um because we're going to continue in that we only got halfway. If you forgot yours I have a few printed copies I made here if you need one. We are looking at this, I hope you find it to be an insightful and spectacular concept, doctrine that's in Scripture concerning the covenants So there was the covenant of redemption, which is between between the Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, and then there's the covenant of grace, which is between God and man, that's how it comes down to us. And so we were looking at some of the construct of that. And I was not trying to rush my way through it last week. We got halfway through. And what we looked at is that Christ was the covenant head and he was the surety. He was the backstop, he was the guarantor, he was the insurance program. God insured his plan of redemption. Isn't that impressive to you that he so wanted this to succeed that he gave his son as the insurance policy? Uh to what else would you avail yourself as the Godhead? I mean, who are you going to bank it on? What stronger stay would you find, what more sure purpose uh and uh guarantor could you find than Christ Himself? And uh we find that God the Father gave the Son three requirements in this covenant, and all of which are impossible for you and I to carry out. But this is what is required to redeem, to buy back, to pay for the sins of God's people. Three things were required. He had to assume a human nature, Only man's blood can pay for man's sins. Blood of animals, goats, Hindu cows, or monkeys. the animistic spirits of the Native American Indians, uh the hearts of the opposing enemies that the Aztecs and the Incas would sacrifice, child sacrifice from the ancient pagans in the Old Testament. None of that was sufficient to pay for sins because it's not worthwhile. It's not worthy. God takes no pleasure in those things. It has to be perfect and has to be human. And only Christ could fulfill that. He was in the form of God, thought it not robbery made equal with God, but made himself the form of a servant. Came in the likeness of men. He was like us without sin, likeness of men. And he was found in fashion in the schema, like the schematic of us. He was wired like us, yet without sin. So he's the perfect human He should assume a human nature. The second requirement is that he had to place himself under the law. He had to come under the law to bear our sin debt. And so he walked through the same obligations that you and I would have had, and he fulfilled those. And Romans 8 says that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. And that form of the word righteousness has to do with equity, the equitable deed. He, as it were, transferred to us the equity of all that he had accomplished being under the law. It is imputed to our account, as if though we had never sin. That was the word. Definition of justified, just as if I'd never sinned. All that equity given to you and I. And then that he would apply his merits to his people. Not only did he have to achieve the merits by his work is uh committing the the deeds that the father gave him to do and omitting the deeds that he should not do, sinful behavior and so forth, all of that was rejected and shunned. Now he has to apply it to his people. That's why you read in John, I give unto them eternal life, that they might be sanctified, that they may all be one, that they may share my glory. uh and that language he is that author of eternal salvation. Those are the requirements. And it's very much God centered It's very much Christ-centered. There is no room for you and I to stick a finger in there and have a part in it. There's not even a shred of possibility of you and I getting an ounce of credit in this business of salvation. Now we look at the promises. God the Father promised the Son seven things to carry out this business of redemption. And first of all, what strikes you as interesting when I even say God the Father promised God the Son to carry out redemption? What strikes you perhaps as unusual about that? God promising himself something. God promising himself something? Okay, why does that strike you as odd? You don't really need to promise yourself something to do Yeah, uh you you you don't necessarily need to promise yourself. But people do that, right? Do people promise themselves to do certain things? Yeah, you get into a uh you know, you're at work and you get into a bind and I cried I swear I'm never gonna take a job like that again. You know, you can make a promise to yourself or you you're in a house that has a broken garage door Next house I get in, it's going to have a working garage. You know, you you make yourself promises to ensure certain things will happen. So it does strike us as odd, but I think if we think through a little bit, yeah, we can see how we might uh do that. Why do we make promises to ourselves Why would somebody say I'm never gonna get into a job like that again? To prevent the badness that occurred before. To prevent the badness that occurred before, you for sure if if that was the nature of the promise, uh it really is a doubling down. It's a renewing, it is a an ensuring, it is making a public declaration. This thing shall most surely happen. Now that is among the sons of men, but if God does that, if he makes a declaration among the sons of men, and he opens it up to us, It assures us this thing will surely happen. It also assures us of one more thing, which I'll cover at the end. So he promises, the Father, promises the Son, seven things. The first is that Christ should assume a human nature. After all, if only man can pay for the sins of man, step one is you're going to have to show up in a body. He's going to have to prepare Jesus a body. And you see that clearly in Hebrews 10. 5, but it's pulling from parts of the Old Testament. Hebrews 10. 5 kind of summarizes it sacrifice and offerings thou wouldest not. That's a quote from Psalm 40. But then he said, A body thou hast prepared me. God had prepared for Christ a body. Does anybody can anybody think of some of the requirements, further requirements or details from the Old Testament about the nature of that body that Christ would have? There's actually a few details in there, not much. Hint, I'm thinking Isaiah. No form or comeliness. Yeah, he had no form nor comeliness. He looked like the average Jew. He wasn't strikingly handsome as King Saul, who was tall and goodly looking. You ever notice People tend to elect political leaders who are tall and you know photogenic. Uh they tend to get those kinds of people they because man looks in the outward appearance. Never mind that he's got utterly bankrupt and corrupt agenda underneath it. If he looks good, must be good. Right? That's how we judge things by nature and how most of the fallen world does it, and hence why this ruin is in our hands. So God's going to prepare for Jesus the body. He's going to look like the average Jew. There's no form or commandance that we should desire him. You see, he was like, oh, okay, yeah. You know, there's there's nothing external to him that would be appealing. He just looked like the average Jew. Interestingly, you look for language that perhaps God, through the author of Hebrews, is quoting. Sacrifices and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me. Now the sacrifice and offering, that's a clear quote from Psalms, but a body you see this from Isaiah, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son And many other translations mangle that and say a young woman will conceive. Well, that's no big deal. Young women conceive all the time. I mean that's kind of how the human race is propagated. But a virgin to conceive, that's a totally different story And then in Jeremiah 31, there's one I hadn't seen in a long time. The Lord created a new thing, a woman shall compass a man. It's the word man, not child. Because it would be the God man, the Lord Jesus Christ, who would come through Mary. That was the new thing. So it was another way of saying it, other than to say a virgin way. Conceive. That's the first promise God the Father gave for the Lord Jesus Christ, that He'd prepare for Jesus a body. Second promise was this, that he would support Jesus in his work. Now you might think, well, why do you need a promise of support in the work? Well, because the work was hard. It was very hard work. We're talking about the payment of sins. We thought of the illustration last week, you know, which of you uh would step in to pay for the penalty of a notorious criminal. You hear some outrageous thing on the news, some serial rapist and murderer or or somebody who uh uh duh commits horrible atrocities. Maybe going back to the Second World War, there's a s no shortage of atrocities committed there. And as war crimes trials proceeded, would you be willing to say, uh please stop, stop the proceedings? Uh I'll stand in in his stead. Uh uh let me be persecuted and and prosecuted for what he has done Can you imagine then saying for a whole group of people, yep, let that be me. So it was an extraordinarily difficult task that the Lord Jesus Christ had. And is he up to the task? I think so. There's no question. But he also declares that God the Father would in fact support Jesus Christ in this work that he had the full support and backing, you could say, of upper management. And not that Christ needed managing, but he had full support. In Isaiah 6, excuse me, Isaiah 42, verse 6, I the Lord have called thee and will hold thine hand and will keep thee. And the only place we even begin to see some measure of proof of this would be when the angel appeared in the Garden of Gethsemane, Christ is beseeching the Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Three times the answer was no. And then what appeared? An angel appeared, strengthening him. We fe we find that the angels appeared also at the end of the temptation in the wilderness in Matthew 4 and Luke 4. Again, angels appear and strengthen him. him. Um and uh that would of course been his physical body and the weakness that he had to to encourage him. And we do, don't we? Isn't it interesting the human body when you Uh we're so intimately connected together. I think it is a good thing for people to go to uh uh to pay last respects when a dear loved one perhaps has passed. Because the uh the grieving widow or uh family members there are uplifted and encouraged when they see a bunch of loving friends that are there to comfort and to encourage them. It eases the pain and suffering quite a bit. It is an encouragement, even so much that they might be able to smile and laugh a little bit So for the Lord Jesus Christ to have this heavenly angelic host around him again, you know, reminding him, No, thou art the Holy One of Israel, holy, holy, holy, and to encourage him that way. That would be proof that the Lord would support Christ in his work. There was a third thing that God promised Christ, that he would anoint Jesus with the Holy Spirit. Remember, he's coming in a bodily form. He is fully God, and yet this bodily form is human, who by nature doesn't have the Holy Spirit. So God doesn't leave any box unchecked Christ, that spirit, coming into a body that has a a native human spirit. And so we read in Hebrews, uh I think it's Hebrews His spirit bears witness with our Romans. His spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the sons of God. There you see two spirits, God's dwelling in us Well, the Lord Jesus Christ is not going to receive the Spirit by measure. He's going to get the Holy Spirit as well as being fully God, that body that he occupies. So there's still that support and promise. Kind of a technical point, but it's an important one to show that he was fully supported by God. Isaiah 42, Behold my servant whom I uphold. That's verse 1. Mine elect in whom my soul delighteth, I have put my spirit upon him. He shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. And it was repeated in Isaiah 61, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. We see proof of this in John three, uh, as John the Baptist uh I it's either John no this is Christ speaking, for he whom God hath sense, speaketh the words of God, God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him. Christ had the whole Holy Spirit in its entirety. Acts 2, we see the connection to this promise that Jesus received of the Father, the promise of the Holy Ghost. So there we see a fulfillment of that. Now, these may seem technical and they may seem insignificant because you would say, well, Jesus is God. Yes, I'd expect him to have all these things But let's keep walking our way through it because these promises are exposed. They're revealed to you and us for a reason, for our benefit, for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. And the fourth point of the promise, of the seventh, of the covenant of redemption, is that God the Father would deliver Jesus from the power of the devil. And place him at his own right hand. So he is re removed from the power of death. Death, hell, and the devil have no power over him. The grave would have no victory over him. He would be recovered from that completely, and that he would be seated at the right hand of God This is a promise. And well, there's promises, there's rewards. Right? If God the Father promises something, you'll get it and and and then even in measure. Psalm 16, we read, I set the Lord always before me. That's L-O-R-D, that means uppercase in the King James, means Jehovah. And that's a clear reference to Christ as the Savior. I have set the Savior, Christ, before me, because he is at my right hand. This is God speaking. He is at my right hand I shall not be moved. And then it says in verse 10, for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. I do like the Apostles' Creed and the statement it makes. He descended, he died, he was buried, he descended into hell. The third day he rose again from the dead. Some have attempted to change that word hell, Sheol in the Old Testament, Hades in the New, to say, well, it refers to the grave. And there are some places where it does refer to the grave. But I do believe that Christ endured the condition of hell to the uttermost And people would say, Oh, he's being stomped by the devil. No, the devil doesn't rule in hell. He's not in charge down there. He's at the lowest part of the pit. He is an inhabitant, yes, for sure. But what it does mean is all that was required, the entire penalty, the full punishment that sins deserved, Christ endured all of it on our behalf. You say, well nobody gets out of hell. Well that's true. No mortal creatures get out of hell. But Christ is infinite and eternal. Hell is infinite infinity and Christ is infinity. It's a perfect match. And so, as it were on the cross and in the grave for three days, he can endure the equivalent of an eternity in hell on our behalf. And the three days, it could have been two, it could have been four, but that the scriptures might be fulfilled, he was in the grave for three days, and then he Rose again from the dead. All that was required. Everything that was required for our salvation has been fully accomplished. And so you consider it for a moment. Imagine the vanity of the gospel that says there's something left for you to do. There's something that you have to do. Let's think through the theology of that for a moment. What it says is Christ's death He's endured all these sins, but for some strange reason, there's one sin that he just didn't quite cover There's still this payment unmet on the books. There's this unreconciled transaction left hanging out there. You've got to take care of that. Alright, well even if it's one tiny transaction What's the penalty for one transaction? How long does that last? It's an eternity Are you sufficient to pay for that? Oh, it's but one sin. Maybe as an infant something did you did via a violation or whatever, an omission. Or you remember sin, infants are born under the curse as well You can't pay for it. You're still stuck. There's nothing you can do to merit it, even just for one tiny sin. The Lord Jesus Christ endured it all. It's all completely, totally, and entirely paid for. Arminian theology essentially says that what you have to believe But unbelief is a sin. That's correct. And so it's saying that Christ did not die for that one sin because you have to take care of this one. You've got to believe. And that's the big granddaddy of all sins is unbelief. But he died for our unbelief as well. Yes. The way I uh you're absolutely correct, and I've tried to figure a a good way to explain that to people differently. And I've come to this, see if you like it. That faith is the fruit, not the root, of salvation. Right? The fruit of the Spirit is, and you go through that fruit. One of them is has to do with faith. Faith itself is the gift of the spirit. Absolutely. Yes, yeah, it's a fruit, not the root of salvation. You believe because God Almighty made a huge difference in you first. And you don't discover that off the bat. You don't need to understand and be able to articulate sovereign grace, the covenant of God election. Oh yes I'm a believer, but no, y y no, no. Even any much Any bit as much as a newborn infant coming into your home from the hospital the first time, walks in the house, can explain how the house is built, who my parents are, what their lineage, and a child knows squat All he knows is I'm hungry, feed me. I'm cold, keep me warm. That's all they know, and that's all a believer wants right off the bat. He just wants to be fed, fed, fed, fed. He's just fascinated with this book. He can't get enough of this book. That's what he wants to And as he learns and as he grows, he comes to discover, wow, God Almighty has been thinking about me for quite some time. Quite some time. And it's a wonderful and encouraging thing to discover. So Christ is going to be set at the right hand of God. We read in Hebrews 10, but this man, after he offered one sacrifice for sins forever, one sacrifice, done, his, forever, not to be repeated. Don't need to go, ah, forgot one. Whoops, got to do it all over again. He sat down on the right hand of God. Does anybody know the significance of the scriptures of that phrase, sat down? Christ came and sat down. I know you're a theologian. I wish. I wish I were a theologian. Better be a theologian. We're paying for one. Well you're not getting your money. Okay, it's finished, it's done, yep, yep, that's right. When you come home from a hard day at work You're on the sales floor at JC Penny. You've been selling gloves or whatever all day long and running around and getting stuff out of the back. And you come home, what do you want to do? You just want to sit down. You know in the Old Testament tabernacle in the Holy of Holies and in the outer court and in that whole, you know what there was one piece of furniture that was missing for the priests? You know what they did not have? They had a table. They had altars. There wasn't a chair because the work that they did was never finished. It could never be finished. They could never rest because it was ever, always, only intended to be an ongoing sign, an ongoing pointer, a neon light that says This is a picture of what's to come, but one will come. He will give us rest. He will give us a place. He will give us comfort. This one will give us rest. And so that was always a picture of of the Lord to come. Fifth point, fifth promise that God made for the Lord Jesus Christ is that he would enable Jesus to send the Spirit for the formation of the church. There was a complex series of events that had to occur, and I was always struck with this language in the book of John. In John 14, 15, and 16, those are the premier passages if you want to learn about Jesus and his relationship to the Holy Spirit. And what the Holy Spirit does, you go to John 14, John 15, and John 16. And it's usually in verse 16 or 26 of those chapters. They just happen to lie at the same portion. We read this, for instance, in John 14, 26, but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall Do what? Teach you all things, bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I've said to you. And like the proverbial rock skipping across the surface of the water, there's a couple of meanings there. The first is that The Holy Spirit is the teacher. He's going to teach you all things. And aren't you glad? Yeah, you got a brother Vince. Yeah, you have a Pastor Joe. Yeah, we can be helpful. But ultimately, my words will fall flat Until, unless, and only if, God the Holy Spirit opens your understanding to these things. You know, I know people who have sat and have listened both to me and to m countless other preachers for some time, typically not for too long because they're not interested, but they hear these things and they just it just bounces off. It just quote doesn't make sense. They just sort of don't get it. For them it's it would be like me watching uh a a British cricket game. I don't get it. I see these fellows all dressed up in these ridiculous suits and these short pants. They look like you know, overgrown school kids and they're chasing this ball around with a stick and it I'm like, okay, you knocked it across some grass and and so now what? You know, do you tackle somebody or you know, what happens next? I'm looking for some action and they're And then they have this long com I don't get it. I just don't get it. I don't get the fascination. I just look at it because I'm like, boy, these people in Britain know that must have been another reason why we left, because they got stupid games over there. The pilgrims didn't mention that part, but I I've got to be thinking, This is strange. Anyway, um And what does it have to do with crickets? And what does it have to do with crickets? Yeah, I don't hear any s do they put the crickets in the ball? I don't know. So I just and but it's like the preaching of the gospels that way. Until that blessed day comes When you're like the blind man of John 9, the eyes are open, the ears are unstopped, and the understanding comes, the light floods in, click, ding, ah! Now I get it Now I get it and wow have I ever been missing out? Oh, this is fantastic. This is wonderful. And it begins a whole new life. The comforter Will teach you all things. He's going to bring all things to your remembrance. And somebody recently pointed this out to me, I was reading something, that This is actually a very good proof text for the plenary preservation of scriptures as well as the inspiration of scriptures. In the first instance, God the Holy Spirit would cause his apostles to precisely remember everything Jesus said. They would be spirit-illuminated, spirit-driven spirit activated so that their mind, you know how you forget something, you just, it's on the tip of your tongue, you just can't pull it out. Well God the Holy Spirit would help them to remember everything He said. Frankly, I'm impressed when you read the gospel accounts at the tremendous amount of details they remembered to record, and they all did this individually and independently, some writing at a totally different time period, by five or ten years from their fellow uh apostolic peers. And yet all this detail and it comes together and it's a the stories all line up. They all line up. The second passage in John fifteen about Christ's promise from the Father the Comforter when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth which precedeth From the Father he shall testify of me. And this is a good point to mention to our charismatic quote-unquote brethren. I hesitate to call them brethren. Brothers in error at best, uh Brother in Adam in the likelihood, um, is that he's testifying not of himself. The Holy Spirit does not draw attention to himself, he draws attention to Christ. He doesn't draw attention to the one ranting and raving and waving his hands all over the place up in the front or rolling around on the ground. He is drawing attention to Christ. John 16, 13. Howbeit when the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth. He'll not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, he will show you things to come. There's a place in John, I don't believe I could look it up quickly enough, where the Lord Jesus says, unless I go, meaning unless I go to the Father. Unless I go to the Father, the Comforter will not come. It's almost as y you know what passage I'm talking about? It's in John. Maybe one of you uh uh Uh theologians could look it up quickly. And um and I've always been struck by that because it seems that um sixteen which is it? John sixteen seven, all right. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. So it appears that the Lord Jesus Christ absolutely positively had to depart in order for God the Holy Spirit to come. I find that fascinating. I can't give a crisp answer for why that is But I find it interesting that uh maybe because if you have two divine witnesses down here, uh it's now judgment day. He's gonna wipe out the whole element. Um that Unless Christ returns and is seated at the right hand. Okay, now those promises and conditions are fulfilled. Therefore stage three can go forth, right? The election and predestination and then the uh uh uh the redemption of men's souls and the application of grace. They appear to each have a distinct role in this business of our salvation. So I just find that very interesting. Sixth point, sixth promise, I have to move along here, is that God the Father would draw, teach, and preserve his elect. This is a marvelous part. I'm so glad God the Father promises the Son. Can you imagine? Here the Son does all this work to redeem and pay for the sins of his people, but the proverbial last mile isn't Connected. Oh, by the way, we've got to get them in the car. We've made a really nice vehicle that will transport them to heaven, but we forgot to put them in the car. I know a brother has um uh uh twelve kids and they would do a head count any time they left the shopping store. Okay, do a head count. Oops, we left some behind. Okay, they gotta go back and stick them all in the bus again, you know I'm sure school bus drivers have a similar type problem. Do we have them all in here? Well, how many elect does Christ have? It's quite a few. Where's the promise that they're all going to get in? Where's that promise? Where's I mean he's done the heavy lifting of paying for their sins. Now what's the security to actually get them into this vehicle called salvation that's going to convey them to heaven? John 6. 37, it's the promise of the Father that's going to ensure that. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me. What a wonderful promise. They will come to Christ. They're not going to go to the preacher. They're not going to go to the to the administrator, they're not going to go to the educator, they're not going to go to the Pope or the Metropolitan. They're not going there. They're going to come to Christ. When John the Baptist brought two of his disciples to Christ, and they listened to him. How does it say it's in John 1? My uh memory's failing me for that verse. I'm not doing too good on my memory verses here late Uh uh uh it's at the end of the uh uh John one. Oh I can't find it quickly. This is terrible. Anyway, the disciples heard Jesus and they followed him. So John was a good evangelist. He took them to Christ. They heard him. They left John. They followed Christ. And that was the right response. All that the Father gives shall come to me. John 6. 39. This is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing. So there's a promise that Christ isn't going to lose anybody. There's no loss. But should raise it up again at the last day. That's another promise. He's going to raise your body up. He's going to resurrect it, refit it. Uh refashion it'll be perfect. There won't be pain. There won't be plaque eyes and broken noses. There won't be stiff necks and cracking joints. Those things will be a thing of the past. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. So there's a hope and a promise for you and I as we show people the Son. God has promised him that those for whom Christ has died will secure their salvation. When they see the sun, when they hear the sun, they will in fact come You see, we're assured of success in evangelism. But what is our typical response to evangelism? There are all of you perfect evangelist. Don't bother me. Yeah. The typical reaction is don't bother me, right? When we speak to people, don't and it can be discouraging to us. And we just have to remember Yep. Move on. Move on. We're looking. Keep searching. You ever heard of people who go walking up and down the beach? They got a metal detector. You know, what are they doing with that metal detector walking on the beach? What are they looking for? Trying to find money. Money? Something valuable, right? What's that? Or a gun or armor or something like that. Um the beaches of California, I think. There might be some buried out there somewhere. Edge of the Potomac, right? Some hidden knives So you're looking for, you know, how many grains of sand do you think that guy's passed over? How many grains of sand? Countless. Countless. That's what it's going to be like for the saints of God as well. Countless grains of sand, just hard as a rock, ever shifting, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. They just blow every which way. Just sand But every now and then there's a treasure. They're just this resonating sound, they just resonate to it, and you dig and they're all covered in dirt and they're just mired up and you take it out and you polish it up and shine it up. Look Found one. And it's a good day. It's a rare day, but it's a good day. Evangelism's the same way. You don't need to change the message. You know, you don't need to get rid of the metal detector. I'm gonna go for a sand detector. Oh, I got a lot of success there. No, you got sand. You didn't get anything. You don't need to change the message. The message is fine Right? It's just that there's a few as a remnant. In the um hidden treasure, the man buys the whole field. Yeah. Because of the treasure. That's right. I was meditating about that parable just not too long ago. Many hold that that pearl of great price is the Lord Jesus Christ. And certainly he is valuable. But I don't think that's what that pearl represents. The pearl is of a great price, meaning it cost a lot. It doesn't say it was a great value. Now we understand that as the parable thinking, okay, it sounds like it's a great value But it was a great price. The focus is on the price, the cost. Christ bought the field. He's the one that gave all that he had. Right, to get to that. You're that treasure. We're his precious stones. We're his uh uh silver and gold and precious stones. That's the believers in God's sight. Look at me, I don't look too much like a precious precious stone, and yet in God's sight I am, because I'm covered in the blood of Christ. Alright. This promise of God drawing and teaching and preserving the elect is all throughout John. John 6, no man can come to me except the Father which has sent me, draw him, I will raise him up at the last day. They shall all be taught of God. That is a blessed thing. Let's go to the seventh one here, the last promise, and then I want to make some application. That the Lord God Almighty would grant to Jesus a numerous seed. This is also another blessed promise. He's going to grant to Christ a numerous seed. This is a promise. God has promised the Son, you will have an innumerable seed. Part of this business of salvation is that Christ will have a kingdom. And a king isn't much of a king if he doesn't have any subjects in his kingdom. The Lord Jesus Christ has a great kingdom and a mighty kingdom and a well-populated kingdom. It's consisting of a great many. Psalm 22, all the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord, and all kindreds of the nation shall worship before thee. You see, God will have a representative from every nation that has been, that is, and that shall be until he returns. There will be a representative. Psalm 72, 17, his name shall endure forever, all nations shall call him blessed. There's going to be a representative, and there's going to be multiple representatives of every nation. And you see the fulfillment in Revelation 7. After this, I beheld and lo a great multitude which no man could number. And that's literally true. I can't number it because it includes people that have long since departed and those who have yet to come. I can't possibly number that. Many of God's saints die in complete obscurity. You have no idea who they were. Perhaps in a gulag or a prison cell somewhere, and they were just faithful to the end We would know nothing of Lazarus if the scriptures didn't tell us about this poor beggar sitting at the rich man's gate. He was a nobody. He was a no name. He had no record. We don't even know his family lineage or anything But I know this, he's in heaven, he's in Lazarus, and he's in the bosom of Abraham, and he's comforted, and he's a known name in this world, but he's very well known in heaven He's very well known up there. You're very well known in heaven. You have a reputation in heaven. People know all about you. People know all about you in heaven, Mrs. Ross. A lot of people know about you down here, but they really know about you up there Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are men. Alright, so these are the promises that God the Father gave to the Son in this business of carrying out a covenant of redemption. Now I promised you that there was one more application from this. What is a believer being conformed to? To Jesus Christ. Image of Christ. Do you understand what that means in the context of these promises? Because if God the Father has promised these to God the Son, in a way, they apply to you as well. You are going to get a new body. Oh yeah, you'll have a new body. You'll change your vile body and fashion it like into his glorious body. God will support you in your work. He absolutely will. He supports you. On more than one occasion, I've seen the Lord step in at a time when I thought, man, I have no options. How am I going to get out of this pickle? And then all of a sudden, ding, something pops up. Wow, thank you, Lord. He's going to anoint you with the Holy Spirit. We have the Holy Spirit as an earnest, as a down payment. He's going to deliver us from death and place him at his right hand. We're seated in the heavenlies. We're joint heirs with Christ. We reign with him. And he's going to deliver us from the power of death. Oh death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where's thy victory? You see, that applies to you as well The sending forth of the Spirit for the formation of the church. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. We send this forth, and it helps form the church This is the tool. It's called the Spirit and the Word of God. There it is. That God's going to draw, teach, and preserve the elect. Yeah, that's me. That's a promise that applies to Christ, but I also am a partaker and a beneficiary of that promise. And that we would be granted numercy. I don't know what heaven looks to be like. I don't understand the concept of lineage in heaven. Um, you know, I know that there's no marriage in heaven. Um, but one of the blessings of this life is to have a multitude to be able to see your seed and your seed seed and your great grandchildren. And so that's a blessing. Could it be that in heaven what we view is the spiritual lineage The spiritual descendants of all those from whom we have ministered to. You know, the apostle Paul called Timothy his son in the faith. Could it be that it would be someday in heaven? I know Brother Bernie could say, yes, this is my son Vince. He would see me as his spiritual descendant. And indeed I count him as a spiritual, earthly, spiritual father. But he's never met you. And Abraham's never met us. Could it be? The longer this world goes on, your ministry may impact one, maybe two right now, but that may be the ministry of the next generation that brings in countless millions. I can't help but to wonder if there's an innumerable seed that will walk up to you in heaven. Did you know? Did you know? I have no greater joy than to see a children walking in truth. Please I'm I'm I'm at the close. But if you look at Adam's stake in the garden, he had all of them. Yes. And they were lost in the fall, but are restored in Christ. Yes. Yes. Yeah, he he was supported by God. He didn't have to till the ground. Yep. He had the word of God. God would talk to them in the garden of the evening. Yep. You can get it right down the list. Yep. But Adam was uh was unable. He was unable. I have a question about you you mentioned Christ endured the equivalent of hell um when he gave up the ghost. You know. Uh is there any distinction between what happened The three days and the three nights. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um so with how do you reconcile those It's har I I don't know that I can. Whatever was required, you know, he could have endured that equivalent in less than three days. It could have been strictly that period on the cross Um hell is a spiritual place and condition. I don't think the cross in its entirety was hell. Um but um the mystery of the atonement, the mystery of redemption. I I I can't offer Better than that. Yeah. When he cried out's finished, it was indeed finished. Uh and along along with that Um something you and I have discussed and don't disagree on one just take a little bit different view on sometimes is that death being that separation. And he had already cried, My God, my God, why is that for separation Mm-hmm. Hell had even begun for him in some extent on the cross. Mm-hmm. Uh and then continued in that literal descent. Yep. In the grave, yeah. Mystery of the atonement. Yvonne, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, how we do praise thee, Lord, that thou hast uh uh merited all that is needed Lord on on our behalf Lord for we know that in and of ourselves Lord we've uh sinned grievously against thee and Lord uh rebelled um from our youth up and Lord are deserving of thy everlasting wrath and punishment in hell, Lord. And yet, Father, uh thou send A uh a mediator, even uh thy son, to uh take our reproach, our sin upon himself, and to bear the wrath of God upon himself that uh we might be uh made righteous um uh and uh father even that That we might inherit all that he has earned unto himself, Lord, even as thine adopted children. Lord, uh how how we do uh wait with great anticipation and hope that that blessed and glorious uh eternal estate which thou hast promised all those that uh believe in thee. Uh all those that acknowledge their sinfulness that acknowledge they have no righteousness of their own, Lord. But um all the righteousness that they have is is of Christ Lord and Father uh help us to ever walk um in that acknowledgement Lord and to keep our eyes on eternal things and not the temporal things that are here today and gone tomorrow, Father, for uh we know What uh what our end is, Lord. We praise thee and we ask thy continual guidance even until uh the day that we meet thee face to face. In Jesus Christ's name. Amen.