Kind of at the tail end of this study. It's today and next Sunday, and then we're done with Mr. Burkhoff's book. I guess you could say we've saved the best for last Or rather, should I say the most weighty for the last. Today is talking about the final state. And we're going to break this into two pieces because I want to allow a little time for interaction. Hopefully I've got some reasonable questions that are more than stump the. professor kind of questions, but something that gets you to thinking. This one is regarding the final state of the wicked. And it is a topic that many people, I think, shy to talk about because it's not very pleasant. It sounds like we want to scare people. It sounds like we want to uh uh threaten, terrorized. And indeed the the church, if I could use that in the broadest umbrella sense, has abused this in the past. They've used it as a cudgel to get people to donate Give generously or you'll go to hell. And that was the battle cry, you could say, of the Roman Catholic Church in the days of Luther uh all kinds of evil things would happen to you leading up to and terminating in hell if you didn't do what the Roman Catholic Church wanted you to do. They were in charge of princes, of governors, of rulers, of various parts of the land. And so they freely wielded that about. And I believe by abusing the doctrine They made the whole of Christianity stink. And so it's unfortunate that it has been driven into that state of misfavor because of their erroneous ways Our first passage in the handout you have comes to us from the end of Matthew 25. Of all the Prophets, the Lord Jesus was a prophet. Of all the prophets who spoke in the scriptures, none spoke so extensively, so authoritatively, so informingly of the doctrine of hell than the Lord Jesus Christ. He had more to say about it than all of the other prophets combined. It is quite interesting that he spoke and taught about these things. In Matthew 25, 46, we read, and these shall go away into everlasting punishment. He uses a very interesting phrase there, everlasting punishment. So I'm going to open with a question, and that is, what do you think? This is your opinion now. What do you think most people believe about hell? They don't believe it. Okay. Some just deny that it even exists. They don't bel there's no such thing as hell that deny it. Another one is hell is here. Right, so there's denial. They say this is hell. Certainly people's lives are very rough here when you see what's going on I'm not talking about natural disasters like tornadoes and hurricanes. I'm talking about uh human disasters that are just as bad as a tornado and a hurricane, wreaking much damage. All right, what are some other ideas that you think or perhaps you've heard? It's for the really bad people, but not for me. Oh, that's an interesting Yeah, the really bad people go there. So who are some of the really bad people? Oh, the the Hitlers and Hitler's bad, right. Oh hold on just one second. What's that? where they go, they'll go to hell. They go there and they're already Okay, so there's there's a there's a filter before hell called Purgatory. You don't go to hell. Oh no no no no no you don't go there. You go to Purgatory. Ah, all right. Okay. Well, you've hit all the ideas that I could think of and added a few. There's another one I've heard. Maybe you've heard this one. It's a place to party with my friends. I'd rather party in hell than be bored in heaven. I'm gonna go there with all my friends. And I've got three D's for these ideas, these false ideas about hell. A place to party with your friends, that's a deception. It's never listed as a as a fun thing. It doesn't exist. That's a denial. It denies the doctrine. And the third thing, it's right here on earth. Well, they denature it They denature the manner of hell. They reduce the nature of the intensity of it. It's a deception they have, they have a denial, an outright denial, or they denature it. It's not that bad. Uh and uh really it's uh going to be all right. That's their common thinking about it. Well let's see if the scriptures gives us any gives them any hope in those false ideas And we find from scriptures that hell, and this is your first fill-in-the-blank, is both a place and a condition. It is both a place as well as a condition. Scripture describes hell in both ways. So let's look at the first. Again, from Matthew 13, the Lord Jesus speaking extensively about this, he says, and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. A furnace of fire, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. What are your observations on that passage? What does that sound like to you? Punishment. It sounds like punishment. Really bad punishment. Yeah, no doubt. Excruciating. Excruciating torture. Excruciating torture. Alright, that's a good set of adjectives there. The wailing and the gnashing of teeth, right? You're not having fun for sure. When you're gnashing your teeth, you're in great agony. Very good. Yeah, the wailing and the gnashing of teeth. This is interesting, the Lord adds that that bit to it. It's one thing to say they they go to everlasting punishment or they go to a furnace of fire. They're describing he just is just describing the the way. Yeah, he's describing the way of it. He's describing how they would live it out. And so there's a very uh unusual specificity there. You know, wailing When do people really get to wailing about something? Like a funeral. Yeah, I understand maybe this is still the tradition, but in the uh uh the the the old country back back east in the uh Middle East, they would hire professional whalers at funerals so that you would have people going about the street that were they were cr literally crying and wailing on behalf of the loss of your loved one. The wailing it's a time of great mourning and you see that. And also notice that other phrase, gnashing of teeth. What kind of intense pain is that where you're literally grinding your teeth I know a tiny bit about that. In college I had seizures and uh it was basically an electrical storm that goes through your head and when that happens uh when I would come too and wake up, my mouth would hurt and my teeth were just very loose. It's because I've been grinding the teeth. You just wait you're you're grinding it. It's some mental um uh I know why I did it when I stopped all my bad ways. Amazingly those disappear too without medical drugs. So yes, nutrition has a lot to do with it, including things you shouldn't be taking or drinking or smoking, fill in the blank. Wailing, gnashing of teeth, it's a horrific set of circumstances for an individual. It does notice the wailing and gnashing, the implication is this is a state This is your state. Never ends. It never ends. It never ends. It's an ongoing teeth gnashing. It's an ongoing wailing. It's called a furnace. You know, a furnace pastor was preaching last week about being in an oven where it's enclosed, where the temperature can get really hot. It's contained. Those on the outside of the furnace are fine, right? All the intense heat is contained here. But if you're in that furnace, there's No corner of relief, no one corner of the furnace is any cooler than the other. It's all horrific. That's just from two verses, and we've got plenty more to cover. Yeah, not to take your time, but but um whaleing and national teeth also indicates Um regret and anger. Ah, very good. Very good. There's the element of of look where I am and look where I could have been. That regret. And you know when you're angry And that's a good point about anger because we uh actually find in the book of Revelation towards the end when the wicked are overthrown, it says they repented not of their blasphemies That's how evil and wicked people are. Even in spite of the fact that the intense wrath of God is coming. They see the face of him who sits on the throne. They can tell his countenance is not favorable towards them In spite of all that, they're still angry. They're still angry. They still hate him. They don't want to change their way. They want to go, oh, uh-oh, maybe he'll be merciful to me if I do. No, no. They're still angry and that continues. Revelation 20, 14, and 15 says death and hell were cast into the lake of fire This is the second death, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Describes it as a lake of fire. I find that to be fascinating, a lake of fire. Again, fiery furnace. I think the closest we might have ever seen of a lake of fire. Well there was a train derailment where certainly there's lots of fire and smoke going up and the contents fill over into a ditch and there's all this stuff burning, but but that's kind of a a ditch, a puddle of fire. There's a cauldron like from volcanoes, right? There's kind of a lake of fire, molten lava, but that's doesn't even cover the whole state. It's this is a whole lake. You know, when you think of a lake, Texas has lakes. Maryland has ponds. I'm sorry. What y'all call lakes out here are f That's just a f a rancher's pond by Maryland Standards, right, mother? They don't have lakes out there. They have ponds, all right? We call it a pond. And what they call ponds out here, we call water traps, right? You just have that sewage just backed up. That's all you gotta do is just drain that. Lakes are just, you know, they're the size of the county, right? They're huge. And I can't imagine, as far as the eye can see, flames. Just flames. Victoria. fire and war I mean fire along the furnaces. I think of the account where in Egypt the plague of hail, um, the Lord also sent fire to run along the ground. So that would be another instance of that. That's a very good cross-reference. I hadn't thought of that one. Yeah, that was one of the plagues of Egypt. A little sampler. Right. Certainly we think of other instances where a great amount of fiery conflagration has come from heaven. Speaking of it, look at Isaiah thirty-three fourteen. It's the very next one. Isaiah here speaking under inspiration. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings? That's an interesting question Isaiah poses there. He poses the question, who can dwell in such things? A devouring fire, an everlasting burning. That's quite the description. We you know, in the old world did they ever really have a source of fire that would go on for a long time? Oh go ahead, ask you a question. Are we going to see the fire? Are we going to see them burning? That's an interesting question. Yeah, that's an interesting question. Where what is going to be? Yeah, how does that what does that play? What's the relationship between uh the state of the wicked and what they see and the state of the righteous and what they see? Yeah. Yeah. Well uh give me a bit to uh find a place to to put that in because I have a comment I'm reserving that I want to make and maybe we'll tie that in and we'll see how that fits. Well, what I was thinking here is about this devouring fire, everlasting burnings, and the first audience to whom this came, what would they have seen that would have been an everlasting fire? Vesuvius? It took out whole cities. Yeah, it it would have blown it out, but the Jews weren't around for Vesuvius. Well, I mean they were, but they were dispersed at that point. In Isaiah's day, um, was there anything that burned forever? Not forever, but um Adam or uh Abraham had seen Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham saw Sodom and Gomorrah? It went up with smoke rate. All the fire that had been seen, known, and understood through the ages past Vesuvius up until basically, you know I would say 1940, 19 uh the the 1940, 1945, 1944, the only fire anybody had ever seen was a temporary fire. You had to put wood in it to keep it going. Oh, you could stoke it up with liquid oxygen or something like that, but it stopped. What happened in the 40s that maybe changed our thinking about an everlasting fire? You know Owen, you're a history buff. What stopped World War II? Nuclear bomb. Yeah, a nuclear bomb. An atomic bomb. We unleashed the atomic age. We discovered that, oh, there's a source of fire beyond just wood gas and methane and natural propane so forth on atomic level. We discovered, oh, maybe that's the mechanism by which the sun burns. A nuclear fire that can burn. That's at an atomic level. That can go for a mighty, mighty, mighty long time. Interesting. So for great generations, they would have looked at this and you could see everlasting bread. No fires don't go forever. You have to keep stoking it. Who's going to keep stoking the fires in hell? Who's going to keep adding wood? God doesn't need to. Sorry to comment on that. No, but it brought another thought to mind. I think of oral tradition, the only times they would have could have thought of this Everlasting fire would have been when God did something. So like Moses of the burning bush. The Lord came and was there in the bush and that bush was burning on fire. Um and probably I'm sure Moses told others about this, so that was passed on. They had indications, you're absolutely correct. They had indications that the God of the Bible was one who knew something about everlasting burnings and everlasting fire. They didn't have any immediate visible tangible representation. I'm not sure they would have thought the sun was a fireball or not. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't. But even that is not eternal. Even that itself is decaying as well. We go on in one of the strongest passages, I believe, in all of Scriptures One of the most frightening passages that you'll ever find is in Revelation 14. It is among the most serious, the most difficult passages to contemplate in scriptures. It's Revelation 14, 10 and 11. It speaks about hell. It speaks of the wicked who are called the same here. The same, these same wicked, shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God. which is poured out without mixture. There's no dilution to this. Into the cup of his indignation. God is indignant. God is You know, to be indignant about something is to really be ticked off. And he shall be he, the wicked, shall be tormented with fire and brimstone. And Ms. Saba, in your your question here. Notice this, he'll be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. Oh, I'll be in hell partying with my friends. No. I'll be away from Jesus at least. No You're tormented in the presence of the Lamb. Jesus is the one dishing out the punishment in hell. The holy angels that surround his throne, they are the ones dishing out the punishment in hell They are fully responsible for that and they're carrying it out. This is no longer the meek, lowly, suffering servant. This is the omnipotent And I understood that word omnipotent. Omniscient, he knows everything they've said. And omnipresent, he can be a personal tormentor for each and every one of them, ruler that they will see and behold. And notice the rest of the language. It doesn't get better. And the smoke of their torment. Notice that we're torment again. Ascendeth up forever and ever. So this is a state of torment. You know, torment is a tough word. Torment implies there is something bad happening to you. And it's really bothering me, and the more you do it, the more it bothers me. And I don't like this No, some of you know what serious lower back pain is, and there's nothing as arresting as when you hear a pop and something goes out in the lower back. And back pain is very arresting. It is a pain that torments you. It doesn't matter which way you move, which way you go, it grabs your thoughts, it demands your attention. You must resolve this right now. It's a torment. It says the smoke of their torment, they're being tormented so bad that they're smoking. Wow. Ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest. Day Nor night. You know, it's pretty bad when you work a really long, hard day and you maybe bang your elbow and hurt your wrist or something. You're just so tired, you just want to I just want to get a good night's sleep because I'm just exhausted. And if you actually get a decent night's sleep, you can wake up even halfway refreshed and say, oh, that's great. I'll get a nap later today. That'll really help. Can you imagine No rest. You know, that's used as a method of torture in prison camps. Sleep deprivation. It is a method of torture. And God says This goes beyond sleep deprivation. I'm going to ensure that while you cannot rest, you're enduring agony and torment. You see the intensity of the language here. Is there anything more strong that God could impart to a person to underscore just how horrible this is? They say the worst pain that a human can endure is A broken femur. Some of you have had that and can testify it. Wow, did that really hurt? Childbirth, ladies, you rank right up there at the top. Childbirth is pretty, pretty, painful. I believe the only thing listed that is worse are second-degree burns. Third degree burns are not bad because you've lost your nerve endings, you can't feel anything, and that's bad physically, but You've and of course if there's any second degree burns along the way you'll feel those. God mentions the burning. talks about the torment. And if that isn't enough, God adds a little dose of a big dose, I should say, of sleep deprivation. All of this language just is horrific. It's just horrific. Revelation 21. 8. But the fearful and the unbelieving The abominable homosexuality is listed as an abomination. Being effeminate is listed as an abomination. Murderers, whoremongers. There's plenty of those today. It's a legal profession that people think is actually admirable. They actually dedicate parts of the city to whoremongers in some countries of the world And sorcerers. There's little shacks I drive past on the road. You're palm reading here today. The sorcerer, and idolaters. Anybody who's covetous is an idolater. And all liars. This is God's opinion of liars, bearing false witness, because it's not bearing record of the truth, and Jesus is the truth. Shall have, not might have, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. There's a first death that people seek to avoid, oh, but there's a second death that is far worse. You know, it says they're tormented in the presence of the Lamb. So the Lamb is present. God's present. He's there. He's the one dishing out the punishment. And the believers have a part in the judgment process. It says, our God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. It says it twice from Hebrews 12. 29, quoting that passage from Deuteronomy. All of that language is designed to underscore to us the horrific nature of it. Where the saints at that time, we know from the book of Isaiah that the former things shall not be remembered nor come to mind. We know for the saints, and as we will look at this next week, it's a state of great bliss, of great rest, of great comfort. And they are comforted in all that God does Do they see the wicked? Well, there's a passage at the end of the Exodus that says, of the children of Israel, when they crossed through the Red Sea on dry land, it says, And the children of Israel saw the dead bodies of the Egyptians. on the seashore. That great picture of passing that river. It's a picture of redemption. It's a picture of salvation. And the enemy's hot in their pursuit. Of the devil and all of his minions and all of his useful idiots in this world. And when the w the the waters come back and cover them up, again a picture of God's wrath and judgment. We will see the wicked in that state. Always? I don't know. Forever? I doubt it. But I do believe we'll observe and behold. Yep, I see the end on mine enemies. I believe there's a point when Enough is enough, and the believers are into everlasting joy. And even if we do see them forever. It pleases God to do that, and whatever pleases him will please us, our interests, our desires, our Joys all of a sudden will be perfectly aligned with his joys. We will be of the same mind. We will be completely in alignment with God's thinking Yea, Lord, if you say this is what's right, I agree completely. I think that's exactly what's right. It's hard for us to understand now, which is why there is a great book written, The One Thing You Can't Do in Heaven Anybody know the one thing you can't do in heaven? Evangelize. You can't evangelize. That time's over. And that's why the time is now. Question, what would happen to a body? Talking about a human body. What would happen to a body in hell? Disappear. Burn up. Burn up. Alright? If we took our current physical body, we have a way of disposing of our deceased And the land when there's no one who is willing to pay for a decent burial, the state has an approach for you. It's called cremation. They can put you in a particular furnace and it burns you right up. Well, how can hell be ever if forever if the body just goes poof? They have a new body. Ah. Very good. They have a new body. There's something different. Look, for instance, at Romans 9. This is your next fill-in-the-blank. The wicked receive a body that is fit for hell. There is a resurrection. The believers come with a new glorified body. It does not yet appear what we shall be, for we know we shall see him. We shall see him as he is. We'll be like him. It will be a glorified body. Pain-free. Boundless energy. We're called sons of light. It's a fascinating study to consider the final state of the believers. That's next week. But for the wicked, we find that they receive a body too. They have a resurrected body. Hint, it's Their same body, but it's been fitted. Look at this language in Romans 9. Romans 9 22. This is the best insight I believe we can gain from scriptures concerning this fitting. What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath, fitted to destruction. Fitted to destruction. Now that word fidded is an interesting word because it's the same word we find in the book of Matthew when it speaks about the sons of Zebedee. Two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, this is Matthew 4. 21, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. In other words, they're taking that which is broken from the net. that which has holes in it, that which can't contain the fish. And they mend it. They fit it. They're correcting it. They're amending it so that it won't burst loose or break. For the bodies of the wicked, their bodies are fitted, amended, so that they can hold The wrath of God. They can endure the wrath of God. And like that bush that Moses came upon that burned with fire and yet was not consumed. Even so, the wicked dwelling with our God, who in the scriptures is depicted as everlasting burnings and a consuming fire, the Lord Jesus dishing out the wrath As it were, I'll just stand near you and show you all my glory and all my wrath and all my fury and all my power, and they are in a vessel that is fit for that destruction. They have the power of death in their hands now. They can commit suicide. They can terminate their life. But in the world which is to come, they no longer have that power Because even death itself is cast into this. They don't have that power to terminate their life. They can't say, oh, this is too much, I'll just kill myself. No, that option is all gone. You don't have that power. There is no escape for you out of this place of miserable torment. Isn't that horrific? I mean when you just stop. And you just just chew a little bit on the Bible language concerning the horrors of hell. I think if I were to see that, if I could imagine my worst enemy, the people that I'm personally the most indignant against. those to whom I have uh some latent hidden grudges against or or things that I'm just still very concerned about. I think if I were to witness them Endure this kind of God-glorifying, God-law-honoring wrath upon them even for just a month. I think I turn and say, Lord, it's enough. They've endured enough. And a year later, Lord, isn't that enough? And longer and longer. It just, I think for the believer, as I contemplate the fate of the wicked, I kind of get a little less offended at the stench of their sin and begin to realize that This is what you're headed for, and it's deeply, deeply serious. You're not getting off. Do with me as you will, but you're not getting off. It continues in the next column. The wicked, you fill in the blank, they suffer pain. They do suffer pain. It is not a pain-free existence, it is a pain-ful existence. Painful means full of pain. There's an old English word in some of our hymn books. How sweet and awful is the place. Awful doesn't mean bad. Awful means full of awe. How awesome is the place. Here's the way we might render it now. It is a painful existence. Matthew 8. 12 says this. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. There's that phrase again. Everlasting fire. Outer darkness. Torment. Smoke ascending up. And Jesus says in Mark 9, he gives a rather bold proclamation, which frankly, I think people work overtime to remove the import of it. I think it's eminently logical and reasonable. If you believe everything else the scriptures have said concerning hell up to this point, Jesus' reasoning is quite Logical. He says, if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out. If your eye is the source of your sin, you need to pluck it out. He says, It is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Yes, I know that we do not teach admission by the church intentional mutilation of the body. And no, that is not contrary to what the Lord is teaching here. Because my eye is not an independent member in this physical body. The eye is a sensor. Seeing is actually done in the brain, and therefore the problem is in between my two ears. I need to pluck my brain out. Because it's the source of a lot of the sin problem that guides and directs the eyes to things it ought not to behold. And that is the problem. If only plucking the eye out would truly solve my problem, that would be wonderful. I'm not trying to undermine what Jesus is saying here. That does not undermine what he's talking about. In fact, there is a spiritual dimension to what he's saying because he speaks oft times of the church as having members, as the church having a body with different members. And the seeing I in a church would be somebody like a pastor or a Bible teacher And if they begin to offend, that congregation needs to eject them rather than the entire congregation be led into a disastrous part. Likewise with the foot, the evangelist. If they are offending thee, and this is what caused the Presbyterians in the early 30s to reject the mainstream Presbyterian church because their missionaries doubt it openly to their Audience, they were evangelizing. They doubted openly the fundamentals of the faith, the virgin birth. They doubted miracles. They talked about errors in the Bible, and so on. And so they would eject those missionaries, rightfully so, etc. Again, the Lord Jesus speaking. He gives this parable account in Luke 16, 23 of the rich man in Lazarus And I'm just focusing on this doctrine of hell. In hell he lifeth up his eyes, being in torments, it's a state, and seeth Abraham afar off, and he cries out to him, For I have five brethren Let Lazarus go and testify to them, that he may testify to them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Albert N. Martin made a 10-sermon series on the doctrine of hell. He is most famous for that series. I heartily commend that series to your attention. He spent ten consecutive sermons preaching the doctrine of hell to his congregation. I'm amazed at that. It was quite intense. I will not forget some of those passages. He truly spent some time immersing himself into this biblical doctrine and coming back out and with great fear and trembling, warning his congregation And it was a spectacular series. And one of the points he makes is that that same body that committed fornication is the same body that endures torment in hell. That same body that committed these murders is the same body that endures the torments of hell He just underscore it's that same body that did these things. It is a body and soul condition. Horrific. Horrific is an understatement. I wanted to make a comment here for a moment. Did any of you think about um uh yes this is a I have a right answer in my mind, I'm sorry. It's a pop-up question that came to my mind. I'm sorry. If you don't guess right, I don't think ill of you. Think ill of me because I can't think of better questions at times. So please bear with me Listen, do you see a contrast here? Matthew 8. 12, the top of the right column, were cast into outer darkness, but on the left side, it talked about a lake of fire, for instance, in Revelation. There's another place that's called the bottomless pit. How does that do you see something that maybe might make your head scratch to say, well what is that? Joe, you're scratching your head. Well as as far as you know fire and outer darkness, I think of me to the children of Israel when the flame of fire at night was to them light, but to the Philistines I mean to each other. I'm tired of this morning. To the Egyptians it was darkness, but to Israel it was light. All right. Same pillar of fire. Okay, same pillar of fire. You would wonder how, and he's solving the dilemma that I'm trying to pose, which is how do you have A lake of fire, fire as we know it, is burning, it's hot, is bright, in fact, the hotter the fire, the brighter it is, so that you can't even approach to it. But it's also called darkness. Darkness. And then there's also this construct of a bottomless pit, this this pit that has no no end. And people have looked at that and said, well, you know, we we can't fit these things together. We don't know anything. It's obviously metaphorical language for you're just gonna miss out on all you know a few rewards in heaven. It's gonna be heaven's gonna be so great that you're just gonna miss I'm still gonna be in hell partying with my friends. How do you have all that? As some of you know, I'm somewhat fascinated with the sciences, and I'm fascinated with how God has wired this universe, in particular how he's wired us. One of the allegedly smartest theoretical physicists of our time, Dr. Stephen Hawking is a fellow who is constrained to a wheelchair, he can't speak well, he has to peck out his sentences with a pencil in his mouth. And he's considered a genius. He's the one he's recently passed within the past decade. And he is the one who discovered the theoretical foundations for something known as black holes. And they were The tests he put out for them were validated. A black hole is a star that has collapsed and all of its mass is so dense in the center that light can't escape from it It is uh does emanate uh uh a heat radiation that comes out from the core of it. That's how we can detect it, uh, other than you look into this mass and there's this little ring, concentric ring where there's no light. Everything is is bent in towards it is so dense. People have fear, and of course that represents to them, speaking as an evolutionist the moment, a little mini singularity, a singularity is what they claim where all the mass of this entire universe, the whole cosmos, was concentrated in one big clump. Something went bang. I don't know how it ever escaped gravity, but something went bang, and that caused us to come about. That was the source of energy. But let's talk about a black hole for a moment, because some have surmised, well what is it like to fall into a black hole? And I read a description of it and I said, that's hell. What happens? Well, it's hot. It is a fire that cannot be put out. It is an intense heat. There's radiation spewing out of that thing at an unbelievable volume That's the chief way we detect it, is the spewing of heat. It's dark. There's no light coming out. You could not see around you, but you could see outside. They could not see in because light doesn't return. It goes to them, but it doesn't come back. And the sensation would be As you're caught in this gravitational field that pulls you in, yet at the same time there is such a burst, such a torrent of radiation coming out. That you never meet the middle. It would feel like you're always falling, hence a bottomless pit that is on fire. That is dark. I find that fascinating. Shortly before Hawkins died, he repudiated his theory of black holes, saying he wished he'd never discovered it. Because he did not realize how much testimony to the scriptures it would give He didn't like that. Oh, because if there's a black hole and nothing can escape and it can't explode and you couldn't have possibly had a big bang. You would never have something that would describe so close a biblical condition to hell. And he rejected it, even though it had since been discovered. The wicked are snared in their own trap. That's an additional factoid. Don't rely on it. I'm sure they may come up with some other theoretical physical ideas about it that attempt to disprove it. But our God is able. Just as the Old Testament saints could have never fathomed a fire that burned forever until the dawning of the atomic age Don't you try to pull a fast one on God and think, oh, that can't happen. Oh yes, it can. You better believe it. He's got a few tricks up his sleeve that you don't have a clue about. He absolutely knows how to deal with the wicked. This ain't his first rodeo, folks. And he ain't telling you everything. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children. Another way that some people approach hell is they say, well, endless suffering just means a long time, not forever, because really that would be a little too intense. For instance, Revelation 20, it says, the devil that deceived them, verse 10, was cast to a lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. That's pretty intense language. How long is that? Well it's forever. How long's forever? Well it kind of keeps going. And technically, in the Hebrew, as well as the Greek, I believe, forever is the sense of it continues until something stops it So when you read in the Old Testament, the Passover was an ordinance that is kept forever, it would continue until something stopped it. And that would be the sacrifice of Christ, who fulfills it to its uttermost. However, everlasting in the context of hell has to be forever Well, as how we would understand it. Listen to that language in my in Mark 9 and Luke 16. Mark 9, 43. If thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It's better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched. It's a fire that's not stopped. Luke sixteen, beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that they which pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. There's no crossing and it's an impenetrable barrier. It's even more effective of a barrier than the blood-brain barrier you have protecting your your skull and the brains and the contents So, no, the Bible's clear that there is endless suffering. It's just horrific to even contemplate. There's no second chance. There's no back door. There's no I really made a big mistake. I'm gonna fix it. Too late. It really is too late. It's grievous. The last two points I want to make is that the wicked are suffering degrees of punishment. I don't know how this works. To me, if you're in a furnace and it's burning forever and you're in torment and it's a bottomless pit, To me, I don't care what corner or section of that's at, it's bad. And yet God actually describes that there are degrees of punishment, and I don't know how that works out. He says in Luke 12, 47, That servant which knew his Lord's will and prepares not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not The hot and tot in Africa, the the Aborigine in Australia, but did commit things worthy of stripes shall be beaten. With few stripes. There's still a degree of punishment that he has to receive because he's made in the image of God. He has the work of the of the law of God written in his heart, and he knows inherently God insists, he knows inherently there is a God, because the heavens declare the glory of God. He has an inward testimony, he has an external testimony. It doesn't tell him about salvation, but it definitely tells him there's a God And last, what proof do we have? What proof do we have of all this? After church today, if some of you are interested, I'd like to play a little eight-minute video clip. I think you'll find it quite fascinating that really hammers home this point. What is God's proof to us that there is such a thing called hell? We read in Jude 7 that says, even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner giving themselves over to fornication, they gave themselves to it. and going after strange flesh are set forth for an example, suffering, the vengeance of eternal fire. They were set forth as an example. And that word example has to do with the sense of, oh, you can go out and see this thing. And what's fascinating is although some claim they've never actually found the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah, Mr. Ron Wyatt who is a biblical archaeologist who has some positions that I think are unbiblical, but this was his first discovery and he's fought on target, and since then much more information has been found Among the ruins of the region that would have contained Sodom Gomorrah were thousands and millions of little balls of salt. Which, if you dig out of the ash, can be lit and will burn with a blue flame and an acrid sulfuric sulfur. Smoke. It's amazing. It exists. It's there. It's an example. A little piece of heaven's sulfur right there on the ground, God saying, My wrath abides against And lots white was probably turned into a pillar of sulfur as opposed to salt as we think of salt today. That's a type of a salt, really. I think the worm brands will be vindicated. Oh yes, they will be. The worm brands, along with a great many others who were tortured grievously on the behalf of Christ, spending years in a prison. I think they would be among those who might delight for a season to sit there and peer out of heaven's portals to look at the endless torment and suffering, their torment. Who showed them no mercy will likewise face. We have to remember our brothers and sisters in bonds too, for this doctrine is a great comfort to them as well. Anton, would you close this in prayer? Father in heaven. Lord, we look to you and um we do uh praise you that that you've made uh your your doctrine, your teaching clear in the scriptures, O Lord. And uh what a needful warning it is to man to turn him away from wrath, to see the need to uh cleave unto Christ. even for a salvation. And yet, Lord, how just it is, how it does show that our sin truly is uh very wicked and and and evil and and is needful of of punishment. We praise you that that Christ took that punishment for for his sheep, for his elect, oh Lord. And and yet we pray that you would keep us fervent in warning men. that indeed uh they ought to fear the Lord who can uh destroy both body and soul in hell forever. Lord, we pray you would continue to teach us and please uh bless us in the service to come. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.