Luke Luke chapter twenty-one. Uh you can pull it up on your phone as long as it doesn't make noise and uh you can certainly flip through the pages. I want you to look in your Bibles today with me at Luke twenty-one, beginning in verse five. By way of introduction, this occurs at the very end of the Lord Jesus' ministry. It is after the triumphal entry, and he is uh turning up the heat on the religious leaders. And he is standing there in the temple and there are some questions given to him And he then answers those questions with what many widely understand to be very apocalyptic and prophetic teachings. And there is a debate on those teachings. Is he trying to introduce something that is imminent in their time? Is it something that reaches into the future? Is it some combination of the two? And just like many other prophets of the Old Testament, the Lord Jesus being the spirit of prophecy behind the Old Testament prophets. Just like much of their prophecy, it is always very difficult to come along with a fine pen and a dotted line and to say this part applies here and this part applies over there. However, And Luke 21 and Matthew 24 and Mark uh sections of Mark that deal with this, I think it's uh 14 or 13. I tend not to go Mark much because it doesn't add too much to it. is uh one of these passages that you have to deal with if you're going to be touching on end time teaching. People will ask. In fact at our last Fellowship after service luncheon questions arose about that. And so I said, well, I'll give them a thumbnail executive summary sketch. with zero supporting information. Trust me on it. And so today, and Lord willing, next Sunday we'll cover it. So we're in Luke 21. Hopefully Gabriel's pulled that up on the screen for you And we're going to begin in verse 5. There's four basic chunks that we're going to take this in. Four basic chunks. Luke 21, beginning in verse 5. And as some spake of the temple, that's a keyword temple, we're going to look at that. Right out the gate, we already have people that are gonna grab on certain words and say, what does what does he mean by temple? So that's one of the words we're gonna look at. Some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. Matthew talks about how they were pointing out how lovely it was. He said, verse 6, as for these things which ye behold, the days will come in the which there shall not be left one stone, and there's another key word, stone. What stone is he talking about? One stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Verse 7. And they asked him, saying, Master When shall these things be? So here's the questions. And what signs, excuse me, and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass? Matthew 24 actually adds and reveals there's three questions. that are asked. Luke points out two. So when you combine the two, you've got a total of three questions. And again, we'll cover those. Verse 8. And he said, Take heed that you be not deceived, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. And the time draweth near Go ye not therefore after them. But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified, for these things must first come to pass, but the end is not by and by We're in Luke twenty-one now in verse ten. Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places and famines and pestilences, and fearful signs and sights and great signs shall there be from heaven. But before all these, verse 12, they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you. Execute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake. And it shall turn to you for a testimony. Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what you shall answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay or resist. And ye shall be betrayed by both parents, brethren, kinsfolk, and friends, and some of you they shall cause to be put to death. And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not an hair of your head perish. And your patience possess ye your souls. Alright, here's the interesting part. This begins in verse 20 When ye shall see Jerusalem, and there is a key word, Jerusalem, and we're going to talk about Jerusalem. He says, when ye shall see Jerusalem, compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nine. That's another big word, desolation. Matthew talks about the abomination it causes that maketh desolate. Let them which are in Judea flee into the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out of it. Notice, let them which are in Judea, and he talks about mountains. That's another word we've got to talk about. Mountains. What do we do with that? For these be the let me finish reading 21. And let them which are in the midst of it depart out of it, and let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled. But woe unto them that are with child and to them that give suck in those days, for there shall be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people, and they shall fall, but the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive, into all nations And Jerusalem shall be trodden down in the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And I would like to point out that very last phrase that Luke tucks in that Matthew doesn't include and Mark does not include unlocks a lot of the Olivet discourse because that phrase is used elsewhere in the Bible until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Very important phrase. Very important phrase. And it will help tremendously. When I was patiently working my way through this passage in Luke, when I was working my way through Matthew, I was trying to understand the Olivet Discourse strictly from the Matthew account. It's very difficult to do strictly from Matthew. When you bring in Luke and you overlay it as part of the synoptic gospels, that's why God gave multiple accounts. You get plenty of information laid in. This phrase and this phrase alone is instrumental in helping us understand this. So where are we going with this? I'm going to show, Lord willing, hopefully convincingly. But that's okay, you don't have to believe me. That Jesus is referring to the destruction of Jerusalem that ultimately occurred in A. D. 70. But you say, Brother Benz, there's a there's a lot of very bizarre kind of language going on in here and a and what about the verses that continue on in verse 25? We'll we'll talk about 25 to the end of the chapter. We'll talk about that. But I want to anchor this down because I want to show you the approach I took. And it's an approach I haven't seen anybody else take. I'm not trying to be proud about it, I'm just trying to say I felt really dumb and I said I've got to drop this to first gear. And the very first gear we had to look at is we understand the nature of the Bible. Sometimes it sounds very literal. A very surface meaning, right? Thou shalt not commit adultery. We don't really have to go too far beyond the physical level of that to understand what God's talking about. Much of the Ten Commandments, the surface level, where I tell you that's going to condemn the whole human race. Are there spiritual overtones to that, such as committing spiritual adultery? Yes. Does that replace the physical one? No. Because if you commit physical adultery, you are by definition also committing spiritual adultery from your God. And so the commandments are not either or, they're both and in terms of physical and spiritual. However, there are some places that I would submit you must take them. spiritually and physically, and that's the only way that works. And I came to that conclusion by asking that question on each of these key words and phrases that I just highlighted for you as we read through it. So walk with me through that, shall we? Let's first look at verse 5. The temple. Is Jesus talking physically or metaphorically? You know, in the New Testament. What temple does the Bible often talk about in the New Testament? Not the Old, but in the New Testament. You're pointing to your body. The temple of your body, right? He talks about know you not that your body is the temple of the living God, right? That's something that we find. Well, I would like to point out that's not this same word here Totally different Greek word here. It's the word Hieron, number 2411. I have no idea if I'm pronouncing it correctly or not. It's never actually used in a symbolic way, that particular word for temple. Naos, 3485, your body is the temple of the living God. Now that word Can be symbolic, but it can also refer to the physical temple. It can go either way. But this word here, temple, is a physical one. For instance, in Luke 2. 37, you don't have to turn there. Anna, she was a widow. She departed not from the temple, but served God with prayers. Where was she at? Some temple, physical building. Matthew 21, 14, the blind and the lame came unto him in the temple, and he healed them. That's a historical event Jesus was healing people in the temple. First Corinthians nine, know you not that they which minister about of the holy things live of the things of the temple. He's pointing out the fact that Yeah, the priests are the ones, the benefactors of the tithes and offerings that come into the temple. So Yeah, I can't find that talking about a spiritual temple. It seems to lend itself towards a physical temple. And furthermore, he says in verse 6, as for these things which ye behold, right? In other words, these things that you see with your eyes as ye behold. Again, kind of a underscoring of the fact that he's talking about this physical building. Then he looks in verse, let's take a look at verse 6 while we're there. Jesus says, the days will come in which there shall not be left one stone upon another. Stone. Alright? Now, what is that? Now, some trying to take this passage to show that this is all future reference, that this is talking about the destruction of the New Testament church that's in teaching. And They will say, well, see, Jesus says not one stone will be left upon another. Believers will be scattered. Do we see believers scattered now? Yeah, we do. How far can we run with that though? So that word stone is the word lithos. It's the same in verse 5. It was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, verse 6, lithos. It in fact can be both physical and spiritual, but if you're going to go the spiritual path What do you do with 1 Peter 2? Listen to this. He says, ye to whom coming as unto a living stone. Who's the living stone? Jesus Christ. He's also known as the chief cornerstone, same word. He says, ye also are as lively stones are built up. Okay. So if Jesus is talking physically, you're looking at a building and all these stones are going to be knocked down. These physical ashlars, this this brick and mortar. I follow that. That doesn't wrankle me. But if he's talking spiritually, well the stones of that building include Jesus Christ, Moses, Elijah. The prophets, Old Testament saints who have died and gone to heaven, are they going to get ripped apart in heaven as part of this process? Jesus Christ says, I will never leave you nor forsake you except when the stones are cast. I have a problem with that. That starts to run afoul of other doctrines of scriptures, and the context here doesn't drive me to have to adopt that conclusion. So I have a real problem with trying to see a stone, anything other than, you guessed it, Owen, a rock, right? So we don't need to go there. Alright, then we continue on. You see the approach I'm taking? Just honestly asking, do we deal with this physically or spiritually? And which Which weighs, how does it weigh out in the balance of things? Verse 7, look at the questions that are asked. Two are here in Luke, Matthew asks three, and here's the questions. They are, when. The second, what's the sign of thy coming? And the third, what's the sign of the end of the world? We find that in Matthew 24 when he asks that question. In Matthew 24, when he uses the phrase end of the world, the disciples using that phrase, it's not the phrase cosmos, for God so loved the cosmos. No, he's talking about um uh I own an era an age. What's the end of the age? What's the end? It could also be ended world. We talk about Noah, the days of Noah, and the world that then was, that time period. Um some people in California right now are saying their world is coming to an end because the big bank collapsed. That era of safety and security of their finances in an institution has come to an end because of a catastrophic event. That's what they would refer to as the end of their world. We use this in the vernacular, right? But that's the phrase used once the sign of the end of the world, the age, the era. It could also be literal end of the world. So I think it's important to pay attention to which questions are being answered rather than ascribe any part of Jesus' answer to any question of your choosing. So the first thing he's asking is they are asking is when and what's the sign. So they they're very interested to know when are these rocks going to get thrown down, and we'd kind of like to know So we could act accordingly. So, verse 8 through 11, he then begins to answer this question. He says the period is going to be characterized by deceptive men claiming to be Christ. People are going to go to and fro saying, I am the Christ. Now, um, that's interesting. They're not saying I'm a Christian. They're not saying I'm a Christian teacher. They're not saying I'm a godly man trying to start a church. You ought to follow me. What he's saying, there what Jesus is pointing out, they are declaring themselves to be the Messiah come in the flesh. That's what the Christ means. Alright? What's interesting is that Josephus, who was a Jewish historian of the first century, lived in the time-era when all of these events occurred. And he wrote meticulous history. It's the only really solid bulk of historical information we have. And as a work of man, not inspired, it can be evaluated through traditional text critical methods to evaluate and compare, methods which you cannot use with the Bible because that fails utterly. And you can evaluate whether his claims are exaggerated or inaccurate, and you can cross-reference it and look at the time and all that. And to a high degree, Joseph was considered a very credible and reliable witness. He was used by the Romans uh to he he basically defected from the Jews and he was attempting to Work with the Roman government to kind of influence them so they wouldn't be so heavy and hard upon the Jews. He was trying to take that tack And so he would write things to educate the Romans about the Jewish culture, about the Jewish traditions. When he's informing them, sometimes he would just write out lengthy portions of Scripture He gave them the whole Genesis creation account. He just copied it out, gave it to them. What was their law? He wrote out Exodus 20. Gave it to them Deuteronomy gave it to him. And so it his accounts seem very credible. Curiously enough, he wrote concerning This in his book, Joseph's Jewish Antiquities. Now you can pull these down from the internet, you can look. Um Because he's writing in Greek, and it's Greek with a Hebrew-thinking mind, it can be difficult to follow But some people have done a fair job of translating this into English. Let me just read you some of the things that he mentioned that had occurred during that time. I'm looking down to where there's a footnote number three. It's about two-thirds of the way down the first column. A false prophet was the occasion of these people's destruction who had made a public proclamation in the city that very day. that God commanded them to get upon the temple. There sh they should receive miraculous signs of their deliverance. There was by then a great number of false prophets, stubborn by the tyrants to impose on the people, who denounced this to them that they should wait for deliverance from God. And this in order to keep them from deserting, as they might be buoyed up above fear and care by such hopes. A man that is in adversity does easily comply with such promises, for when such a seducer makes him believe that he will be delivered from those miseries which oppress him then it is that patient is it is that the patient is full of hopes of such deliverance. So he talks about these and he goes on and there's there there's quite a length, I'm not going to read all of it, but there's these different individuals that came about As the Romans were surrounding the city, as persecutions were coming down, at various stages, this was a long event. Things didn't move too quick back in those days. It took a while to surround and choke off a city. That these self-proclaimed men would stand up and declare themselves to be the Christ. Stay here, we'll be delivered, God's going to rescue us, he will defend his people. I mean, you can hear all the language. And so there were, in fact false prophets and there were in fact false Christs who did appear and did tell them, No, no, you need to stay here. And Jesus is saying in Luke 21, no, that's the last place you want to be. You you gotta flee. You know, and that's hard. Because if you live in Jerusalem, you're living in the capital. It's like living in New York City, Washington, D. C. Wouldn't be hard to flee Baltimore, so I don't use that as an example. Um all your stuff is there. Your history is there, your family, you know, the pictures on the wall, all the stuff. Jesus says, get out. These weren't preppers that had a Go kid. No, these are not preppers. And so it was a tough message, but it's a message they need to hear if they were going to spare their lives. Alright, we go on. Um These are the beginnings of sorrows. And Jesus says, don't get excited about wars and famines and pestilences and earthquakes. Verses 8 through 11. These signify nothing. So don't come to me and say, Vince, what about the earthquake in Turkey? Does that have anything to do with the end of time? These signify nothing. Jesus says these things will come. It signified nothing back in their day. It signified nothing now. He says these this is the constant backdrop. Wars, commotions, rumors of war, all that, that's that's That's not the sign. That's not the thing you look at. That's not what I'm talking about. Okay? Verse 12 through 19 of Luke 21. Jesus is basically saying, and I'm not going to reread the passage, that evangelism must continue as normal. Now, why do I talk about evangelism? Well, Matthew 10, Jesus used the same kind of language when he was sending out the twelve in Matthew 10. In Luke 10, it was the sending of the 70. In Matthew 10 and 16, he says, Beware of men. You're going to be brought before governors when they deliver you. I mean, this was kind of par for the course if you were going to be a first-century evangelist. You're not going to be received by all with your message. You're going to offend some that are in public rumorship and in leadership. That's going to happen. He says these things will happen We read in the New Testament. It's exactly what happened to Peter. It's exactly what happened to James. They thanked the Lord that they were counted worthy to suffer shame by being beaten by these rulers. He says that's going to continue. So that's evangelism. It continues as normal. Now, why might Jesus say this to them? Any ideas why Jesus would tell his disciples? Remind them about the rough road ahead for evangelism? To prepare them, I suppose. Absolutely. You have to prepare them. To kind of make them think that no, we're not doing anything that Jesus didn't say was gonna happen. It's not an indication that we should stop, right? They might want to just say, well, let's throw in the towel. You know, so to prepare them. Yeah, if you know it's going to get rough, that'll help you continue on. You know, Jesus said, These things I've spoken unto you that you should not be offended. The time cometh that when they think they do God's service, when they kill you. And that happened to the Apostle James. James was beheaded with the sword. So these things indeed came. He says, I've spoken that you should not be offended. You don't stumble. You keep on with this mission. I've got a plan. Just carry it out. Alright, verse 20. Now we're at verse 20. Jerusalem. Jerusalem. What in the world are we talking about here? Well, is Jesus talking physically or metaphorically? Well Let's decide this. I want to look at several key words that are related in this passage that kind of give us some help. One of the words is the word armies. Already pointed that one out. The other is the word desolation. We'll talk about Matthew's description of that. And the other is the word holy place. Uh Jesus said in verse 20, when you see Jerusalem compassed with armies. Well, um that word armies turns out It's the only place used in the Bible. This is the only time this particular word is in fact found in Scripture. Literally means host in the plains. When you see a host in the plains, just a host, a a large gathering of people, they're not there for a big cookout. They've got arms, they've got weapons. And they get an evil look and eye towards you. Alright? So if I'm going to take that word armies, I can't say, well, that's the devil's forces. You know, we've wrestled not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers in heavenly places. That's the armies that are surrounding spiritual Jerusalem, which is a path that some people have attempted to take There's only one problem with that. This is the only time you find the word armies in the Bible. I have nothing else to compare it to to say, see, over here it was used in a spiritual context because it's not It's a reference to hosts in the plane. So I kind of have to take it at face value for the moment. But what about that word desolation? Boy, that has caused a never-ending sea of Mystery. You know, there's some passages in the Bible you can just pull out and just spin all kinds of mystery to it and just kind of bedazzle the uninitiate and just kind of like a magician with some electrified glass ball just make people's eyes just just kind of like the uh what's that kind of fish that lights up the cuttlefish in the ocean You ever seen go watch videos on YouTube about the cuddle fish, C-U-T-T-L-E fish? Fascinating fish. He turns on a light show to bedazzle the crabs he wants to get and while they're sitting there trying to figure out where this neon light show came from, zap, they get nailed. It's a fascinating fish. This is one passage that can bedazzle people Matthew 24 says this in verse 15, when you shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet. And boy, people get excited about that. And they go, flipping back to Daniel and they read it and they go, I don't know what it's talking about. And then you look over here and Jesus says, Oh, well the abomination of desolation is going to show up. What is that? And boy, I have heard no end of things as to what the abomination of desolation is. And there's just a ton of stuff that I've heard that goes crazy on that. Well, first of all, in Matthew as well as in Luke, I believe, oh, Matthew says God points to the reader. Let him that read know that this abomination it maketh desolate is important. Alright? So it's interesting God points the reader, not the hearer, of the Bible to Daniel, not Jeremiah, not Ezekiel, not Moses. And if you go back and look in Daniel, keep your finger here, turn back to Daniel 11, I want to point out a few simple facts. I'm not a theological rocket scientist. I try to keep this real simple here. I try to keep it stupid simple, as I like to say. Daniel 11, 31. I just want you to observe a few things, and I'll point out what I'm observing, and you tell me if you see it too. And that is, there's something that constantly appears right alongside of this phrase, abomination, and it has to do with taking away a daily sacrifice. Alright? Daniel 11, 31. Um I in the right place Yes, and the arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the sanctuary with strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate Alright, so there's a reference to abomination that maketh desolate, but notice what's in connection with it. They're going to take away a daily sacrifice. Did Jerusalem have any daily sacrifices? Yeah, it was their whole purpose. What's the purpose of the temple? What'd they sacrifice? Bulls, goats, calves, turtle doves, all kinds of things sacrificed. How often was it done daily? Pretty regular basis. It was an ongoing thing. There was a fire there that was never put out. It was constantly lit. Go to Daniel 12. 11. Daniel 12. 11. He says, and from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away and the abomination that maketh desolate set up. There should be 1,290 days. Alright, well notice again the phrase, the daily is being taken away, the daily sacrifice taken away. That same phrase used in connection with abomination that makes decimal. That's interesting. Alright. And then you've got in Daniel 9. 27 Daniel 9. 27. I'm sorry I'm out of order here. He shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. In the midst of the week, he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease. And for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate, even unto the consummation, and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate. Again, abomination, desolation. What do we find in association with that? sacrifices and offerings cease. So whatever abomination it makes desolate is, I do know this, is that when it shows up, when it occurs Daily offerings stop. Daily sacrifices come to an end. They cease. They're done. Alright, well, do I take that physically or spiritually? Well, we offer the sacrifice of praise from our lips to God. Is something going to happen over in Palestine that's all of a sudden going to sow up my mouth so I can't sing praises to God? I'm just not seeing that happening. The sacrifices of God are broken in a contrite heart. Does that all of a sudden stop in the New Testament? With whatever you think an abomination that makes that, is that gonna really stop? I just don't see that happening. But if you're gonna have a destruction of the city And you ruin the temple, and there's no stones, are you going to have any place for sacrifices and offerings to be offered and sacrificed? No. You see how it fits so much easier in a physical way, and you have to really strain hard to come to a goofy conclusion if you take it spiritually. That's just two we've looked at, armies, an abomination that maketh desolate. So whatever it is, it certainly caused the Old Testament serial ceremonial laws, sacrifices and burnt offerings to cease. It certainly did that. He did that. Again, Josephus makes a reference. There was a period of time when a Roman came in and he offered a pig on the Jewish altar. Can were pigs part of the Jewish economy? No. Were Romans allowed to be into that part of the temple? No. In fact, if you go back and just do a word search on that word abomination in the Old Testament, an abomination is basically anything that's not acceptable to God. That's all it is. It's not acceptable to God. It's not in consort with His plan, His ways, His pattern, His pictures. It just doesn't line up. And making it desolate, desolation. When a land is desolate, nothing grows, nothing productive, nothing fruitful comes there. I kind of take the sense of this to mean when you see a Gentile doing something abominable in the temple, know that that's a sign. Did that happen in AD 70? Oh yeah, it did. It did happen even before then. Yeah, it did. It wasn't just one event. It was a couple of times it happened And boy that some Christians observed that and said, oh, that's abominable. And as soon as somebody said abominable, One of the disciples who had heard from other disciples of this warning said, uh, not looking good. I think this is what Jesus is talking about. Then we get to this word holy place. Holy place. When you see it standing in the holy place where it ought not. That's what Mark 13, 14 says. Standing in the holy place where it ought not. Again, physical or metaphorical, the phrase is two words, hagios topos, holy place. Holy place is used in Acts 21. The Jews saw him in the temple, and they brought Greeks and said, You have polluted this holy place. That's Acts 21, 27, and 28. Again, a reference to a physical building. Well What is the holy temple in the New Testament? You. You're holy. How do I have somebody standing in me polluting it? It doesn't make sense. I can't make it fit. It doesn't work. Alright, so what are we doing here? By conclusion, for this section in verse 20 about Jerusalem. When Jesus died on the cross, rose again, What did he actually accomplish? What what did that do? His death. Got attention. It certainly got attention. It got God's attention. What did his death accomplish? Yeah. It was particularly done for God though. What did it accomplish? Yes. It was the atonement, the the final sacrifice needed. The atonement, the final sacrifice needed. Because Jesus died on the cross, does God require me to show up in Jerusalem with a lamb for my sins? I say something carelessly to my wife. I've sinned against her. Do I need to offer eternal love or a sacrifice in the temple as a confession for sins? No. I confess the sin to God, I repent to Angelo, and we go on. What further need would there be of a temple? Once Jesus Christ has put an end to all sacrifices and offerings, there is none because those sacrifices and offerings were signs, shadows, and figures that the entire book of Hebrews talks about. That says they were all pointers to the ministry and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. And just like you received a wedding invitation last year of an event that was to occur, it was a glorious thing. Nice picture. No pun intended, but it was a glory uh thing. Uh it was Come on, Sugar, you can catch that one I'm sure. All right. Uh but The invitation, I don't remail the invitation now. It had a point in time when it was very relevant and it was very meaningful, and it involved two real people But the event has occurred. I don't need those invitations anymore. I don't need a sign. I don't need to point people to it. I don't need to hang balloons. I don't need to keep doing that. Now we look back. We do things to look back. We have new events that celebrate and look back. So Jesus is fundamentally foreshadowing that there would come a point in time. When the temple in Jerusalem would serve no more purpose. Do you think the Jews at large are going to say, oh, you know, Jesus died in the cross? Hey, fellas, we don't need to do anything here in this temple anymore. No, for thousands of years Judaism was all about the temple. This is where God's name is. We know God spoke to Moses, but as for this fellow Jesus, we know not about him We follow Moses. We are Moses' disciples. We are all and so that was a very hard thing to unturn. It was deeply entrenched, deeply rooted. You're talking about the fundamental raison d'etra, the reason for the nation's existence was the temple and the sacrifices and the offerings. And what Jesus had done on that cross, fully rejected by them. Would have been of no significance to them had not that temple been absolutely shut down. Well, who is going to shut it down? Worse yet, Jesus told his disciples, you shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem. Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world. Well, the early Christian church started witnessing where? In Jerusalem. Right there. God came to the Jews first. They were to whom the gospel came first. And to Judea. That region where they're at. There were Christians there, born-again saints there, that needed to be told of Leave. You gotta go. It's time to go. Time to move on. And that's what Jesus is doing. He's telling me you're gonna have to get out because I've got to shut the temple down. It's gotta get shut down And furthermore, look at Luke 19. Don't want to back this up to Luke 19 Well uh I'm sorry, not just yet. Not just yet. We'll get to Luke nineteen when we get to verse twenty-two to twenty-four. We go on to make the conclusion, which Jerusalem is in view, when you look at temple, you look at armies, holy place, I only find that those make sense in a physical sense Jesus responding to a comment about a physical temple he and his disciples are presently located at. Jesus, near the end of his ministry to his apostles, tended to speak more plainly. In private, rather than more mysteriously, when in public, one would conclude, I think reasonably so, that Jerusalem can only be understood in this context in a physical sense. I can't find any other way. Now we go to verse 21, mountains. And how many days? It says, let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains. Well Again, I believe mountains have to be understood physically, not spiritually. Now, it's true that mountains throughout the Bible are used symbolically. They're used symbolically of nations. They're used symbolically of the Lord. Our God Himself, the mountain of the Lord's house, shall be established in the top of the mountains. We worship the Lord God in the holy mount in Jerusalem. The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength. Yes, we flee to Christ. He is our mountain. He is our rock. Absolutely. He's our stronghold. And so I don't doubt that mountains can absolutely be a spiritual reference. However Jesus said very interestingly in John 4 to the woman on the well, at the woman at the well, he said, Jesus saith unto her, The hour cometh and now is, when you shall neither in this mountain nor at Jerusalem worship the Father. He said, there's a time coming when you're not going to worship in that mountain. Alright, well that's interesting. So it appears that Jesus says. To them that are in Judea. He didn't say to those that are in the world. He's not giving worldwide instruction. He's talking to those that are in Judea. They need to flee to the mountains. Why would he give that kind of instruction? Well, it turns out, and this is the uh other part of of uh uh uh some of the church father's commentaries And I'm not going to uh take you through all that for the time being, but I've just given it to you for a reference. As the Jews continue to rebel against the Romans, After Christ's death, burial, and resurrection, that all of a sudden certain things happened. Vespasian got sick and tired of the Jews. And as an astute older Roman political ruler, angling to be Caesar, and eventually he did become Caesar, had his son Titus set up armies against Jerusalem He put up encampments to the north, he put up encampments to the west, and Titus put up encampments to the east. He left one avenue open, and that was to the south, where there were, you guessed it, mountains Because he thought no Jew can escape through those passes. It's too difficult. He waited until the Passover occurred, and the city swelled to, as Tacitus says, the Roman historian said there were 600,000 in the city. Josephus recounts there were 1. 1 million in the city Regardless of which number you believe, some people think Josephus's number is a little inflated. I tend to not think so, given how popular and hot Judaism was becoming at that time. He surrounded the city, he cut it off, and he slowly but surely starved to death. But he left this one part open. Now he was slow moving. They were just slowly starving it. But they were trying to really take the entire Judean territory under control, and an edict would soon come to round them up. So the second that they saw all of the things that Jesus mentioned, the only path to safety was to the South. Put yourself in their shoes. You've got these false prophets in the temple. God will deliver. I had these miraculous signs and all these wonderful things I saw And there were very miraculous signs that did appear. Josephus writes about those as well. There were he says that the ninth hour of the night so great a light shone around the altar that it appeared to be a bright daytime. It lasted for half an hour There were these different signs that showed up in the heavens that they couldn't explain, almost gave some credence to these false prophets, saying in the temple, stay here, stay here, Jesus says, no. No, the sign you need to look for and when you see Jerusalem compassed about thee. Matthew says they're going to dig a trench about thee, and they did that too. You flee to the mountains. You can look, have you ever heard of Pella Windows? Pela, P-L-L-A? That's named after a city in Jordan, in the footholds of the mountains. At that time that we're speaking of here in Luke, some Christians remembered what Jesus said. They actually fled, and they fled to Pella. The name Pella Iowa is in honor of that early Christian refuge, where the Christians fled from AD 70 and spared their lives. There were no Christians that were killed. in the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70 because they heard what the Lord said. You see how important this teaching is? Do you see how important it is to the early church? You and I wouldn't even be reading the Bible if Jesus hadn't told them this and said, you've got to get out You see how hard it would be for them to leave. I mean, you're really leaving everything behind, and all you got was the word of God and your life. At the end of the day, what more would you need? I want to talk about the last passage where he talks about these be the days of vengeance. And he says, woe to those who are mothers, those to those that are with child. And now I want to take you to Luke 19. Luke 19, 41 and through 44. And I'm going to close here because I'm out of time. When he, Jesus, was come near, near Jerusalem, he beheld the city and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known even thou, at least in this thy day the things which belong into thy peace, but now they're hid from thine eyes, for the days shall come upon thee. That thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and they shall lay thee even with the ground. And thy children within thee. Remember their cry at the cross? Let him and Let his blood be on us and on our children. They would woe over having said that. And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another. Sounds like what he's already said Uh what he will say a few chapters later, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation Interesting. He says, um, where's the pace I'm looking for? Because you knew not the time of thy visitation. Um I'm looking for the place where he pronounced them desolate. I guess that was Matthew 24. He says, be your house is left unto you desolate. That's another one that's a pretty big one. When Jesus declares to them, and I don't have that handy, when somebody finds it, Joe, maybe you can put your finger on it quick in Matthew 24. When Jesus pronounced to Jerusalem that their house is left in them desolate that they knew not the time of their visitation, that they rejected the Messiah. He's already gone to the cross. He's fulfilled all righteousness. What further need is there of Jerusalem? It was over. Its purpose was finished. It had no more purpose insofar as the Messiah is concerned. And so it's no surprise that Jesus Christ Said, you're done. I'm finished. The gospel will be given to the Gentiles. He gave parables to that end. The early church fathers understood it exactly the way I'm talking about, and that's what this handout is for. You can walk through and see how they understood this portion of scriptures to be understood. Yes. So the phrase you just read, that thou knewest not the time of thy visitation, that's referring to the fact that they did not recognize Correct received him. Correct. Yep. When he came to the temple, all that season of ministry there, because they rejected the Messiah. I'm out of time, but I did get through this and I I trust it was useful. Yes. One of my favorite Bible teachers in college said over and over again, plain sense makes sense. Seek no further sense There's a lot that can be had with that. That's a fairly safe place. A very safe place to be in in many places. Alright, and then next week we tackle a having nailed that down, now you're going to say I put myself into a bind when we look at the second half of Luke 21, and Lord willing we'll do that next week. We have to deal with that completely. Ivon, could you close us in prayer? Thank you. Dear Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the teaching of your word, Lord. uh to be able to meditate upon this uh fortune of scripture lord uh which does very apparently uh Seems to indicate, Lord, your your judgment upon Jerusalem, Lord. The the people that Christ came to, Lord, his very own, and his own knew him not. We do thank you that you uh grant the deliverance to uh your your elect Lord, your your Christians, your believers, to carry forth your word, to proclaim the gospel and to all the nations and to the Gentiles even uh unto now that we can receive it and and carry it forth to to those that are elect that um have not yet heard your word, Lord Uh help us Lord to carry it forward faithfully and uh help us in in doing so. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.