Can you believe it? We are actually at the final chapter of Mr. Burkhoff's book, The Doctrine of Last Things. So when we talk about the resurrection, it naturally leads into this doctrine of the final judgment, which is what we're going to talk about today. I've tried to bring in some more questions. If you have your handout I've got some verses to go before you today. We're going to be talking about the doctrine of the final judgment. The Bible is actually pretty clear that there will be this terminal event Towards which all of history is hurtling towards. It's called the judgment. It is not a popular doctrine It's not something you will hear commonly. Uh I'm not even talking about a hell and damnation, fire and brimstone kind of a message. I'm just talking about the fact that there will be a formal court arraignment You have an appearance in the court of heaven scheduled for you. Did you know that? You actually have an appearance due. You have a notice and a summons that have been given. You will appear there. And so we're going to talk about that, and then I've got some questions to ask about you because I hope at the close of this study that you won't be and start raving mad terror, dreadfully afraid of it, nor will you try to avoid it. You in fact, I hope, will want to run and embrace it And I hope this message explains why that is. So the Bible is very clear there will be a final judgment. In fact, I think Because the Bible is so clear on this is the reason why most men would just as soon push this book away. Because you see, they don't want to be called into ultimate account. We have no authority over this, they said that to Moses. Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us? uh the uh Jews cried out, you know, we have no uh leader but Pilate. That was their cry. They Everybody wants to be out and away from everybody who's dead in sins and trespasses. Everyone who's afraid of this event knows the judgment. Just wants to deny that it even happens. And so I think to a high degree they know what the Bible teaches about this. But to refresh your memory and to kind of sharpen our theological pencils a little bit Let's take a look at some of the passages that are very clear about this. And this is your first section. God will have a final judgment. Psalm 96 says, before the Lord, for he cometh. He cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness and the people with his truth. He's judging the earth And says he's judging the world, a repetition. You know, Hebrew poetry repeats the same theme with different words. It uses a different form of poetry than we use. Our poetry has nothing to do with content. It just sounds pretty. but the Hebrews would rhyme uh thematically the same concept. In Ecclesiastes there's two passages, the preacher, Solomon, the wisest man at the time given there, probably ever been upon the earth until the Lord Jesus. In Ecclesiastes 3. 17, he reports this, I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked. Oh, that's interesting. For there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. God says, under the heavens there is a time. And so the very last Purpose, the very last time, the very last work God has, is that final judgment. That's why we call it a final judgment There are temporal judgments, meaning judgments of God in time. God may come upon a nation, just like he came upon Belshazzar. Meanie, meanie, tukul, tikul eupharsan, you're you've been weighed in the balances, you've been found wanting, the kingdom is taken from you, given to the Medes and Persians. He had a temporal judgment pronounced upon him in time It wasn't universal in scope. It was just directed at him. God does this oft with the wicked. How oft is the candle of the wicked put out? There's a time and purpose for every thing. And of course the final judgment comes at the very end Ecclesiastes 12. 14, God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. And if you have a pen or a pencil, you may want to circle that verse for a little later because I'm going to reflect back on that as we draw near the end. of our section here. There's some interesting things to consider in that. But notice he's bringing every work into judgment. Every work. What's a work? Everything you do with your hands, with your thought, your deeds, your accent. Yeah. Pretty comprehensive. You know, every every work that is done. God's going to judge the construction of buildings. Was it done to his glory or not? Were you building a bigger barn? That's an awesome thought to contemplate, that God brings everything into judgment. 2 Corinthians in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul writes this, he says in 2 Corinthians 5. 10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. See in the Old Testament it said God will do this. Here it says you're brought to the judgment seat of Christ. No, those are not two separate things That's the same throne. That's the same seat. We now have greater clarity as to who's on that throne. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the one. And it says that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. There's another verse to circle. 2 Timothy 4. 1, the apostle writes to Timothy, his young protege, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Speaking of him who shall judge the quick, meaning living, who shall judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. So it tells you when he will judge the living and the dead. Well, the dead are just that, the dead. You can take it in as broad of a definition as you wish. Physically dead, spiritually dead. How can he judge a physically dead person? How's that going to happen? Any idea? That's right, he's going to raise them up. Yeah, corpses don't show up in court. Animated uh dust does in a new resurrected body. They will appear. Can they escape by suicide? Even the ability of death itself will flee from them. See, you see, now man has the power of self-death in his hand. But then in the resurrection? No, he can't do that There's a time coming when he cannot take away his own life because at the end of the day it's the Lord's to give or to take away. If he gives you that power, you have it. And they won't have it. They can't discharge themselves from court. 1 Peter 4, 4 and 5, the Apostle Peter here writes. He says, wherein they think it strange speaking of the wicked, that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you, who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the living, the quick, and the dead He says, these people who speak evil of you, they're going to have to give an account to him who is ready. You see, the court of heaven doesn't need a lot of paperwork It doesn't need a long process. It doesn't have to see if the writ assertiar. I don't know what these things are called. I'm not a lawyer. Uh maybe Anton could give me the the the Yeah, there's our business major that knows these legal terms back here. So uh the proper writs, the proper documents. I yeah, I I can't even pronounce it, so I I God says he is ready for the judgment in any moment. He's ready. He doesn't need to wait. The only thing that lacks is your presence. And your presence isn't there because there's other things that have to happen. But he's ready. He's not waiting around. He doesn't need to spend some time for due diligence. I won't belabor that point. Well, we've had a handful of verses thus far, and I want to ask a question here. So when you hear the word judgment In this context, the final judgment, when you hear the word judgment, what comes to your mind? Or what do you think comes to the mind of other people, other Christians who might hear this? So for the wicked, it's a day of dread, a day of terror. Um but they obviously like to say, Well, I don't believe in that, so therefore I'm not gonna be under that Fear, but there is fear because of how the Lord is going to judge them. Okay, so you tied a couple of things together there for the wicked. They uh have thoughts of dread, fear and terror. It's the idea that perhaps they don't think they're gonna have a positive outcome. And then they have a fear of hell on the backside of that. Okay, that's good. What are some other thoughts that you or you think others might have want to hear that word judgment. Or even the word judge, yes. I think that they think that they will be judged once their works and they think and I think they think that um their works when they are being judged that it would be good enough to say that you're good to go, you're like forgiving. Ah, okay, sure. They think that um and I've actually had a a youth pastor at Irving Bible Church tell me this, that, you know I think the works that you've done that are good will outweigh the bad works. They kind of give the scale thing that, yeah, you know, we're not perfect, but you know, you you you did some night, you know, help an old lady cross the street, you know. and and and help some some some woman with the weeds in her yard or you know uh I did some nice that's sure well that's gotta give a lot of weight, you know. Come on, that's gotta be pretty good. They're the way they're bad. Yeah. They think they'll be good to go. Think everything's fine. Yeah, absolutely. Right. Okay. Okay, well we're going to continue in the study here now, and I'm going to use the who, what, when, where, why, how method to try to give us some sort of a outline, a structure. I I had some thoughts and here I sort of rearranged it. So let's look at the when When Judgment Day occurs. Now, this is pretty important. As I had mentioned in previous studies, I had been misled with the idea of a premillennial pre-trib rapture, that there would be this thousand year reign of Christ here on this earth. And one of of course the benefits to thinking that view, at least it's a wrong benefit, but here's the wrong benefit that comes comes to it from an unsaved mind at the time, was that it puts Judgment Day at least a thousand years away. It says, oh man, that thing is so far off I mean, we we're gonna have Christ come. There's gonna be all these miraculous things. Hey, I may not make it in the first round. I may miss out on a few rewards. I may go through hell on earth, but I get another chance. Then I'll know this thing is real. And I'll make a note on the calendar. This is when he came, plus a thousand years. Okay, that's judgment day And I'll just let all my descendants know. Get ready, because this is going to be a big deal right here. That was my thinking. And it's kind of, frankly, an inescapable conclusion if you hold that view. If you're really thinking through, you're really dreading Judgment Day, but you're told, don't worry, it's later, it's later. Well the Bible is very clear that judgment day occurs, and this is your first fill-in-blank. When? When does judgment day occur? On the what? The last day. Absolutely, that's when judgment day comes. It's on the last day. We are in the last days, plural. We know that from passages in the book of Acts We know that from statements in other places in the New Testament. We've already covered that. If you want to know where that's at, I'd be happy to share it with you But John 5 is a classic passage. In John 5, 28 and 29, he says this, marble not at this. For the hour One hour is coming in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice and shall come forth They that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation. So they'll hear his voice. Well, to hear his voice kind of means he's present. I'm not talking about, you know Some mystical thing in the back of your mind. It's at his coming, and they come forth, and so it's on the last day, but it's immediately after the resurrection of the dead That's how God's assembling everybody in his courtroom. It's real simple. Boom, general resurrection. Question mark. Does cremation prevent somebody from coming forward on the judgment day? See how vain man's efforts are? Now, Brother Bernie was cremated, but he preached and taught that there ought to be a decent proper burial. that in the Bible it was not ever put forward as a good thing when the bones of them that were dead were burned. That was always listed for the wicked that was therein. The proper burial was the tradition, was the custom, was the habit of all good Christians throughout, all good men of God. Women of God in the Old Testament. Joseph said of his father Jacob. He says, Take up my bones, I will not be buried hence. He wanted his bones to be buried in a different place. Brother Bernie was cremated because he did not want to trouble the brethren and expense with uh funeral expenses, and so he donated his body to medical science, and so what they did with it, they did with it. And in ver inevitably, I'm sure at the end they would not have given a decent barrel, they would simply take it away from cremation. But he his his purpose was not to to burden the brethren. He didn't want to lay a ten thousand dollar charge on them. So I give him a pass for that. I understand why you want to do it. I absolutely would have given him a decent burial. But the wicked think that cremation is a great way to make sure they don't stand before the judgment seat. The Roman Catholics have done that to Wycliffe. They dug up his bones, they burned it, and they scattered it over the Thames River, thinking this will decemb this will make sure this this error doesn't come forth again. how parabolic that was because as the ashes of Wycliffe scattered across the planet, so did his translation. God repaid their ways back. That's the when, the last day. What's the what? The what is the standard of this judgment throne. What is the standard? What's the criteria? You're hauled into court. Of course, the first question out of your mouth is, what are the charges? Well the standard of this judgment throne is God's revealed will. God's revealed will. That's not going to judge you for something he's never told you. But he has revealed his will. And he insists that every single human being knows it. He insists on it. God doesn't believe in atheists. He doesn't hold their idea. The Apostle Paul in Romans gives the clearest insight into this. that God's revealed will is the standard. Romans 2, it's a lengthy section. I'll try to break it down for you some. Maybe Gable can pull it up for our viewers. Romans 2 And verse 5 is where he begins. As you know, in Romans he's covering a lot of preparatory doctrine. And he's getting down to the doctrine in the first three chapters of condemnation, this condemnation of the law of God upon the human race. And so he's laying out his case. And he says in Romans 2. 5 But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasures up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Notice it's a righteous judgment. It's not an unrighteous judgment. I would make some political comments on this, but I'll refrain. Who will render to every man according to his deeds And so he gives a comparison of what he means rendering or giving to everybody according to their deeds, to them who by patient continuance in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. In other words, this is not, this is the characteristics of those who are God's elect. This is what they do. They patiently continue. They seek for glory. They seek for honor and immortality. But unto them that are contentious, they're contentious, they're argumentative, they do not obey the truth, they reject the truth, they trample on the truth, they deny the truth, they come up with the false truth. But obey unrighteousness, what do they get? Indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish upon every soul of a man. And that don't doesn't limit it to men. There's not a separate criteria. The word man is anthropos. If you're human, that's who he's talking about. Every soul of a man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile. Notice who's first in line. The Jew first. Why do you think the Jew was first? Because he was first in his heart. First in in his heart? Okay, you're close. Go a different organ. Go a little higher First in mind, first in line, they were the first ones that were committed the oracles of God. How about just first? Yeah, yeah, that's correct. They had to them were committed the oracles of God. I I can go with first in his heart, that's fine. Also of the Gentile, but glory, honor, and peace to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile. Gentiles were never an afterthought in God's plan of salvation. In fact, the very first Jew was a Gentile. It started with the Gentiles, you could say, Abram. The Jew, the Hebrew. Romans 319 is very instructive because even though National Israel received the oracles, the lively oracles, the Ten Commandments, and of course the entire Old Covenant, they were the first to receive it. He didn't give it to the Moabites The Philistines, the Egyptians, gave it to the Hebrews, the Jews. And so the question comes, if it was given to them, isn't that the end of that jurisdiction? Doesn't the law of God just apply to the Jews? Because it was given to them as the basis for their nation. Well, listen to what the Apostle Paul says about that. He says in Romans 3. 19, now we know that what things soever the law saith, and I believe he's referring to, I'm going to be very, the old covenant, but in particular I would say the moral code. the moral code of the old covenant, the thou shalt's and thou shalt not. It saith to them who are under the law, Well who are them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before. God. You see, innate in every human heart is the knowledge that it's wrong to commit adultery, that it's wrong to steal, that it's wrong to commit murder. And I can prove it to you. Because even as you begin to dialogue with people about it, listen to how quickly they come up with an excuse. They already sense they're in a courtroom Oh, but as soon as you hear that word butt, it erases everything that came before it. Yeah, I know I I I stole some music off the internet, but Don't ever catch me, but you know there's all kinds of they're already making an excuse because they know our own tri they know their own trial All the world will become guilty before God. Before what? Before his law. And so the standard of this judgment is the law of God. It's his revealed will, his will is revealed in his law. And that code opens up with the beginning, you shall have no other gods before me. God expects universal obeisance. He expects universal obedience. He expects the universe, the entire planet, to worship him and him alone. Why do you think God insists on that? Is that right for him to insist on that? Is he just being a big bully? Why is it right for him to insist on that? You can't control people unless you have them under hand. Okay, all right. You have to be in charge. Somebody has to be in charge. So that's a pragmatic reason, all right. Uh uh Ivan and then Joe. Well yes, he created them. Yes, he created them. As a silly illustration, I printed out this piece of paper, which happens to contain my notes for today. Now it's inanimate, but if there's an error on it, and I'm not suggesting God makes errors, but if there's any reason whatsoever that I don't like it, I can put it in a shredder and print a new one. I expect this paper to reflect What I put on it. I have every right and expectation. You do too. You make something. Victoria strikes the keys in the piano. It better sound. That key better sound what she hit. If it doesn't, we gotta fix that. It's her right, it's her prerogative Well God is the universal creator. He breathed breath of life into the dust. So when men create ashes, They're not making it difficult for God in cremation. This isn't hard. I mean they really think they can outsmart God. So yes, it's perfectly right for God as creator. And That's another reason why evolution is popular. We don't want a creator because they fully understand that I have obligations to a creator And they don't like those obligations. They want to do their own thing. They are very clearly children of the devil. Children of the devil. Alright. So that's the when and that's the what. Now we look at the why. Why would God judge? Why? Well, why is because God's judgment is just and fair. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. It is just and it is fair. People who don't like the concept of a universal creator, or I should say the truth of the universal creator don't like it because they feel that he is despotic. And actually that's a very good word, but in our language it has been perverted to an evil thing. And in all fairness to those who would ascribe the word despotic to an evil thing. Despots among men, meaning totalitarian dictatorial rulers, tend to be just evil. History is littered with more evil totalitarian rulers, Pol Pot, the communist regimes. Chinese regimes. History's been literally and I that's only in recent memory, I'm sure if you go back in time. Pharaohs You always find that when you give all the power to one dude on the king of the hill, he just rules with an iron fist. Little more. Who's that? Baltimore. Baltimore Challenge. Yep, and it's a wreck. So You find, however, the rare individual, Julius Caesar, to a degree, George Washington, was basically hailed with the strength of the king and yet he wanted to establish a new office called president and calmly walked away from the office and did not interfere at the end of it and set forth an excellent example for the nation There are the rare individuals who get up into these powers, but by and large, they're wicked. So what is it about God's judgment? Why do we say it's just and fair? Well, let's look at God's reasons why he insists it's just and fair. His law is universal. He insists that it's out there. So you read in Isaiah 65. 12, for instance, God says, Therefore I will number you to the sword. You shall all bow down, ye, plural, text is for y'all, shall all bow down to the slaughter, because when I called, ye did not answer. That's fair. He called, you didn't answer. I don't have to answer. Wrong statement. He's the creator. God calls. You must answer. When I spake, you did not hear. Do you ever hear in scriptures about people sticking their finger in their ears at the preaching of an individual? Mark Leakey had that literally happen to him. He was declaring the word of God to his mother-in-law and she just stuck her fingers in her ear and said, don't want to hear it, don't want to hear it, don't want to hear it. No, not his mother-in-law, his mom, his very own mom. Stuck her finger in her ears. Is his mom or his grandmother? I forget. Somebody that was near of kin. When I called you did not hear, but did evil in mine eyes, and did choose that wherein I delighted not They didn't care to figure out what God delighted in. Or if they did, they said, oh, okay, he delights in this. We'll do exactly the opposite. And that would be so human-like. Ezekiel 18,20, the first part, the soul that sinneth, it shall die. The wages of sin is death, and the death God has in view is eternal death. The soul that sins, it shall die. The Son shall not bear the iniquity of the Father, neither shall the Father bear the iniquity of the Son. And this is a marvelous commentary on the opening portions of the Ten Commandments, where God says That he is visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and of the third and fourth generation of those that hate me, and showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. My dad understood the Ten Commandments as a young, unsaved man. And he thought, I'm a goner. I'm sunk. He told me this story. I know it's true. Because of what the Ten Commandments says. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers into the third and fourth generation. He says, My fathers were very iniquitous. I'm lost. I'm sunk. There's no hope And so he was despairing of that. But God graciously, years later, said, oh no, it doesn't have to go that way. And Ezekiel is a good comment on that. The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father. I try not to interrupt, but um on that same vein, good friend of mine who was born illegitimately and the the condemnational bastards entering into the Absolutely. Absolutely. Good good good observation. Romans 2, the apostle again giving us a lot of instruction concerning this matter of the judgment, God's criteria. He insists that God's judgment is just and fair. It's a long section. Romans 2, 12 We might have uh be able to pull that up on the screen. Romans 2. 12, where we read this. For as many as have sinned without the law, meaning outside of the law, or with without possession of the law, shall also perish without law And as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. Now, he's like the apostle, he writes in these things hard to be understood Thankfully he explains himself, and it's put in parentheses here. It's one stream in the Greek, because they can string together a multitude of thoughts, and they don't even use spaces between the letters, so it's really intense But the English translators have added parentheses to explain this for you. And here's the parenthetical explanation. And it's in the Bible, Romans 2. Uh twelve through sixteen. I don't have a verse reference here. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. Just because you stood around a courthouse as they read the law doesn't mean you're good. You had to do it. Just hearing it doesn't count. For when the Gentiles of the Gentiles, they didn't hear, for the Gentiles which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law. having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. God insists that by virtue of their creation There is a sense, a moral sense, there is a compass in the heart of man. He does have a moral compass. Now, if you've ever held a compass in your hand as a kid uh and you and you turn quickly or you bring a magnet and spin it around. You can have that needle spin every which direction you want to. But left free of outside interference and you let it sit there It aims in a particular direction. So it is with the hearts of the sons of men. They have a moral compass. They know right from wrong. God insists they know. But in the presence of wicked influence, but in the presence of great drunkenness, you're you're stoned and drunk, but in the presence of all kinds of things that can rob your judgment and twist that compass Then yes, you can pervert it. It speaks of those whose consciences are seared by a hot iron. But God insists there's a compass there and they know And he says, they in fact will be judged by that because they did know. They silenced that little inner compass. Their conscience, it says, also bearing witness Their conscience bears them witness. The very first word this kid who posted a bunch of secrets from his classified access on his job out of the 102nd Intel wing for the Air Force, he was with the Air National Guard, to WikiLeaks. The very first word he searched for, another another three-letter agency figured out exactly what he was typing. I'll let you guess who that was, was leak It's a conscience. He wants to know, are they looking for the leaker? What do they know about me? He was trying to hide his tracks. Well God says your conscience will bear you witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. But him. Why'd you stop me, officer, for running through the red light? These other people did too. They blame somebody else. It's not my fault that I, you know, got angry at the bar and beat this guy over the head with a club. He called me a fill-in-the-blank. It's their fault. Or an excuse. I had a bad day. I had a whatever God says, Yeah, yeah, that that's just a testimony against you. That's all that is. Um I sees right through that. Like little kids come to mothers with the lamest of excuses. Mom just sees right through that nonsense. Nope, nope, you're busted. You're so busted. I'll tell you a good story about how I got busted years ago, but that's for another take. There's the others. I'm just going to cover Luke 12, 47, and then I'm going to move on. And that servant which knew his Lord's will and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not and did commit things worthy of stripes shall be beaten with few stripes. I think this also gives some insights into this statement where the apostle says to the Jew first and then to the Gentile Because the Jew of all knew what God's will was. He revealed it very clearly to them. They knew and they did things greatly in violation of it. He says, No be beaten with many stripes. But the one who didn't know, but did things worthy of stripes, meaning it wasn't as clearly revealed, but it was revealed. They'll be beaten with stripes. They don't get off. No one can say, well, I didn't know. Oh Paul says in Romans 2, yeah, you do. You absolutely do In fact, you can find evidence of that in the Old Testament because the Mosaic code in writing was enscripturated in Exodus 20 and following. Well, there's the whole book of Genesis before that. And in Genesis you find Abram made a tour through Egypt and he was afraid because his wife was pretty, and he told her, So you're my sister, so he would spare his neck. The king took her God prevented anything from happening. And when the king found out that she was Abram's wife, do you remember how the king reproved Reproved Abraham. He says, Wow, could you have done this great evil to me? I might have had tremendous disaster come upon me. He's a wicked king. You don't read about a general outpouring of Egypt to the faith. You don't hear them thanking the Lord that a prophet went to their midst. Even the king knew this is an evil thing. I cannot touch another Man's wife. How do you know that? Compass in his heart. That's why. Next slide, next page. We've looked at the what, the when, the why, and now the who. Which is the point of all this? Who? Who will be judged? Your next fill-in-the-blank? Every individual Every individual of the human race. In Matthew 12, we read the following in verse 36, but I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. 2 Corinthians 5. 10 says, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. All. That's a mighty big all. And in Revelation in 2011, I saw a great white throne, this is the Bhima seat, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away. Wow Resurrected bodies, they're in a form that doesn't need a heaven and doesn't need an earth, and you have no earth or no cave to hide in. It's fled, it's gone. As it were, you're suspended In what? I don't know. Before God Almighty at his throne, from whence shalt thou flee? And how are you going to flee? Where are you going to go? There's no earth, there's no heaven. Let's go on. There's no stars, no planets, no exoplanets, no escape route. You're there. It's just you and God. That's the scenario Scripture describes, folks. That's pretty universal. And it says, and there was found no place for them. It underscores the fact that you've got nowhere to go. You know, there's millions crossing our border illegally, and when they do get processed and are released back into the country, the piece of paper they're given is you have a court date, please show up for court. I'm betting a lot of them are not showing up for that court date. Guess what? Not happening in God's program. I like the bumper sticker on Mrs. Ross's car Uh heaven has strict border control policies. Hell has a wide open border policy. Yeah, you better believe it. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and back in Revelation 20, verse 12, and the books, listen to this now, the books were opened. and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. Now, in this verse I have a question. It mentions two sets of books. What do you think those are? Anybody? Two sets of books. Victoria. So I would think that the Booked the multitude of books would be referring to all the wicked, those who are not going to heaven, those who God is going to judge and they're going to put us in the hell because there is many who So re what do you mean referring to the wicked? Yeah it applies to them but what do you mean the books you saying the books are the wicked or let's say The names of the wicked in those books. Right. Okay. Alright, that's one thought. Okay. And then the other book is one with the names of the righteous. Okay, I agree. Yep, we got names in there. Okay. What else? Uh let's keep going. That's not wrong. I just want to keep rounding it out some It's one of those bad questions, isn't it, Deterium? I've got the right answers. Everybody's trying to guess the right answer, but nobody wants to answer because they don't want to look stupid. A cup of dirt. Keep keep hanging me for that picture. I'm just letting her know that she's doing good. Yes, Miss Betty, go ahead. The last part says the things which were written in the books. So there must be facts about these people and their words are mentioned. Oh very good That's a dynamite observation. I even missed that word things. Yes, so the passage actually tells you what's there, the things which they have done. So it's a list of names and a list of deeds next to the names. There's a name. So for the wicked says books plural. God's been busy. He's got a stenographer in heaven that doesn't let up. The scientist side of me has an explanation for that. I uh uh thought you we could talk about that later if you like as to what that might actually look like. So yes, it's a list of deeds. God's not gonna forget. He has an archive. He has an archive. It's all recorded. It's all recorded. That was without error. Without error. Nobody's tinkering with it. He's got it. It's infallibly kept. Who else is judged? Demons are judged on that day. There is a spiritual realm. Did you know that God on the cross, when the Lord Jesus Christ shed his blood, did not pay for the sins of devils? He would have to have become a demon. There was no sacrifice made for that created order. They rebel, and we read. In Jude 1. 6, the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Demons are judged as well. Wow. Can you imagine standing before God and you look around, you got a bunch of really, really wicked, evil-looking, demonic individuals there? Yeah, you're in the company of the fallen angels. Yeah, that's not you're you're in the wrong company at that time. And in fact, they know it. This is the scary thing. They know it They absolutely know it. In Matthew 8. 29, when Jesus came, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus? Thou son of God, art thou come thither to torment us before the time? This is Matthew chapter 8. This is a full eight chapters before Simon Peter said, I know that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. The testimony that Jesus was the Christ came from the mouth of demons before it did from Peter. And he says, are you come to torment us before the time? He knows he's being judged. He knows he doesn't have any salvation and he knows there is an appointed time and he says oh he's here early so he knows not he has no insight into salvation because it's not for him That's a that ought to raise a hair on the back of your neck, frankly, if you think about it. If you really think that through. The demons of hell have a far better understanding of the judgment than dare I say the average Christian in the broadest sense But glory be to God, and this is where I want to spend some time. The believers are exonerated at the judgment seat. Do you know what that word exoneration means? Because if you don't, I want you to understand what it means. To be exonerated, what's exonerated mean? That's the reputation's complaint. Completely erased. Erased or forgiven. Yes. Yeah, the bad reputation is erased. The good reputation is restored. Yes, correct. To be exonerated means all kinds of grievous things have come up. Ivan is a cheat, Yvonne's a thief, Yvonne is, you know, uh uh slow belly and accretion and a liar, all the things I want. And then all of a sudden his wife comes forward and says, I beg your pardon. And comes out and lists out all the proof and he's exonerated. Okay Believers are exonerated with the judgment. God does keep a list of your works. He says, You've given a cup of cold water in my name. You've ministered to the saints. You're one of mine. Oh, you have the Lord Jesus Christ as your mediator. Come ye blessed. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Believers are exonerated. And so when you read, for instance, at Romans 1410 But why dost thou judge thy brother? Why do you set it not thy brother? We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ The apostle isn't threatening the Romans by saying, don't set your brethren off, because God's going to judge that. That sin's going to be punished. You're going to get a spanking. No, no, no, no. The psalmist says if God should mark iniquity, who can stand? He's not marking iniquity. He's saying, this is your brother. He's going to be exonerated, and you're going to be exonerated. Y'all are on the same team. If God is approving him, you ought to approve him. That's the encouragement given. It's not that you're going to get smacked around a bit, boy, I can't wait till God gets a hold of you and gives you a swatty stick. God don't guess why he sticks at the judgment day, folks. There's one of two outcomes, heaven or hell. It isn't purgatory. It's kinda it's not a holding pit. It's not, well, try it again. Not performing other planet, see how they do this time around. No, that's just fiction. That's fantasy. It says in 1 Thessalonians 5. 9, for God hath not appointed us to wrath. He hasn't appointed his people to wrath. You see, that's one of the two outcomes on Judgment Day. Wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, and that's the other outcome, when your salvation is fully completed. So that's the outcomes. God hasn't appointed us to wrath. Who are and so we looked at what have we looked at? When, what, why, who, we look at how. How does this all transpire? How is this going to roll out? Is there a a formal summons given? Is there a a line? Is there a bailiff? Is there what what what's going on here? How? So we're going to talk about the judge. We've already talked mostly about the judge. Now we're going to talk about his assistance. And that's your next fill in the blank. The assistants in the bottom left. The judge and his assistants. He actually has some assistance in this. The first is Christ as the mediator is the judge. Jesus Christ is the mediator, and he's the judge. Well, aren't you glad that you have the judge as your father and you've been talking to him all your life, right? And you've been praying to him and you've been reading his word and you've just been delighted in it What a great time to have the judge as your father. You know, in our land, it's Not uh right for a judge who has any kind of connection to the case, he is supposed to recuse himself from that And the reason being is because among sinful evil men who are so prone to being having their internal moral compass affected externally and to giving improper, corrupt judgment, they are recused and removed from that. That is not the case with the Creator. He is far above all of this. He has a complete perfect right obligation for all of us And he will judge fairly and right. We've already covered that. And lo and behold, glory be to God. He has adopted you into his family. At that time, he's not about to set himself aside. Your family. And so you're standing before your Heavenly Father. That kind of makes it a little easier, right And unfortunately, in our day, we have many evil fathers who were very abusive to their family. In so doing, they also damage the child's concepts of good biblical fatherhood. I'm really out of time. I want to point out the next part on the column, and I'm going to have to skip the part about the angels, but believers have a role. They have a role in Judgment Day. In 1 Corinthians 6, 2 and 3, the Apostle Paul writes this, do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge, oh, bless my soul. We shall judge angels. How much more things that pertain to this life? The Apostle Paul is smacking the elders of Corinthians upside the head. Come on, guys. You got a guy here who's doing something really bad. You should know what to do. Because don't you know that believers have a part in the judgment? Masaba, you're going to be part of the judgment process So when it says we stand before the throne of God, here's how I envision this. Why not look it up in terror? Pardon the profanity. Right there with him. Psst Lord. That's Hillary Clinton. Let me tell you what to do with her. I got some ideas for you. Hey Lord, I know that evil person. We're part of the judging process. Does that make you feel a little better about it? Does that kind of remove the terror? But since we are judged by our works, have you forgotten what imputation means? Do you know that you don't have your own righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. God looks upon you. You're just like my son. That's amazing. That's amazing. You close this in clear. Father, we thank you for your word and for glorious promises found therein. Father, we thank you that We, your children, are fully justified. And I don't think we even really understand what it means to be fully justified Because on this side we we look at ourselves and we see our sin. And we cannot see as God sees, but then we will know even as we are known, for we'll see face to face. Father. Lord, I thank you for the the teaching this morning. I thank you for the uh clear exposition of thy word. Father, may you apply it to our hearts and prepare us, Father, for the worship service. Uh Lord, I rejoice again and again how the Sunday school and the word the uh morning message seem to so often go hand in hand and one compliments the other. Uh you have blessed us, your people, with your truth today already, and pray whether you You bless us further. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.