But today we now begin to turn to what God does about this. And I think it's a tremendous treasure. It's kind of like the word Trinity. So he's made this agreement, but now how does it connect to dead sinners? We're going to look at some Old Testament passages which connect us with the idea of a covenant with the Messiah. Let's start off with Psalm 89. There's many things that he then continues to say about his servant David. Then it says here in Psalm 89 that God has made a covenant with his chosen and the one whom he chose And if he didn't say that of angels, well, he certainly would have said would not have said it of just mere men. He's here. In other words, in the book of Malachi, when he said, I'm going to send Elijah the prophet before the great and notable coming of the day of the Lord. The New Testament is that key that unlocks a lot of those shadows, and then you see another whole level of wisdom of the scriptures that comes forth. In Matthew 12, he is out and about. Now what's interesting is that Matthew under inspiration says this, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. Now this quote is not word for word. So here, the people, it turns out, is much broader in view than the Jews. Second Timothy 1 9 says this, who hath saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus when? You just, you know, whenever I want to look for work to do, I just walk around the house. He says in John 17, 4, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. I mean it sounds like, you know, uh some of these have you ever seen pictures of the of the North Vit uh of the North Koreans where they have these huge building projects and and they have these massive hotels? How does that happen? And we powder the child up and kiss them and hug them and get them out of their misery. I don't go to the hospital as often in the emergency room, and I'm not drunk and falling down stupid as often as I used to be, and I'm not making these same old dumb mistakes I used to be. He's obligated himself to do that because he's appointed his son a kingdom and a king has got to have a kingdom with people. But I don't bring sacrifices. So there's the differences. The subject of the covenants is a broad one. They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. In a new chapter this week in the Summary of Christian Doctrine, we have been covering for a while the sad state of affairs concerning fallen man and his relation to God. to show you the biblical proof for it and to try to spend a little time in this key text, the very, very important texts that underscore this Some have viewed it as a foundation going up. And the Messiah, the one who would come. That's a covenant between God and man. Some theologians have said that they have uh gone through the Bible and identified twelve different covenants either related to this or not. And then it goes on in verse 20. I want to get to. Uh it's on made. And that one might not have caught your attention, but it turns out that this section of Scriptures is effectively declared to be messianic in the first chapter of Hebrews. superiority of Christ. Psalm eighty nine, twenty six, thou art my father, my God. that he's both dead and buried and his sepulchre is with us to this day. So here Peter gets it. uh to use Old Testament names and to uh apply those as a type or a figure of him who was to come. Well, as the second member of the Godhead, his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And in verse 6, he says this, I the Lord, as Jehovah, have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people. Whatever Jesus did in Matthew 12 is the fulfillment of what you and I just read in Isaiah 42, and he begins to quote it. that it might be fulfilled by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Behold my servant. Ephesians 3. You're in fact I would say no building plan survives first contact with the contractor. All of our plans are, you know, a really good estimate and and and hope, but when you get into it, we just have to roll with the punches and chains and do the best we can. And it kind of makes me tingle when I read these things, because you hear of Christ speaking of these promises that were made to him before he came and of his father's commission. Everything he sees is perfection. But let's pull away from those favorite verses and let's look at some that speak about this mission that God gave to Christ. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up. In terms of understanding. You catching all that? has sent me to give. Uh uh you have a will, hopefully. And because of that, God's going to highly exalt him and give him a name which is above every name. The point in all this is simple. As you go through the Bible, you'll all of a sudden find this promise popping up all over the place. The sinner accepts this believingly, promising a life of faith and obedience. You know, remove cursing and bitterness from your mouth. The ESV is unique and then it'll use the word offspring, which is close, but frankly, is offspring any easier than the word seed? And let's just say the child has utterly defiled himself and they're sitting there and you're looking and say, oh my, we have a mess here, don't we? Ultimately, God's speaking about the seed, the Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of the few places where heart of flesh is a good thing, meaning it's sensitive to the pricks of God. And you may be under great distress, and it's for a season to teach you something. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousnesses and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Our next section, let me not jump ahead here, but let's close out with this, that children of believers have an interest in this promise. We read in Jeremiah 3. The gospel was not extended to them. Their God has a people that he intends to save. That's. is unto you and to your children, and to all that is afar off, as many as the Lord our God shall call. You'll find that a lot in Corinthians. So yeah, God is pleased to reach out every now and then and just, I'm going to pick this one up here. And it really ends on a sour note. current preacher, but I'm just saying over the years I've heard people attempt to speak about it. Think of this as a beam that is suspended in heaven. To make propitiation for the sins of all for whom Christ would come and die for. And in the government of grace, he has terms and conditions, but he himself obligates himself to fulfill those through us or on our behalf. in this passage in Psalm 89. Verse 27, also I will make him my firstborn higher than the kings of the earth. Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee, and again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. He is declaring this an oath in Psalm 89 and other places, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne. He wasn't talking about resurrecting a literal Elijah, though Elijah's in heaven. So this is a big point. He shall not strive nor cry, neither shall any man hear his voice in the street. And he withdraws himself. We find out that this plan of redemption is included in God's eternal decrees. He's not reacting. that he can allow variation among the human race and he can put testing programs in front of them and it does not alter his plan. The end result of what God has in view. I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. Part of that term and condition of God giving a people to him is that something has to happen. He says in verse 38 of John 6, for I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. It really was an impossible task from our perspective. He had to walk sinlessly among all of the filth and the vial of the ancient Greco-Roman world. He had to come, and he wasn't looking for a few good men. that they may be one as we are. He gave a group of people to the Son to carry out a task on their behalf. This is what Christ is saying to the apostles, and by extension, to all those who would believe their word, which is the word of God That's exactly where the devil came to Christ. What he's tempting him to say is don't go through all the hardships. He gives you a shortcut. A kingdom. Excellent instructions and the sun carried out to a T. Between the offended God and the offending but elect sinner, in which God promises salvation through faith in Christ And the Lord Jesus promptly reproved them and said, No, there's actually two. Because we just kind of don't get it. Baptists hate that part. This is what God's obligating himself to do. to thy seed. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes. You see it again in Jeremiah 31. They broke it, not me. Verse 33, but this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. between that and the new covenant, which we call the covenant of grace. Number two, there are also similarities to that covenant. We're not to love the Lord our God. Galatians 3. It's the entire world we read in Romans 4. So, yes, let's talk about I would be a God to thee and thy seed after thee. Notice the ratios there. God's under no obligation to save every single human being that's ever lived throughout all time across the planet. this. In the whole Moab tribe for for millennia, I mean millennia, but a long time, many generations, and then God sends a Naomi. Uh they're sprinkled and brushed over. Well, this is the topic of the covenants of redemption and grace. There's in in covenant, you know, there's all these parts. This is of no benefit to God directly. Now, reformers spoke of these two covenants in order to be clear, but in ways not only to God, it can be considered one God, under uh writing through uh a fallible man, declares under inspiration in verse 5, For unto which of the angels said he at any time What a powerful individual he was because he would be seated on this throne forever. You remember the Lord Jesus when he spoke about John the Baptist that says, if you can receive it, this is Elijah who was to come. My beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased, well, we know beloved, is frequently referenced to the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice again it says, He will give thee, back in Isaiah 42. But again, we see this connection of God the Father making a covenant with God the Son for the purpose of calling people to him. So those are the passages that I think most clearly begin to illustrate that there's some kind of a covenant between God the Father and God the Son. So God had a purpose, a gracious purpose, that was given to us long before the world even began. All of that he had in mind long before the world began. No, he actually had a plan to come. We read in John 6. Kind of like Joey walking around the front yard. Teach them, train them, conduct miracles to prove to a staunchly unbelieving world that He was the Christ, the Messiah to come. Thou gavest them me. Again, you get this idea that Christ is carrying out very specific instructions from the Father. He is speaking about a great multitude of people whom he would die for and atone for their sins. This is an appointment that flows out of a covenantal condition, meaning, you could say, I have covenantally rewarded you a kingdom as my father has covenantally rewarded me. Here's a shortcut. God the Father is going to grant to God the Son a kingdom if he would but fulfill the terms and conditions of this covenant. Do it my way. And and because it's it's just a fiction, it's a facade. I appoint unto you a kingdom as my Father has appointed me. There is a main promise, a main promise, and you'll find it, once you understand it Because God the Father has promised the Son to have a kingdom. Shadowy, shadowy language, but there's unmistakable ties in the New Testament that anchor this. uh the the first four commandments and then the last six commandments. The covenant of grace boils down to fundamentally one main promise, not even a commandment. This is the God that rules. Because it totally detaches you from the New Testament. So God, under divine inspiration, tells you how to translate Genesis 17. Sheep. heart. So this is the first place we find this covenant promise. And uh you just you lovingly reach down and you grab this defiled child and you head to the bathroom and all the clothes come off and the washing occurs and maybe some decetin is applied to help with the rash and Because God says, I will cause you to walk in my statutes. And ye shall keep my judgments and do them, he continues, and ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and ye shall be my people. Right here he says, I'm going to bring them out, and I'm going to give them a new covenant that's not like Moses' covenant. I will put my laws into their mind, write them in their hearts, I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. Jews and Gentiles. I think that's fantastic stuff. Covenant that God gave to Abraham, we enter into it. Romans 9. Acts 2. fantastic deal this really is, this this wonderful gospel of God's grace. Uh and I'll even go so far as to say, in the event of now there's questions as to how much of the event he knew in advance, but suffice to say, nothing catches our God by surprise. Let's in gives us a little peek into this agreement within the Godhead to save the people for himself. Top right of your handout. And it's a glorious thing. And do you see why then the devil's temptation when Christ was driven into wilderness to be such an evil temptation? You know, I am going to do the Father's will. Massive hotels and buildings and you go in and they they they have all these servants and waiters standing around, but there's nobody in there Genesis, you'll find it in the major prophets, you'll find it throughout Paul's epistles, you'll find it uh in other uh places in the New Testament. This is God speaking. They were expected to carry out and fulfill terms and conditions. Work in you that which is well pleasing in his sight. And the really interesting one is the last one on the bottom right, Christ being granted the reward of a covenant. He says, I'm going to make a covenant with my servant David, my chosen. Because in Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 5, the author of the book of Hebrews, I think a case can be made for somebody other than Paul, but we know God wrote it, and that's all it counts for the moment. All right, same question as before. If you stop and meditate on that for a bit, that can be a very comforting thought. It's all perfect. A number of souls, a group of people. As he is giving his high priestly prayer with the disciples gathered before he goes to the cross Perfect timing. We read in Luke 22, 29, the Lord Jesus makes a statement. Very fast. God speaking, I will be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. half-sighted, half-hearted, half-witted individuals like us that maybe just sometimes don't get it. It is so sad that modern translations do not use that word seed because by changing that word to descendance, which most modern translations use. Which covenant he says they broke. With the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenant they break. A couple of very important observations I want to make in the brief period of time here. Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. But man does not seek after Jehovah. And uh God's solution to restore fellowship with fallen man appears to have two parts to it. And also Christ, who spoke about promises given to him before he came and of his father's commission. Okay. So somebody tell me what point is Hebrews 1. Acts 2. Which makes us go back to Psalm 89 and rethink this, hmm, maybe this is actually talking about Jesus Christ. Christ didn't, you know, wake up in heaven, and I hope I don't sound blasphemous here, but he didn't wake up in heaven and stretch his arms and says, I think I'll make a trip to that wicked place down there in our universe called Earth and see what's going on down there Which comes from the word diteki, diateki, meaning to appoint by a will, to appoint by a covenant or a testament. reference to the Old Testament more pointedly to the Ten Commandments. And you haven't paid attention to the baby for a while. In verse 32? an eternal covenantal promise that God has made. There's a definition that Birkhoff gives, and you can read that. He doesn't work like that. Already stitched and knit together in exactly the form you would come forth with your color of eyes and type of hair and height and skin color and all that sort of stuff. As you recall, covenants have terms and conditions, which, if they're carried out, has a benefit. Because we go to Hebrews 8, and the New Testament declares this in Hebrews 8, verse 10: For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. That by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, you could read the word covenant But I think that's fantastic. out there. Covenant of the people. 11, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. The New Testament says, and you can look over in the right hand where it says the contracting parties are between God and his elect. Firstborn, okay. His sepulchre is here. That was Adam's reality. statements and the terms and conditions are met, then the benefit flows out. Some lawyers came up tempting and testing the Lord Jesus, saying, what are the two greatest commandments? Because after all, at the end of the day, if he is my God, what more do I need? It says in Psalm 103, the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children, to such as keep his covenant and those that remember his commandments to do them. Praise God, God does that. And then from that, then she's brought into the lineage. 000000001% versus 50%? And then we talk about the covenant of grace, and that's on the back side of your handout, but I'm still covering the introduction up front. The opening chapter of Hebrews 1 is all about the fact that Jesus Christ is far more superior. God says to Abraham, and I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. It flows out of that. I will cleanse them. Okay, and that captivity was where? There's actually another very interesting phrase, and it's in verse 26, Thou art my Father, my God. I've gone for years in conservative churches and have never had this explained very simply and very plainly. What proof do we have for all this? 29 says, if you be Christ, then are you Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise? 8 says, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted for the seed. 39, the Apostle Peter preaching his first sermon after the resurrection of Christ says, for the promise What about those that they believe that uh the parents are not Verse 8, for I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me. Well, next we have something called the covenant of grace. There's similarities, and yet there's also differences. And when that happens, they have everlasting life. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life. From all your filthiness, from all your idols, will I cleanse you? And it's an interesting word, isn't it? I don't have to go to Jerusalem three times a year. 29, Peter kind of breaks it down real simple for us, and I think it's comparable language. He's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. But that word appoint is a very interesting word. Just leave God out of the picture, and it'll be fine for you. I kept up my terms and conditions. It's not found in the Bible, but it describes something that's doctrinally correct. Made in my chosen, you have a covener and a covenantee. You know you walk around your house, you ever walk around your house and you see something that needs to be fixed, but you can't do it, and you don't have the part, you don't have the time. Isn't that how the devil works? He saith not to seeds as of many, but to thy seed, which is Christ, but as of one and to thy seed, which is Christ. I'm just narrowly focused on these two today. I have sworn. My main passage or point here is that there is a connection of a covenant with the Messiah. He says in Matthew 12, 15, when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all, and charged them that they should not make him known He says it again. 14, Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord, for I'm married unto you. It it really is a faith booster when you understand these covenants. It says, Behold my servant, Isaiah 42, verse 1. 38, there's some tremendous language throughout John 6, and those in the Reform camp love to hang on certain verses. It's an interesting word that is both singular and plural. God does graciously grant to believing parents, oftentimes, believing children. The word of God wasn't extended to them. When you hear that language, know and understand that you're connected to a long line of believers who held hope in those same promises. Yes, yes, okay. Yeah. Mine elect. Yeah, God's going to give them for a covenant of the people. That main promise, I will be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. And her sons, Mary, Ruth, and the other one, uh one and Orpah. God graciously gives to man all that's needed to fulfill those terms and conditions. It's obvious God's not talking about a fallen man called David. What are some key phrases and key words in here? Yeah, I'm out here doing what Dad wants me to. There wasn't anything broken. Verse 12, those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost. If not, the state has one for you, and it's not got good terms and conditions. The Old Testament language, declared messianic in the new, reveals a divine covenantal agreement to redeem men and to bless them. He says, I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after death. So when he's saying I've not asked this of the angels, he's saying I have asked this of my son, which links right back to See, Christ is speaking about the fact that the Father has given him a people, and he's got to do something on their behalf We're not to love our neighbors ourselves. I think it really needs to be from heaven coming down. He says, I have found David my servant with my holy oil have I anointed him We're going to look at several verses here. What he purposes, that he does, and there's no variation to it. It may make your life more miserable for a season or better, but it doesn't change God's eternal plan. You don't have to go through all this pain. God will look at an entire city, and he may save one. And he knows where they're at, and I don't. The last thing we talked about when we were here was total depravity. A new spirit will I take. You don't expect that at all times. That points us to Christ. He understands that, wow, whatever it is that God promised to this individual called David in the Psalms And it was an exhausting task. I forget exactly his response, but he said, Get thee hence, Satan. I will be a God to the end of thy seed after thee. Man seeks after idols, he seeks after God he's created for himself. In fact you look at it and you go, I need to come back and visit that again because that looks really interesting. I don't question that for a moment. I have sworn, yep. In the DOD, we always have a saying that is well known among architects as well as battle commanders that no battle plan survives first contact with the enemy. So, we see that there's this covenant between the Father and the Son. He took him up on a high mountain and he showed him all the kingdoms of the world in an instant and said, I will give you all of these if you will but fall down and worship me Did I really need to be told told that? Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant. They're sometimes held out as the magical talisman that just throws out there and you're supposed to be impressed with it and and you see one or two passages and and and of course I'm not dissing our our We're going to look at this plan of redemption that's included in God's eternal decree Now, you don't have to turn in your Bible. This was no vacation, this was no joyride, this was a miserable thing to leave the comforts of heaven where the angels around his throne constantly praising him I mean walk around the yard. Alright, well there we hear something. He brings out people whose parents had no interest in the gospel and yet they they come along and become believers. That's why you'll find an interest in these things. The fault, God says, was not with my covenant. He'll get you to heaven. It's a new heaven and a new earth. Because it's a word at the same time that is both singular and plural. That was Egypt. He says it again in Hebrews 9:14. For this cause, he's the mediator of the New Testament. Okay, mine elect, yep. Well it's not much of a kingdom if you ain't got people in it. That He has made a contract signed in blood that says, I will save my people. The parties is within the Godhead. God obligates himself to carry out the terms and conditions. What are some other key phrases or words that make us begin to think we got a covenant going on here? We refer to them as the elect, the chosen, meaning God did the choosing and he gave them to his son. He's obligating himself to go down. They broke it. We enter into those blessings. So there you have the tie, Isaiah 42, 1, Behold my servant, whom I have chosen, Isaiah 42, mine elect Do you honestly need anything else? There are differences, but there are similarities because he's going to cause you to walk in his statutes. Notice how this covenant of redemption leads to the covenant of grace. And that's the covenant of grace. I will be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. Where do we find all this in the scriptures? I don't bring a lamb. 5 making what I just read to you? Everything was excellent. That's a big difference. I'm not talking about Abrahamic covenant. He says in verse 9, I pray for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. He says, And I appoint unto you a kingdom as my Father hath appointed unto me. He gives you a shortcut, seemingly, to some satisfaction. And so forth ye get to the last phrase, and in his name shall the Gentiles trust. He called twelve of the least likely to succeed in life to be his apostles. I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And that diaper you bought that you thought was a good deal, because it was inexpensive, has all of a sudden lost its ability to capture anymore? You don't need to go through all the suffering. When you change that word to descend dense, plural, it totally detaches you from the New Testament. You say, Vince, that's all very interesting. So the question is, what are some of the key words and phrases in Psalm 89 that kind of catch your attention? So God's very clear about that. God is pleased. Right? Psalm 89, beginning in verse 3, it says this: I have made a covenant with my chosen, dot dot dot, my servant David In verse 26, he says, He shall cry, he, speaking of this David his servant, shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. That makes us think of Christ when we hear firstborn. Okay, but that doesn't imply a covenant. Notice that. Joey, would you mind closing us in prayer? I'm not going to reiterate it here. You don't have to wait so long. But it's based on what he has done. And we now understand clearly that the Ten Commandments had two tables. Sometimes God does the reverse. So here we have that connection to the word covenant again. He had to be the gospel. It's just make-believe. But what about me? After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Number one, there is a difference between the Mosaic Covenant, we would say the Old Covenant, the Old Testament of the Bible, a difference. There's a difference. I mean that was the whole old covenant. Mm-hmm. Well guess what? It's a legal term. The first is this, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. This is a main support beam. And that would include King David. I'll find plenty of things to do out there. This is what God's doing here. The law, which law? Egypt, yes. Then she's the great grand she's the the grandparent of uh David the king, I think, or Jesse. And look, men and brethren, we still have this grave in the graveyard of the kings in Jerusalem. God will give a divinely inspired variation of that to give us further insight in terms of what he meant back in Isaiah 42. 6, he'll give thee for a covenant of the people No believing parents whatsoever. So that's the illustration I use. He's healing people. Yeah. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you. And there is a greater seed that would flow from that, meaning all of God's elect, whom God the Father had given. But he's going to teach you, and he's going to bring you to that point, and he'll bring you to heaven And what God does about this is not as a chess player making a reaction, it's what God prepared. But he's it's a it's a covenantal appointment. And so we see that there is a greater David in view in the Old Testament that is listed here. My chosen one, yep. So God had a purpose, a plan. That's where we're going to dwell forever, in a place where milk and honey flows endlessly. We talk about doctrines of grace, and those are the things that we see there Love God, love neighbor. It's not this stony, hard, cold thing that just could care less. God's already provided one. One of a city, but he will also save two of a family. Therefore being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, and indeed And because Christ does that and he wins that kingdom, part of that covenantal agreement is that he likewise appoints to us. Dragging, kicking, or screaming, rejoicing, saying, Glory, hallelujah, and being a faithful, profitable servant, but he will get you to heaven There's not a lot of common teaching on it. Okay, yep. And obviously the word covenant is there, so you know that's that's that's a pretty clear connection to what we're thinking about. And he had a purpose of grace for his people. God the Father gave to God the Son He has no problem whatsoever latching onto it So Christ is going to die for people Burkhov defines it as that gracious agreement God promises that. God the Father, God the Son are the principal components. I've extracted the key parts of that for you, but I do have a question because I'm going to ask you what are some of the key covenant phrases or words Alright, God the Father gave the Son a worksheet. So God also gave Christ words to speak. My covenant's picture perfect, fine. So when he brought him out of Egypt, a land of hard bondage, he brought him to Mount Sinai and he gave them the Mosaic Covenant. That's part of the term and condition. We continue reading. All of a sudden you'll discover, hey, this is a good way, walk in it And we looked at that. Now, unfortunately, there's not a lot of teaching that's clear concerning God's covenants. There's a covenant of redemption and another one called the covenant of grace. It's a very comforting thought because we begin to realize that God had me personally by name in mind The people would be all the people, Jews and Gentiles. Let me tell you that, folks. Let's flush this out a little bit. I'm not talking about Moses. They're thinking the ten what's the greatest commandment? Pastor Natin. Do the statutes of God have any role in the life of a believer? That's a lot. So let's look for the scriptural proof. So there's all that language in Psalm 89. He was talking about John the Baptist. You don't have to maintain a holy lifestyle. How does that come down here? The big difference is this. In the new covenant, God obligates himself to graciously His covenant is with the Lord Jesus Christ. Behold my servant whom I uphold, mine elect. Well, let's first of all point out the main promise of the covenant of grace. This is the God that raises things from the dead. Don't make it plural. And the land that God promised Abraham is more than just that land of Canaan. God is pleased to work in families. Covenant, chosen. You don't need to go through the pain. It's all over the place. There's countless millions that lived around Israel and the Jews at the time Israel was a nation Christ isn't going to get one of those. That's all Old Testament. Folks, he's making application of that to us in the New Testament right now. Christ is that mediator, that in-between. He takes it a prophet Elijah and he sends it to Sidon and there ministers to a widow woman. It's quite quite interesting. And so the Lord Jesus came here because he was here as a man on a mission. And to me, the one that really ties it up nicely is Luke 22, 29, that Christ is granted the reward of a covenant. I will be your father. He commands them to not go anywhere and to tell abroad what he has done We read in Ephesians 2 And yet he is so wise in his plans. Covenant of redemption is exclusively an agreement within the Godhead Thou shalt worship God and him alone. And we understand that as the word seed. There's that phrase. I will take you one of a city and two of a family and bring you to Zion. He's asking a question, and he's trying to make a point from that. No cooking plan survives first contact with the kitchen. It's dia tithamy. It just kinda helps you along a little bit And of course that's something that many of you are probably familiar with. There's a connection between the covenant Well that's great. All the other little details that we read about in the New Testament are but clarifications for You mothers know this. So children of believers do have an interest in this. And the covenant of grace hangs from the covenant of redemption, and it's the bestowing of God's gracious redemption to his people. He's the first begotten. They have to see the sun, they have to behold the sun, they have to hear the sun, they have to understand the sun, there has to be some connection to the sun. And Christ praised God, stiff-armed him, gave him the Heisman, and said, Depart from me. Did you hear that? Well he said that he would bring them out of the Exactly. You might want to set up your own will. So this is entirely an agreement within the Godhead. God doesn't do anything by accident Verse 39, and this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me Alright, there's a benefit to that He'll get you there. We're tied in. And if it is But he says, not according to that covenant God's not tied to family descendants. And then hanging off that beam is the covenant of grace, which reaches down and attaches to man. And you just get frustrated. You are listed in this covenant You got a king has to have subjects. That's kind of how that Ten Commandments is broken out. He says, I will give them a new misery. He has saved a people, and he connects us to that. And it's only of God's grace that he has found those that sought him. We have termed one of them the covenant of redemption. It turns out that all of this business here was declared messianic in the New Testament by our Lord Himself. That's who he's talking about. He had to model the gospel. If I've got one sheep, what do I have? Ain't nothing wrong with it. Alright, well that's the study for today. In verse 6, he says, I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. They shall not teach every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, No the Lord, for all shall know me from the least into the greatest That's a lot. So my struggle today is to try to bring it night to to introduce you to it. You know. It shows up in Ezekiel. I don't need to go to a high priest that's a man. I'm not talking about Noah. There's a choice of God. Yeah, exactly. He says in Acts 2. I will put my spirit upon him. We saw that language in Psalm 89 and Isaiah. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit, offered himself without spot to God? You shall be my sons and daughters. It's in um So we have this covenant up in the Godhead. I'm talking singular. So let me give a basic introduction, show you where I'm going. Verse 11, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me. I I I just I think that's fascinating. That's the main promise. First of all, the first place we find is in Genesis 17 The contracting parties are between God and his elect. That wouldn't surprise us. Folks, he's speaking about more than just the apostles that were present in the room at that time You have a little baby. I read House of Israel. So Nothing we do can truly affect That looks really excellent. It's a promise that I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. The old covenant Hebrews one is all about the He wouldn't have said that of David as well. Alright? He's going to get a real kingdom of real people that really love him and that really know him and that really sing praises to his name. They're thinking the ten commandments. He will. That was the whole Mosaic law hanged on that. Now I don't know about you, but You don't have to keep up this God business. So I'm going to cover this by way of a couple of headings, and there's four headings Uh he's the only begotten son. That's the reward. Children of believers have an interest in this promise. So that's And that's the exciting verses. Well then we move to another passage that the Lord Himself comments on, and it's in Isaiah 42 So Putting blasphemy out of your mouth. The Old Testament is very shadowy, very shadowy We don't get in the details until a little later as we read more in the New Testament. I mean, come on, this is ugly. I think seed's pretty simple That's a much, much higher ratio when you consider how many are in a city. No, you got it. There's a greater David in view, and that's whom God was speaking about. We don't replace the old Can you imagine in heaven you walk around and you don't see anything that needs to be fixed? And the second is like unto it, you shall love your neighbors yourself. Galatians 3. God commissioned Christ to come and do certain things. I shall be your God. 29, Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David. He says, I speak not mine own, but that which my Father How do I get roped into this? And I there's a change. He'll work in you and he'll keep you alive. This is really, now we get to some exciting passages that are in the book of John. Now, you might gloss over that quickly, and you might brush over it You've got terms and conditions, and you've got the beneficiaries, which happens to be man Verse 40 The problem was with them. He's the one that comes in between God the Father and us and mediates. Whereas in the Mosaic covenant, the expectation is that man would do it, he of course can't Yep. He stiffed armed and says, No, I'm not going to do that. The um You catching all the eyes here? Ezekiel 36, 25. In fact, that's our next section He says, I never said of angels thou art my son. And by God's grace, I will endeavor to do that for you today. God's not abandoning the moral equity of the law. And we're going to talk more about this in in subsequent studies, come two Sundays from now we'll speak a little bit more at length about that. So let's start with this covenant of redemption. We're just talking about these two. Here's what you got to do. Which one is he going to highlight? Maybe he's just talking to the Jews. Yeah, emphasis on made. And so it's not unusual for God to It says in John 17. A sheep. And Ruth comes into the gospel of God's grace. This is the God that can feed people. 16 says, Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. We can understand that it's singular and plural at the same time. They um He shall show judgment to the Gentiles. In that will, there's terms and conditions which if the You find that, it's there. You've seen these people, these hard-hearted people. Okay, Gloria, you had your hand up. You walk around That sounds good. And the main promise is this: I Did I really need to be told that? I'm at the end of my time. I think that's a fascinating find uh in Luke 22 You're not going to find that phrase in the Bible. Not not so here where we live. A king has to have people in there. If I have a bunch of sheep, what do I have? You've at least heard the term, maybe didn't understand as much about it I mean there's just I will be your God. Ruth the Moabitess is a classic example. I mean it was her lineage that she's in the lineage of Christ, you read And there's actually scriptural proof for that to start to unveil. I already have a high priest. It is not an anomaly for the Lord our God to do that Alright, so he's there to do his father's will. There was so much that the Son fulfill every prophecy to the T Yes, they do. Again, main covenantal promise. And they say, yes, it's a good change Again, a picture of the righteousness and the perfection of all the blessings that come Man wants, needs, and seeks a God Okay, we're going to talk about two covenants today Okay? And it was an impossible task, folks. I have no doubt that God the Son is going to carry it out, right? I'm not to do that in the new covenant? It's an eternal purpose. Because this is strictly between God the Father and God the Son That was where the problem was. That's where they would have buried David, close to where Peter would have been preaching I'll just give you this stuff. Alright? Not so with God. Any thoughts Are we saved by works? Just Not so. And they think they got him Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean. Yeah. He says that was speaking about us. Questions, comments, other observations? Yes. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. He's not abandoning the righteousness of the law. And we shouldn't be surprised about that. What covenant is he talking about there? What kind of a kingdom is that where This is the God that created all things. Isaiah 16 No, we're not. Nothing I wouldn't be surprised if you'd been there, Mrs. No, no, that's not the point Here she's been in the Moabite camp for It's not a biblical phrase, it's a biblical term. Yes, God does that. Before the world began That sounds okay. Why are we interested in them? I have no doubt that God the Father gave him. This is also very helpful. Frankly, folks, really? Ross. God He says