There were very significant miracles. He's very unusual because he's very sharp against the Galatians, and so right out the gate, none of this grace, peace, and mercy unto you, he's going to footstone off his authority. In Revelation it talks about there were uh there was a foundation of 24 stones, 12 and 12. That's a whole other study in terms of the role of miracles that you may know the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. And he's got something that sounds, maybe he's even quoting some scripture, but he's got something that just sounds a little janky. Which when there's a black mamba in the room, it's all hands on deck. And he says, All right, you're doing the signs following. He didn't say if you believe he can walk. Why why didn't you heal him? You just eventually you just back away from it. Uh it would be uh an absolute master, a controller, a viceroy, we might say in some languages. And uh to everyone's amazement, won the election. Sounds like the guy that cleans up the floor. on television. it's it's going to collapse. Yeah, maybe I can I can do garden variety. which is by interpretation called Dorcas. And its gates, then you have to have some kind of government that hopefully is founded in Scripture. He is their Lord. And if a church is going to remain faithful, if a church is going to remain profitable, productive, beneficial to the people uh under it and with it. It's not necessarily correct. Through 23, we find that Jesus has not only this realm of authority over what you and I might view, but also even above that. Hardly think so. The Lord puts the basest of men over others, it says in Daniel. Christians hope. If men would want to act base, God gives them their just dessert. And he knows how to handle them. is the ultimate dispenser. at an early time. the the pool of candidates a little short, doesn't it? Commissioning apostles. I would submit to you, no, because Christ says, except I go, the Holy Spirit cannot come, so Christ has made it plain. He's raised from the dead. Now among the pool, there might have been some who would have been called by, but were those directly called and commissioned by Christ? Beginning from the baptism of John until the same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection? When he began to be about 30 years of age, he was probably around 33, 34. Don't get me wrong. Now me is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. Look, I've visited a lot of towns. He could do miracles. He didn't say you can cast out all manner of demons. by prayer and fasting. uh withered hand y you've never walked before, not a problem, never seen before, not a problem. and were not a little comforted. uh venomous beast. It says in Acts 5. were healed. This is just a that's stomach problems? the the commissioning of the Lord was going to all the world. uh speaks about uh the uh cessation of it. Wrap it up here. Dig out that form. the min of the message. They quit coming. There's uh several passages we can go to that discuss Christ's authority. about uh church government and we're going to start with a topic that I have spoken on in the past and it's driven lots of people away And so we're going to start a whole chapter about church government. uh 2310 he repeats effectively the same, neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ. He says in twenty, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead, speaking of God, and set him, Christ, at his God's own right hand in the heavenly places, far above. If that word master is the teacher, he is the instructor and the disposer of all that's below him. uh seriously defective uh executive office here in America and God is the one that put them in there. As Pastor Dave Lewis said one time, God's no novice at governing the universe. church is. because the qualification of a pastor. an administration and an operation. actually see Christ. next blank in the next section. It's unbelievable. Zero skills, 100% shenanigans, and they live in these multimillion dollar facilities. that because I'm sure you've seen churches where they list that they have an apostle in their church. role to remind them of his qualifications. Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? of the apostles and prophets. The signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience. up that bed and walk. If you put another foundation down, what are you doing? of an apostle. speak. being fallen into a deep sleep. venomous beasts. And he just shook it off like nuisance and kept going about warming himself up. There's some nut job in a church in Texas, the church of the hand of following signs. And Paul wouldn't claim to be what I just described, but some would try to twist the scriptures to again justify what they're doing. You gotta have more faith, you gotta give more money, just you're not doing enough. man, just by saying it. It was really impressive. Laid them on beds and couches that at least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them. If it touched them, they were healed. I can't get there. Peter, there he found a certain man named Enos, which has kept his bed eight years and was sick of the palsy. It's pretty rough. And he arose immediately, and all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him and turned to the Lord. It was uh I can't think Epaphroditis. of the era of the apostolic miracles, even in the scriptures. point. uh disappearing. these offices and and um the the purpose of them and the foundations and what ceased and what's still around and That word master is the word meaning according to governance. He's got a he's got his MBA, his PhD, a BMW. So the Bible takes a very common word and uses that and now gives it an official title. It says in your handout that second reference underneath that section. God in fact did give them and ordain unique particular individuals to those roles, and yet they are not with us today. An administrator is somebody who administers an office, but the same Lord, the same dispenser, so administrator kind of dispenses lord Servant. Uh no, you didn't. The first is this, is that as we've been talking, they were directly called and commissioned by Christ. There are churches not too far down the road that claim they have apostles, but were they directly called and commissioned by Jesus Christ Himself? So they laid out those two qualifications. So yes, he was directly called by Jesus. But by Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. The Apostle Paul went through a bunch of different areas and he was springing up churches left and right. Our right Reverend Dr. Do you keep laying after you put the roof on, do you put another foundation on top of your roof? How do we know your word is correct? He could put his hand into his bosom, it was leprous. Back page, you'll find out their commissioning. It says, when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them, here's what he gave them, first the calling, notice their commissioning, he gave unto them power. Against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease. There wasn't a limit that could heal all manner of sickness, all manner of disease. You bet. Angela and I have supported here in the house over the years is when you start talking about the miracles of the apostles, the reason it cuts a lot of fellowship is because they're apostle that they're following. You find in, for instance, let's just look at two of the apostles. So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons. And it says, diseases departed from them and evil spirits went out of them. And you see that even in the Old Testament. And as soon as it touched the bones of Elisha, he rose back up from the dead. This is a rare, exceedingly rare thing. In Acts twenty-eight he's on a shipwreck and he's prophesying to these people. Others it it affects the nerves so that you have no nervous response. and live. We have these kinds of miracles and therefore these kinds of apostles today. What's interesting about that is you do not find faith on the part of the man standing and walking. in case their so-called miraculous ability doesn't work is well you just didn't have enough faith. The miracles were permanent. And when they'd washed, later in the upper chamber. for your stomach. Stopping. Through completed that canon. it is that uh Christ is the head of the church and he's the sovereign ruler over the earth, oh Lord. Teaching today. because this is it. Someone told me a long time ago that American politics is all about access to resources. And these others are starved. He's far above all current rule. something. uh appear to us to be extraordinary offices, meaning these are offices that were exceptionally unusual. A word used from a title of that time, apostle means one who is sent out. Sent out. Discussing among themselves what the qualification should be, they said he had to be from the baptism of John, that is, from the onset from the public enunciation of Jesus and his ministry. He saw this bright light and heard a voice. elder material. Uh turn uh I wonder if I have it in here somewhere. Well he does miracles, but not these kind of miracles. And it was a wreck of a of a of a catastrophe for sure. His trees weren't trimmed, the fruit was falling down, nobody had picked it up. the the broader topic of church officers, but we're going to look at the extraordinary officers today, next week, Lord willing, the ordinary officers, those that we find currently. Not only in this world, it says, but also in that which is to come, so this isn't the be-all, end-all-do-all, the world that we operate in right now, uh, there is one to come, and that one to come is the one that is the We have, if you've sat in Christian churches for any length of time, you certainly know that Christ is the head of the church. All principality, power, and might and dominion, and every name that is named. The right Reverend Doctor So and so, so and so. for the various offices. To serve somebody is to deacon somebody. Apostle is one who sent. So let's look at these points about this. And they searched the scriptures. Was he directly called of Jesus, I should put it that way. attract a crowd? purpose and he had them do that. How do you know that God directly spoke to him? He shook it off and he was fine. Yeah, this is uh this is amazing. Walk. And you knew that, man, this this guy's handkerchief was sent out, and he touched it, and they were whole. The lame man, he went walking and leaping and praising God and the people who saw it glorified God. That their miraculous ability was pinching off. while she was with them. He had a beloved brother. The office of apostles coming to a close. This is now the foundation. Now let me ask another question. flowing, grandiose, impressive. He died. Correct. Peter said unto him, Enos, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole, arise and make thy bed. Interesting point that occurred to me looking at this is they saw this man, but their response was they turned to the Lord. But we find in Paul's letters to Timothy two indications of a cessation already at that time, near the end of the apostles' lives. Early when I was saved and God brought me into this truth about God being the sovereign, I was at a software development lab in San Diego, California. Let's turn now to the to the the focus which is on the church, given that we understand that Christ is not only over the church, which we tend to think of as a smaller thing, but our Lord is over all of it, angels, the angelic realm. What do you think happens when we start to confer a magnificent title on a church leader? The word, for instance, elder is both uh it's more descriptive and it's commonly used. Hmm. Well, what about this business of apostles? This is an account as the apostles were trying to determine should we replace Judas or not. Well you'd say, well I have one. One. That's how it's going to go out. amount of airspace to it and there was just an upper loft where they could look in and the fellow fell asleep and fell right over the edge. Peter arose and went with them, and when he was come, they brought him in the upper chamber, and all the widows stood by him, weeping, showing the coats and garments which Dorcas had made He gave her his hand, lifted her up, and when she had called the saints and widows, presented her alive. Again, these are indirect clues that you have that show an indication that the era of apostolic miracles was Yeah, those in that church. And so we weren't there for too long. The resurrected Christ, more importantly, had to be an eyewitness of the resurrected Christ. I thought, well, how d how can these people fall for that? They'd seen Christ, walked with him. And I kind of use that tongue in cheek because a miracle by definition is God setting aside his rules by which he governs the universe. mis angled foundation which is going to reflect glory back to themselves. Yeah, no, that doesn't work either. Take my handkerchief to a this will this will do it. We look forward to that one, where true righteousness reigns. Himself? The fourth point is that they were richly blessed in their labors. That's Ephesians chapter 2 verse 20. He says, now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation And Paul went down, fell on him, and embracing him, and said, Trouble not yourself, for his life is in him. If a handkerchief could be delivered to heal, why couldn't Paul says, and I will send uh uh what was this one fellow that he often sent uh In 2 Timothy 4. And please help help us to rightly choose what we uh listen to and follow, that it be according to your scriptures. And we went to this church. Evangelists, these are the good news spreaders. they were directly called. And that's why we call it an extraordinary office. He dies. Yes. How dare would he claim it's something that Jesus Christ found Jesus found when he's talking about founder, that kind of rhymes with or stems back to foundation? And since we're talking about foundation, we might as well talk about these extraordinary officers. He had to be directly called by the Savior Himself to that office. Poor Tabitha, our dear sister has fallen, called for him. And doctors today will prescribe that approach if you have some severe stomach issues. They performed miracles. But for disease, just regular old disease and sickness, you know, garden variety cancer, uh, you know, uh brain tumors. That's the kind of miracles these folks were doing. He asked for his coat to be brought to him rather than saying leave my coat out there healing people. You know, if I were dead in sins and trespass and had to do it all over again, I think I'd come back as a false prophet. This is a real simple point, folks, and this is a worthy of your memory and is an easy aid to combat anybody who wants to come to you with the idea that our church has apostle Why? It's a different message. I mean it's still a miracle, but this is an extraordinary miracle. Yet God works through normal means. Okay, you had to be an eye re uh eyewitness of Christ, yes. Does Jamaica have some of those? Don't kid yourself. No problem. A very beloved saint. It's a lot of hard work. The diversities of operations, but the same God which worketh in all. A servant? You cannot do it. Why was this ability disappearing? Father in heaven, we uh thank you for preserving your word for us, for giving it to us, O Lord, that we might study and learn doctrine and understand, O Lord, how How do you know? You've got one of those sitting next to your piano somewhere. These are the kinds of miracles that the apostles did. The New Testament had not yet been written during the year of the Apostles. Pray you would continue to teach us, build us up in your word, help us to grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes. Who else? Jesus confirmed his word and his authority and his power with a miracle. He's asking for alms. And it didn't take time. We're shut up to this book at this point. They say, no, you're wrong. So they're a disposer of things. I've seen my mentor, Brother Bernie, towards the end of his days, was effectively paralyzed, could not get out of bed, couldn't move. Very true statement, yet a humble statement. Second thing, they had to have seen Christ after the resurrection, so they had to be an eyewitness. Sounding Brass, who's the chief apostle of our church, such and such and blood, you can say, how many foundations does your house have? Anybody want to guess how he died? 12, by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. No, many. And prophets were those who declared the word of the Lord at a dark generation, at a dark time. What are the qualifications of an apostle? This wasn't uh, oh our brother so-and-so can't hear in his left ear, and and he brings him up on the stage and starts screaming Jesus in his ear, and oh now I can hear again. Tremendously blessed in his work. To bring glory to their name? And they were permanent. Yes. If he's sick, if he's a beloved brother, boy, we're we're trying to get more soldiers in this Christian camp. Oh, we go to a church where the right the right Reverend Dr. He's always listing names of beloved brethren. He just pronounced to him rise up and walk. And I would say that administration from the Lord implies an office that rules over the people of God. They're sent out with a message. There are those who were made? How did God establish it through the hands of the prophet Moses? Paul, as it were, raised this fellow from the dead. I'll put you in a wheelbarrow. 20 it says, Erastus abode at Corinth, but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick. And today we have all the confirmation that is required. But what happens, here's my first question, when we confer magnificent titles on church leaders? Well, exactly. Is that he can teach. And the chief cornerstone is Jesus Christ, and he has commissioned extraordinary officers because he's ascended to heaven. He didn't fall over dead. They were giving away their coffee cups. He saw him. I've handed out tracts in different cities. It's done. At the start, as I mentioned, Christ, of course, is that head. So a deacon could be an apostle. Yet there is a calling. So the apostles we find there actually are four qualifications, and we'll look at the scriptures that tells us about that. Again, it's a foundational gift. And as Joe, I mean Paul was long preaching, he sunk down and was sleep in hell. Woman was full of good works and almdeeds which she did. Are therefore all titles wrong? I can shout Jesus Jesus in some guy's ear and he can all of a sudden hear, I can do that. He's far above all current power. God, as it were, knocked it, Jesus knocked him off his horse and said, all right, son, I got a different plan for you. He saw him. You think that would gain some notoriety? Remember the account where somebody was lowered into the tomb into the grave of, was it? And that's also a huge difference between the correct foundation, because the foundation is aimed at setting people in a position where they're offering praise and worship to God, as opposed to a corrupt You've got to do a lot of leveling. Remember there were others that were in that apostolic band at different times and had uh and in fact were a witness with of his resurrection. And then of course you have the Apostle Paul. And Paul talks about this. How many apostles? And you're saying all apostles do these kind of miracles? Anybody want to guess how he died? I've been raising people from the dead. Not the j not the son, but senior Bush. You're changing the message again. And fell down from the third loft and was taken up dead. And uh there was a radio minister for years on the air, as people would call in and insist, they're apostles. She was clearly one that had a great many people that loved her dearly. Each one has the Bible has titles. He does push his authority. And so you only laid one foundation. I I laid this this beam that I dug out a foot deep and I put the footers down and the walls are sitting on top of this eight-inch chunk of cement and it's a foot deep and And it was authoritative. They were at the end of their life, they were at the end of their ministry. They found out that no, what happened to Judas was ordained by God. I know in the other parts of the world they've got the uh the black mamba He can't go there if he's sick. And that John 13 says, you call me master. If you have to be an eyewitness of the visible bodily Jesus Christ. See, this is a qualification. Sort of does make the job a little easier. He was not lame again in the week. And it was almost, as it were, instantaneous. And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring that he would not delay to come to them. And we're going to look at some of these miracles. Woe to that man by whom the offense cometh. What miracle did he show you? Let's go take a look at these at Mark fourteen at the end of Mark sixteen. It's the Word of God. He puts it back, it was healthy and whole again. You can safely reject it. You don't mess with it. He's not much of a pastor if he can't teach. He works through whatever means are necessary, but he puts men in power. And he can give a testimony. I don't care if it's a Muslim and a Christian in the room, they're united together against a black mamba because that is an exceptionally lethal This just doesn't happen. I'm mixing noun versus verb, but I'm trying to convey the idea that it's like what we would use today. And they panther the audience and there's thousands of people. It was an office. He can't walk. Do you think he was the founder of the church? He didn't have to go to the pharmacy and compound certain things and take some additional supplements and restrict his diet and over two years then it'll be better. So what we're going to talk about today is extraordinary officers. Yes he was. They're commissioning. He said he could he they did have power against them, but it was an absolute power. In fact they were so amazed, these islanders. What would the message be? We typically refer to twelve apostles. It's astounding what he could do. And he wasn't tempting the individual to do that because I think the individual was at least smart enough to say, well In Acts 122, the from the section in your handout, it says If you had a loved one who was truly ill, Fine. 1 Corinthians 9 is he speaking to the church at Corinth, getting again back into his I'll get a couple of big fellows I know. You put your rebar in, you pour that concrete, and once that concrete truck drives away, you're just doing a little bit of top polishing and you're just finishing it off and then you just leave it alone. You've stuffed it. I'll send apaphroditis or silas to you. Uh uh the Greek is helpful in that, but uh we're not gonna cover that at this time. Yeah, good question. That's the whole point that God gives. They had some little coffee cups. Yes, there are those who were made apostles by other men, not of men, neither by man. No, there wasn't any action required on the part of this fellow sitting there begging for alms. Here, you have a very base, incompetent rumor. He says in Galatians 1, as he's writing to the church at Galatia, Paul and Apostle. Let's start with Paul, then we'll look at Peter. And the subject is about apostles. There is no prerequisite of faith on this individual's part for him to rise up and walk. He's got it all. It comes through normal means. It was a legitimate office, but it's not there for us today. No. He says, I left him. It was testified by signs and wonders, documented, people saw it, they agreed to it. And if that word Lord means a disposer, one who gives and supports I really like that quote. Yes. I've talked to people in different areas. You're altering the message. An angel of the Lord stood with me, You're not going to lose any life on this ship, but these men have to stay in the boat. There's interesting YouTube videos about what snake venom does to human blood. Why why is it a back? Excellent point, Penny, thank you. It was disappearing. He says, well, Trophimus, I left him sick. And so any other word coming along with any other testifying miracle you would have to take pretty seriously. And what a wonderful design. And you might think, wow, how boring could that be? And it says, and he gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body. I'm going off script, but I want you to to see this. You remember that event? These were exceedingly unusual. He will help her. He does push his office from time to time. It's a handkerchief. Special power. Look at Peter. I've been healing people who can't walk. He was more than just Lord, of course, he's Lord of Lords. That's the sense of a Lord. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. It's a foundational gift. Snake bite. I remember attending a church one time and Angela and I were in the business of searching for one. Very basic titles. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. His power was extended to his clothing, folks. They thought this man had died. You want to move but the the signal isn't getting to your body, you're just or you and you can't breathe as a result, and so you're paralyzed. They'll say drink a little wine, it helps your stomach. He rules over a kingdom and gives it to whomsoever he will. Was he directly called of God? They were directly called and sent by the Lord to have these unusual powers of the Spirit. You ate it. Mm-hmm. And and the miracle's purpose was not for the healing of the individuals healed. I, in fact, saw him and give many credible proofs. And what were those signs? Peter stands there and says, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have I give thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Acts nine thirty-three In the Latin it's uh can be referred to as doctor or professor. Other people. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. He is sent. What do you think? Jesus Christ saved sinners. Richly, richly blessed in their labors. Now, last week we heard about a case where the man was infected with a demon Yeah the ability is disappearing because the office is coming to a close. All the acronyms are there. So Paul says, oh, he's sick here. Foundations laid, and those of you who have laid concrete know that you Yes, Veteran? Until the day he was taken up. In fact, I heard one minister say, yeah, the the Apostle Paul in a way had it easy because he had he had uh Bringing glory to the message of of God, that there was a message to be heard and to be understood. This last part I want to talk about, and this is the thing that really uh has cut away a lot of people from fellowships You see in Acts 20, there sat in the window a certain young man named Eutychus. A snake bite. That's right, the Bible gives titles. It's unbelievable. Again, the qualifications he could testify to a risen Christ because he saw the risen Christ You think that would get some attention? Came to pass in those days she was sick and died. And I had mentioned to a colleague that, well, it's God that put him in office. He's on the road to Damascus and Jesus came down and says, Saul, Saul, why persecute us Are you not my work in the Lord? That sort of thing they could do. What it tastes like. For instance, 1 Timothy 5. That's a pretty good assessment. We know from other passages of scripture when it refers to principalities and powers, it's somewhat talking about the angelic, the spiritual realm. Oh that's interesting. That's Didascalos. Sounding brass is in charge. This is what I'm saying, this is not a garden variety miracle. He is that source of authority. He told the disciples in John 13, ye call me master and lord, and ye say well, for so I am. So this business of giving men these other kinds of titles beyond what they deserve is And he's absolutely correct. And yet they said there has to be another apostle. 'Cause he's paralyzed, he can't get out. Right. They were all over the place. Peter is another one. You see, they had heard that Peter was nearby. And then you've got uh at 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4, it says, There are diversity of gifts but the same Spirit. So God appears to distinguish me a gift What are the qualifications that you're Joe, I don't know how how these idiots managed to attract thousands of people by screaming in some guy's ear and they load them up with money How do you know you've been with Jesus Christ? His father was a rattlesnake handler That's a good point. Why do I say these four things and what scripture proof do we have for that? There was a doubling, Old Testament, New Testament, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. They were they were commissioned with an authentic message. I mean, what's in this thing? It's one thing to raise a young man from the dead, it's another thing to raise an old person from the dead. He could do signs. You're not, and so it's founded squarely on their office. He was paralyzed. He does give a title, but it's not magnificent. And that's what they were done. And then today, of course, we have pastors and teachers. What qualifies a man to be an apostle? Because it's incredible how they can get away with And I look back over those areas and I don't see any churches there. Some people come and they say, I've had a vision, I've had a message from God. They said there's no way this guy could live. His son decides to take up the ministry. We'll carry you. So it was a three-story house. I'm always amazed, every year it seems, although lately I haven't seen much. Now why do I make that a point? It might lead him sick. So we've got an outline, uh we're gonna talk today about the um Now men today receive a calling, but Joe, did you hear an audible voice from heaven? In the flesh, he's not here. And if he can't, then he's trying to build a foundation on top of the chimney. They know what kind of nasty viprous serpents they have. They knew that something could be done. Very good point. What's on this cup? Uh that that's that just said a lot to me right there. But for these apostles, they were uh uh Signs, wonders, mighty deeds. He gets on there, he's trying to warm up, and it says that Paul gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, and there came a viper out of the heat and fastened on his hand. Wasn't written. No. What kind of miracles did they do? When therefore he was come once come up again, and broken bread, and eaten and talked a long while, even till the break of day, so departed. You've just got to have more faith. Told him to get up and gave him a job. What a wonderful design. How about that? Directly. I just it really baffles my mind. He says to the sick of the palsy arise, take And there are some simple-minded people that think, well, maybe he's got something here. They were not garden variety miracles, so to speak It says uh it continues in Acts 9. Which other people? Look how impressive we are, your little dismal church over there. What's the pushback going to be? And number three about the apostle qualifications. What are these signs following? He wasn't lame again in the week Many, not a few, not one or two. That's God's way of confirming his word. Look at Peter. Folks, you can't do this. He was paralytic. And I want to point out, as I wrap it up today, that there was in fact an end. But Peter put them all forth, kneeled down, and prayed, and turning to the body, said Tabitha arise, and she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up. I'm going to start with Ephesians 4. And he says in 1 Corinthians 9. Immediately they saw this. 23, he tells Timothy, drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sakes and thy oft infirmities. What is a true apostle? That's the word teacher. This is not his first rodeo. And and and then on the chimney, do you put another foundation? We'll get you there. They were an office And some will even try to be conservative. So they were I mean we here I go with Paul. So why couldn't Paul use something that was clearly within his power unless of course he no longer had that and was beginning to see it disappointing? Um we have a How do you like that? The sentence begins in 19. Acts 5. And they need to be healthy. They were a mouthpiece. The answer is no If you can just get to that. Not the healer. You'll take my handkerchief and that'll heal your stomach problems. So as the uh thank you for that. And that word uh uh And those who get in office, they champion their cause, and their cause gets the resources. Prophets I think it was Elisha. But actually Christ is the head of all the party. He's the one that gives the government to whom he will and takes it away. But do you understand what position he occupies? And it wasn't just the time he was on earth, it was also He had to fall. Alright, why not? And it had the pastor's name. And doesn't that make sense to be a fitting mold for the office? But he was a foundational office. Do you think that would But drinking strychnine, no, I can't do that. We'll get to that in a bit. But in the meantime, I'm going to put you in a little blindness program for three days He could throw down a rod and become a snake. Stomach problems? And in your handout, that's your first blank to fill in. That's it. You know there's some interesting things about the Bible's titles that continue to strike me the more and more I read in scriptures and think about it. And you read about that in the book of Corinthians. Matthew. We have who do you have? Directly called, directly commissioned. And if he's not here, he's not calling And even when he's in prison, he's still writing to men who could be Um it's in Revelation, and I'm going to ask uh if some of you might know what sat off time. Christ said this kind cometh not out. Apparently he had a I'm guessing a fairly large great room that had a nice, you know He says, They shall take up serpents. And so you can't say that Oh, his door is not hanging right, nobody can fix stuff, he can't get up. There's the big ass shepherd and then there's the little ass under-shepherds. Built on the foundations of the apostles and the prophets. It says God wrought, in Acts 19. Sick? In Ephesians 1, 20 and Well that can't be of the Lord. That's your second blank to fill in on your handout. That word all take as broad as you want to take it. You know, and that's a pretty dangerous fall. We'll set you there. Yet it was the Apostles. Sure, he's no different than all the rest. And Lord is Curiosity, a possessor, a disposer, one who disposes and dispenses. I like the word for deacon. I was an eyewitness of his resurrection. Well it did. Church of the Signs following. 15. And what Peter healed And so we begin to see that sense, and of course it's closed off when you get to First Corinthians 13 and he uh What a wonderful design it is. So that kind of cuts the Some lump those two together. Peter did a miracle on this part. This is a very powerful verse for those who claim modern-day miracles because they're out. You know, I'm not hearing you yet. What qualifies a man to be an apostle, Penny? You know, when you're paralyzed, We pray you would help us to understand rightly even Pride. Uh He's standing there speaking to a man who can't Call for Peter. He's been dealing with leaders and rulers all the time. Paul, an apostle, not of men. 1, he says, Am I not an apostle? Yes. They need to be in good shape. You look at the work of how the apostle started so many churches. A loved one had fallen dead Or God does these things. That's why they're extraordinary. It really boggles the mind. Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets Folks, even the shadow of Peter at ten o'clock in the morning or three o'clock in the afternoon. They knew this man. Four qualifications to be an apostle. Gabriel, maybe you can pull it up for our online viewers. Oh, you should have come to this meeting. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Tastes just like chicken cross between chicken and frog legs. It gels it up, it becomes like jello, really thick, and pretty soon it can't pump, it just doesn't go anywhere. Well he's a really smart guy. Got it covered, pal. It goes to their head? Pride, okay. We just have a pastor. They performed miracles. And so as they were But all I He's going to allow them to do something radically different that has never been seen before. 11 They could work tremendous miracles. How's the message going to get out? Absolutely did. I can't get close enough. And on the back side of it says Pastor So-and-so, founder of this church. There's these what what are some of the I'm sure you know of some nasty vipress Any questions or other comments? Well we're not a a capital A apostle, we're a little a apostle They shall drink any deadly thing, and it will not hurt them. They s they they they couldn't speak against it He picked it up, it would be a rod again. And that's why it's a big deal that these kinds of apostolic miracles had ceased. We were in Virginia somewhere looking. I believe those are two separate things. And once the word is confirmed, you say, oh no, this is the word. Alright, we'll close up there. Well In 2 Corinthians 12, as he writes back to them again, he said, truly That was the qualification. This is extraordinarily off the charts, unusual. That that helps me round out this this answer. Pride of who Now look at what I saw all the events that happened. 11, God wrought special miracles by the hand of Paul. They've got a lot of traveling to do. And he laughed at that thought, saying, Really? Okay, what else, what what other issues might you see with that It's not this big I'm not that kind of an apostle. And um It's also rendered servant. I mean I'm sure it was twenty, maybe even thirty feet high Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha The purpose was for the confirmation of What's different when you're a God? How do you know the message is authentic? You you gotta have a little more faith. No for no worries. He assigns it, he ascribes it, he sets it up. They're extraordinary. Maybe he was really studied in the arts of the Egyptians or something, but Peter is a fisherman. Just get close to a shadow. The extraordinary officers of the church. Oh, yeah, that's the sick man's house. This guy has titles. It talks about, uh you guessed it, older people Well what's his title? Amen. And then we'll look at church assemblies and church powers. George Bush Sr. I don't want to be a false prophet How many foundations do you need? Not to worry. Number one, he doesn't understand who the founder of the church is There were 500 brethren who had seen him You'll lose the ship, you'll lose the goods, but if you stay in this boat, you'll all make it to shore. Anton, could you close this in curves? He's the head of the source of authority So they were directly called by the Lord. Am I not free? How many foundations do you have in your house He says, twelve people. Go into the mission field and take Penny with you. This is nothing new to him We have Ephesians 2, 19. I can describe it plainly. They are ordinary in that they were Miracle! Not just a little bit, not a step up, but far above. Uh I've seen that sort of nonsensory on No, he says drink a little a little wine Men didn't make me an apostle. You know, they're shaking the empty cup, they're waiting for the ring in the tin can. His title is servant. We'd given up on Maryland. They knew him, and yet the whole town knew. And it's just not going to work Didn't he have that? They confirmed it with signs and wonders. And then I'll wrap was running and Yeah why was it God put him in office. Ah No he didn't do that. There are diversities of what? That's what the apostles could do. And we thank you for this. How do you know he's called a God? He says, You cannot drink strychnine They walked by, his lawn was wrecked. You can begin to see an end. He acknowledged that he is their master and Rise up and walk Now the first three I can dispel all these myths. So he's above even that. These are those that the church have had This is it. Nobody likes that title. Um We were driving to Virginia to try to find They were directly commissioned for a specific So we'll talk about that. What's the implication of that statement? Thank you. I It was right there. And they brought the young man alive. Don't change it. Administrations? You know, that's