Good morning. Welcome to Adult Sunday School for Mission Bible Church. We have a resounding audience today. Well, we have looked at and we've come along the path of talking about religion first. Where did religion come from? God put it in man. He's a creature of God and therefore it is something that has the seat in the heart of man. And then we went from the question of, okay, that's where religion came from. How does man ever figure out And enter into this relationship with God. And we've discovered that, lo and behold, except God reveal himself, man would really have no way of finding out. God is a spirit. And so you can't touch a spirit See a spirit, feel the spirit, any of that stuff. And so we found out it is by revelation. And that now leads us to our next point, which has to do with Scripture and inspiration. This is the ultimate form of God's revelation. The sense of special revelation. We've looked at general revelation. God reveals himself through the Creation, stars, the heavens declare the glory of God. There's many ways that God's fingerprints can be detected in this world, but you can't look at a butterfly and become saved There is special revelation. And it can be used in more than one sense, this phrase special revelation, because all of the methods that we mentioned in the last study are now captured in the Bible He came through a still small voice. We read about it in the book. He came through dreams and visions. You read about it in this book. He spoke through the prophets. You read about it in this book. And the purpose of all of those things was so that it may be. written. So we now have a captured record of all that God has said. And when God speaks, it's not just to you personally. a a little personal indication. It really is intended not only for you, but for many generations to come. It's not just a personal private revelation that's not relevant to somebody else later on. It's a much broader reaching, shall we say, a very effective and very efficient way of communicating so that it goes beyond its original audience. Speaks to them, yes, but goes even beyond that. Let me give you a quote here from the introduction of the book that we're using as a springboard, the summary of Christian Doctrine. It says this, the Bible is that whole complex of redemptive truths and facts with the proper historical setting. and has the divine guarantee of its truth, that it is infallibly inspired by the Holy Spirit. In view of this, it may be said that the whole Bible, and only the Bible, and I underscore that part, is God's special revelation for us today. So this is called the sufficiency of Scriptures, the completeness of it. So let's look at some proofs. That's kind of a way of introduction. I've got several outlines which I'm using the book as for its headings. The proofs for inspiration. We're going to look at that. We're going to look at some Old and New Testament references to inspiration. And then we're going to talk about the nature of inspiration and the extent of it. So those are the three topics. Proof. Turn to Exodus 17. 14. If you have a Bible, great. If not, I'll read it to you. Exodus 17. 14. Some of the biggest, obvious proofs are that God simply says, write what I say. And so we know who was the initiator of these thoughts, it was the Lord. You'd see, for instance, in Exodus 717, 14, the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book. And rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. So here he tells Moses, write it for a memorial in a book. So there's a direct um point that uh that shores up my assertion earlier. It wasn't just for Joshua, it would be for Joshua and the generation he was going to continue to rehearse it not only in Joshua's ears, but it would be something that would continue on because it's in a book. You don't bother putting something in a book unless you have an audience you intend to communicate it to, beyond just the first person who buys the book, so to speak, or possesses it. You see this all the time in Scripture talking about writing what the Lord commands. You see, for instance, in Exodus 34, 27, then the Lord said to Moses, write these words. It's all throughout the book of Exodus, in Numbers. Now Moses wrote down the starting points of their journeys. So as they went through the wilderness coming out of Egypt, Moses would write these things down. Interesting ones are later when you get to the prophets in the book of Jeremiah we read this So I will bring on that land all my words which I have pronounced written which I have pronounced against it, all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied concerning all the nations. So God is indicating, yes, I've written these things and those words that I've written will come against you. And he got those words into that book through the prophet Jeremiah. So that's how we know it's inspired. Jeremiah 32, Thus speaks the Lord God of Israel, saying, Write it in a book for yourself, all the words that I have spoken to you. And so you find this again and again and again. In Ezekiel, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying often the prophets would come out and and make that sort of a declaration. Habakkuk has an interesting reference. Then the Lord answered and said, Write the vision and make it plain upon the tablets that he may run who readeth it It's speaking about writing this on the tablets, that there would be a runner for somebody who reads it. He reads it, ah, he gets excited. He wants to go run with his message. He wants to go run and tell somebody else. One of the pros for inspiration is the many references, and these are just a handful, of the statement that's captured, write what the Lord commands. I know this is very basic stuff, very elemental, but I'm just kind of reviewing the foundation with you to show that it's actually connected to something solid. Next point. And I do have questions. We will get to some interaction. This is not a monologue, I promise you. The New Testament references to inspiration. So turn to Hebrews 3:7. Again, if you have a Bible, I'll uh If you don't have one, I'll read it for you. Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 7. Interesting one here. And what's particularly interesting about this is the context. So Hebrews 3:7, we read this. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. Now that's interesting for a couple of reasons. Number one, the author of the book of Hebrews, many assert that they would be the Apostle Paul. Certainly sounds like Paul in some respects, and others it doesn't. We know ultimately it's God. But the author of the book of Hebrews starts off by quoting, he says, As the Holy Ghost saith, today if you hear his voice Harden not your hearts, etc. And all of that is a quote from the book of the Psalms. That's from Psalm 95. Now, who wrote the book of the Psalms for the most part? David. Yeah, David wrote the Book of the Psalms, but under divine inspiration it says, as the Holy Ghost saith. So we see number one, the fact of David writing it is not being obliterated But number two, the fact that the real initiator, the real author, if you will, of those words was the Holy Spirit And so here, the book of Hebrews tells us that this reference to the Psalms is saying, God the Holy Spirit said in the book of the Psalms. So that's a belief. that betrays an underlying assumption that yes the Psalms are divinely inspired. They took them as the Word of God. Again in Hebrews 4. 3, for we who have believed do enter into that rest as he has said, and he was capitalized. So I swore in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. Again, a quote from the book of the Psalms. And notice it says he said in reference to God. Another point about inspiration is, and this is an important one, is that it is not by man's thoughts or by man's wisdom. There are many books in the religious marketplace that purport to come from some. spiritually heightened, spiritually elevated individual who perhaps does have some pearls of insight and wisdom and perhaps can turn a phrase to be catchy and it conveys something that people can understand easily And I'm not knocking those in the Christian faith for the moment. I'm really talking about people like Confucius or some of the uh the uh those of these other sects that are out there, these these wildly varying re religions that are there, they can have a measure and a nugget of wisdom and truth because they are creatures of God and God still bestows upon them gifts. And they may use those gifts, not to his glory, but to their own. They can misuse it, but it's nonetheless a gift, and they have that talent. And we can see that and recognize it But the Bible says in 1 Corinthians, the Apostle Paul, under inspiration, writing, and you know this verse, therefore, excuse me, these things we also speak. Not in words which man's wisdom teaches. He says, I'm talking to you, but not in words of man's wisdom. But Which the Holy Spirit teaches. So the Apostle Paul, just like David, understood that the things coming out of his mouth were very different. They perceived that there was a divine influence upon them, and what was coming forth was thus, saith the Lord. You know, you can't miss when you accidentally touch an electrical outlet. That force is invisible. You can't see electricity unless, of course, you happen to get a sixteenth of an inch from it with a little piece of metal and you see a little blue arc go across there. But if you touch it, you definitely know that there is something flowing through you. All of us remember the time when we've inadvertently touched a hot circuit and you get that that feeling, that that real energized sense that moves you very quickly and you know that jumping around wasn't me, there was a cause behind it And I cannot only but imagine that when the living Word of God comes through an individual for the purposes of inspiration, that they not know that that is very different. And the Apostle Paul detects that. In fact, he commended those in his audience to the fact that they received it as such. And let's go to 1 Thessalonians 2. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, and I'll read it for you in verse 13. 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. Okay. It says this. It says, For this cause also, thank we God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which you heard of us, this is the apostle speaking to the Thessalonians, we still see his presence, his fingerprints in that conveyance. He says, ye received it not, you received these words not as the word of men. but as it is in truth the Word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Alright, so we see that here he's commending these Thessalonians for having received the scriptures, and that they heard Paul, they had a man standing there speaking to him, an apostle nonetheless, and he says But you didn't receive it as if though this were thus, saith Paul. You received it as if though it was the Word of God. And he commends them for that. And that was not erased from God's holy writ. This is just a sampling of it. In fact, if you do a little simple word search in a lot of Bible tools, you can buy these things and download them to your uh computer or your phone, many of them are free, and you can count how many times certain phrases appear. For instance, the phrase, thus saith the Lord. is a very common phrase. Anyone want to venture a guess how many times that phrase shows up in the Bible? 200 times. Anybody else? Any other ideas? And how many times that phrase actually appears in the Bible? 413 times. Just that phrase. Not variations of it, but just specifically that phrase. You don't find that in the Quran. You don't find that in Confucius' writings. You don't find that in other bodies of religious literature that men may claim to be their divine source of authority. You don't find, thus saith the Lord, so oft and repeatedly through there. God insists that you understand who is saying it. You mothers understand this. When you're instructing your child, And the one question that a child will always hit you with, and they figure this out at some point, there's one question the child can ask you for which there is never a conclusive answer, and it's the question, why? Don't go outside in the yard and play. Well, why? Because you're going to get your clothes dirty and we're going to go to church. But why? You know we always go to church on Sunday in our clean clothes. Guess what they can ask? And it keeps begging another answer. At some point you foot stomp it and you say, because I said so. And that is intended to be an end of all argumentation. Well, the Lord's fully aware of human nature, and he's going to cut short that argument from the get-go Thus saith the Lord, and then he's going to roll forward with his commandments. He just cuts it out right away. There's no cause for argumentation, so you know who the source and the genesis of this point is. The phrase, the word of the Lord. The word of the Lord came unto me, or the word of the Lord was given. The word of the Lord, that appears 255 times in the Bible. Now, let's put that in comparison. Let's just kind of weigh that out. There's the phrase, love of God. Anyone want to venture a guess how many times that phrase, love of God, appears in scriptures? Venture a guess. Four hundred times. Four hundred times. Thirteen times Only thirteen times does the phrase love of God and when you ask the world about what are some of God's characteristics, um the most common response will be, well, he's a loving God, or and they'll say the Bible says God is love. Yes, but there's over there's hundreds, if not maybe a thousand, references to the fact that God inspired holy scriptures Let me ask a question now. This is kind of an informative discuss discussion type of question. Why do you think this point is important to the Christian faith? Why does it matter? that we talk about. I'm gonna go with a why question that that the kids picked up. I'll give it on you, because we'll because I'll keep going. Why do you think it's important that we pay attention to the fact that this is the word of the Lord? Why would that even be important? Why does it matter? No no need to change. That's it. We don't want God to change anything. Okay. All right, no uh no need for change. Okay, uh that's a good point, absolutely, because when he said it you don't need to think if there's a different way, maybe it could have worked out another way, maybe it should have been done this way. No, it was intended to be this particular direction. There's a safety in that. Yeah, it's like an anchor. Yes. You you've already answered the question in some ways. You said after all the whys, finally you said because I said so And ultimately we have the word of the Lord because he said so. And so our uh objections are irrelevant, he said so. Oh, all right. Good. Any other thoughts? I have other thoughts. You know, actually in first Thessalonians it it says that the word of God which effectually works also in you that believe. Very good. Yes. If it's inspired, then there's something very special to this. And it can actually do something. After all, God spoke and uh this whole world came into existence. I can work an awfully long time and maybe cobble together some curious piece of furniture. But I can't speak things into existence as much as I'd like to. I really don't have that ability. And so if God speaks, then maybe there's some creative, healing, uh cre uh uh uh enduring uh ability that can effectually work in me. It can change me, it can improve my my thinking and my outlook on life. Very good. Alright, now we're going to look at the nature of inspiration. So, how do you suppose inspiration actually occurred? I'm getting into how how do we start with a blank sheet of paper and then we get to inspired words? How how how does that occur? Is it mechanical, like you know, uh what am I acting like? A robot, right? Is it The Uber smart spiritually enlightened Bubba that just happened or Babette that just happens to know great deep thoughts and can capture them in fluid writing. How does inspiration actually occur? Through your thinking. Through your mind. Okay, through the mind, okay. All right. What are some other thoughts? In other words, it's just a really smart person who happens to capture this? Or what are you thinking? Imagination thinking altogether. How does in s how does the Holy Spirit how does the how does God enter into that thinking? Is that the creature was thinking about God and came up with a good idea and wrote it down? No, it just uh Came from God. Okay. So God gave the individual the thoughts. Okay. Probably that's what uh happens when you're doing Okay. But the one who originated that thought would have been God. But it would in go okay, that's fair enough. Any other thoughts on how inspiration occurs? This is maybe a topic you haven't thought about And I'll get to why this is important. When I'm worried about something, the answer just comes to me. Yeah. I have to think about it for a while and then God tells me. Yeah, all right. So the idea here of uh of um Now your example may be more in the form of enlightenment. So the understanding God would impart to you to say, no, don't put the bird feed food out on the left side of the patio today, put it on the right side just for whatever reason. uh that's not an eternal word of God to the church throughout eternity. And I know you don't mean it like that. Right, right, right. I understand that. Um I'm uh uh referring now to a a bank blank slate of uh uh over fourteen hundred pages, how does how did this book get there? So she was saying that the Word of the Lord came into men's minds, the captured the thought and wrote it down. Okay, Victoria, which I'm not in a disagreement with. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Alright, there's a reference to scripture. Holy men of God spake as they were moved. We're going to get to that passage in a moment, but thank you. I was going to take that verse and expand it to John's description in Revelation where he was transported. He was he was taken from where he was and he saw, you know, God showed it to him. And it's it is a God taking a man out of himself, out of his own will. And just as certainly as God breathed into Adam and Adam became a living soul, so inspiration God breathing into the man. God transports the man from his humanity Not that he becomes divine, but he takes a man totally out of himself and into something totally different that cannot come from within the man because it's not there. Okay Alright, so uh I'm glad you mentioned that and we'll poke at that so. Um so you mentioned some phrase, he's he's out of his uh humanity, he's out of his uh will. Um does the will of the individual have any bearing or mark on it? Does the uh does the um um Does the characteristic and the nature of the author come through at all in the writings? Yeah, the stylistic personality of the author is not lost. That's how we can that's how all of Paul's Books are inspired and yet we can we can see Paul's fingerprints on them. Okay. Say, ah that that sounds like Paul. Do you see why I asked the question? Yeah, because there's a the on the one hand if we say he's almost not human, he's been taken out of it, that's the robot approach. The men were just robotically moved and they were maybe resistant. I really don't want to write this down, but something is moving my hand to write this. And we would certainly ascribe that God can do it that way if he wanted to. I don't think there's any question there. But at the same time, uh we still see that there is Human author fingerprints, the way Luke writes, is very different in the gospel accounts than the way John or Matthew or even Mark write. There's some difference. Mark is a very characteristic use of the word Kai and this and that and the other thing. Yes. And and also there's the element that there were letters that Paul wrote that were not inspired. And we know they weren't because they weren't preserved. Right, and the church the the letter that he wrote to the church at Laodicea have it written and so we know he wrote that but so he did he he he wasn't always inspired when he was writing. Okay, right. So where I'm getting at is there are three choices as men discuss about how inspiration came about And I'll get to why this is incredibly important in a moment. There's three choices. Two of them are wrong, and one of them is right. And we've kind of touched on elements of each of these. So let me describe them for you. The first is mechanical inspiration. The second is dynamic inspiration, and the third is organic inspiration. Hint, the right one is the last one. So what do we mean by all those technical terms? And they're theological terms. They're not found in the Bible. But those are just a handle to put onto an idea that men use to explain how this book actually came about. And I'll tell you why that's important in a moment. because a lot of this theology was written in the days to contrast and counter from Roman Catholicism, which had gone far off the rails. The Roman Catholic Church would say, you need to come to us to learn, because we're the ones that gave you the Bible. And that's a huge problem, right? Alright. And we'll get into why that's a problem. So mechanical inspiration. The idea there is the authors were purely passive. Their mind really was not involved. You started off very well by saying, well, it's with the mind. You're certainly using that. You can't say it was a totally passive author. They're not robots because that would not match the testimony of the scriptures. For instance, in the opening pages of the book of Luke, he writes, forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of things most surely believed among us. Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning we were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things, most excellent Theophilus, to write into thee in order That thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Basically, Paul is saying is a lot of people were writing about what has happened in Jerusalem, but I haven't Excellent understanding of what's going on. He would have had access to Mary, to the apostles. He was the Apostle Paul's sidekick. He was a frequent traveling companion with Paul He was the beloved physician. Physicians in those days, just as they are today, are all about memorizing things. And so he had a great memory for things and he could recollect and he would give Luke as a first-rate historian. People when they have attempted to attack the gospel accounts continually and continually and continually stub their toe when they get to Luke, because he writes very specific things that only an eyewitness in that area could have known about and written about. It's excellent in so many ways. So you do see that his mind was involved. He says, I have an excellent understanding of this. And so God allowed Luke to be in this position. God gave Luke those gifts and skills. He had the talents. He was A child of God. He had God the Holy Spirit with him. And yet he was also divinely inspired to write these things. That's mechanical, and we would say no, you definitely see the mind and the thinking of the individuals involved. So where does divine inspiration come from? Because if it's just mechanical, I mean if it's just the mind of the author, then we get to dynamic inspiration. And what dynamic inspiration says this It only affected the writers who were of a heightened level of moral and mental or spiritual ability God looked down and said, Boy, there is a sharp character right down there. He really knows his theology. Amos says, I was a shepherd of Tokoa. I was tending sheep. God had some of the most unlikely characters to be his authors. Peter was a fisherman for crying out loud. That's not exactly the school of higher theological learning as in a boat on a tossed Mediterranean Sea. And the idea of dynamic inspiration is that these men had inspired thoughts. So watch it now. Holy Spirit comes in Like a big blunder, we whirrs up their mind, and they get some really good ideas, and then in their own words And in their own phraseology, wrote down what God told them. Now that's a wrong view. That's a wrong view. Because it doesn't match the scriptures. So let's go to 12 Peter 1. 20. This is a view that is more common in our day. And the reason it's common in our day is because men want to declare themselves present-day apostles. You've surely come across churches, the first apostolic church of fill in the blank city, and the apostle so-and-so, and first lady so-and-so, and these people who uh esteem themselves more highly than they ought. They're false apostles that the Bible talks about. But they take a dynamic view of inspiration, meaning God gave me these ideas and these thoughts. That's enlightenment. Yes, God can work through His Word to help sharpen our understanding so that we've got a little sharper mental acuity and we can come to God godly reasoning and those sorts of things, but that's not inspiration. That's not inspiration. That's not a divine word of God that is inerrant for all time. That is seven times tried in furnace of fire. So the biblical data says this in 2 Peter 1. 20. Now this is from Peter. And I want to back it up to verse 16 for a moment. He says, We have not followed cunningly devised fables. We haven't come to you with sophisticated myths. Many people refer to this book as a book of myths. These are very sophisticated myths. He says, no, no, no, no. We haven't followed that. That's not what we're talking about here. When we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of His Majesty. Peter's going to give a reference to the fact that he was an eyewitness. of the majestic, awesome power of Jesus Christ. So this is an eyewitness account of one of his closest companions. For he received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He says, We heard a voice from heaven. A voice boomed, says, this is my beloved son. When's the last time you've heard that record given to one of your friends Hey, I heard God talk to me today. Not a voice from heaven that came down and boomed. He says this voice, verse 18, which came from heaven, we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. In Matthew 17, three of the disciples go up to the Mount of Transfiguration. That's what he's referring to. He's up in this mountain. And while they were up there, a cloud covers the area, a voice booms from heaven, and he says, This is my beloved son. With in whom I'm well pleased. Matthew goes on to record, Hear ye him. He said, We heard a voice from God, boom, out of heaven. That's not normally happening, folks. That just doesn't normally happen. That would be pretty astounding. You would take that up to a notch of saying, I have surely had a divine encounter. I've surely had an experience with God Himself. That would be an impressive thing that would shake you to your boots. It would leave a deep impression on you for a long time. And it did for Peter. He writes about it. But notice what he says next. We have also a more sure Word of prophecy. I want you to underscore in your mind that phrase, a more sure word. This book Is more certain that it is from God Almighty Then if you were to go in a mountain with two other apostles and Jesus himself and God himself spoke from heaven. He says, this is more sure than that Do you catch the gravity of that for a moment? Do you understand the weight of that statement? How much more certain it is that this is The Word of God. He says, Whereunto you do well that you take heed. Skip down to verse 20. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. In other words. These people did not get their inspiration by a private in the confines of their own cabeza, their own head. They didn't get The idea of these inspired words privately in their mind. Okay? Why am I making such a big deal about this? Well, Mr. Burkhoff wrote his book, Systematic Theology, in the 50s, and it was a tremendous hit. and resource availed of the conservative Christian Church throughout a great many portions of the land In the 90s and in 2000, a Westminster Seminary graduate named Wayne Brutum also wrote a book entitled Systematic Theology And it follows nearly point for point the same chapter headings as Burkhoff's book of systematic theology. It even has the same title, Systematic Theology. But when it gets to the section on inspiration, he takes a view of dynamic inspiration. That is, the scripture came by private interpretation. God's words came into man's mind. Man ruminated it, thought it over. And then man wrote it down in his words. That's a very subtle point, but you know what it leads to? A church that we have down the road, a scant three miles down the street from me, church that claims to have apostles. A church that claims that divine inspiration continues today, much like you described, they would lump onto that, Mrs. Ross, and say, well, yes. God is speaking to you. You have inspired words. Please come to the microphone and share your God-inspired words with all of us. And all of a sudden, what is the word of the Lord? It's popping up in every corner. We don't have a sure anchor that doesn't change. We have new things coming along By the way, folks, that's if you don't want to get your cabeza around half this stuff, just know this. Anything new theologically is bad. Anything theologically new is just bad. Just hit the eject button, hit delete, just say no. That is not how God inspired the prophets. He used what has been referred to throughout the ages as organic inspiration, and we read about that in verse 21. That is our handle for it. So turning now again to 2 Peter 1. Verse 21, we believe in organic interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. So to your point. Man didn't willingly go, gee, I think I'll coat up some nice religious ditty today. It didn't come by the will of man. He didn't wake up one morning and say, gee, I'm going to do this. But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Now that word moved is the sense in which the wind grabs the sail of a sailboat. And just carries it right along. Now the way I have phrased organic inspiration is this. In a sense, man is the pen. And the pen has a certain tip type. It may be lead. It may be ballpoint, it may be what you use very special pens when you write with when you do your calligraphy. What what is that type of pen? It's called calligraphy. A calligraphy pen. Some are f and you can tell when there's a calligraphy pen being written. It has very in some places it's broad and flat, but as soon as it turns direction, it's a fine line. And it makes a marvelous inscription. There are lead pencils, different color pens. It is a light thing for God to raise up a Paul and place in him the skills, the talents, the inclination, the historical background that would form his shaping, because pencils just don't ooze up out of the ground There's a piece of wood, there's a lead, there's a pen, plastic, a shaft, there's a lot of parts that come together that formed those parts. So God formed his biblical authors with their talents, with their skills. When Angela and I were recording, she would uh send me uh it was pager notices in those days. And so she would send little, you know, pager notices, I knew it was from her. When she would write a letter, I knew it was from her. Different means, pager, letter, phone call. There were different means. Well, I knew it was her behind it all. Same with scripture. Whether it's a Moses or David or Samuel, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, the prophets, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John But I know it's him speaking. It's organic inspiration. It's a light thing for God to raise these men up and then take them at the appropriate time appointed in the right historical context And all of a sudden they're highly willing, ready, and able to do the task before them. Thus saith the Lord. That's organic inspiration. So that you do see the fingerprints of the individual in there. You can perform literary analysis. Did this person really live in that time? Were they even using terms that were common in that day, or was this written years later? It survives the scrutiny of all of those different angles In 2 Samuel, David said, the Spirit of the Lord spake by me and his word was on my tongue. David knew this. He understood this. I have questions. Go ahead. Uh I was told that the the the the Bible uh if you take off uh uh verses or uh chapters. Yes. And God will uh take off some blessings from you or if you add it's going to Yes. So but they said that there are some couple three three verse that's been removed from the Bible. Like Apocrypha. I see the question of the Apocrypha. Some would claim, well the Apocrypha has been removed from the Bible The Apocrypha were ancient historical documents written approximately a similar timeframe as the Bible, but they were never uh recognized by the church as being divinely inspired or canonical. Even the Catholic Church fathers, if I can refer to them in that term, lowercase fathers, would themselves acknowledge that the Apocrypha is not inspired. They would say it's a historical writing. It can be of some value insomuch as any other historical book is, but it is not on the same level as the scriptures. So there's nothing in the Bible that has been lost, and nothing in the Bible has been added. The Apocrypha are not divinely inspired books. Question. Did the prophets themselves always understand what they wrote? Probably not. Probably not. Yeah. Yeah. That wasn't a very good discussion question. was it that was a yes or no question. I failed miserably on how to ask a good discussion question. Well that ends discussion. Please cut why? Why? There you go, that's a good one. Why? Yeah, why didn't they not understand what they wrote? Inspired by God, so they they did not know. There's a lot of in the apostle uh the the his uh disciples did not know what's going on. That's true. He would say he was with him talking and still did not know what's going on what he what he That's true, that's true. Uh you read after the resurrection, then it came into their mind, you know, as to what he had said earlier and in fact come to pass. For instance, Daniel wrote, and I Daniel had seen the vision, sought for the meaning. He's trying to seek the meaning of this vision that he had. And then God sends him an angel who helps explain it. Daniel 12, 8, I heard, but I understood not. Then said I, Oh my Lord, what shall be the end of these things? Zechariah. Then said I, Oh my Lord, what are these? All throughout Zechariah. God would show them a vision. Lord, what are these? But after someone you've seen them die and then you're talking to them. You do tend to think over what they said before. Well true. That's true. Yes, I do remember the words a lot of my dad, certain things that he would say. Yeah, absolutely. Turn to 1 Peter 1. 11. 1 Peter 1. 11. I'm doing horrible at fulfilling my promises. I forgot I put all my questions at the end. And I don't think I'm going to cover everything today, so I want to stay on time. This is an interesting phrase in 1 Peter 11. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify. when it testified beforehand of the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. What's fascinating is that these oh I'm sorry I should have started in verse 10 of which salvation the prophets have inquired in search diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify. They knew God's Spirit was in them, and he was signifying, giving something significant for them to write. But they were searching. What does this mean? Even John the Baptist, when he's in prison, do you remember what he did? John the Baptist was thrown in prison. He taught others. Is that what you mean? Uh no, uh John the Baptist sent some of his disciples out to ask Jesus, are you the one that is to come? Or should we wait for another? Even John beholding the very works of Christ didn't see it. And isn't that so true of us? In many ways our eyes are shut to understanding. You see how that kind of cuts at this idea of dynamic inspiration where if I was just a really smart guy, well then the implication is I know all divine perfection. I have sought out and found an end of God. I can explain to you all the things of God. Because if you're smart enough to write it down. You're smart enough to understand it. Who writes down something they don't have a clue about? So that doesn't fit. I think sometimes it does. I think we do sometimes write things down that we really do not fully understand. And I think the whole Bible is like that Yes. But it was written by organic inspiration. God inspired them to write these things. The prophets didn't fully understand what they wrote, right? I don't either. You're a separate case, Mr. You're a special case. We put you in the special category. I've written down many things I didn't understand understand. I took biology. Biology. So the the teacher who fully understood it all told me and I wrote it down and then I went back to my notes later before the test and I examined it And I came to some degree of understanding because I passed the class. Right. Right. But but I was I was told directly These are the words, these are the scientific terms, and I wrote it down exactly as I was told, even though I did not understand exactly what those terms meant It's a good example, right. So you see how organic inspiration fits in. We're not worshiping at the feet of some man up on a mountain, the guru so-and-so, who has all the answers and knows everything. There were human authors, some forty different human authors over a period of just under 1600 years who captured this book, and what they wrote was what God the Holy Spirit moved them to write. So that's for today. I've got some other parts that were uh that I skipped over because I didn't want to rush for time. And uh Lord willing, next week we'll conclude this uh this particular chapter. And I'm going to add a section of this chapter. Again, I'm not talking theologically new things, but it's something that Burkhoff didn't cover in this one particular point, which is a battle in our day. So we'll start there. Joe, would you close us in prayer, please? Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is yay and amen. The words of man are changeable and are fallible, but the word of God is unchangeable and is infallible. And Lord, we thank you that you've given it to us, you've preserved it for us. Father, may we be faithful to dig into it, uh to search the scriptures daily, to uh examine the scriptures and to compare scripture with scripture. Bless your word to our hearts we pray. In Jesus' name. We're ready.