There was an interest from last week's study to continue going forward into the doctrine of hell, a topic that is quite heavily in the scriptures. And I'm not going to totally repeat everything we went quickly over last week, but we will touch on it again towards the end. And in thinking through this, I realized probably the best way to have tackled any doctrinal subject is to kind of explain the truth first, and then you can bring the parade of uglies and bad ideas in after that it's much easier to shoot them down when you know what the truth is. So we've kind of reversed a little bit Uh and I debated what really to call this and I've settled on the term perfect wrath. The key word is perfect. His wrath and his judgment is perfect. In your handout, the first fill in the blank is this that there are twice as many references in the Bible to the wrath of God than to the love of God I went and did a search over the word anger, angry, fury, furious, wrath, um, and love, loving, loving kindness and so forth. And indeed, there's twice as many references in connection with the with With uh Jehovah, with God, uh quite a few. And we're going to read just a sampling of some of these because I think as we go through these verses, you'll begin to get a sense of this attribute of God, which isn't often spoken about. And we will ask some questions after we read this. I'm going to do it a little differently today. I'm going to kind of go around the room and uh just have different people start to read some of these things. I'll read the first couple. Uh maybe Yvonne will we'll take a couple. Uh Owen, you can read a couple off the sheet and we'll just kind of walk our way through that So Deuteronomy 32, 22 is our first reference. It says, a fire is kindled in mine anger. This is God speaking through Moses. And shall burn unto the lowest hell. It's interesting because it implies that there's other uses of that word shield in the Old Testament, which would imply grave, and then there's a lowest hell, something even beyond that, meaning what we would refer to as eternal damnation, and shall consume the earth with her increase and set on fire the foundations of the mountains. Uh if you're burning a mountain, that's pretty intense. If you're burning the foundation of the mountain, that's even more intense than that. Uh you read uh that same phrase lowest hell in Psalm 86, 13, for great is thy mercy toward me, and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. Now we have an indication of where uh the soul where a soul's destiny, apart from Christ, winds up in some place called the lowest hell. Ivan, could you read uh the next two, Isaiah 30, 33 and uh and Zechemiah 3. 8. Isaiah thirty thirty three for Tophah is ordained of old, yea for the king it is prepared. He hath made it deep and large, the pile thereof is fire and much wood, the breath of the Lord like A stream of brimstone doth kindle it. Therefore wait ye upon me, saith the Lord, until the day that I rise up to the prey, for my determination is to gather the nations That I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger, for all the earth shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy. So that was Isaiah 30, 33 and Zephaniah 3. 8. You don't hear often verses from Zephaniah. I was really struck with the shorter prophets, Zephaniah and later Micah and Nahum, what they have to say. And they have some of the sharpest language in their short writings of the Lord's wrath. Notice that in Isaiah 30, 33, if you've um do you know somebody who's a firebug? Certainly my mother knows one because she's looking at one. I was always one who enjoyed the Fourth of July. My dad would gather together out in the country. He had a number of acres in the out in the uh east central part of Texas. And uh it was always a great delight because it would be very hot in the summertime and have these large piles of oak wood uh just brush from under the trees, a lot of blackjack oak, just a lot of scrub brush and the like. Pile that up. He put a five gallon can of gas, empty it in the middle and stand back and light it and boy you'd get a really nice blaze going. One of the nice things I also discovered is if you have a Leaf blower, you can blow it at the base of the fire pit and really get it going. It can really generate some heat and I was always impressed at how hot oak can get. that just you want to get it so hot but to see how far back you have to stand from it before you can tolerate it. Just I've always just enjoyed that for whatever reason. Thankfully it never burned the house down. And my dad, of course, had some other interesting episodes with uh burning large things like Christmas trees right up the chimney. Hint, don't do that. It's not a good idea. But here you read this description It's a deep pit. It's large. You've got fire and much wood. Not a little bit, but much. And the breath of the Lord kindles it. And his breath, it says, like a stream of brimstone. That would be burning sulfur you get this picture of something that is exceptionally hot. And here he's referencing Tofit, uh using Tofit as a reference to hell. And then God's determination in Zephaniah 3 is to gather the nations to pour upon them his indignation and fierce anger, devouring the entire earth with fire. of his jealousy. He's jealous. Our God is a jealous God, jealous for his holiness, jealous for his reputation, zealous for his name, and when it's smeared, bef uh profaned uh said it naught. Uh it it he takes umbrage with that. Um Pastor, could you read uh Mark 9, 43 to 44 and then Matthew 10, 28? And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, and into fire that never shall be quenched. where their worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched. And then Mark 10 or Matthew 10, 28. And fear them not fear not them which kill the body. but are not able to kill the soul, but rather feel him fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. The Mark IX passage is, I think, an interesting one because it does seem to me to be eminently reasonable if hell is as horrific, if hell is as um terrifying if hell is a place and a condition and a state to be absolutely avoided at all costs. What the Lord prescribes here does seem to be eminently reasonable. That if um You have a member of your body that just cannot cease from sin, if uh, and I'll pick on the eyes for the moment, if the eyes of a young man just cannot steer away from the vileness of uh the writings of harlots and the like. Uh the Lord says, fine, it's better that you pluck it out Because it would bet it'd be better for you to be in this life maimed than to have both of those eyes intact c cast into hell. There is a spiritual dimension to this as well, uh and when it talks about body, it can also refer, I believe, to the the the the ch the corporate church body, if you have a different member set in it, like 1 Corinthians 12 speaks about, that is cancerous to that body. that that minister needs to be removed rather than the entire congregation be led down a path which ends up in hell. But notice this language where their worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched Interestingly enough, the modern translations do not like that phrase. They say, oh, well, it's an example of haplography or a haplogra H-A-P-L-I-S-H-A-T-N. They've come up with some name. It says it's undue repetition. Because Mark repeats that phrase, or rather the Lord repeats the phrase three times, and they say, well, it's obviously something the scribes kept adding Well that's nonsense. I believe the Lord is in fact hammering down this point, and it's consistent with how we speak. Yea, for three transgressions of Moab and for four, I will do such and such. The Lord speaks like that. And yet modern translations, and in fact, I've got a copy of a book that they give to first-year seminary students, which holds that up as an example of undue repetition and says it's not really in the Bible. Isn't that got the fingerprints of the devil all over? He just wants to tell you that, no, don't worry about that business of hell thing. It's not that bad. Let's keep trimming away at the edges. Yeah, it's horrible. It says, the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Then you read in 2 Thessalonians 1. I'd like to ask Anton to read that section. 2 Thessalonians 1, 7B to 9. And the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angel. in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power? This is quite the powerful statement in the New Testament, and it's obviously something the apostle has received both from his studies of Scripture as well as, I'm sure. uh some uh additional uh inspiration of God. But notice this language. There's a revealing, number one. Number two, it's the Lord Jesus coming. Number three, he's coming with his mighty angels, so he's not coming alone Uh number four, he's uh coming in flaming fire. That's quite the intense description. Uh it's a fireball. You know, you don't shake hands with a fireball, hey, how's it going? Start up small chit-chat. This is definitely uh a a a first initial assault, you know, when uh wars have started, it's the blare of cannons, it's the It's the blaze and the the shock and awe of bombs going off. It's with flaming fire, but this is going to be quite the flaming fire because God's taking vengeance. Vengeance on who? them that know not God, those who are uh ignorant of God, they have no interest in learning about Him or uh retaining Him in their knowledge. And number two, they don't obey the gospel. They're disobedient to the Word of God. This is a twofold criteria that God lists out. And it says they'll be punished. And it's not just a swatty stick behind the shed. It says they're punished with everlasting destruction. This is a destruction that continues and doesn't stop. So it's utterly horrific sounding, and it is horrific, and they're destroyed from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power They are utterly obliterated and driven away by his glory and by his power, and they will never uh uh see him in a favorable light. Umike UT, if you could read Job 9, uh 5 He is wise in heart and mighty in strength, who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered, which removeth the mountains and they know not, which overturneth them in his anger. So here we have one of uh, it's either Job or one of his three friends, I didn't uh check to look that up, making a very bold statement. Who can harden themselves against God and actually prosper or even survive? Here it says he can overturn mountains in his anger. Mountains and hills to the Lord are very light things to move. You then read in Micah 1, 3 to 4, and I'll read these last two, for behold, the Lord cometh forth out of his place, and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth, and the mountains shall be molten under him. The valley shall be cleft as wax before the fire, meaning there's absolutely no resistance whatsoever. And the waters and as waters that are poured down a steep place His presence has such a powerful effect that it can melt rocks as much as you would take wax and present it to an oak fire. It just dribbles. That's almost language that's hard for us to comprehend. Let me just also read Naum 1, 5 to 6, because it's similar language. The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world and all that dwell therein. We have a quite the universal statement there, echoing Job's statement In Nahum 1, 5 to 6, who can stand before his indignation? Who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him. You might wonder how can mountains move, how can hills quake. I lived for a brief period of time, about 13 years in Southern California. And it's of course along a very famous fault zone known as the San Andreas fault zone. And every so often it slips, and when it slips, you've got rocks deep in the earth that bang into each other and send forth a rather large thump. And I was present uh during the Northridge earthquake, uh, which had hit Los Angeles. It uh broke sections of Interstate 5, some large freeway flyover passes. These were built of course to earthquake code, didn't matter, shattered them in pieces. It really shut down Los Angeles. And I was a good, I don't know however far LA is from San Diego. Uh it's about a uh 45-minute ride up to up the road to get to it. So forty five minutes, you know, doing sixty five miles an hour down the road away. Um and I felt it in bed And it uh it was about four or five a. m. and it feels like somebody is grabbing the posts of your bed underneath and just shaking it like this. You just are moving. It's like, hey, who's waking me up? And then you realize This is an earthquake. And I jumped up and I looked outside my window. I lived up on a hill in Escondido and I could look out my back window. And it was looking over the Escondido Valley. It's a really nice rental place. It was really a sweet And I'd never seen anything quite like that. But the earth looked like the waves of the sea. You wouldn't think decomposed granite could do this. Just roll up and down. And the light poles are just swaying a good twenty feet from the top. I mean this was no small amount of motion You you wouldn't think the ground could be so fluid, but given enough force, and that was just one little thump It just easily moved up and down. I'll never forget that that vision. It was just a stun to me just to see These mountains are not that solid. These rocks are not that strong. They can really easily move, and that is underscoring the Lord's point about the fierceness of the wrath of his anger So I have some questions. Why do you suppose men don't like the Bible's teachings on hell? What are some common objections to this teaching? It's too severe for the transgression. It seems too severe for the transgression. Alright. What are some other objections? Scary. It's scary. They don't want to hear anything. Okay, they don't want to hear anything scary. What do they want to hear instead? Love you want to hear the love of God? Yeah. Sweetness and life. Any other thoughts? Why would men object to this? They're not really that bad to deserve such a fate. Sure, I'm not that bad. I mean that's that's not something that could possibly happen to me either. Which I thought was interesting in the one verse that you you read um the second thessalonian excuse me the second thessalonians in fire taking vengeance it doesn't say on murderers and adulterers and warmongers it's just on those who know not God and don't believe the gospel. Yes. Simply put, yes, it's that severe. Objections uh can't believe a loving God would send his children to hell. I had an interesting discussion on my next door neighbor There was a lady who complained about the local uh drag queen story hour that was taking place in the monk on the Olney library And I agreed with her. Uh but others were, oh, all these haters. I mean start off with four comments, but when I chimed in and said, no, they're groomers, uh boy, that got thirty-seven negative responses back. One lady, I didn't bother responding to most of them because it was just a bunch of stupid noise. One lady said, Well, we're all God's children, you know, we just he just loves all of us. I said, No, he doesn't. I said, We're not all God's children Jesus himself said there are some who are the children of the devil, and I said, and these people at the drag queen storeyards are a prime example of a subset of those people. Yeah, they can't believe that God would send all of his loving children to that need. I mean we're all his children, right? Well, I mean, on that argument, I mean it it's so naive concerning human history. of the twentieth century with Nazism in the Soviet Union. I mean has anyone of these people even read anything? I mean have they even looked at Alexander Solskymitsin's The Gulag Archipelago? To ask the question Mike is to answer, and you know they don't, right? They don't read their ignorance. But I don't want to go down the rabbit trail of the uh the next door neighbor crowd Other reasons people don't like hell, they can't believe a man could even physically endure such a punishment. How could he endure that sort of thing for eternity? I mean we hear people getting burned up in fires, terrific thing, but you know they're just ashes. And eternity seems to be too long of a punishment. It can't be that severe. It just seems to be too severe to be true. Well, I was deeply uh moved and uh I bought several copies of this. All of you should get one. This is from Arthur Pink entitled The Wrath of God. It's an excellent tract. I got enough copies here. for all of you to read. And I take some of my uh lessons today from some of his excerpts. Let me read something to you from this track, which I thought was an excellent statement. We read as follows. It is sad indeed, it's not on your handout, I'll just have to read it to you. It is sad indeed to find so many professing Christians who appear to regard the wrath of God as something for which they need to make an apology Or at least wish there were no such thing. While some who would not go so far as to openly admit it, they consider it to be a blemish on the divine character, yet they are far from regarding it with delight. They like not to think about it. They rarely hear it mentioned without a secret resentment rising up in their hearts against it. Even those who are more sober in their judgment Not a few seem to imagine that there is a severity about the divine wrath that makes it too terrifying to form a theme profitable for contemplation. Others harbor the delusion that God's wrath is not consistent with his goodness, and so seek to banish it from their thoughts. Yes, there are many who turn away from a vision of God's wrath as though they were called to look upon some blotch in the divine character or some blot upon the divine government. But what saith the Scriptures? As we turn to them, we find that God has made no attempt to conceal the facts of his wrath. I thought that was a most excellent statement. And in fact, we're going to continue to look at some other aspects of this. Your next fill in the blank is that God is not ashamed of hell. God himself is not ashamed of hell. He isn't blushed to speak about it. God's pleased to make it known that vengeance and fury belong unto him. Turn in your Bible to Deuteronomy 32 and verse 39. God speaking through Moses. before their entrance into the promised land, and he gives them a stern warning. In Deuteronomy 32 and verse 39 God declares this. He says, See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound, I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. For if I for I lift up my hand to heaven and say, I live forever If I wet, meaning if I sharpen my glittering sword, and mine hand take hold on judgment, I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and will reward them that hate me. You know, you and I may have some people that hate us without a cause, and of course it's an offense to not love your fellow man or neighbor, but who am I or you at the end of the day? And who are they to us? But to the Lord, it's a far different matter. He's the creator. He happened to have fashioned you. He knit you in his mother's womb. and starting with the very first human had everything to do with your very existence here. How dare you rise up and say I don't particularly care for you. In fact I don't even acknowledge you. I don't even want you in my existence or my life. You'd be a tad bit upset Can you imagine making such a thing? Can you imagine raising or supporting a child as an adoptive parent and the child Doesn't even want to take your name, denies you, rejects you, wants to turn away and push back, and at every turn is slandering you and speaking maliciously against you and is ignoring you and has no interest in you whatsoever. That's just but a a touch. That's just a touch of the impact that the rebellion of the human race has against the Lord. Pink goes on in his track to make a point that wrath, the wrath of God is a divine perfection. And I think that is a most interesting way to put it, a divine perfection, the perfections of God. God is perfect in his love. God is perfect in his wrath. He's perfect in his holiness. He is perfect in his knowledge and in his wisdom. He's perfect in all these things. In his judgment there is no imperfection. And so likewise. His wrath is perfect. Listen to this most excellent statement he makes. And uh then we'll get into some some discussion here as we finish up some of these verses. He writes, now the wrath of God is as much a divine perfection as is his faithfulness, power, or mercy. It must be so, for there is no blemish whatsoever, not the slightest defect in the character of God. Yet there would be if wrath were absent from him Indifference to sin is a moral blemish. I thought that was a really good point. And he who hates it not is a moral leper. How could he, who is the sum of all excellency, look with equal satisfaction upon virtue and vice? You see, this is what this lady who was advocating that, oh, just let these these queers uh groom these children at the at the library. She's looking upon vice with equal satisfaction as an upstanding individual. She's a moral leper. How could he look with equal satisfaction upon wisdom and folly? How could he, who is infinitely holy, disregard sin and refuse to manifest his severity, that Romans 9 22 talks about? How could he who delights only in that which is pure and lovely not loathe and hate that which is impure and vile? You know somebody who likes to clean? You know somebody who likes to keep a clean kitchen or a clean baby? You know when mothers are cleaning their children or whatever? If there's some poop left on the rear end of that child, is the job done yet? Absolutely not. That's vile. Get it off that child. She detests that. She despises that. Clean it up. If you're trying to clean the kitchen, there's still some grease stuck in a corner. Get it out of here. That's wrong. I'm in the business of cleaning. And God would look upon his creation and see such moral decay as to smile upon it and say, it's all good. No, hardly. It says the very nature of God makes hell as real a necessity, as imperatively and eternally requisite as heaven itself is I thought it was an excellent observation that God does not look with equal satisfaction upon virtue and vice. That's an excellent point. He also made this following dynamite observation in the book of the Psalms, and it's in your handout Notice these two observations here. First of all, let me ask the basic question. Why would men swear or make an oath? Why would men do this? You go to court. You promise, do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth? Why do men swear or take an oath? Men swear to tell the truth because they're inherently liars. Okay. So why does the court make them swear? To turn them away from their inherent lying. Okay. Is God an inherent liar? Why would God swear? God wouldn't swear that way. He's not an inherent liar. Why would God swear and take an oath? What's the purpose of taking an oath? It used to be that you used God's name. You gave the oath in God's name. Yep. But you don't do that anymore, so I'm not sure there's any sense in it. Right. She can be held to your word. You held to your word, right? It's a confirmation. You're doing it as a confirmation. I am confirming that this will come to pass. And why do you make him confirm? Well, in the case of the sinner, it's because he needs to be confirmed that you're really going to tell the truth this time, right? God doesn't need to, but he does. And notice what he says here in Psalm 95, 11. It says, unto whom I swear in my wrath. That they should not enter into my rest. God says, I swore in my wrath. He appeals to his wrath as a source of swearing. Notice Psalm 89. Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. He is swearing when you stand in courts. Some do, some don't. Put your hand on the Bible, you're swearing by the Bible to certain things. You're making an appeal to something great, to something pure, to something righteous, something that the court recognizes is upright. God swears by his holiness every bit as much as by his wrath. You see the connection? That means it's a perfection of God. To him it's a perfect thing. Oaths are for solemn confirmation. And Jehovah is appealing to his wrath as a perfection. Here's your next fill in the blank. Equal to his holiness. Swearing, is your next one, by the one as much as the other. He can swear by his wrath and he can swear by his holiness. To him, to them, they're both in the same. If you say God is a is not a wrathful God, but a loving God, you're thus also saying God's not a holy God. He's not a righteous God And it's the holiness of God that is very much emphasized throughout scriptures. And then the third point about the wrath of God I want to present to your uh understanding today is that believers are encouraged to rejoice in his wrath. That's your last fill in the plane. Victoria, question? My my brain must have blanked for your the point right before about oaths or for cell confirmations, what was the first fill in the blank? God appeals to his wrath as a perfection equal to his holiness, swearing by the one as much as by the other. Believers are encouraged to rejoice in the wrath of God. We're encouraged to do this. And I must admit, it truly is a source of encouragement to me. Every time I'm in the garden at the end of the year clearing out all the junk, gathering up the thistles and the briars or whatever's left over, the weeds, putting them into a pile burning it, tearing up the dirt, gathering up the last bit of t cherry tomatoes that are still good and on the ground, gathering the fruit into the house and the refuse into a burn pile outside. I cannot help but to say Glory, hallelujah. The farmer is here, he's here to deal with his vineyard, trampling out the grapes of wrath. I just love it Our God shall surely do that. And that should be a source of rejoicing for the believers. Have we really meditated on what the Lord Jesus says when he says, Be of good cheer. I have, not shall, not will, I have overcome the world Listen to this language in Psalm 97, 12. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Well, we've just pointed out that one of the aspects of his holiness is his wrath. And Deuteronomy 32, the very passage I had you turn to in your scriptures. If you go a few verses later in verse 43, he says this: Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people. For he will avenge the blood of his servants, and will render vengeance to his adversaries, and will be merciful unto his land and to his people. You see, the world truly isn't getting away with anything. Congress can call all kinds of people they want up for testimony to investigate, to inquire, to perform due diligence on all kinds of evildoers that we know are evildoers. We're not going to be shocked at anything they discover. We know these people are corrupt from the get-go and even beyond that. And we know that nothing will come of it. That shouldn't shock any or surprise anybody. I almost want to tell them, don't even bother investigating because nothing's going to happen. Nothing's going to change. Not so with my God. He's a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. He's keeping track and will require men to give an account of every idle word that they've spoken. Oh well I didn't mean that. I just spoke it too quickly. Doesn't matter. God says, I remember it. I heard it. Sarah was in her tent and she laughed. And God said, I heard that I heard that snicker, that lumen eruption from your heart. He hears it, and you better hope you're in Christ and that be covered, because if you're not, he'll remember it, he'll recall it. And who is he that has hardened himself against him? He says in Revelation 19, look at this rejoicing that continues in the very end of the book of Revelation. He says, after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true are righteous are his judgments. For he has judged the great whore which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. And again they said, Hallelujah. And what's going on? And her smoke rose up. Forever and ever. The saints rejoice at that. They rejoice that God comes and puts a final terminal end and renders to them their just desserts. Man made in the image of God has marred That image so horribly as to be an offense to God, and he says it will be punished forever. And that's something of rejoicing for the saints. We're encouraged to rejoice in that. All right. To tie in back now with what we were discussing last week. I'm going to read to you some bad ideas about hell, and I'm going to ask, what do you sense is wrong with each of them? Alright? So some men Acknowledge, yep, the Bible talks about it, but then they're going to twist or pervert what the Bible teaches on this to something different. So some might say, well, when you die, you know, you just decay into the ground and you're gone. Poof. What do you sense is wrong with that idea? As an explanation for hell contradicts the scriptures, that's not what the scriptures Okay, so fiery torment Christ talked about that. Okay. Uh and then the word everlasting in that Thessalonians, first Thessalonians. Only approach. Yep. It says that's not annihilation, is it? Alright. Very good. Yep, that's what I just described. Okay. There's no consequence for denying the gospel. No consequence for denying the gospel. Right. If it's equally applied to all that there's no ramification, yeah, that implies there's no judgment. Yeah, Victoria? What else sounds wrong? Just an observation. here when you said I'm gonna put emphasis on the word just just decay. You die and you just decay, meaning there's no afterlife. Alright. What's the problem? Yes, that says there's no afterlife, and that certainly would be a problem. Everything in God's creation has a counterbalance option. And the opposite. There's light and there's darkness. There's negative, positive, north, and south. If there is no eternal damnation, then there is no eternal life. either. They would agree with that. They'd be quite happy with that. So there's no heaven either. Yep, they don't they they don't care to be where God's at. Right? That's uh yeah, they just poof you're gone. It's an evolutionary idea. You know, you're just there is no afterlife. So it denies an afterlife. And it denies the consequence. Christians, but they're annihilationist Right. So perish and be gone. But biblically, if they're if they're perishing gone, there is no That's a good point to make, and let's turn to Matthew 25, the end of Matthew 25, the last few verses there, because that does show up with Pastor Joe was speaking about here. Matthew 25, 46 says this. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. That word eternal and everlasting are the same word So if you believe as a Christian in eternal life of necessity, you must also believe in everlasting punishment, because the two are used in the same passage by the lips of the Savior, speaking of the end of the pair To Victoria's point, there is a an existence, a conscious existence after death, and it continues on. So here's another one for you. I think we've rounded that one out pretty good. I cannot believe in a God who torments people in hell because Jesus is all-loving. What's a problem? What do you sense is wrong there? Well, uh that's true God is all loving, but I don't Also God is holy and God is a just judge. And must God must judge and avenge sin. And also He cannot allow sin into heaven Or there would be eternal chaos. He cannot allow iniquity and evil into heaven. That's why the devil was cast out. Right? Any other thoughts God is all loving. What does all loving mean? Yeah, that's a good one. That's always a good one to to question that. What does it mean? I've used this to retort back, yes, God is all loving, and he loves his law So you can use that as a bridge. Certainly he loves his law, and his law demands a payment for sins. You can go down that path and that could help put a a dent in them. Uh the bottom line with this is that these people have a different Jesus. Let's just be honest. They have a different Jesus. They don't have a God in the Bible That would be like somebody telling me I'm sorry, go ahead. They encourage uh to live whatever life they want to because there's nothing to be done. Exactly. They steal, they kill, they uh they don't care. That's exactly why people like that kind of Jesus, because there's no consequences. They're not talking about Jesus, they're talking about Santa Claus. This isn't the Jesus of the Bible. They've got some, it would be like me coming up, someone coming up to me and saying, hey, I saw your wife Angela at the grocery store. Oh yeah, did you? Yeah. I well she's put on a lot of weight light lately. Boy she's, you know, about uh two hundred pounds, you know. So uh no, I don't think so. Yeah, she dyed her hair red. She really looks different now. I'm like uh we're talking about two different angels here Because that's not the Angela I know. And likewise most people don't know the Jesus of the Bible, like Henny was pointing out in First Thessalonians on them that know not God, they've got a different Jesus, and it's not the God of the Bible Without the wrath of God we would never know the mercy of God. We would never which? Without the wrath of God, we would never know the mercy of God. The wrath of God is the status quo. Yes. The mercy of God is the exception. Well put. Absolutely. Absolutely. Alright, here's another bad idea. You know, I I think when I d when I'll when I die I'll get a second chance. Uh I I I think I can make a pretty good case Second chance. Can I just say Penny? Go ahead. It's appointed unto the man who wants to die and after that the judgment. Very good one. It's appointed unto man who wants to die and after that the judgment Tended to say culturally who popularized that is Charles Dickens with the Christmas cow. This is what I just talked about here, the second chance? Oh interesting. Charles Dickens and the Christmas cow. Hmm, interesting. It was a what addict? Latinum. It was an opiate. Oh, okay. Yeah, and by the way, people don't realize this, but when you came to the United States, The greeting he was given in cities was like the greatest adulation you could imagine. Sure. Interesting. Interesting. Males had your hand up? No. So this is the false doctrine of second probation, second chance You just we're gonna put you in probation. You know, we'll put a little ankle collar on you in heaven so we know where you're at and we'll make sure you're doing good. Again, a different Jesus, a different you know, it's a fiction of your own mind. It's comparable to the idea of purgatory, right? The same idea, get a second shot at it, but but Penny hit the verse, it's appointed to the man wants to die. And after this, the judgment, not Not any you know knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. Um the Bible teaches that we end up in a fixed and alterable state. What passage comes to your mind when we think about a fixed, unalterable state? After death and between me and thee there is a great gulf fix that no man can The rich man in Lazarus, yes, who was complaining in hell. He lifted up his eyes in torments and cried out, and he says, nope, there's a great gulf that's fixed The judgment also depends on what you've done in this life in the flesh. This is where the field of observation and context appears. They're not going to say, yeah, I know all that law of of that world. Yeah, we understand about that and you really blew it, but we'll give you a second shot here. No, no, no. It matters right here now Another bad idea, this will be our closing one. When you die, we just simply go to sleep, just like the Bible says. Stephen said I fell asleep. Psalm 115. There are those who uh There are none that praise the Lord neither any of that. How does it go? Psalm 115 and verse 17. This is a a classic Passage 115-17. The dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into silence. So when we die, we just we just go sleep. It's no it's not rough. What would you say to that? Every heretic has his verse, by the way. I would say that Stephen went to sleep with a thud. I don't want to go to sleep that way. If if he if Stephen was talking about death, if you know, if he was just going to sleep and that was his death, his death was not pleasant. Uh he was talking about what God had for him after, which was eternal bliss. It can be the wicked or can be uh believers who think that when you die we just simply go to sleep. Well for the wicked it's clear their uh their worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched. And so if you're just asleep, it's weird that that would be even brought into context. Yeah. That's a good one. Okay. Yeah, there are believers that try to hold this idea as well. Uh and uh it's the doctrine of soul sleep. What they're talking about is your soul goes to sleep. Uh so when uh it says Stephen uh gave up the ghost and fell asleep, what is it referring to? His body or his soul? His body. Yeah, it would have to be his body. Because the the the for the believer, in this case, we're talking about Stephen uh immediately upon death to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Yes, his soul is with the Lord. He has eternal life. He has a continued existence. He continues on after the grave. So a question for those who believe Yes. Okay, so then how does a sleeping soul enter into heaven or hell? Um one argument I've heard is that at judgment day they're body they're reunited with their bodies because there has to be a formal arraignment. Whether they're asleep until the final judgment and then they are cessation of conscious existence for a season. Whereas the Bible teaches eternal life. I was gonna bring up as well that um the rich man in hell said, you know, send Lazarus now to go to my brethren that don't believe. But if they were all, oh, it's now the final judgment, everything is over then there would be no point in even saying that. Good point. Very good observation. Exactly. Yeah. Lazarus' soul was carried immediately up. Right. Absolutely. And Samuel did indeed appear to Saul with witch of endure. Okay. It was it was Samuel. Yeah, he was not in his body, but he was not asleep either. He was awake, he was conscious, and he was there. Yeah. I'm not sure about that. I'd have to go back and look at that again. But uh the whole the whole Witch of Endor thing is pretty bizarre. It it is. She did not bring him up. God sent him back That would be the only way to look at it, yeah. Mm-hmm. This day. Yes, this day. So when it speaks about going to sleep, it would be the body, and the body is resting in the grave and because there is a thing called the resurrection, and that will be the resurrection of bodies. They'll be reunited with the souls. It'll be a new body, brand new body, complete makeover. You're gonna get the ultimate makeover, Mrs. Ross. You're gonna get a quite a makeover. You're looking forward to that one for sure. You too, Mom, I'm sure. All of us will look forward to a great makeover. And just on that thing, um we'll all be in the prime of life. Absolutely. Adam and Eve were created at at the peak of humanity, physically. You know, an infant that dies of redeemed parents of elect parents does not spend eternity as an infant. Right. Yeah, thinking in the first Corinthian verses, this mortal shall put on immortality and this corruption shall put on immortality. Incorruption. So that's the thing. That's right. They're coming together Dear Heavenly Father, uh we uh thank you, Lord, that we uh In in in your salvation, Lord, you have spared us from the wrath to come that uh we have found uh favor in your sight, Lord, not for anything that we've done, Lord, but uh for the finished work of Christ on the cross and Lord, that we can uh being at peace with you Lord now uh see as you do Lord and and and and rejoice in all of your attributes, all of your holiness, Lord, even Your wrath, Lord, which you have promised to uh pour out upon the wicked Lord. And Father, we can uh unify our minds with you in that Lord. And uh and and rejoice in uh the deliverance lord that that that you bring for your saints Lord. And we just look to you and and and ask that you would uh help us Lord to continue to conform to your image, Lord, to the image of Christ. And uh grow in in holiness uh until the day, Lord, that we see thee face to face. And this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.