Let's uh open with prayer and then we'll get started on our new Bible study series, shall we pray? Father in heaven, we thank you for this privilege. And this opportunity to gather together in a home safe and free from the imminent fear of being captured and thrown into prison. Lord help us to use the freedom that we have at this time to run through the remainder of the open door we have, and that thy sheep, thy people would be blessed and fed today. Open up your word to us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, good morning. We are starting a new series in what is known as Birkhoff's Summary of Christian Doctrine. I believe I sent a number of you a link. This is the soft copy of the books themselves. This is the original version I have from many years ago, and this is what they sell now, so the cover may look slightly different. But in this digital age, the download version is also available for your use. And I prefer that because I can get into the PDF and I can search. And I We went across a number of sites and I sent you that link. If you're uh would like a copy of that and didn't somehow get it, please send me an email admin at mission-bible. net and I'll be happy to get it to you. This is also the uh book from whence it came, Burkhoff's systematic theology, this big dark black of, you know uh book of theology and you might think boy if this will knock you to sleep nothing will but actually it's not it's quite engaging uh he really hits upon very relevant topics And he goes, he does something which I haven't found other theologians do, and that is he will address both the arguments for and against a particular position. And then he does give a conclusion why he falls in a particular way and what the shortcomings are. So it's very nice if you're trying to refute a particular doctrine. It's a good reference work on your shelf You just go look it up, go find the section he speaks to these things, and sermon preparation would be invaluable, and it's just very solid. Uh my mentor, Brother Bernie, spoke very highly of Burkhoff, and so I don't take that lightly. We're going to look at his first chapter today, which is talking about religion. Gee, you come to a Bible study, we're going to talk about religion. What else would you talk about? But we're going to talk about the theology, the whole concept of religion. I just want to give a brief overview of who this fellow Burkhov is. He was in he was a theologian of the Christian Reformed Church. That was from the Dutch Netherlands. A lot of it moved over here. He was born in Emmin in the Netherlands. He came to Grand Rapids, Michigan in 1882. So Grand Rapids area has a lot of the ancient Reformed tradition up there He earned diplomas at Calvin College in 1897, Calvin Theological Seminary in the 1900s, and he was ordained in the CRC. He had a pastorate for two years in Allendale, Michigan, and he had two years of study at Princeton. He returned to Grand Rabbids and he was in the Oakdale Park Christian Reformed Church for a couple of years, but then his real swing was for teaching. He had a heart for teaching and for 38 years he taught at Calvin Theological Seminary. He was the first president from 1931 until his retirement So he was there operating faithfully in the Word of God in spite of a massive depression, stock market crash that impacted the whole of the United States. He was there. And uh I'm not going to read more about his background um uh but uh suffice to say he was known as an individual who never came up with anything new. And in theology, new things are bad things He was one that was known for being able to kind of assemble and assimilate and organize the faithful teachings of God's people over the years into a accessible means and tools. So it's very good dense, but he doesn't waste words. He makes all of his words mean something. Alright, so the uh approach for this, you might say, gee Vince, I thought we're coming to a, you know Bible study. Why are we talking about this book? Isn't this man's book? That's kind of a problem we need to address from the get-go. And that would be a good flag that went off in your head if you thought about that My approach is going to be that we're going to use this as a springboard into the scriptures and we're going to evaluate and look at the scriptural content as to why some of these ideas can be addressed the way they are. That's all it is is a springboard into the Word of God. That's known as a systematic teaching where you have one idea but many passages And that's the there's a benefit. Scripture talks about line upon line, precept upon precept, in terms of how we learn doctrine, how we learn teaching. What is doctrine? Well if you look at this carpet on the floor in front of me, you see there's different colors. There's uh a lot of red uh and you can take uh uh a a strand of it and you can pull it out and you can see there's red and there's other colors as well, but If you just look at a single book of the Bible, it's like taking a cross section across the carpet. You don't see the whole pattern. Doctrine allows you to draw that thread, that pattern throughout the entire scripture and see the grand backdrop that's there. So there is a benefit to doctrinal teaching. Uh exegetical teaching would be one passage, many ideas. So we would, as pastor will preach uh on Sunday mornings, today we're doing a pulpit swap, you would go to a passage and you would draw out multiple ideas. So that's Two different ways, both profitable in handling the Word of God. So I'm going to try to make this interactive. I'm notorious for not doing that very well. I get on my hobby horse, I get comfortable in it, I get on a roll and diarrhea the mouth sets in and uh and I don't have my face diaper on, you know, the mask to hold it back. So um horrible analogy to start things with. But um anyway, um Please, uh, if you do have something, raise your hand, flag it, whatever. So we're going to talk about religion. I've got three basic questions we're going to tackle. They are this. What is Religion. What is it, biblically speaking? Where does it reside? What is the seat of religion? I'm going to use that phrase, the seat of religion. Where does it locate itself at? And then thirdly, where'd we get this idea to come with? Where'd this idea come from to begin with? So I'll start off with my first question. How would you define religion? Any ideas? It's the need that we all have inside us for something bigger, I think. I like that. I like that. It's a need we have inside of us for something bigger. I'm going to poke a little bit of fun at Joey, but if Joey were to say that he might be thinking T bone steak. Right. That's a need he has for something bigger. I agree. But but uh I'm sorry for picking on you, Joey, but uh you you're the uh You're the voracious uh uh alpha male among us, I'm sure. Um any other ideas? What is this idea of religion? How would you define it? Victoria? Relationship Between God and man. Ah, okay. Now we're bringing God into the equation. I know that you had that in your mind, Mrs. Ross. But the relationship between God and man. Alright, we're getting there. Any other thoughts on how you would define religion? and beliefs that go into the worship of God? Ah, now we're bringing in the idea of worship. Okay, the practice and beliefs of beliefs of worship. Any other thoughts? That could be worshiped for anything. Ah, okay. It could be worshiped for anything, right? Because many religion, yeah. Yeah, I mean we just said religion. I didn't say true religion, I just said religion And maybe if we replace capital G God with little G God, obviously that now opens up a lot of false religions that men could have. But it's still under the concept of religion. Yeah, very good. Well, Burkhov defines it this way, and as I went through that little simple exercise, excuse me here, um allergies are just killing me. And mold when it's wet too. He puts it this way, uh religion is a relation in which man stands to God. So you mentioned relationship, so it is a relation in which man stands to God. A relation in which man is conscious, conscious. of the absolute majesty and infinite power of God and his own utter insignificance and absolute helplessness. So obviously he's defining religion there in the sense of true religion. Or religion is a conscious and voluntary relationship to God which expresses itself in grateful worship and loving service. Those are two definitions that he offers. What's interesting is in this exercise, as you can see, is it's very difficult to define things. Aren't you glad you have the Bible? Because The way William Webster went about defining words is he went through the common use in the printed vernacular, grabbed little instances of that, collected it in the card file And when asked what does such and such mean, he would go look at how those were used in the common uh tongue. And so Thus came up with a dictionary that helped standardize the language in our land. Let's turn now to Galatians chapter 1. Galatians chapter 1. The word religion itself is used only five times in the Bible, all of it in the New Testament. We do have a concept in the Old Testament But the word specifically itself is found in Galatians 1. And we're just going to turn there because it appears twice. It's in Galatians 1, 13, and 14. And if you'd like, I'll read it for you. Galatians 1. 13 and 14 says this, for ye have heard of my conversation in time past, of the Jews' religion. How thou beyond measure I persecuted the church of God and wasted it and profited in the Jews' religion above many mine equals in mine own nation. You also have it in Acts where it talks about a congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and religious proselytes. uh followed Paul and Barnabas. That word religious sometimes is also translated worship, interestingly enough. So it has that concept there with it. In the Old Testament that phrase religion is also found in the term fear of God. Ecclesiastes, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Let us fear God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. So you have that concept there, not that precise word. So this idea of religion is not just the fear of dread, but of a reverence to God. There's a measure of awe to it. Someone spoke about worshiping someone greater than yourself. Um even Alcoholics Anonymous, which is not Christian, attempts to heal people of their drunkenness by getting them to appeal to some force h h higher than themselves. And I would consider that a very tiny baby stepping stone perhaps in the path that might lead them to Christianity. They they don't claim to be Christian, but at least they're getting them to look upward as opposed to inward for their solution. Now my next question is this. Where does religion reside? Meaning, what is the seat of religion? Now let me continue. Is it in your intellect? Is it in your feelings? Is it in morality, good deeds, or something else? What is the seat of religion? Where where's the root of it? I would say it is in the soul that was made in the image of God, but it's going to affect all of this. Okay, you're I I like where you're you're going with that, right? You're looking for something deep that springs up into all of those other areas, okay? Um any other thoughts? You didn't use the magic word I'm looking for, but that's good. I'll take it. Are we talking about true religion or false religion? Well let's that's a good question. So let me just start with true religion. Because that's kind of where my question is going. But thanks for that distinction. That's a good point. So true religion, what would you say, Gloria? What's the seat of religion? Uh intellect, feelings, morality, or something else. Yeah, you'd say something else, okay. What might the She said soul, which is In the Word of God? All right, well, that certainly is pretty good. But words that reside in man, it has to take us height Bingo. In my case it's heart. Bingo. In fact, that's that if you combine those two answers, you got it. Right. The seed of religion is in I ain't different. Well, you're absolutely correct, because the Bible does teach that the seed of religion is in the heart. The heart is used in the scriptures to speak about the central organ of the soul. So when the Bible talks about the heart It really is getting at the deepest inward part of man, his soul. Proverbs 423 says this, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Keep thy heart with all diligence. Boy, that is such a relevant verse for our day and for the social ills we see. We have removed the heart keepers out of our public school system, out of our public sphere, out of our politics. The issues of the heart is what is absent. No one's tending to that, and therefore you have corruption springing forth from the heart. And therefore, as Penny points out, it manifests itself outward in these other things. You see it in the arts. It's kind of a reflection of the cultural consciousness. You see it in violence because out of the heart of man proceeds violence, wickedness, evil thoughts, and the like. You see it in his mental thinking. It's just Bankrupt, it's off the rails. All of that stems from the heart. America at its core has a heart issue. There is nothing tending the issues of the heart. There's no water. It's unwashed. And it's filthy. It's redeemable, but it's filthy and it needs to be washed. Jesus said as much in Mark 7. If you'd like, you can turn there. Mark 7. 21. This would be a good one. I know you know these passages. I'm I'm I'm not speaking to a hostile audience here. Mark 7, 21, uh I just really like the way our Lord puts this so dare I say professionally? He speaks as one who really knows what he's talking about. Have you ever amazing? Yes, amazing. Shock of all shocks, I tell you Mark 7. 21, for from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts. Adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness. Notice this other one, an evil eye. Blasphemy, pride, foolishness. That's quite the laundry list, folks. He says all these evil things come from within and defile the man That's a very profound statement. And so religion has its seat in the heart. And therefore, a person void of true religion will manifest these evil things, and they will simply abound. And I could go off on a whole message on that. Uh uh so profound. Uh that's such a profound statement. The point is this religion that's seated in the heart involves the whole man. It's in heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's not just one part of me, but it affects the entire being. Now I want you to consider these three scenarios for a while because I want to explore this business of where religion resides a little bit more. Alright, so I've kind of got three questions. We all agree, it's in the heart, it comes out and affects things. But Gloria asked the profound question earlier, are we talking about true religion or false religion? So let's Knowing what true religion teaches, now let's think for a moment about false religion. Alright? I know that's hard to do. We don't like to go down that path, but to help identify those who are in that Let's think about where some place the seat of religion falsely. If religion was in your head only and not your moral actions, What would that produce? It's in your head only and not your moral actions. What does that produce? Very good, a hypocrite, right? A hypocrite. He's he's got head nodded, he can talk about it, but his walk is very, very different And I don't shy from pointing out to you the word hypocrite is a word that we pulled in from another language. I like to do etymologies, word studies, because they're very interesting Some of the biggest critics of the Christian faith come from Hollywood and the actors. They're just vicious. They are just, oh you, Hippocrats. They like to sling that turn. Hypocrites! As soon as some name, big name Christian person falls, ah, hypocrites, and they start swinging the mud and they just get all righteous and huffy. And here is a great response. In fact, when you I tell you this, you'll laugh now when you hear them say this. Because that word hypocrite comes to us from the Greek language. And do you know what it actually meant in Greek? It means actor. As in on the stage. Someone who pretends to be someone else, but they really aren't that way So your Hollywood actors are in fact professional hypocrites. How ridiculous for them to be slinging it, because they are professionals and masters at this business of hypocrisy, who are they to say? And they make a profession out of it Anyway, hypocrites. Jesus said in Matthew 23, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you may clean the outside of the cup and the platter, but within you're full of extortion. They are full of extortion and excess. Which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but within are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Do you see the distinction the Lord makes There's someone with religion outwardly. They talk a good talk. They sound good. All the trappings around them look good. The paint looks fresh, but it's rusted underneath. It's going to collapse and decay. And that's what our Lord points at. So that's the first one. Head-on religion, not in moral actions, that's a hypocrite. Second question. If religion is emotional only, it's all in emotion. It's just pure emotion and it does not have an intellectual basis. What do you have? It's just intellectual. Doesn't have any I mean, yeah, excuse me, it's all emotional. It doesn't have any intellectual basis. A very blind faith, okay. Yeah, certainly they don't know why they believe what they do. Total lack of stability Constant change. Constant change, yes, constant change, lack of stability in government when you have constant change. What do you call that? Chaos, there's another term for it I'm looking for. Democrats. Well, yeah, that's the present label for it. That's uh Except they're except they do have a frozen compass towards evil, so at least they don't change in that respect. They never the pendulum never swings in a good direction. Anarchy. Total chaos. Constant change. They say change is a good thing. Okay, change all the time. Change all the time. You come home, your home address changed. Your car doesn't work today. Now it doesn't work again tomorrow for a different reason I mean we don't really like chaos. We kind of like stability. We like some dependability and reliability. Old red, you get in it, you want it to drive down the road. Uh you go to your closet and you don't want your clothes falling apart You know, we read about this in the book of Judges at the very end of the book. This is a time when Israel didn't have a king. And they were ruled by judges. And the last passage in the book of Judges says in that in those days there was no king in Israel. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. He had an emotional feel. This feels right. Therefore I'll do it. That's rampant on colleges. If it feels good, do it. It's all a feeling-based thing. There's no intellectual basis for it. There's no rational reason. Our entire economic system takes advantage of this. They they send you all kinds of ads because boy They're gonna sing a little song and appeal to something to get you to feel good about that purchase and part with your hard-earned dollars so that you can get this piece of junk made in China that'll fall apart in six months in spite of the fact that it has a 12-year warranty. Like my water heater. Anyway, uh which I had to wrestle with. Uh Ecclesiastes says this, and um you young man back here, gone, bring up Ecclesia can he read? Um yeah I can I can Help him find Ecclesiastes 11. 9. This verse is for you. Ecclesiastes 11. 9 As your uncle pulls that passage of scripture up for you, it says, You there? Uh I'm you're you're working at Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes is right after the proverbs. So in Proverbs Ecclesiastes 11-9. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth. And walk in the ways of thine heart. In the Hebrew, that's the word feelings. Walk in the way of your feelings. And in the sight of thine eyes. But Know thou that for all these things God might, no, will bring thee into judgment. It's an interesting passage because here Solomon and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is using reverse psychology. Just go ahead Walk after your feelings. Live any way you want to. Be free. Carp et diem. Seize the moment. I'm mispronouncing Latin, I'm sure. And God says, great, you do it, and I'll bring you into judgment for these things. In other words, that is the way of death and destruction. You go down that path and you will lose. So that's religion that is emotional only, has no intellectual basis, it's all based on feelings. There's a third question I have. If one is morally ethical They're morally ethical, all right? But without emotion, without good feelings, without being compassionate. What is that? Someone is morally ethical, but no emotion, no compassion. Legal. Yeah, you have a a a legalistic We we talk of people who are legalistic because I I I might could help you, but oh boy, that would be in violation of something. I I can't possibly do that. Other other thoughts on what that might be, how that would manifest itself? Cold and hard. Oh, there's that word I'm looking for. Cold. Hard. Cold and hard. Cold hard. Cold hearted people. You've heard of that phrase. He's a cold-hearted person True story. Uh this is j with judgment day honesty, I tell you this is a true story. Now I'm not swearing that, you know, I as though normally you can't believe me, but now you can, I'm not saying that. But this is a true story 'cause it's gonna sound kind of incredible to you. My wife and I were visiting my parents back when my father was alive, and we'd make trips back to Texas, and they were looking for a better church. And Dad with this newfangled thing called computers and internet just kind of wasn't with it and I said don't worry dad I'll find something for you so I was using The computer and I found a church in Parker, Texas, that I thought, I believe it was Parker, Texas, that I thought would be reasonable and close. The doctrinal statement looked good. We went and visited The minister comes up and he greets as we're seated in the pews and we come in and we're waiting for service to begin. The minister comes up and greets my father. Hello, I'm Minister So-and-so. That's nice. My mom's smiling and then he turns to me. Hello sir, nice to meet you. Angela's smiling. He walks away. He only greets the men, doesn't talk to the women. He would not say a word to a single woman in the congregation. Never. Never ever. He only spoke to the men. And we happened to come at a day when it was the Lord's Supper. And they had a table up front with chairs And it says only those who have met with the elders the previous Sunday can participate in the Lord's Supper. And certain members of the congregation were called up to sit and have the supper, and the rest just sat back there like chopped liver. Watched them eat the Lord's Supper. I was like, well, that's interesting. Needless to say, they didn't return to that. I thought that was the strangest service I'd ever seen. Doctrinally, I was Mike, wow, this is great, but very legalistic, very cold, very insensitive to the point of I mean, I'm sorry, that that's flag penalty, whatever the signs are. Go back to square one. True religion involves the whole man. All three parts are involved in this relationship to God. He, God Almighty, made you, man, woman, and child, in the image of God. Why would he only and he made you with all three parts? Why would he want only one part facing him? He made all three. And so the seed of religion is the heart and it works its way up. We get to our last question We've looked at what is religion? We've looked at where does it reside? We've also looked at where does it not reside. I'm going to ask now, who initiated True religion. You know, how did man ever hit upon this idea of worship to begin with? Who initiated true religion? Yeah, pretty simple answer. God did. And this in fact is a very significant question in light of the prevailing lie of evolution Because if life came from non-life at a scientific impossibility, we've never seen the law of biogenesis ever broken. We've never seen dead things come to life. And aren't you glad of it? The entire food industry relies on it. When you open up your jar of peanut butter, you don't want to see a new life form crawling out. You want to just see peanut butter. I just want peanut butter. I don't want nothing to change. And then for the millions of jars that are out there, we've we keep replicating this experiment hundreds and thousands of times, and it never fails I have no interest in the impossible burner. Right. Not a burger. Not a burger. If life came from non-life, if there's no God behind, into, and ahead of it all, if there's no purpose to life, then where did religion come from? What's interesting is Christian missionaries, without exception, report that into whatever section of the world they go to, there is religion. There is worship. It's false worship. It's false religion. But every society, without exception, has it. The Indians worship the great spirit. Everything that moved, they worshiped animals. Others, uh Zoroastrians and so forth, uh I'm maybe incorrect on this worship of nature and they look up at the host of heaven and the stars and the pharaohs did this, right? The big pictures at the at the Some of the unluxor, the very tall uh remains of the uh uh Pharaoh's palaces there had a picture of Pharaoh uh holding up the sun god and that was Pharaoh's job to keep the universe going and he kind of had to keep propping up his god. everywhere. Well if man evolved from a rock why why universally does he hit upon this idea of religion You know, evolution describes the survival of the fittest. It can't explain the arrival of the fittest. How did it become the most fit option to begin with? And I could get off into extensive things on that. Some kind of religion is universally found in man. Again, natives, whether sophisticated or not, all worship something. Witchcraft, voodoo, magic, snakes, cows, monkeys, some special man, a shaman. Who with the beating of the drum and him dancing around by a fire half naked will drive away all the uh the evils in our uh village Fewer than 1% of the world's population actually say and declare that they're atheists. Many will say they're agnostic. I don't believe we can know. Well, religion came from God. It's built into man by design. So in Genesis 1. 27, we have God created man in his own image In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. God's fingerprints, his handiwork, it's all over the human being. And he's designed to worship God. As the Creator, he's worthy of worship. We look at Isaiah 45 now. This is a good passage we should turn to. Isaiah 45, and then we'll go to our next verse, which will also be in Isaiah, and then I'll wrap it up there. Isaiah 45 and verse 5 says this. I am the Lord, and there is none else. There is no God beside me. I girded thee though thou hast not known me. That they may know from the rising of the sun and from the west that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else. He and he alone insists he is worthy of worship. And therefore, man is designed to worship God. When they reject him There's a worship function in them. They want to worship. They've turned away from him. Something's got to fill in that void, and they'll put something in, but it's a mighty big void And it's always empty. It never gets filled up. And the drive keeps going and they have to do more and more to satisfy this void, cutting themselves. I'll kill myself. The unsaved But I I disagree because they put in government. That's certainly one of the religion where you have communism It's not possible. The people do not understand religion because God creates the government It's it's nothing else. I've lived under communism. It's a terrifying thing. That's exactly. And whatever the state says, that's okay. Interesting. That's exactly that's an another one. That's fine. Yeah. But they're not hankering to get rid of it But do you notice how first in the United States God was taken away? Little by little, God has been taken away because there was no room For communism, for socialism, for oligarchy, no room for any of that until God was taken away. Yeah, he's the big competitor in that arena. That's right. Yeah, that's a very good per perspective. I know you've traveled the world extensively and can speak first hand of these things, so I appreciate that vantage point. And you know God does not take that lightly Turn to Isaiah 66 in verse 4. As a judgment upon sin, God will condemn men to false worship as a judgment upon sin. Look at Isaiah 66 and look at verse 3. He that killeth an ox is as if he slew a man. He that sacrifices a lamb as if he cut off a dog's neck. He that offereth an oblation, as if he offered swine's blood, and he that burneth incense as if he blessed an idol. Yea, I have chosen their own ways, and their soul delighteth in their abominations I will also choose their delusions and bring their fears upon them, because what I called none did answer. When I spake they did not hear, but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that in which I delighted not God judges men for their sin. There was a time when Russia was Christian, when there was a Christian presence there. There was a time when it is reported the Apostle Thomas had made it all the way up to India, and there was a great number of people in India that were worshipers. And there's remnants, there's tiny remnants and elements, a light flicker of light still in some of these places, but there was a time when it prevailed. But they loathed the true and living God You know, the masses do. Apart from Christ in their heart, they'll turn away from it. They'll say, We reject thee. They reject and they turn away. And the Romans tells us this that God gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own heart and dishonored their own bodies between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshiped the creature more than the creator, who is blessed forever. Lastly, in Acts, God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets, O you house of Israel, have you offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices? by this face of forty years in the wilderness. He gave them up to worship the host of heaven. That's a sad thing. When you read and you hear in the scriptures that blind Bartimaeus cries out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me It's a glorious thing that he stopped and heard and went to him. There's a song the Baptists have, which I really love, O Savior, pass me not by. Don't pass me up. Because if God passes you by, if he leaves you in your sins, if he gives you up to worshiping a vain thing. You're led into a strong delusion. You will believe a lie, and many do. And we thank our God that he has graciously affected us positively to turn us towards him. In him we find our all. All right, very good. Any other questions or observations? Thank you for that, Mrs. Ross. I appreciate that. The separation of church and state is impossible. Hmm. Because a a as Mr. Robbs was saying, when you try to separate the church and state, the state becomes the church. The very thing that was the you know our our separation church and state is not a constitutional concept. Um What the that free separates the church and state is not in the Constitution. That came from a letter that Jefferson wrote to the Baptist Association promising the government not to interfere with them. Correct Um so government shall make pass no law, Congress shall pass no laws affecting the establishment. That word affecting doesn't mean influencing, it means creating a church. They will not create a church. Right. That's what that's where those came from. Right, exactly. And so it's been a totally turn on his head to say, oh well the church should not be in the state. No, the state should not be in the church. Yes. But when you try to separate the two, the state itself has become the church. Right. And so now we have secular humanism. Which is which is the approved is the future religion of secular humanism. That's correct. That's absolutely correct. Brother, would you close us in prayer, please? That's correct. Great God, our Heavenly Father, if it were not for your sovereign working in our hearts We would be coming to bow down to some God that we've made of wood or stone. We would worship anything but the true God of heaven For Father, truly man will seek to worship something, but will do that which is right in his own eyes, except that you, by your spirit, arrest us and show us the glories of Jehovah God. Show us the grace of Jesus Christ. We thank you that you've done that very thing for us. Father, may we truly trust in Christ and in Christ alone. Placing no confidence in our flesh, no confidence in our church attendance, or confidence in anything that we have done. But may our faith and our confidence be in the finished work of Christ alone. And Lord, we thank you that it is indeed your spirit which draws us to it to that. Father, now as we prepare for the worship service, Lord, may you quiet our hearts before you, and may you open your word to our edification. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.