This week we tackle a subject that is not explicitly covered in Birkhoff's summary of Christian Doctrine, but it lends itself to being inserted directly at this point. Where we have come is we're dealing with the topic of religion, which took us to how does anybody find out about this relationship between man and God? to revelation and there's general revelation. You can see God's fingerprint and his handiwork all over this creation. That's general revelation But you can't really know about the saving God of the Bible until you have special revelation. God Almighty has to speak to you. Or he has to come to prophets And uh and there is divine inspiration that gives us the word of God. And that's a unique form of special revelation. I would conclude the final form that we have, all of that was to give us the written word. God has such a big emphasis on the written word And we look that God has inspired holy men of God to write as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Now we get into a topic that perhaps you've heard us talk about from time to time. It even came out inadvertently, perhaps. uh on our Easter message and uh and it it comes out at various times when I will talk about things and that's the subject of preservation. the preservation of scriptures. And so today's message is going to be focused on that. And so I'm trying to cram a bunch into 40 minutes, which is why I gave you something that no minister ever does, which is to give you the preacher's notes. So you have all every all my talking points, all my questions, and I'll have to ask you one thing, and that is to not jump ahead and steal my thunder. or cheat on the answers. So uh however I did make it so that it would be a useful handout to to take home. If you're watching online later, all of my notes are always available at Holding Fast. You can always pull them down, print them two-sided, and you'll have them. Here, Gloria, there's a copy for you if you'd like. So um the first thing is we're going to talk about Proofs for preservation. Do we have any proof in Scripture that God indicates that He will in fact preserve His Word? And let me ask an opening question. When we say preserving His Word, what do you think we're talking about here? When we say preserving his word, what do you think that means? God keeping it pure throughout all time. Okay. Victoria citing a statement from the Westminster Confession of Faith, God kept it pure through all ages. But what is the it that he kept pure? The Bible. Okay. The word and the Bible, let's get to another level. What words did he keep pure? Yes, absolutely. All of them, absolutely. I'm trying to go a level below that because aren't there many languages in this world? In which language do we find the infallible words? Anthropomorphic. Well that's how God comes to us in human form, or how he would speak to us. In our language. Alright, so I want to so you use the word language. I want to pick up on that. In which language did God preserve his word? Hebrew. Hebrew, very good, because that would be the language of which testament. The Old Testament, alright, so the Hebrew the Old Testament Hebrew and what uh which had Aramaic, some Aramaic was there. uh as well in Daniel and then there's one or two phrases in the New Testament. Now what about the New Testament? What language will you preserve there? In Greek. So when we talk about the preservation of the Word We're speaking about the native tongue in which it came to us originally, meaning the Hebrew and the Greek. I'm not saying the King James Bible is infallible. I'm meaning in its translation. It is at the end of the day of translation. And the King James translators did a stunning job. And frankly, I'm backing off any kind of efforts to say, well now in the original it actually means this and we can just change the word to that. Because I found out years later, no, it actually is very appropriate to put it that way because context has a lot and to do translation and to carry it forward in the language requires a skill level above my pay grade. So when we're talking about the inspiration and the preservation of his word, we're talking about the Textus Receptus, the cut that Hebrew and Greek and Aramaic, that was the underlying languages, and there are modern Bible tools that you can go to to take you back to those original languages. Now there's a caveat to that because many supermodern Bible tools will point you back to the critical text, which is a competing version of the underlying Greek and Hebrew text. It's totally different. It's very different. And in fact, it's ever changing. So let's talk first of all about proofs for preservation. Did God say, did he tell us that he gives any indication that in fact he would preserve his word. And I take you, amen. I take you to the premier passage and that's in Psalm chapter 12. If you don't have a Bible, you can look at your handout and like I said I'm giving you my notes Psalm 12, verse 6 and 7 is the premier passage which says, the words of the Lord are pure words. It's right on the front page, Mrs. Ross. Yeah, there you go. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times, which means God has really refined this. And he says, this is precisely the way I want to say it. As awkward as it may sound to us, it's precisely the way he wants to say it. Notice what he says about them. Thou, God, shalt keep Preserve them forever, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them, uses a slightly different word meaning the same thing. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation for how long? Forever. Well, forever's a pretty long time, folks. Uh who is the one that is responsible for protecting, keeping, and preserving these? Who's doing this? It says God's going to do it. It says thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them. So God Almighty has undertaken this task. of speaking forth his word through human agents, and he will see to it that those words are preserved forever. So that makes this Bible very different, doesn't it? It's very different. We would call it what are some words that you would use to describe how unique and different the Bible is as a result of God inspiring and preserving it. What are some words that you would use? What's that? Holy. Holy, you better believe that's a big one. Absolute preservation. Absolute preservation? And by that I mean we have a jar of Troll strawberry preserves, but that's been altered to be that preserve. We might have a you go to a museum and see a mounted lion. It's been preserved, but it has been altered. altered. Um I love old cars. You might have an old car that has been they call it surviv okay. I wanna want to go to some words to describe I'm looking for adjectives. Okay. Uh the what would you describe this book What are some words you would use that's inspired and preserved? What kind of characteristics come to mind of something that has that nature to it? Infallible. Fingo. Infallible. That's that's the word I'm really looking for. Do you know that word is not used by even what are known as conservative theologians today? Why not? Excellent question. And any sober sober, moral-minded, rational person would begin to ask themselves, well, why aren't they using that word infallible anymore? It's very simple because they believe there's errors in the Bible. Now, these people who believe Now you would say, but wait a minute, Brother Biffs, my favorite so-and-so preacher believes in the inerrancy of the Bible. Do you know what he means when he says that? Yeah, that it came from God. Uh that would be inspiration. When they say we believe in the inerrancy of scriptures, what they are saying is we believe that the original manuscripts Are inerrant and without and in and inspired. They won't use the word infallible. They're inerrant and inspired without error. What's the problem? What's the problem with saying the original manuscripts alone are inerrant and inspired? What's the problem? What problem can you foresee with that? Penny, any thoughts? You look like you're meditating hard over there. Maybe that means they're not saying what we have. Today we do the same character. Do you catch that? Do we have the original manuscripts that Paul wrote with his hand today? No. No. Do we even have a copy of Moses' Ten Commandments written in stone? No. So what you're saying is just the original phrase. It starts off and continues just to say it's not true it's not necessarily true. Yeah. So when conservative theologians today will talk about inerrancy of scriptures, they are oftentimes referring to the original manuscripts Not the things that we have now, because if you push them in a corner and you ask them, they'll say, We we we really don't know. Brother just got back from a conference. Where he was talking why don't you tell it in your own words about John three sixteen, how he indicated what his opinion was as description. One of the speakers there had been in a debate with some of these other theologians over the s and he was asking them if they if there was one verse in scripture that they absolutely believe we had absolutely right. And he could not name one. So what about John 316? You know, do we n are you sure that John 316 that we have today in our Greek manuscripts is exactly what was written? And the guy would not say yes. Yes, that is what they believe. And I'm talking I'll be conservative. Ninety-five percent of your so-called conservative theologians out there. understand inerrancy of scripture that way. This is the battle of our day, folks, and there are no barking dogs that I'm aware of out there. I have searched in vain to look for information, to to to flush this out, and this is a battle that is unique to our day, and the church has been slow to wake up to it. Well, I don't think the church wants to wake up to it. Well, there's a big financial motive behind it because if the if the Greek text constantly changes and the critical text is up to the 22nd or 23rd or 25th edition. Then your Bible changes, and if your Bible changes, guess how what you can sell? New with the updated fill-in-the-blank. Who wants to work on old software, right? You want to be working on new software. You want to uh you know get work on new bugs, not old bugs, that's what you want. And so there's a profit motive behind it. Well I look I generally look at church now as commercialized. It's very commercialized. Not uh present company excluded. But you know me real, I really do exclude present company. Yeah. But I get you. I I just think it's more commercial So people know, oh, okay. You know, that kind of So I'm d I've I've already gone off uh I've taken one verse and I've gone off into my springboard onto the deep end of the pool here. So let me kind of circle back and keep going on. Other passages, and you can look at your handouts. Here's a couple here. Joey, would you mind walking a couple of these back to Anton, Von and Marissa so they can keep up here? Proverbs thirty five and six says every word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Add thou not unto his words lest he reprove thee and be found a liar A couple of points I want to make here. That word shield and the concept of adding to, and of course taking away from the Word of God. People will tell me, well, um, are you telling me that if I have an ASV Bible or an NIV Bible that that I I can't get saved from that? Well, the Word of the Lord, I think the NIV, the ESV, ASV contain the Word of God. They have parts and elements of it, but I cannot say exclusively they are the Word of God. If you're going to ask me how much scripture is needed to save somebody, just put John 3. 16 on a 3x5 card, carry that around, and call it a Bible, if that's what the criteria is. But that's not the criteria. God's word is likened to a shield, folks. He said it right here. His word is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Now Think back in the Roman days, gladiators. You've seen the pictures, big heavy thing. I mean these guys must have lugged around, you know, they were clunking around. If you fell off your horse with your armor on, you may not be able to get back up, right? It's too bloomin' heavy They got this huge shield on. All right, Joey, we're going to send you into battle with a shield, but it's a huge shield. It's got a few holes in it. Um, would you mind going into battle with that Well you're adventuresome. And you're a starving soon to be college student, so these young and fearless. That's why we recruit that type for the military. We've never tried this weapon before, son, but go after it, right? A sober, moral, sane-minded person would say, I want a shield covering the whole enchilada. I don't want any holes in it. Because where do you think the devil is going to aim, folks? He's got pretty good marksmanship. He's gonna aim right for the holes. And I'm telling you, there are some big holes. Big holes in the modern-day scriptures, there are three, just a case case in point. There are three premier passages in the Bible that speak directly to the issue of divorce and remarriage. Those three passages are so horribly mangled, if not utterly removed, as to make a totally different doctrine Concerning divorce and remarriage, you couldn't even recognize it. It is totally different, missing, absent. The words are changed in a manner that you would say those are two totally different positions. Totally different. And that's just one of thirty examples I have found that are that are s that impact doctrine. Let's continue on. Listen to what Jesus speaks about concerning his word. He says, it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tidal of the law to fail. That's Luke 16, 17. Now, when it says one jot or one tittle, you might have heard these terms jots and tittles before. Let me give you a simple illustration To know what is a tittle. A jot is just that. You know, you talk about dotting your eyes, right? That's the jot. Let's talk about a tittle. It is fun to make a pun and to run to the store to buy a bun. What I've done is just use a tittle to change the first letter of those four words. Fun. Then you put a tittle at the end, you have a P, pun Put a tittle on the R, you've got run, and so forth. That's a tittle. It's a stroke that can change one letter. Jesus says, oh, by the way, it's easier for the terra firma that you're standing on. to go spinning wildly off into space and crack up into 50 billion pieces than for one stroke of my word to be taken away. He says it's easier. You know, and that calls to light perhaps an interesting insight then into the book of Hebrews 1. 3 where it says, He upholds all things by the word of his power. Folks, I would submit to you that the very words of Scripture is the foundation of which our universe stands. Yes, he spoke. Then the helio is the living word of God. That's what it's founded on. If God had not spoken, it would not have come into existence. The weak force, the strong nuclear force, the gravitational force, the way the plants, the sun, the stars, the moon, the very chemical nature of our atomic table. You name it. I am convinced that it's all in existence because he spoke it there and it is his word that keeps that in force. Peter says as much, this comes to mind in 2 Peter, when he says that I love Second Peter 3, one of my favorite chapters in the book of of the Bible, where he's in fact I've hit gone to it so much it's sticky because I can't get to it. It says that the heavens and the earth which are now, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment. Meaning The word of God is what's holding and keeping things in place until such time as he says, done, finished, it's that's all she wrote, as we would say. So this is some just introductory languages to God's word, teaching the business of preservation. And we've got a lot to go through. Jesus said in Luke 21, heaven and earth shall pass, my word shall not pass away. They won't. Verily I say unto you, one jot or one tittle shall in nowise pass from the law till all be fulfilled So from God's perspective, His word is even more sure than the planets you see, than the dirt you're standing on, than the created elements around you. It's more sure than that. In fact, there is more teaching in the Bible concerning the preservation of his word than there is about inspiration. There is more about that. Let me show you. Let's talk about the duration of preservation. How long will this last? Is this a short-term thing? Did the word of the Lord come to some guy who was really smart and spiritual. He figured out a really clever way to turn a phrase and he wrote it down. And boy, it wowed and zowled everybody at that time But, you know, it just kind of got a little old, and now we just need to jazz it back up and reinvent it later on. In other words, was that phraseology just for that time? Some of you have had foreign languages, some of you know multiple languages, and you know how hard it is to translate from language A to language B. There's simply some phrases that don't work. There's some very cute phrases in Spanish and in Arabic that uh come out very poetically. You when you hear a a native speaker declare the phrase, it sounds poetic, but rendered into English it's just clunky and dorky and doesn't fly Is God's word like that? No, it's not. I'll tell you why. God is not so stupid as to confound the languages at the Tower of Babel. without knowing fully well he has a word that has got to map into all these other languages. He's not gonna create a language or oops messed that one up. Man I made Arabic. Oh, that'll never get over there. Great day French, oh, give up. No, are you kidding me? Absolutely not. His word is pure, purified seven times. It's perfect. There is no language Where his word cannot be mapped to. The base, the foundation is that pure native source, but it can go to all languages, and you can trust it. You can trust it. It is amazing. Psalm 119, verse 1, uh Psalm 119 is all about the Word of God. It it's an acrostic It's in eight verses at a time, start with the letter Aleph, the next eight verses of Psalm 19, Bait, the next eight verses gimel, and so forth. You get down to verse 152, concerning thy testimonies I have known of old that thou hast founded them forever. Founded them. What's a f what what's what do we what what does founded mean? Establish? What's another word we use? It's a good word. What's a noun form? What's a house built on? Foundation. Foundation. Isn't that interesting? Verse 160, thy word is truth from the beginning, and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth forever. Now is there some language that that concept can't come through? Every one endureth forever. I like this passage in Isaiah chapter 30 and verse 8. If you have a Bible, you want to turn to it. It's really excellent. Where he tells the prophet, now go. It's in your handout as well. Now go write it before them in a table. And note it in a book that it may be for the time to come forever and ever. Listen to that. Well see, when God came and spoke, something was written, something was captured, and it was not just to that local individual. It wasn't just an interesting message that God gave to Isaiah, I'm going to get you a new set of clothes tomorrow. Don't worry about it. You've been praying for this thing, I'm going to get it for you. No, it wasn't just some local, it was something that was going to endure forever. When the word of the Lord came, it was heavy. It was weighty. Think about the promises God gave to Abraham. Count the stars, so shall thy seed be. Did he ever see it with his own two eyes? Never did. It would be hundreds of years before you even began to get an inkling of it being fulfilled as such. And it wouldn't be until the New Testament when you discovered that the gospel went to the Gentiles and he was the heir of all them who believed by faith that you would see the fullness of it That's a heavy word that God declared. Isaiah 59. 21 is another premier passage concerning the preservation of the Word of God. Listen to this covenantal promise that God has made. He speaks about the preservation of his word and he captures it in a covenant. He doesn't capture his inspiration in the covenant. He captures the preservation in the covenant. Folks, that's a big deal. God doesn't make covenants willy-nilly. A covenant is an oath. It's a vow. Listen to what he says in Isaiah 59, 21. As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the Lord. My spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth. Shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed's seed, saith the Lord. How long? From henceforth even forever. So God insists, it is a covenantal promise of God that these words are not going to depart from the mouth of his children. Take this section back here. Let's just take the book of Hebrews, chapter 9, reverse chapter 13, tear it out. Is that the word of the Lord being preserved in the mouth of thy seed and thy seed seeds forever? Would you say it's all right just to have Hebrews 9, 15 to the end of the book of Hebrews, chapter 13, verse 25 missing? Is that okay? If you hold an ESV Bible in your hand, it's based on a text which says that part's not in the Bible. Don't care. It's got a nice cover, nice pictures, nice footnotes. I can understand it. Yeah, right. This is a covenantal promise of God. Because I'm here to tell you that if that ESV Bible is correct, or that ASV, where these words are footnoted and discredited and thrown away, folks, Chuck. Christianity in the trash. You can't have it both ways. God's made a covenant of promise that his words will not depart forever. If he can't keep that covenant, Jim, what does that say about his other covenants? Can't keep any of them. Well don't does not have to keep any of them. That gets away. It it makes you wonder, can will he keep any? Can he keep any? What can he do with my soul? I'm not sure I can trust this. This sounds untrustworthy. This is a little shaky here. And you'll have a massive crisis of faith. And your faith is in vain, and then science comes along and says, well, the reason we don't talk about the infallibility of Scripture is because you see We have come from the steamed halls of academia. We have found out that in fact the earth is billions of years old and your foolish Bible says that a mere 6,000 years old. No, of course not. Scrooge and rubbish. Come up to my institution, put your money here. Take out loans and put your money here, and I will educate you on the Yeah, that's what they're saying. Chronology. Oh well the chronology and the dates we've got archaeologists who've rolled up their sleeves and dug with a spade and they discovered that there was no Jewish presence in the land of Goshen at the time of the Middle Bronze Age. No, didn't happen. Never mind the fact that we found a bunch of graves with babies in them. Never mind the fact that we found a huge Semitic population with Semitic-style structures and buildings there. Never mind the fact that historically at some point Egypt was a superpower and how they got there we don't really know. And then all of a sudden they were totally tanked so that nomads running around could wander right in and take over because they didn't have an army. They had a drowning lesson and failed. Yeah, never mind that information. So there's a reason why. Because you can look good with other academics It's academically fashionable to beat up the Bible as an old relic. That's not that's just fallible. It's just too old-fashioned, Mrs. Ross, to just believe your Bible is true and trustworthy. Don't go down that path, please. That's what they want you to buy into. Well, so a lot of they don't get much kickback on either. No. Brother Joe, isn't a lot of money in this business? Oh my. Oh my There's not a lot of money in this But that's that our but is this our home? Is this our hope? Is this our heavenly country? Is this the place that we seek? No. No. Has God's word ever been popular? No. Have God's prophets ever been wealthy? No. Have God's servants ever been those? Jesus says, woe unto you that are rich. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of an eagle than for a rich man to enter into heaven. And one of the ways he's rich is he's cutting corners. He's compromising I guarantee you it happens. In the New Testament, look at what Peter says, 1 Peter 1 and verse 23, as he speaks about the Word of God. And he's quoting from the book of Isaiah, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. What is that incorruptible seed that causes you to be born again? The Word of God. Which liveth, now notice this next word, and abideth forever. What does abide mean? It's a little bit of an archaic word, but we think we know what it means. It dwells. It lives forever and it dwells forever. Folks, it's living among us. Look, if the Textus Receptus and translation is based on the Textus Receptus. The absolute word of God. If it is it does it exist on planet Earth? And if so, where is it? If you ask the critical text guys or sent We're doing the best we can. We're trying. We're looking. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof Ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Folks, do those words, those phrases mean anything as it applies to the critical text camp? Yes, it does. They have a form of godliness. He says, I'm warning you, in the last days, these things will come. This is the battle of our day. The very Bible itself is being thrown under the bus. And so the duration of preservation God expects, intends, and is fully capable and able to keep it forever. Well, Brother Vince, you've made some interesting claims. The Bible was written by 40 authors over some 1600 years of time. Surely in that time frame you have some examples of when God has preserved his word Surely you have some examples because you're saying the autographs are inspired, but you're also saying the apigraphs, meaning the copies, the faithfully preserved copies. are thus inspired and preserved, where the inspiration has been preserved. It's kept. Give me examples. Give you two. Give you two from the Bible. First one you know about Moses. He was called up to the mount at the top of Mount Sinai. What happened up there? What happened at the top of Mount Sinai? Met God and Ten Commandments. Where did the Ten Commandments come from? God and how did He deliver them? So you're doing some scratching over here. Wrote them with finger. What do you write them in? Stone. Tables of stone. Two tables. Tell me more about those tables of stone. Where was the writing on? It was on tables of stone. It was on the front and the back. God was the originator of full duplex copy. You wrote it on the front? Wrote it on the back. Don't waste space, folks. That's why you have a two-sided print out in your hand. I've got divine justification for two-sided printing. Alright, so he writes it on the front and on the back. Two tables of stone. Moses is coming down from the mountain. What happens? What's he here? Crowds. What were the crowds doing? Singing and dancing. Singing and dancing, having a grand old temple. There was a reception for the Ten Commandments, right? Oh no. They've already, I cannot believe that. It still blows me away to this day. They just got rescued out of Egypt. This must have been a real interesting bunch of folks. They had just seen the deliverance, the the frogs, the plague, the fli I mean, you name it, they saw it all, the death of the firstborn. from the slave to the owner. They they saw that. They they walked through walls of water and dry ground. And the very first thing they do, as soon as Moses is tarrying up in the mountain, because he was there for forty days and forty nights. As soon as he's just gone a little bit, they're like, phew, oh well, throw in the towel. They cast in everybody their earrings that they had spoiled from the Egyptians, gave it to Aaron, who's gonna go, you know, make this little calf and Gee, I don't know, Moses. I threw this stuff in and a calf popped out in fire. I don't know. You know. Like that's really gonna work. A three-year-old excuse for an answer there. Oh my goodness. And they immediately were worshiping an idol. It didn't take long. And Moses in his extreme anger broke the original manuscripts. Shattered. You're not going to find them. So what did he get? He got a copy. How long did it take before that new copy came out? Same mountain. It wasn't but a little while later, it might have been days, hours, when God said, come back up, I'll give you another set. And God gave him a duplicate set. So how long did it take for God to preserve his written word? Less than a week, days, there was an immediate repair. Alright? Example number one of preservation. Moses and the Ten Commandments. We do not have the original copy of the Ten Commandments. Example number two. Jeremiah had a king who was not too keen on Jeremiah's prophecies. Jeremiah was a young man. He was from a line of priests And just like prophets of old, like Samuel, God came to him and declared, I'm basically upset with Israel. To paraphrase it And he laid out all the judgments that was coming upon them. That if they would only submit to the king of Babylon, it would be well, but you shall go into captivity. You're going to go there, but how you end up there is going to depend on how you Submit to the king of Babylon. They didn't like those words, the king and his court. And so Jeremiah had written under God's instructions with his pen on a scroll all of the judgments against them. And he came to the court and he read it to the king. And you know what the king did with it? Took his pen knife out, because it's probably on a papyrus, not paper. you know, some m more not papyrus, that didn't come until later, probably animal skin, bellum. He cut it up with his pen knife and he threw it in the fire. I don't want these words. Just threw it away. All that Jeremiah the prophet had written, and you can read about in the book of Jeremiah. You know what God told Jeremiah to do? Go back, write another copy. Right another copy. And for good measure, I'm going to add a little extra for the king. We can read about it in the book of Jeremiah. It's in chapter 36. So there are two examples in the Bible of preservation. Now, why is that a point? Why is that a point of concern or issue? The critical text camp believes. And they base over 80% of their translation on two allegedly older, allegedly better manuscripts, which are known in the business as Codex A and Codex B. Aleph is Alexandrinus. It was entered into the Roman Catholic library. Red flag, number one, in the 1400s. And it's missing all kinds of things. It even has in there some Latinized terms, some words that would not have been known in the time of the original author. That would be like saying George Washington was in dire straits at Valley Forge, so he texted his general No. They didn't have texting back then. They used certain words like that in the Alexandria Alexandrian text The Alexandria codex is allegedly, they claim, going back to the uh before the Textus Receptus, they would say the for third or fourth century, but back to the first, second century. And Sinaiiticus, which Constantine Tissendorff stole from monastery uh in that part of the world, near the Sinai Peninsula. and claimed that it was an old manuscript. It was, uh I don't want to get off the extent of that, but it has excessive omissions and multiple hands writing in it. It kinda looks like, Penny, the yearbook about two weeks before completion with lots of, you know, red lines and change this and arrows and all kinds of little things all over. I mean it just looks like a work in progress that really wasn't finished. Um They claim that because of that discovery in the late 1800s, that Eureka, we have found the oldest manuscripts that somehow this vast majority of manuscripts that we have, 19,000 copies, folks, that the Western world knows about in the original Greek. uh as many copies in other languages as well that went out into Armenia, Italy, the old Latin, uh the the uh Assyrian, uh uh these ancient tongues, they have a copy of the word and These passages in question. They have them. The words that are in question. They have them in their language. It was baked in very early because the gospel went out to all the world They claim that these two, two folks out of a city of 19,000, two, trump all of those. They say, well, now we fixed it. We found it. Somehow, God's word went off the rails in the fourth century. And so all the copies since then have been corrupted. Praise God, he's fixed it some 1,500 years later. That's what you have to buy into to accept the credibility of the critical text. They would say, oh, you're a fool to go for the King James, because we've got a much better version. Oh, really? So God let his church limp along with a defective Bible some 1,500 years before he got around to fixing it Two examples I have of how God preserves his word in the Bible didn't take no 1,500 years. That violates his covenantal promise. My word shall not depart out of your mouth of your seed's mouth of the mouth of your seed seed. Folks, it took me over two years to go dig into the bottom of all this nonsense. And these presbyteries and these denominational councils and these synods and these halls of academic higher learning have learned. That if they speak plainly and openly, like I'm speaking to you today about these issues, they know you will back off. And so they use couched language. They used hidden language. Getting them to commit to anything in writing, you will not get. I'm talking people who allegedly subscribe to the Westminster Confession of Faith. There are at least six doctrines that are fully tanked in the Westminster Confession of Faith if you do not hold to the Textus Receptus. You're supposed to, in a performance Presbyterian camp, declare, I subscribe to the Westminster Confession or whatever confessional statement, if you're London Baptist Confession, if you're in that camp, or Augsburg, you know, not Augsburg, but these other New Hampshire confessions, so forth. You're supposed to say, I subscribe to it. And if you take an exception to say, I don't like this phrase here, I take exception to this. You're supposed to declare it I know your church is founded on these doctrines as your understanding of the Bible, but I take exception to this part. They all say, meaning they all lie, I take it without any reservation. Well they do. They have a lot of reservations And that was a very painful discovery on my part. So that's why this is a huge issue for me. I have only a few minutes left, and we're going to race into the methods of preservation. All right, Vince, you say that God says he's going to preserve it. Got it. You've told me uh how uh how long it will last. But how is this supposed to work? How does this actually work? How does God do doesn't his word say anything about how it's going to work? They claim, well, you've all played the game where you whisper in one person's ear and they whisper in another person's ear and you said, you know My my my my dog eats biscuits and what comes out at the other end is there's many books in the library, right? It just totally changes, right? That's not how God's word works. It did not work like that. So, the Old Testament Hebrew, the agent was Israel, and they had professionals. They had scribes. Now remember, Israel was a theocracy. Their government was both religious and civil. And so they had an official office. It was funded out of the tithes that came through. Scribes were paid We've discovered things called scriptoriums with ancient little buckets with little bits of ink still found in them. Large tables where they'd put manuscripts out. These were professional organizations. Their job was one job. Here's the book. Make a copy. And it better be perfect. And they had a series of overseers and cross-checks, and that's where the word scribe came from. It's from a uh a word screw and and I'm and my memory's reaching I'm reaching at my memory here but the very word scribe relates to uh I think so fair I'm I'm getting that wrong I know but it's related to that where they would check every jot and tail. It is alleged that one of the counts they did is they would count from the beginning of the Bible to the end of the Old Testament Hebrew. They would count the number of words, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, ding, ding, ding. They would go all the way through, and they were to arrive at one particular word and one particular verse, and if it didn't arrive there, that manuscript was tossed. That was their check. They chucked the whole thing and started over. In fact, not anybody could copy it out. You had to go through a extent extensive series of training to be able to do it correctly So this business of lazy no, they weren't like us. They weren't distracted with their phones and the television. I gotta go, Marsh Madness is on TV now. They weren't distracted with that stuff. They were focused on the Word of God. That was the agent. And it's interesting because they were all told to keep his words. There's two use words used. Meaning to protect, to maintain, to preserve, such as whoso keepeth the fig tree that you find in the book of uh Hosea And there's a more popular word meaning shamar. It's the Hebrew word shamar, I'm mispronouncing it. It's used 420 times in the Bible. To hedge, to guard, to protect. Adam was put in the garden to keep it. This was the biggest eye-opener to me, folks, and why I want to get to this part. The word keep does not mean do It doesn't mean do. Adam was to be in the garden to keep it, not to do it, to keep it, to protect it, to hedge it, to keep the snakes out, Adam. To keep it, to protect it. For instance, Deuteronomy 4. 2, you can look there in your scriptures. You shall not add unto the word, neither shall you diminish from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord. That's the word Shamar. So when it talks about keeping the commandments of the Lord, it's talking about preservation. It was a corporate responsibility. Israel as a nation had the job, the scribes. And it was a personal responsibility. You are responsible for keeping, for preserving that in your generation. You're a patriarchal head. You need to be able to turn to your generation. This is the baton of the Word of God. That's right. You, my children, don't let these things slip. And when you had a whole community of people doing it, there was great safety in it. And when you had an organizational structure above doing it, there was great safety in it. That was the Hebrew form. Exodus twenty thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them. For I am the Lord thy God. I'm misquoting here. Showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Again, keep does not mean do. It means preserve, protect. That's what he's talking about What about the New Testament? In the New Testament, the agent or the mechanism is the church, the ecclesia. The church is the mechanism. Folks, what's where we've gone off the rails is we've outsourced the job. The official keeper of the critical text is a German atheistic society. They're heretics. These people don't believe in miracles. They don't believe in Christ's virgin birth. They don't believe in the resurrection. These are the people that and they're infiltrated with Roman Catholics. These are the people that give you the Greek critical text of the New Testament. Unbelievers. Rank unbelievers. In fact, it is now becoming conformed more and more to Roman Catholicism doctrine. So the account which speaks of Jesus is, neither did his brethren believe in him, indicating that Mary had other children Or when it says that, is not this the carpenter's son, Joseph, and his brothers and sisters are with us. Ah, how convenient. Guess what? In their edition, that verse is gone. They just said, we don't like it. Rib it out. And these are the ones that many churches and the watchdog of the church are supposed to say, whoa, I don't accept that book. I'm not taking that one. But they do. Many congregations do. I have to wrap it up. The Greek word is the say it's Tarain. It's the same method. It's a verb and an infinitive. It means to protect. to watch, to re to preserve. You know, the keepers of the prison did shake. They weren't doing prison. That was the people inside. They were keeping the prison. The Peter was kept in a prison. You have kept the good wine until now. Again, this is the concept of preserve Jesus says, you love me, keep my commandments. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them. He it is that loveth me. Jesus later in Mark said, full will you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your own tradition. You want to preserve your tradition. And so these are the examples and the methods of preservation. I've gone over my time but it's such an important topic that I did want to uh cover it. One of our verses in the message this morning Because the angels would have kept not their former state. Yeah, they didn't hang on to it. Absolutely. Absolutely. Alright, so please take this home. There's a plenty of resources up on Holding Fast. I have explored and continue to explore this area, and I continue to become more and more shocked at how impactful and hurtful this is to the church uh to not hold to the doctrine of preservation because the church at large, these are some dear, dear saints in many places have Like the scripture says, certain men of old, ordained of God, have crept in unawares, heretics, they've crept in unawares. And I'm uh ringing the alarm at the hen house. What you just saying. Do you believe that it's any way to salvage what you just said? No with the uh understanding of the way the churches are today and the people in the church The leadership in the churches and the people. Right. So I can't see how I can't see how that could ever be referred back in my So so I believe God is ripening many nations for judgment. One of the fiercest, sternest, most Spine-tingling warnings comes at the end of the Bible. If any man add to the words of the book of this prophecy, I will add unto him the plagues that are written herein. Who are adding? A lot of the heretics. Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons are adding on God's going to heap a whole bunch of nastiness back on top of their head, to put it mildly. Next warning. Whosoever takes away from the words of the book of life, I will take his name out of the book of life. Well wait a minute. Who are those people? People who think their names are in the book of life. People who are religious and they think their names are in there and they all of a sudden got smarter than God. God has obligated himself to protect his word, Jim, and he is quite capable of protecting it. He is quite capable of preserving it. You should be thankful. And grateful that you're in a place that believes we have the Word of God. And I'm not questioning it. And God will protect and preserve that. A great many around us will fall. And there have been plenty of times when the nation of Israel went flat And it wasn't years later until a scribe came back, look, we found the words of the Lord. And this young king said, Oh, his hair was on fire, and he was bristling, and man, he was. intent to get back to it. That will happen at some point, but this is not that time. Truth has rarely been found in the big invisible. It's always been in the remnant It's been in a small little piece that God has kept pure every year, not in the big crowds. And the and the the big crowd like you're saying is there any hope for the big crowds things we should say? Well, no, the truth is over here in the prior. It very much has been. Brother, close this in prayer, please. That's my okay. Gracious Father, where we thank you that the book that we opened in front of us this morning is the very infallible, inspired, and preserved Word of God. Well, we thank you. You've kept it pure for us, and we can rely on it. This is the great gift. It is a marvelous treasure. May we pay close heed to it this day.