My favorite chapters and sections of Mr. Burkhoff's book and it has to do with the second coming of Christ. This is a topic I think that many people have an opinion on Probably if you ask a person you'll get more opinions than they have armpits. Um so let me uh ask uh you just some introductory questions, just to try to dip our toe into the water here. If you were to ask people, people you know, random person on the street, person in the pew sitting next to you, chair, uh, about Jesus' second coming, what do you think they might say? Close. Yeah. I think they'd say who is Jesus. Some of them wouldn't even know, yeah, who is Jesus, yeah, in this day and age, yeah, even that uh uh basic fundamental underlying concept is totally missing. Yeah, absolutely. That's a legitimate point. It can be Christian or non-Christian. What do you think somebody might say? Trump is Okay, what about trumpet? The trumpet shall sound. The trumpet shall sound. Huh. Okay. Somebody want to talk about trumpets. You know, Christians don't seem to agree on key aspects of Jesus' second coming, such as why he's coming or what he will do when he returns. Why do you think that is? Because we really don't know. Because we really don't know. Scripture has deliberately if we're honest with scripture, we have to say that we have to think of this. But scripture has left a lot of that to the secret of God. Okay. So there's a lot that we just don't know. Alright? What might other be be other reasons why because there are some people out there who seem to really, really know. They seem to have a really good handle on it. Uh why do you think they have such a good handle on it and other people say I don't know There's so many different this there's the dispensational view and there are people who take a specific theological view and so they have a specific So they know even though we might look at that same scripture from a different point of view. Okay, so a lot of it might be a a preconceived view. I didn't you didn't use those words, so don't let me put words in your mouth, but they have and I think you use the term dispensational view. of how scriptures unfold and so therefore they look at the Bible with I'll call it a set of glasses So would it be fair to say that maybe some Christian camps have a certain set of glasses on that look at scriptures one particular way and another camp has maybe a different set of glasses and they look at that from a different perspective. Okay. Yep. Um so I'm not um um I'm going to try to take this and just go very slow, very gentle. I had I had double column, two-sided page of material, I cut that in half, and I still came out with two pages of notes. So I'm backing it off and we're just going to put the plow in gentle and slow over time. I'll give you, just so that you're set at ease, a bit of my background and some of my bias going in towards this. I grew up uh living literally across the street from Irving Bible Church I could look out my bedroom window and see their little s lit sign on the road across the street from me. It wasn't the main street it wasn't the side street that we lived on, but the main street just across there. But I could see it was I had a good right arm, I could hit the sign with a rock if I wanted to. They came at the end-time teaching from a dispensational view. They would be considered a conservative Bible church. In fact, they've grown. They've grown out of that building. They've moved to a different location, Irving. Dr. Chuck Swindahl came from that church. He was a uh Sunday school teacher there, but he left by the time I'd gotten there. Moved on to Better Better Things, right? Um and a uh very beloved pastor was there, uh Dr. Tussaint. Dr. Charles Toussaint. Charles? What was his first name? I forget. Dr. Toussaint was his last name. He was very, very helpful to my mother in particular because he really dispelled a great much of the errors of Roman Catholicism. And for that we're very grateful. He was very helpful in that. And it was for the most part they really did try to come with us, saith the Lord. They really went from the scriptures But I was unsaved at that time, and I definitely distinctly remember at different points of time Open your Bibles, they would read something in the sermons, and and you would read a passage, and then he would proceed to preach on it, and what was preached, because they had that dispensational view, I couldn't understand I couldn't make a connection. between what he was saying and the text that we had just read. And the thought in my little 17-year-old, 16-year-old mind at the time was, I'm glad we got this guy here, because man, I never would have figured that out from this text. To me it seems to be saying this. But obviously he has really, you know, he's got a sharp pencil on this. He sounds, he looks nice, everybody's amening him. And I just learned to live with the apparent contradictions. Well, uh as my uh teenage years wore on and um Uh for whatever reason I had various bouts of depression and the like and you know just kind of a stormy emotional period. Uh I remember asking one of my youth Bible teachers about, you know, well what happens if a young man is very zealous for the things of the Lord? I was zealous at seventeen, sixteen. I was diligent to take notes of all the sermons. I kept them rolled up in a drawer in my bedroom there they were safe. There's my little my my uh brownie pile Jim that's all my goodies here's my proof I took notes I was listening didn't review the notes again but I took notes And they said, well, the teacher who was say uh seminary student at Dallas Theological said um Well I think, you know, if uh you were you know you're zeal my question was if you're a zealous young man, you know, you go to college or someplace, fall away from the faith and then you die, what happens? Well he basically said I think God will outweigh the good with the bad. You kinda put it on a scale type of thing. Well that was news to me and good news to my ears. And then coupled with the fact that we were basically taught that when Christ returns, there's a thousand-year millennial reign of Christ set up on earth. And you know, um you'll uh you you you'll you'll miss you know the rapture but you'll still be here but but there'll be another chance. There'll be another chance for you to get saved. And so I'm thinking This isn't a bad deal. I mean, really think about it. Put two and two together. God's going to weigh the good with the bad? Christ returns. I'm sure the news is going to catch it, right? What news media is not going to catch is going to miss that event? Jesus sitting on a throne. He can do miraculous things. And all of a sudden all these believers are gone. I'm still stuck around. But Jesus is here and I'm with him and they're gone. So I got another chance. I got I'm gonna miss out on a few rewards in heaven. Okay, you know, I don't get the Lexus, you know, I get a Corolla. That's fine, I can live with that. Right? This will work. And so that's quite alright. Years later, as college nearly killed me, and then God had driven me down into the depths of despair and misery, and I was primed for the gospel And I moved to Southern California where I heard the gospel and talking about sin, hell, death, and destruction and eternal damnation. at the judgment throne, which will occur when Christ returns. And as I began to look in the scriptures, and all of a sudden I was pointed to a number of passages that I had never been made aware of. Nor researched on my own, to be fair. I was stunned, shocked, and amazed at how much information actually is in the Bible. It's just not paid attention to. I think the socks blew off the end of my feet and landed up in the the laundry pile at the end of the bed because I then realized that If I had died in that system of teaching that said, you'll have a second chance. Only to find out there was no second chance. Do you see how deceptive, deceitful powerfully dangerous that teaching was. Now whether they explicitly taught second chance or not, I would probably say they might not have or overtly spoken those words. But that was the conclusion, the inevitable conclusion I could draw from connecting the dots of their teaching. So personally, I have come to appreciate the scriptures stance and the traditional historic Christian stance. of an omillennial point of view, which says there is no thousand-year reign of Jesus on this earth when he returned. There's a lot of things that are going to happen and the scriptures talk about it, but it is a fiction that has been invented. that came about over various courses of time. Yes, you can find in the first and second century there were some who did teach this. Uh it got popularized shortly after World War II completed and Israel was allowed by the UN to come back into their land, that reinvigorated a lot of interest and thinking about maybe this is harboring uh the return of Christ, and they began to find that in there. But historically that has not been the case. And I believe I can make some very strong arguments over the next four or five Sunday schools to show you why the scriptures teach that. So that's my bias up front. But I want to take this very slow. And the rationale is not, I'm not asking you to put my glasses on at first. I don't want you to look at it with my lens. All right, I want you to look at it from the lens of the text of scripture. And that's what we're going to do today. We're going to start real simple with, I think, something that either the um uh uh the uh the dispensational or the historic pre-mill, those are different. Uh and the omil camp and even the post-mill camp can agree. There's four different views and if you want we can have a specific study to cover those if you'd like But let's talk about the fact of Jesus' second coming, alright? The fact. Because the Bible is clear, he's coming again. Let's get that established. I think Mrs. Ross really got right to the first page, which is people don't even believe there's a Jesus out there. They don't even know who he is, let alone coming again, let alone what's going to happen when he comes. So we got to establish that fact first In your handout, the first fill-in-the-blank is Jesus. Jesus said he's coming again. He himself, the Savior, the Son of God, declared that. He says in Matthew 24, 30. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming, and that's the Greek word Ercholi, which has a wide range of meaning. But it's rendered come here, and it's an appropriate mean to come. Coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. So One of Jesus' favorite terms to reference himself was the Son of Man. It's both a humble term. He's not saying son of God, he's saying son of man to identify the deity the the humanity of Christ. But there's also a connection to the deity of Christ, because that is the Son of Man that Daniel saw in his vision, and that clearly was deity. And in fact, when he referred to himself as Son of Man in front of the Pharisees, they said he's committing blasphemy. And so they understood that to to know that that's a term of deity that Jesus Christ referred to himself. Yes, Freddy? Jesus is referred to as the danger Yes, it's also known as the day of the Lord. Mm-hmm. But we're not there yet. Oh, okay. This is not that then. I'm just talking about the fact that he's coming again. Oh okay He's coming. I'm just that's all but you're correct. And that's one of the terms used, and that's something we want to start to begin to look for, is the common terms that all talk about this same thing. Matthew 25, a few verses later, the whole chapter of Matthew 25 is a lot of parables about his return. And it says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory. And all the holy angels with him, now we have a little bit larger party being mentioned here, then he shall sit upon the throne of his glory. Now that's very interesting. Just looking at these two verses right here, this is Jesus speaking, he's at the Olivet Discourse From these two passages alone, and again I'm not asking you to isolate them from the rest of the Bible, but what bit of information do these two passages tell you will happen when Jesus comes again? This is from his own lips What's happening when he comes again? Just all that's going on. Angels will be there. Maybe I was the uh It doesn't say that in this passage. Okay. Oh that passage. I'm just yeah I'm just I'm going real slow, Lisa. I've I've I've got the tractor gear in first gear and the overdrive section in low Okay. Right? That's where he go about half a mile an hour? He'll be in the clouds. Coming from above heaven, clouds. Okay, coming from heaven, that's an important part. And with clouds, okay, what else? Sit upon the throne. He's sitting upon a throne. That's interesting. Okay, he's coming to sit upon a throne. All right. Carol? I don't see that. Oh, uh oh yes, I do see that. Thank you. Matthew 24, 30. All the tribes of the earth shall mourn. Oh, interesting. All the tribes of the earth shall mourn. Is that only talking about Africa? I guess. Who's mourning? Pretty much everyone is not a Christian, I think. Right? All right, they're mourning. They're they're not real happy about this event. Okay, that's very interesting. What else? He's coming with power and great glory. Okay. Yeah, he's not on the little donkey again. The the donkey business is over. We've upgraded. He's got an upgrade. There's one last thing that's happening. The angels are coming with him. Yep, angels are coming. Yep. Uh somebody somebody mentioned that. That's correct. Angels are coming. Son of man is coming, coming from heaven. He sits on his throne. There are signs in heaven. Did you notice that? So we see that there are a number of concurrent events. Signs in heaven. Jesus is coming. Angels are coming. Tribes of the earth are mourning. He sits on the throne. That's Just from two passages from a Jesus Own Mouth. It's in the same context, and we're kind of taking it slow. So let's keep going. The next thing is that the angels said he's coming again. The angels themselves have said that Jesus is coming again. And they said this in Acts chapter 1, verse 11. That's your next verse in the handout. You remember the ascension? The disciples are there, he's their Jesus there talking with them, and he ascends up from them to heaven in a cloud And then there stood men in white robes, angels talking to them, who said in verse Acts 1, verse 11, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, notice that phrase, this same Jesus came, walked, ministered in Galilee, Nazareth, Jerusalem. crucified, died, buried, risen again, ascended into heaven, this same Jesus, not a different thing, okay, which is taken up from you into heaven. shall so come, that's our word erchemai again, in like manner, in like manner, as you have seen him go into heaven. Verse nine of Acts 1 mentions that he ascended up into a cloud. So don't miss this. That means in like manner means his return from heaven will be all the way back to earth. Clouds will be involved. There's going to be an angel nearby. In like manner. Okay, so the angels basically corroborated with what Jesus said in Matthew 24 in the Olivet Discourse. A lot of the same information. And the third point is that the epistles say that he is coming again. And we look at the letter to the Hebrews in Hebrews 9. 28. We read this, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him shall he appear. Appear the second time without sin unto salvation. And that word appear in the Greek has made its way into our English language. If you have weak eyes, your eyesight just isn't what it used to be. You go to an Optometrist, and that's the word here, optonomi. See, it has to do with seeing, to look, to show, to be seen. He shall appear, which means You're going to see him. Okay? It's a reference to your eyes. Your eye will see him. Have you stopped and meditated for five minutes at some point this week? That with those two eyes you will see Jesus. You personally will see Jesus. And I'm going to give in a little bit to the temptation to preach because I'm going to ask questions. Are you going to be the tribes of the earth that mourn? Or is your joy going to be so great that no man can take your joy away? But these two eyes, as frail, as wounded, as weak as they are, you will see Jesus. Question? The question is that when he when Up. He was in Jerusalem. Did everybody see him? Oh, when he went up at that time? Yes. And so when he's coming to That's a good question. Yeah. In like manner, and might that mean he returns at at the point of Jerusalem and did everybody see him? Yeah, it's a really good question. I'm not Prepared to answer that from from this text, but the text doesn't say everybody saw him what he has said. It's certainly those standing around. And The text does say in like manner, not identical, but in like manner. There's some likeness to it, not complete. Yeah, that's a really good question. I like that. Um Job's testimony who might also speak myself and not another one. Absolutely. Though after uh worms. After worms destroy my skin and Though my reins be consumed within me, yet in my flesh I shall see God, and not another. So don't miss all this. What's happening in Hebrews 9. 20 eight is that he is coming the second time, but he's coming for a purpose, and what was that purpose? Uh and he said salvation, you said which? To take his believers up. To take his believers to heaven up? Take us back to heaven. Right. So uh it says salvation. Did you notice that He will appear, and when is he coming the second time? Not the third time, not the fourth time. No, he didn't appear to the Mormons. And give them another book. There was a first coming. The scripture is clear there's going to be a second coming. Second coming has not occurred because when it does, it's what? Unto salvation And this sounds pretty comprehensive. The context is of Hebrews 9. 27, as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. So that is the end of those who die without Christ, even so Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many to them that look for him. These are them that look for him. Believers. Believers are looking for him. The world isn't, they don't even know who he is. Shall he appear the second time? Appear with eyes unto salvation. It is your salvation. Wait a minute. Aren't you saved now? You are? So what does that mean unto salvation? It's the ultimate. It's the fulfillment. Right, Pastor? Now we have the earnest of the inheritance. We have the earnest inheritance now, but what's the what makes that what does that full inheritance look like? I'm just unpacking this word salvation in the context. What does that look like? The creation growth is in travail now away the redemption of the body. Ah, so there's a redemption of the body. We have a saved soul. This ain't Jim, it's falling apart, ain't it? Absolutely falling apart. Right, Mrs. Ross? The knees, the elbows, right, Mom? It's falling apart. Would you say your body is saved? You probably woke up and said, Lord, it don't feel like it today. It don't feel like it today. Interesting. So Whatever that salvation is, it has to involve the body, doesn't it? And it's unto them that look for him. So we've covered one, two, three, four passages, and we've already gotten a lot of information about his coming. We've gotten a little bit of insight about the purpose, the stated purpose is for salvation. Stated purpose is that he's going to sit on a throne. He's coming in clouds of glory. The tribes of the earth are going to mourn. We haven't quite gotten into that yet. Why they're mourning. But that's just what it states from that passage. Let's keep going. We're going to look at three specific terms in the Bible, Greek terms, that are used to describe his second coming. These are very specific terms and I'm sure you heard them. I'm quite sure you've heard them The first one is Apocalypsis. You've heard of the phrase the apocalypse. There's a movie called The Apocalypse Now, and it's some war movie and all kinds of bad stuff, special effects, blood and gore. That's like a little boy killing an anthill compared to the apocalypse the Bible's talking about, right? It's not biblical grade. The word apocalypsis has a specific meaning. It means to unveil. So if you have at an auto show a next generation vehicle you want to show, it's typically under a tarp or some nice cloth, and then they unveil it. You see the rough outlines under the cloth, under the tarp, but then it's apocalypsis. It's unveiled. Okay? The curtain is pulled back. We see what's really going on behind the curtain. That's the idea of Apocalypsis. It points to the removal of that which now obstructs our vision of Christ You know the Bible says where two or three are gathered together, there I am in the midst. As far as I'm concerned, he's right there. I don't autonomize, I don't see him. There's something veiling that. Because I believe God when he says, I'm in the midst. He's here But he's veiled. He's very veiled. The two on the road to Emmaus, their eyes were beholden that they could not see him. He's veiled, but he's here. But when he returns, The veil is removed, folks. Alright, let's keep going. Look at 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, 7 through 10. We looked at this last week. We're going to look at it again this week. 2 Thessalonians 1, 7 to 10. He says, to you who are troubled, you will have rest with us. Rest. Oh Penny smiled at that word rest. That's a hard-working woman right there. She likes that word rest. I like that word rest. Rest with us when? When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed. Apocalypsis. When he shall be revealed, there's a revealing. Where? From heaven. With his mighty angels, there's a reference to angels, but this time it says, with his mighty angels. What are they doing In flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. Alright. This doesn't sound like, oh happy day for the world. Alright. What keeps going. They know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall be punished with, uh, let's see, second probation, no, annihilation, no, purgatory, no With everlasting, that's the same word eternal as in eternal life, everlasting destruction. You like evolution? Well it's actually devolution Because things are falling apart and you're going to get it in spades. Everlasting destruction from the presence, it's literally the word face of the Lord, and from the glory of his power. Remember, he says he's coming with power and great Glory. When he shall come, that's our word Erchimai, which ties us back to Matthew 24. When he shall come, when he shall erchimai, this is that second coming, that's why it's in purple. You got a color-coded handout today to kind of To be glorified in his saints. Ah. He's coming for another purpose. What's that other purpose? To be glorified how? Ow! This is your power verse for the day, folks. He's gonna be glorified in you. One of his purposes is under your salvation and to be glorified in you. I kind of help can't help but to think. I I can't I just get into preaching mode on this stuff because it's so powerful. He's gonna pick Vince Kluth up and says, Look at a loser like this. He wins. All of you lose This is a trophy of my grace right here. This is a trophy of grace. I reached down to the bottom of the dung hill and found this clown. Look at this You want to know what a great God looks like? It's a God that can save some little peanut like this. To be glorified in his saints and to be admired In all them that believe. All eyes will be on Jesus if you're one of his, because he will be admired. By all, not some, by all of them that believe. Because our testimony among you is believed. In that day. Alright. What are your observations on this passage? I hope I haven't spoiled the question because I already made a bunch of them. What are your observations on this passage? What's going on here? Uh I have a question. Yeah, go ahead. Questions are good too. Well he said his he's um with his mighty angels in the flame fire taking fringes Well then there's no God. So is this him taking vengeance when he appears or after the judgment? Sounds pretty soon, doesn't it? Yeah. I thought all of that was gonna happen, you know, after judgment and people get cast And the uh and the hell and the lake of fire and all of that. From the scope and the perspective of this it seems to be he comes and boom, it's bad news pretty quick. Yeah. Pretty quick. Yes, but but there's there's gotta be a thousand years in there somewhere. There's gotta be a thousand years in there somewhere. There's gotta be a Second chance and his ribware comes out a Russia you tie there. Right. You get the sense that it's immediate. What is another word that we might use from the viewpoint of the unbeliever? Well, can s can uh hold that thought. Yeah, yeah there's there's imminent, yep. What's another one It's another word we might use to describe it for the unbeliever. Remember, it's in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God. They're not looking for him. And then he appears. Terrifying. Terrifying? Why is it terrifying? Let's pull that thread. Uh because if I don't know Christ, when he comes it's done. I'm I'm going to be judged for my rejection. Huh? There's no warning. There's no warning, therefore it came by Surprise. Surprise. And doesn't that sound like some of the other parables? The day of the Lord comes as a what? Day for the night You know, if you know the thief is coming, what are you gonna do? You're gonna get ready. That was uh taking on the way here. That's a guy riding by said, Well, you know what it is Right by the same man who and I thought to myself, these guys are so uh understanding what other people say. include myself. They probably don't have a any thought about anything about the gospel or life and the be as Jim when Jesus come. They can't. I mean they were so content writing that fight so hard and this thing. I didn't even tell her, I just noticed it. On the Sunday morning. Like Mr. Ross said. Yeah, and I thought about you when you told me that. I said she's taking my thoughts this morning. Right. Nobody seems to think that's gonna happen, I think. So my up so any other observations on the passage? Thank you, Jim. Well any other observations on this passage? I just want to say it's like a double-edged sword. On one hand, Christ the unbelievers are gonna be Miserable and the believers are gonna see their eyes are gonna be on Christ. So it's the devil that is. Yes. Yeah, it's It's clearly positive or negative, and there's a pretty sharp divide. I can't find a third category in there anywhere, right? I was going to say dividing the people Alright, there's another parable which we will get to, dividing the sheep and the goats. Absolutely. What are some other observations from this passage? What else can you draw out of it? What's that? Inescapable. Inescapable. Ooh, that is a powerful term. Inescapable meaning y all of humanity is being funneled into this event. You there isn't You know, like on the the signs before you go over to Bay Bridge, you know, last exit before you go over to Bay Bridge, exit here and you won't get hit with a toll. No, there is no exit Some things that I came up with is that no one will miss that day. No one will miss that day, especially not the wicked and the unsaved, upon whom Fiery vengeance. It doesn't say tribulation. I don't know if you caught that or not. It doesn't say upon whom a thousand years of tribulation will occur. It says fiery vengeance. Adds the word fiery to it. Well, fire, fire, kind of sounds like Sodom and Gomorrah, right? This isn't pleasant. This isn't we're gonna have a cookout with Jesus, right? It's not happening except you're the cookout. You're on the grill. Fiery vengeance will be repaid to them. However, his coming on that day will be one of great glory for his saints. It's basically the day of your exoneration. I think about um that scripture that says don't do not take advantage. This is belong to the Lord. Okay. He's gonna pay you back. Yes, he will. He's gonna pay you. Uh far beyond what you could possibly imagine. Right. Right. You'll wish that you just had life in prison. That is terrifying, Pim. First Peter 1 on the back of it, or maybe it's uh it's on the back of my head, that maybe it's the next passage here. Let's keep going. 1 Peter 1 7. Peter's got a lot to say about this as well. He says that the trial of your faith All right, we undergo trials of faith right now, don't we? I think if you're a Christian you've certainly had trials against the faith that make you question should I believe or not. The trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found when might be found unto praise, might be found unto honor. might be found unto glory at the appearing, that's the word Apocalypsis, the unveiling, the appearing of Jesus Christ. Verse 13 Because of this, wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober. Jim, you had a sober thought going down the road about these young fellows who didn't have a sober thought. They didn't have fun. You can tell it in your face. All right. Be sober and hope to the end. Notice that word end. For the grace that is to be brought unto you. Alright, remember he said he's appearing a second time without sin unto Salvation, Peter says, hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you, it's brought to you at what? The apocalypsis, the unveiling, the revealing of Jesus Christ. Do you see how this verse relates to Jesus coming? It's used As an exhortation to the saints to be, wake up, that something's coming, heads up You know, we get a little animated around here at the Cluthhouse just moment. We get a little animated here at Cluthhouse sometimes when it's getting close to Time for saints to arrive and show up at the cluth house for church, and so there's a tablecloth that's got to get cleaned off, and there's tables got to get pushed aside. Who forgot to vacuum the floor and uh I'm not picking on you here, but you did fine today. And uh chairs aren't set up and you know what's you know so we're kind of animated because look at the time It's coming. Get get ready. Well, because we're thinking about it. And I get back to the question, have any of you given five minutes of thought to the fact that you will, with these two eyes, stick your finger in them and touch them to make it real? That these eyes will in fact see Jesus of Nazareth coming on clouds of glory in flaming fire. I mean, just read all the language there. Think about that That's what Peter's saying here. Yes, Victoria. Actually, Joe, Pastor, you had something in the Victoria. Yes, he was a wit eyewitness of the ascension He also saw Moses and Elijah on the man of transfiguration with Christ and says we have a more sure word of prophecy here. It's very significant, it's Peter, absolutely. Victoria. Just to amplify a little bit on this passage when it says and hope to the end for the grace. And you kind of described how we are looking forward to when we show up See Christ in all of his glory and we are going to be perfected with him. And yet it's this is what we need to hear to be encouraged through the trials that we have in this life. And and this is how we're gonna gird up our mind to prepare and get through the tough stuff today and tomorrow and future. But we have a good hope. That's right. This teaching Friends, what rightly understood from the scriptures is not held out by God as a terror to the saints. It is held out as a good hope. Do you see why the devil wants to pervert it? Mm-hmm. Because if he twists it If he can rob your hope and steal your joy just a little bit, maybe just maybe throw in the towel. Maybe just maybe. Don't throw in the towel. This is a vital doctrine. This is a vital doctrine, folks. We gotta get it right. A, he's coming again. B, he's coming on purpose. He's not accidentally, well, look at this. I happen to be wandering through this part of the universe. No, he's coming on purpose. And he's coming for a reason. And it's for him to be glorified in you. And he's he's zealous to do that. With desire have I desire to be this password. He desires to come back. The day of the Lord is not slack, as some men count slackness, but God is long-suffering to us, not willing that any of us should perish, but that all of us should come to repentance. The second that Noah was on the ark, doors were shut, bang, it was over. It was over. Alright, we keep going. 1 Peter 4. 13. My illustration served to cool me off as well because it gets a little warming in the house. Very convenient. 1 Peter 4. 13, but rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings That when his glory shall be, there's our word, apocalypsis, revealed, you may be glad also with what Not just joy. Exceeding joy. You know, I I can't honestly think back to a time when I had a really, really happy time. I probably have to go all the way back. Birth of Gabriel, birth of Gloria, then, I mean the most recent was birth of Gabriel, then birth of Victoria, the birth of Gloria, then Angela. I can't it's hard for me to think of when I had a time of great joy that just lasted a real good long time. It's just but here it says When his glory shall be revealed. You know, it's like your champion just appeared in the clouds of glory. And all the tribes of the earth are what? Mourning. They're not arguing, Jim. They're not coming up with fake news. All those tricks are gone. They not working anymore. Those gains ain't cutting it. He's got all his holy angels with him. And he ain't happy with the unsaved. They've been a plague to his people. And it says, you'll have exceeding joy. In other place it says, and your joy no man will take from you And this we groan waiting. Waiting. We're waiting. But we're waiting for a specific thing. And grown now, but not then. Right. Yes. You know, it's to me it's also Amazing that even though they discard anything they hear about Jesus now, but the moment they see him They're moaning. They know. They know. They know. Yeah, God don't believe in atheists. Right. They absolutely know. They do. They do. Absolutely. So, because Jesus shall be revealed, his second coming exhorts believers unto a patient expectation. It's a really helpful thing. It is truly helpful to the saints. We keep going. Romans 2. Listen to what the apostle says in his epistle to the Romans. Romans 2, verse 5. speaking to the unbelievers, but after thy hardness, an impenitent heart, meaning a heart that is not penitent, a heart that is not repentant, a heart that just seems hardened. You treasure up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath. And revelation apocalypsis of the righteous judgment Alright. So here we have an insight from Romans 2 that at the revelation, that the apocalypsis of Jesus, it is referred to as a day of Wrath. Notice it's a day of wrath. One day Tribes of the earth are mourning. I mean let's face it, how much time does Jesus need to clean up shop around here? How much time does he need to pull out heaven's broom? He needs a lot of help. There's all the holy angels. And one angel took out how many Assyrians? A lot. 185,000. Yeah the day of wrath. He says, you impenitent person, all you're doing by being stiff-necked and hardened and pretending God doesn't exist. I don't see him. Nope, I don't see him. I've got science. I believe in science I don't see them. You're an idiot. You're treasuring up wrath into the day of wrath. All you're doing is heaping up wrath. That's all you're doing. Go ahead. Throw another fiery brand into the into the pile. Toss a little bit more um brimstone into the bucket. All your lies are not neutral to God. You're treasuring up, you're you're investing. You ever think of the the wicked have an investment structure, but they're storing up wrath The saints have a different investment. It's glory. Things done for Jesus tend to your betterment. Things they do against them, treasure up wrath. We keep going, Romans 8. 19. For the earnest expectation of the creature, that can be also rendered creation, the whole creation, waiteth for the manifestation. Apocalypsis. But look who's being manifested. Of the sons of God. Verse 23, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemption of our body. So this we're saying word referred to the revealing, the apocalypsis of Jesus Christ. There's something else being revealed. You As a son of God. Well, how is that? I'm in an unsaved body. He's coming a second time without sin unto salvation. There's grace to be brought for you. The redemption of the body, as Pastor pointed out. So the revealing is, poof, oh, they are sons of God. Look at them. They are all of a sudden very different. They have a different body. And it's not like my body. They are smiling. I am not So we find from Romans tying these words apocalypsis, the revealing of Jesus, the unveiling of Jesus. That his coming is associated with something called the day of wrath and the revealing of the saint's new body. And it is imminent and it is earnestly expected. Well, I thought I'd get to the last of this, but I don't want to rush it, so we will stop right there on the last two words, and we will continue on that next week, Lord Russell. But I trust that was helpful and insightful. If you drop it in first gear and just listen to what God has to say. And just think about it. Just listen. Just listen. If I would you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, uh we thank you for this meditation, Lord, and the truth, Lord, that uh the Son of God will be returning, Lord, for the judgment of the wicked Lord and for the salvation of his elect. And Lord uh uh we just pray Lord that you would grant us uh uh the ability Lord to uh uh hope unto the end Lord of of the grace that will uh be given to to all your saints in in that day Lord. Prepare our minds and our hearts, Lord, indeed, for for that day, for indeed we shall see thee with our own two eyes, every individual one of us here, Lord. And uh yeah, just pray that you would prepare our our hearts for our for for that day, Lord, and help us to continually look out for you, Lord. That Uh it may not come upon us as a surprise, as a will for the wicked Lord, but Lord, may we ever be uh awaiting that that great day And you're the same we've write, I know. Come on, you know, you know.