I want to open actually with a passage from Isaiah. If you'd like to turn there, you can, but it's Isaiah 28, just two passages. For whom shall he teach knowledge? And whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk and drawn from the breast. For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, here a little, there a little. This is the way that God teaches his people. His precepts, concepts, doctrinal statements are like planks and they're laid down. And once that foundation is there, then you can build on top of that. And then you can build on top of that. And it's a process. And so Today in our study, we move from the teachings about the person of God, who he is, his characteristics, his attributes, which we culminated with the doctrine of the Trinity, which is impossible to comprehend, but we can start to apprehend it, kind of get your arms around the requirements, biblically speaking, to speak aright of it. So we move from his character then to God's works. And we're going to start with God's plan. I've got a handout for you which has the scripture references that we will follow along and some passages we will turn to at appropriate times. When we talk about a plan, for what purpose do people put together a plan? Any old plan? Why bother with plans? To complete something in an organized manner. To complete something in an organized manner? By a deadline. Alright, that's pretty good. Any other thoughts? Why would you have a plan? Figure out how much it's gonna cost. Yeah, what's it gonna cost? What's the impacts of it, right? Because our works have impacts When we start digging, how deep do we dig? If we dig too deep, we have too much dirt to haul away, too much cement to pour in, and the footers may be too low and the framing members don't join up at the subfloor where they should be. I just happen to be familiar with a few framing terms of late, terms I really didn't care to be too familiar with, but had to get familiar with. Yeah, so if you're trying to and intending to do something, it's always best to do a plan. Years ago Ansel and I discovered as after several hectic Thanksgiving holiday seasons and uh Christmas where we invite the whole family over. I literally had 24 people in here. The table went out into this room and spread out over there All these people lined up that if you don't have a cooking plan, it's really not a fun activity at all. So we discovered that there's some things you can do the day before. You can make the pies and you can prepare certain uh fruits and vegetables and things that are not critical, you can even start to marinate the turkey and so forth. You ladies know exactly what I'm talking about, at least the seasoned senior cooks in the room. where you put this plan together, cooking plan. And I we got it to a science. Once I figured out what she was doing, I put an Excel spreadsheet. I had start, duration, end time, dependency checking, resource loaded. Man, I was all over it. It was great. And it worked great. They really work good. God does something very similar. Because God works, God has a plan. Brother Mayhand used this illustration. He was talking with a neighbor of his over the back fence, and she was concerned about this doctrine of election. Says, Miller Brahan, I'm confused about election and predestination. I just I'm not sure I see it in scriptures. She says, well, let me ask you three questions. He says, did God are do you believe you're saved? She says, well, well yes, I believe I'm saved. He says, well, who saved you? Did you save yourself or did God save you? Oh, well, he saved me He saved me. Well, did he save you on purpose or did he save you by accident? Oh, he saved me on purpose. There you go. God purposed the salvation. It's a decree. We're going to talk about the decrees of God. This is interesting because Reform theology, conservative biblical theology. is practically standing alone in its emphasis on the doctrine of the decrees because this is a very big, unstated 600-pound gorilla in the zoo. Martin Luther was the one who first started to get into this some, and he would, however, consider man's view rather than God's. He more often than not looked at it that way. And he held to conditional predestination, God looking down and conditionally choosing. He actually had an errant view, what we would hold to be an errant view, and he indicated that God decreed good things on earth only. Arminius never really spoke about as in the background would be absent. At best, he might connect it with salvation. He also held a conditional predestination. In liberal theologies, the current evangelibelis I call them, evangelicals. practically ignore or distort any kind of biblical recognition of the doctrine of God's decrees. And if you look for certain keywords in the scripture, they are all over the place. The teaching is all over the place. There are a lot of anchor points. The key word to look for, and it's in your handout, and I have just done a sampling of it. I would say I've covered roughly 15% of the scripture references that speak to this, but the key word you're looking for is the word counsel. A council. What is a council? How do we use that term today? Maybe you've heard the term an executive council. What is that? What happens there? Exactly. Yeah, a bunch of people getting together uh at a senior level, hashing out ideas, options, how to manage the risks, how to stimulate opportunities, how to manage the costs, how to do all that sort of stuff. It's a council that gets together. The Pharisees held a council how they might take Jesus. You'll also find this concept used with the word secret Sometimes the word secret is also used. Sometimes the word pleasure or good pleasure is also used. The underlying Hebrew and Greek words all connect. They're rendered and translated slightly differently depending on the context. Let's look at one for instance Very easy one is Job 12, 13, where uh it stated, With him, speaking of God, is wisdom and strength. He hath counsel and understanding. Notice all that's connected together there. I would assert to you, it says he has counsel and understanding. Do you think for a moment that when God takes a counsel, and you might say, well, with whom is he counseling? Well we just covered last week that there's three members of the Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, got a quorum. No need for further input Got three eternal ones here, and yet one. There's the council within the Godhead. Do you think for a moment that when they enter into a council that they drop and leave behind wisdom Strength? Understanding. Do you think that's omitted from the counsel? To ask the question is to indicate the stupidity of the idea. Of course not. His counsel is with wisdom. His counsel is with understanding Next verse. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. When God executes a council, when he holds a council and comes up with a plan, this is not a short-term thing. This is something that endures forever. He doesn't have to go back and fix it. I can tell you as an engineer, when you're bidding very large Department of Defense contracts from the federal government. uh that may go on with a uh two-year base, three one year option years, and then a recompete five years later that could go ten years. Some large weapon aircraft systems, um uh category one A uh systems can last uh uh multiple decades. In fact, there are uh grandchildren who are have flown in the same B-52 aircraft that their uh father flew in. Father, grandson uh uh you know what I'm talking about. I mean multiple generations have flown in the same aircraft. And the aircraft that they're flying was not the one that was designed, I guarantee you There's been a lot of changes made, a lot of expensive changes. And you would think, why why can't you do it right up front? Well, because we're not that smart. But the counsel of the Lord standeth forever. He never needs to fix his plan You look at Proverbs 332, and there's a different word that's used. It says, For the froward is abomination to the Lord, but his secret is with the righteous. Now there that word counsel is rendered secret. His secret is with the righteous. Councils are really not held in public. The executives of the top Fortune 100 companies do not hold a private council. live streamed for all the public to sit in and listen to. They hold those in tight secret. The Walton family in charge of Walmart, I guarantee you, they sit around their dinner table and no one else is permitted to listen Even the mafia does this, right? This is not anything that's done in exposure. So it is with God His counsel is in secret. There's a lot about it we simply do not know. And the scripture says the secret things belong to the Lord, but the things that are revealed belonging to us and to our children, that we may know and obey them forever. His secret is with the righteous. Aren't you glad God lets you in on a measure of his counsel? He gives you a measure of insight into that Proverbs 1921 repeats the statement we made earlier. There are many devices in a man's heart, nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand. That's a good one to memorize. I've got all kinds of plans. I had all kinds of plans for building my edition over here, and I came right up to the point where my architect said, we're looking good. I called the county. They said a few more trivial reviews to go through. Should have permits on Monday. That was at week six. And I signed a contract with him for follow-on architecture support, and I went to bed, rested. I was like, oh, this is great. I have a financial plan. I got a good set of drawings. I got I got my long lead items, all my material purchases underway. I've got uh uh uh I've got it all lined up. This is great And two, and by Wednesday I found out my architect died, and I had, my plan was in complete chaos. Complete chaos. I've never had that happen. I mean we always joked as engineers when there was a certain critical engineer we would tell the program manager, hey, you need to take out a life insurance policy for this guy because then he gets hit by a bus. This program is tanked Well, that happened to me. But God has a different plan. And knowing that I have to submit to it. Okay, Lord, I simply guess you did not want me to use that man. You did not want me to use his resources. Your purposes for which I had employed him from your judgment point had terminated. Don't try to resuscitate it. And there certainly were things that he took with him to the grave that I could never retrieve. We have in Proverbs 20, 18, every purpose is established by counsel. So this is one of those doctrinal connectors. It's a connector because it connects the counsel of God to the purposes of God. When the Bible then speaks about God's purposes, that he purposed to do something. You need to understand that this purpose is not like we might make a purpose. We might get upset about something and be emotionally driven. I'm just tired of looking this, whatever. And you go out and you make a snap decision and you replace whatever it is in your kitchen or your garage that really needs to be replaced and you just had an emotional meaning and rational rationale behind your purpose. But when you see in the scriptures God talking about his purpose, know that it is backed by a counsel. that it was done with a counsel behind it. It's anchored. It's not trivial. For instance, you read in Isaiah 14, 26, this is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth. This is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. And here the Isaiah the prophet is speaking about what doom that the nation of Israel would receive at the hand of the Lord for her sins. He says, this is his purpose. It is fitting into his divine plan. It is the next step in what he intends to accomplish. But notice the scope of that purpose. It says upon what? The whole earth. This is pretty comprehensive stuff. Jeremiah, uh a uh living in the same time era as Isaiah says this, for who hath stood in the council of the Lord? And who hath perceived and heard his word, who hath marked his word and heard it? I think that word marked, I get the sense of red lines. Who saw God's plans? Oh, well, let me change a few things over here. Let's fix this. He's rhetorically asking, okay, so who did this? Who among us has has actually stood in his council? Were you there in the meeting? That's a good way that senior executives can shy away their underlings. Well, you weren't in the meeting, but and then they can give them their version of the meeting, right, wrong, or indifferent, right? to kind of keep them at bay and keep them in the dark or whatever they care to do. I'm not saying that's an honest way of doing business. I'm just saying this is how corporate America works, all right? So there's the question, who has stood in the council of the Lord? Jeremiah 51, the Lord hath both devised and done that which he spake against the inhabitants of Babylon. Now what's interesting here is that he devised it. Well if he devised it, that means he purposed it. If he purposed it, there's a counsel behind it. Then it goes the next step, purpose, uh counsel, purpose, devise, and has done it He's actually seeing through to the carrying out and the execution of this. He doesn't purpose it, toss it out there, well let's kind of see how it goes. Oh, I didn't think about that. Boy, that plan fell apart. No, it doesn't. That's not how God works. In fact, we read in Hebrews 6 in the New Testament, this was given as evidence of a hope for you and I. It uses a powerful phrase, wherein God willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel Confirmed it with an oath. The immutability of this council, we don't use the word mutability a lot, but we do know about the word mutation. We talk about that a lot with this latest pandemic coming around, if it truly is a pandemic. I'm beginning to question a lot of things people say. The immutabil it is a pandemic. The immutability of his counsel. It cannot mutate, it cannot change. There's no need for it to change. It's perfect. To change it would be to mess it up. It's immutable. His counsel cannot change. I want you to turn now in your Bible to Ephesians chapter 1. I do have Two of the three verses I want you to see there in your handout. I left one verse out from the handout, which is why I'm having you turn to Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 5. And I want you to see in particular. How the counsel of God plays into your very own personal salvation. A God Almighty had you in mind when he hung on the cross. A God Almighty had you in mind when God the Holy Spirit was sent forth to teach, to draw, to instruct. But the Father knew of you. Ephesians 1:5, having predestinated us according to us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself. According to the good pleasure of his will. Now that phrase good pleasure matched to our construct, our idea of a counsel, his good pleasure. Again, God's not doing things willy-nilly If it's good advice, if it's a good plan, like I told you, I was all excited before my architect died, that I had a good plan. And I was pleased at it. I could sleep at night with great ease. I was confident we got this in the bag. There was no distress. And so when it speaks about the good pleasure of his will, he's pleased with it because it's an excellent plant. He looks at it and goes, man, that is a no-fail plan if ever there was one. That is an extraordinarily excellent plan. Every detail has been accounted for. Nothing is left to random chance. This will fly. Only our God can say that. Look at verse 9. It says, having made known unto us the mystery of his will. You remember that idea of secret, that the council's in secret? Well he has made known to us, his children, the mystery of his will. In a certain area, the context will declare that. But look at this next phrase, according to the good pleasure which he has purposed in himself. There's our counsel phrase. Good pleasure. He purposed it where? In his counsel. Where's that? In himself. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. You see this? It's a beautiful teaching that runs throughout Scripture And then verse 11, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel. Of his own will. Do you know offhand if when Paul says who hath been his counselor, if it's the same route as counselor That's interesting. Off the top of my head, I don't know, but boy, that's a good cross-reference that I think is very relevant to what we're talking about. There's multiple words that are used to convey this idea But it's the same route as one of those wow things, you know. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I'll look that up. So what thoughts do you have, having reviewed all of these doctrinal points What thoughts do you have about God's decrees? What comforts do you gain from knowing this? It totally eliminates predestines or foreknowledge because it's immutable. Determine ahead of time. And if someone is not saved, they obviously were not in the plan of salvation from the time. At the end of the day. comforts or hopes you receive from this this idea. What about what about when bad things happen to you? How does this comfort you? I know that God will take care of it. You'll know we'll take care of it. That's right. Yeah, absolutely. It will come up out good in the end. Absolutely. It takes a lot of worry away. It does. Yep. I you know the classic person that comes to mind of course is Joseph. And it's hard for me to imagine a man rotting away in prison in Egypt, and Egypt didn't have air conditioners, um, and they um I can only imagine what's going through that poor soul's mind and heart. Lord, what can po what good can possibly come out of this? And yet you and I know the rest of the story. There's a lot of good that can come out of it. Joseph, you're in God's training program for how to be second-in-command Pharaoh. This is God's path to the top. Not the world's path, not Egypt's path, because Egypt's path to the top is broke, bankrupt. It won't work. It's faulty. It's stupid. It's not gonna last If we've learned anything from the Egyptians, it's that when you die, you can't take it with you. Because we found all their treasures. They didn't take it with them. They're all buried behind in a pyramid somewhere. So you can't take it with you. So he just plan was dumbered and dirt. But God found a better plan. And so it gives us a lot of comfort and hope when things seem impossible. That's when God shows up. Yeah. God's councils are not Chinese instructions that didn't quite make a good translation. We've all read some instructions that make no sense. I'll give a statement of this uh doctrine. There's a couple of handouts there, Gloria. You can pass them back here if uh Not everybody has one, I think. Yvonne's looking longingly towards the front that he might oh be in possession of one of the treasured writings. Um The Westminster Shorter Catechism speaks about the doctrine of the decrees this way. It says the decree of God is his eternal purpose. according to the counsel of his will, whereby for his own glory he hath foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. Having reviewed the scripture language, you can see that they were well informed from the Bible to put this statement together, and it's fairly succinct and accurate I have a cluthism. You'll see these throughout my teachings where I try to. I was teaching this at a time when my children were much younger. And so This high 12 cylinder high power theology just wasn't cutting it with them. I tried to, you know, really k kiss it, keep it simple, stupid. Uh God's decree is like an opera program guide. The decree is not the act The decree is not the act. And I hedge it. I'm hedging this. And the doctrine itself will be hedged, as we shall see, going forward. But it's a mighty thin line, it's a razor-thin line, because you start to creep into the idea of evil when you say, forordain all things that come to pass, will How does God fit into that? We'll start to touch on this. But let's look at some of these characteristics of the decree and stick with the biblical language, all right, to help form our thinking on this. The first in your handout there is Ephesians 3. 10. God's decrees are founded in wisdom. That's an obvious one. We covered that earlier in another passage to support it. is in Ephesians 3, known by the church, the manifold wisdom of God, the manifold. It's been exposed. I remember shortly after God saved me and I began to explore the Bible and I came into a booklet entitled God's Magnificent Plan of Salvation, and it's an excellent, excellent booklet. Unfortunately written by a fellow whose radio ministry has since been disgraced with his prophetic uh end time teachings. But it was an extraordinarily well-written booklet describing the doctrines of grace, the five pillars of the doctrines of grace. And it was excellent. And I remember reading through it, my conclusion was, that's a plan that can't fail. That's a plan that cannot fail. A man cannot screw that plan up. And it's it's absolutely beautiful God's decrees are eternal. That's our next reference in the very next verse of Ephesians 3. 11, according to the eternal purpose. Did you catch that? According to the eternal purpose, which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is a purpose that God had for Jesus to go to the cross. Do you see now why? Jesus turned to Peter and said, who had said to him, Far be it from thee to go to the cross. Then Jesus said to him, Get thee behind me, Satan, you savor not the things that be of God, but of the devil, but of men. But of the world, but of the flesh, but of comfort, but of convenience. But your plan is is bad. It's real bad, Peter. It is totally antithetical. Because he has an eternal purpose that has been well reasoned, well thought out, well calculated, founded with wisdom and understanding. God's decrees are effectual, effectual, meaning they actually have an effect. I can tell you as an engineer, we've made all kinds of plans for the government. I spent probably the last six years of my career making plans for the government, working supporting CIO offices, chief information officers. where they're trying to come up with big ideas to how to transform the whether transform a puke when I hear the word transform transformation. Nothing's transformed. You don't even know it. Government can't transform They're so wrapped up in red tape. The only transformation they could find is that I found a scissor to start cutting out the code. But I digress. So I spent the past five or six years developing plans, 95% of which simply went on the shelf and never went anywhere. That's an ineffectual plan. Interesting plan. Pretty PowerPoint charts. They paid me for it. I built a house with it, paid it off. But God's plans are not that way. He doesn't waste his time. He makes a plan that's actually going to get executed and it's actually going to work and it's going to work very well. His plans are effectual. Isaiah 46, 10. God says he declares the end from the beginning The beginning? Yes, time had a beginning. He declares that. All the way to the end, all the way from the beginning. And from ancient times, the things that are not yet done. I like that phrase, ancient times. America doesn't have much depth of history to it. I mean if you find, well I discovered that, do you know there's three Washington monuments in the area? The first Washington monument was built by all volunteers and it's up in Frederick County. You have to climb a mountain a little bit, but there is an actual, no-kidding, Washington Monument. Rough stone. Stacked up. It's quite impressive to see. A nice little 900-foot elevation hike to a beautiful overview. But it's uh it's a nice monument up there. We would call that ancient. You go to Europe, that's yesterday, according to them. They're looking at, yeah, over here this is stone dating back to the Roman era, and then below that you might find some Assyrian remnants. You know, some get into the uh pre-Babylonian era where they're back thousands of years and you go down to Egypt and you've got, you know, you're looking at six thousand BC, things of that nature. We're going pretty far back, maybe not six thousand, but You know what I'm saying? God says, from ancient times he declares what will be over here. That's a mighty long time away. That's a mighty long time. Saying, my counsel shall stand, I will do all my pleasure. Fourth point. God's plan is unchangeable. unchangeable because he's faithful and true. So in order for all of God's characteristics and attributes, and we studied those one by one, wisdom, knowledge, understanding, his verity, faithfulness His truth, he's truth, he's the living definition of truth. Because of all those things, if he makes a plan that fails, then that impugns upon his truth. He's not very truthful, nor is he very faithful. You see how that ties together? See these things bolt. Alright. Look at Job 23. I like the way Job puts it. But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? And what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me. And many such things, many such things are with him. He performeth a thing appointed for me. There's an appointment. God has an appointment for your life. He has appointed and ordained many things in your life. And it shall come to pass. It's a journey. Your own ride. We'll keep going. His purposes are unconditional. They're unconditional. They don't depend on man, and it makes actions certain. We'll get to man's role here in a minute because this is what really blows my stack when you see how do you throw men into this mix with our composition and our God-like image-bearing nature with some attributes of God that we inherit and receive His purposes are unconditional. Ephesians 2. 8, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that, meaning the faith, that not of yourselves, is the gift of God. You believe because God gave that to you You don't realize that at first. It's like, wow, look what I found. Look what I've discovered. Praise God. This is wonderful. And as you walk through that door that says Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. You say, Yes, I'll come, and you enter into this wonderful city of Zion, and you love it so much, and you turn, you look behind And on the lintel of the inside of the doorpost says, chosen from before the foundation of the world. You learn about it later. The call of the gospel is not respond to me only if you're elect. That's not the call of the gospel. Many are called, few are chosen. It's a general call. They're called. And God has ordained that that call go forth with stammering lifts, tongues of other people. Acts 2. 23. And now we're going to step a little deeper into the pool here. Peter says, him speaking of Christ, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God. Ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. So any objection Against the determinate counsel of God. Any problems you and I want to squirm about Should stop at the feet of Jesus Christ. I will tell you right now that the only person it can be said who was truly ordained To go to hell, to endure the eternal long-suffering and wrath of God, the only person, I believe, of whom that can be said would be Jesus Christ. It was the pleasure of the Father to have the Son be the sin sacrifice for his people, to take on all that the penalty of sin required for all sins they've committed. for their entire life, for the entire pool of his elect. And we'll s look at this a little more Well, let's keep going. God's plan is all inclusive. It embraces both good and wicked deeds. We just saw Acts two twenty three that the most wicked deed, the most righteous man who's ever walked the face of this earth was condemned by the one of the most upright government forms, structures, not rulers. Much of American government system is informed by the Roman government system And the best religious system that was there at the time, it was no less than the Jews and Judaism. Both of them were thumbs down on Christ. And that was part of God's plan. Ephesians 2. 10 says, For we, speaking of believers, are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. That too is an ordination of God. See, your sanctification is a sure thing. It's not left to random chance. He's ordained that you walk and produce good fruit. A good tree brings forth good fruit. Now, at this point, maybe you're getting into the common objection of God's decrees, and maybe you're squirming a little bit. Because one point we know about God is that his eyes are purer than to behold sin and evil. And God does not uh tempt any man, the scripture says. And God does not, far be it from the judge of all the earth, to do wickedly. We we we don't hold that. So how do we how do we start to reconcile these evil actions and deeds that we see in the world, uh the the travesty of Hitler and uh many of the socialist and communist nations and what wreckage they've left behind. Venezuela's a recent example historically. Look at them from the nineteen hundreds to uh to to the year 2000. The travesties the travesties that happen in Lebanon and and other places with the civil wars and all these how do we account for evil in the world Well God's plan accounts for conditional events. This is the part that blows my mind So software developers do know that there are some things they can account for in their code. Those are fixed. There's other things they cannot account for, and they do range checking. Well the value may come in here, it may come in over there, but it'll be in this range And within this range of options we can handle it. And it handles it appropriately. And the program functions and it works well And there's not a problem. That's about as close as I can get to giving you a simple illustration. But God's plan, if that was a two-dimensional problem, God's plan is fifteen dimensions, and I don't even know how to explain fifteen dimensions I'm making that up for emphasis. Genesis 45. 8, Joseph declares to his brethren, so it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Joseph, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, being a prophet being beloved of the Lord, having endured horrible treatment, somehow comes to the conclusion Fellas, I know what you did was wrong, but it really wasn't you. He saw the hand of God in it. That doesn't mean as he was being cast into this pit without water, that he's saying, Oh God, why are you doing this to me? No, it's like, no, brethren, what are you doing to me? They had a hand in it. You better believe it. But God's plan accounts for conditional events. God actually gives men choices in life. And they can, with their um, I won't say free will, I'll say free agency, they will act according to their nature. Their will is not devoid or attached, detached from their nature. You can pick the brown shirt and the blue shirt in the morning and all that. And yet, even within the range of choices you and I can make in life, choice of spouse, It does not negate, undermine, cause to fail God's eternal decree, purpose, and counsel. And how he does that I have no idea. But he allows it. There's all kinds of rain. It may wind up a hard path for me in the long run, but it doesn't fail his path. He accomplishes all of his purposes. We're just too dumb to articulate how this actually works. Genesis 50-20, as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. So you think about and just meditate on this. Put yourself in the position of a 17-year-old boy who's being sold into slavery by his brothers for envy. He's the youngest brother, the one that should be treated somewhat tenderly. But you know younger brothers don't always get treated very tenderly. They're they're the convenient whipping stock of the family. And yet his conclusion was God meant it unto good. You know, God even ordains the duration of a man's life The length of your days, do you believe that? Job 14, 5, speaking of man seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass You can't add a day to your life. Well, Vince, are you saying I shouldn't go to a doctor? Oh, you'll die at the appointed time. You just may have a miserable time getting there. I'd rather die in my sleep, frankly, than have this long glide path into the grave. Um Psalm thirty-nine four, O Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days what it is that I may know how frail I am. The end of my days. So God has ordained the duration of a man's life. By the way, that is one of the most powerful ways God, one of the most powerful tools God has in his bag of Ruling the universe, shall I say, is when somebody is born and when somebody dies. Recent case in point. Former President Donald Trump has a handful of months left in office, and one of the more liberal Supreme Court justices, Ruth Bader-Ginsburg Who just refused. She says, I'm going to hold out until the next president because the next president's going to be Democrat. We're going to secure this seat. And God said, Really? Oh really? The counsels of a man's heart. Man proposes, but the Lord disposes. And he took her away. With just enough time for the Quadmire machine in Washington to actually put a reasonably conservative justice in place. That's the hand of God. When people die and when they're born. Would Hitler have been as powerful as he was if he had been born ten years later? Doubt it. Doubt it. God's decree also determines the place of man's habitation, where you live. You think you can live wherever you want to, and in a way you possibly could. However, in Acts 17. 26 it says God has made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation. He's determined the bounds of your habitation. We used to keep pets, keep them in cages. Sometimes you'd let them out of the cage. They could run around the yard. They thought they had all kinds of free room in these little rabbits. And we had one little cute rabbit, Otto. Well, Otto was like your little dog, Otto Mat. I liked Otto. He was small. He was eighth place rabbit at a fair, a little two-dollar rabbit. You know, I don't know, we pay for we overpaid Forty you pay forty? That was a two dollar rabbit, I'm telling you was eight eighth place rabbit, little what was his breeze? He was a cute little thing. A Netherland dwarf, very beautiful little rabbit, short little ears, and and we kept him in his cage and we'd let him out and we'd set his uh uh little cage at the bottom so he'd run around outside the lifted up cage that was off the ground so his mess would fall down and he'd run around and he'd scamper and he'd throw leaves about in the lawn with authority And then he'd get tired and he'd go out back in his little cage. He says, Okay, enough, take me back up, I'm done. We let him run around. But there was a fence. There was a watch person. He was bounded. He could go where he wanted to, but he was bounded. And I knew the bounds of his habitation. That rabbits not going in the backfield. Can't happen. He's not going to go out here on the street. Not going to happen. It's dangerous for him. Okay, if I can do that with a rabbit, compared to God, I'm dumber than Otto, the rabbit. I'm telling you what, I don't have half the brain cells. Comparatively speaking. Alright, there's three common objections to God's decrees. The first is that it's inconsistent with man's moral freedom, and maybe you were sensing that before. Inconsistent. The concept of free will is fiction. Man's will is not free. I'll illustrate it to you. What's your least favorite food? Give me your least the food that you really hate. It just doesn't sound well. You don't like the way it tastes. It's like, uh, keep it away from me. What's your least favorite food? Give it to me. Onions, okay? Least favorite food. Least favorite food. That's my favorite. That's your favorite. What's your least favorite food? Your least favorite. The last thing you put on your plate. If you if you're forced to eat it, you will Kishuk. Kishik, alright. Liver. Liver, alright. Okay. So I'm gonna go with the people over here. Can you imagine Joe and Pitty sitting down, the thirty fifth wedding, thirty-fifth wedding anniversary, nice restaurant. And they're sitting there looking forward to a nice evening together. And they blurt out, we'll have liver and onions for dinner. That would be free will. Their will would be going totally against their nature. Not gonna happen. If you put a carcass of meat in front of a lion and a salad, one of Angela's salad and Miss Livy's salad, what's the lion gonna go for? Every time I'm that salad's safe, he ain't touching it He's not going to touch it. He may paw at it just to figure out what it is. Man has free agency. He's free to act as an agent according to his own nature. He's an agent. He's a my dad said we're creatures of habit. You know, it's our nature. We're going to act that way. God's decrees do not remove man's accountability or his responsibility. That's part of the brilliance of God's plan You're held responsible. You're held accountable. What Pharaoh did will be held against him. What Pontius Pilate did will be held against him. He even told him, you know, he that has delivered thee to me hath a greater sin. In other words, I'm going to be your judge, but there's others who are more liable. God has not decreed to carry out all of his purposes by direct action. In fact, this idea of alleged tension, the Bible's inspired writers see no tension with this, and they don't even attempt to reconcile it. And there in the mind of the the authors of scripture there's no need to de deconflict this. It's not a confliction This idea of conditional ordination is false because nowhere in the Bible does it say or teach that God makes a plan based on man's actions. That would be bankrupt from the get-go. I'm out of time. I'll give you one last verse. It's Psalm 14, 2 and 3. What do we mean by conditional ordination? When confronted with the doctrine of election, many Baptists, free will Baptists, They'll even put that on their churches, Free Will Baptist Church, will say, well, God elects people because he looked down the corridor of time and saw who would raise their hand for Jesus. Ah, I'll elect that one. I'm going to elect that one I'm going to like that. That sounds nice. It really sounds nice. And it's simple. And it it accounts for the eternal view of God. I like that. It accounts for the fact that God knows who his people are and he does see that. I like that. But the problem I have is that we actually have a passage of Scripture that describes that very example It gives that very example with God looking down from heaven through the corridors of time. We actually have two passages that directly give that example, and it actually gives the total opposite view. Here's what it says in Psalm 14, 2. The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any that did understand and seek God. Okay, this is God looking down the corridors of heaven. Anybody out there that sees God and are seeking him or seeking God? Because when you're raising your hand, yes, I want to follow Jesus. I want to learn more about him. What did he find? Did he find somebody? Oh, there's a Bond. There's a Victoria. There's a Gable. There's a Joe. There's a Badal. There they are. It says They're all gone aside. They're all together become filthy. There's none that doeth good, no, not one. So from God's perspective, saying, if I don't act and operate, this is my vantage point. I'm looking at over a graveyard Complete death and destruction. It would be unfair of God to leave it to the will of a dead man to come to Christ. That's not very fair. So I leave you with that. There's uh two other points which you can pull up online about this business, the notes for this uh this business of the objections to the decrees of God. It makes people slothful in taking in seeking salvation. That's one objection to it. That's false. And then we also have the other objection, which is it makes God the author of sin. And I've got some scripture references for that. Truly the Son of Man goeth as it was determined, but woe unto that man woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed. It was ordained that Christ should be betrayed. He says, Woe unto that man by whom he should be betrayed. I'm out of time. We'll close it up there. Antona, could you close us in prayer, please? Yeah, sure. Father in heaven, thank you for granting us the time to consider your word. Lord, what you revealed about yourself. Lord, that you are eternal, that you do uh you are the one who declares the beginning from the end. And Lord, so we help we ask that you would help us to trust in you, Lord, and to seek you diligently and to be able to understand and rightly divide your word of truth that you've given to us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen.