Actually a little bit of a deviation, but I don't think it's that unwarranted. From Burkhoff's book about summary of Christian doctrine, this section has to do with government, and today we're going to go down into, I think, one of the most fundamental forms of government, house government. How does one govern a house? And we're going to look at the role of husbands. Next week it's wives, but today it's husbands. So men. Brace yourself for a beating. Um now um the reason I think this is warranted to address is there is such a tremendous breakdown in the family and society. And of course there's nothing new under the sun ultimately. But uh I think there is a a good reason to address it because the scripture seems to connect them hand in hand, just as there was a passage that talked about apostles and prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, kind of stringing those together in the same passage. You also have, for instance, in your handout, these kinds of passages like 1 Corinthians 11, 3. Or he says, I would have you know, the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. So there is kind of a lineage of headship. Christ's being the head over all, and then there's the husband, and then there's the wife. There's a lot of things to point out from that, but this is all in uh uh uh in association with our concept of government, household government. That by the way is your first fill in the blank, turning from church corporate governance to household government Notice in that 1 Corinthians 11 passage, you don't find a Pope or a Bishop in the intermediary place in there somewhere. There is this direct connection. uh from the husband to uh Christ as his head. He has to do according to the dictates of the conscience of scriptures as he directs his household. The church of course is an enabler in that. They they don't have part of that immediate rule. Ephesians 5. 23, the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. He's the Savior of Again, this connection between Christ as the head of the church and the husband being the head of the wife. That was Ephesians 5. 23. And then there is exhortation given to children that they are to obey their parents. Ephesians 6. 1 And Proverbs 1-8 both talk about obeying your parents, uh hearing the instruction of the Father, the law of my mother. That implies that you're the you're the tutor, you're the one being instructed, and the instructor is also referred to as the the master. So I think there's warrant to pay attention to this business of husbands what they're to do. So why would we study this? Any good ideas as to why we might think about this? I've given you a couple of ideas, but can you think of some others? That's true. There was a family before the church. Yep, in the Garden of Eden. You had a family. So there's all the way at the beginning. There's a couple of other ideas in your handout. A well-run home is one of the main entrance criteria for the office of elder and deacon. If you recall that statement of criteria in 1 Timothy 3, the elder is one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection With all gravity, for for man know not how to rule his own house, how should we take care of the church of God? Excellent reason, very simplistic reasoning, it's great I can train somebody to speak well. They can be taught to speak well. They can practice a lot and you get good at it the more you do it, but that doesn't mean you rule your house well. I seriously doubt, Miss Penny, that Joe has stood up and given and eloquent sermons to guide and direct the house aimed at you and the children, right? That's just kind of not how it operates at home. And I certainly haven't done that. That's just not how it operates. 1 Timothy 3. 12, a few verses later, let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses. So it's one of the main entrance criteria. Well, if we've studied elders, if we've studied pastors, pastor and elder are somewhat synonymous. Actually, Ms. Penny asked a good question last week about uh in private you'd ask me uh So what what then is a pastor? We looked at elders, bishops, and we looked at deacons, what is pastor fit? And it turns out that pastor teachers is more of a description of the general purpose and role and function, pastor being to shepherd, but it does have a ruling and overseeing function to it. And who are those people? Well that would be the elder And the deacons could also be called somewhat of a pastor, somewhat of a teacher, but primarily it's going to be somebody in a ruling capacity. I'll give you an excerpt and provide it to others who are interested Jamison Fawcett Brown had an excellent commentary on Ephesians 4 12, that passage that describes the pastors in the deacons. but it uh it does give a very good overview of those offices. So one of the main entrance criteria is a husband who cares for his house. And that's something every church member can look at. You can go visit the man's house. You can talk ladies to his wife. You can look at the children. Are they well run? Are they well behaved? Are they uh Uh the the main criteria is that they're subject to their parents. In other words, they have respect to authority. That's kind of a bare minimum. They've got to have respect to authority. And if that's absent, then that ought to be a bare minimum significant sign. That means there that minister is unable to bring the law of God to his own house. He's unable to bring the rule of God to his home. He's unable to enforce that and to illustrate it. Second point is, and this is back to your study about why would we study this, is that there is the expectation that all believers will mature into some kind of teaching or leading capacity. And you say, wait a minute, I I I thought there were some restrictions last week on that. No, there is some expectation that there will be a maturing, a growing up men into the office uh elders, deacons, women, there's teaching roles. And last week I mentioned uh the uh uh scriptural admonitions about women keeping silent and I I I didn't want to over freeze your tongues. That doesn't mean you can't even ask a question in Sunday school. There's certainly many ways women can speak, and there's many uh uh uh opportunities they have to teach, to witness and so forth. So I didn't want to make it sound like an absolute prohibition. As soon as you walk through these doors, zip it shut, you know The tape is by the door for your convenience. I'm not trying to take it to that extent. We need to uh Just there's a whole different study on that, so I wanted to maybe put a lid on that can of worms that I opened last week. So uh what I would point out is these three passages in your handout, Deuteronomy 6, 6 to 7 Again, this expectation that they're all going to grow up into some kind of teaching capacity. This is an excellent passage from the Old Testament for new Christian families These words, God said through Moses, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently, not casually, not flippantly, not outsource the job, not occasionally, not when there's a break in the NFL football schedule. Thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. I think some of the most endearing times our children had and I had with our kids was when they were little and we had the uh Karen uh Corin Corinne or Karen C-A-R-I-N-E, I don't know how you pronounce that, Corinne McKenzie, Bible Time series books. They were about 30 pages long, very sturdy material. Biblically sound, with pictures, no pictures of Jesus or God in it, which was nice. Biblically sound, uh gentle, age-appropriate kind of questions to put in there, but just wonderful stories to read at bedtime. just the right length so that the exhausted parent could get through it and not be drug on forever and you could cut in the middle of the book and just, you know, stop at fifteen pages. And just at bedtime we would just go through these stories. And they just absolutely some very uh deep impressions were left on certain animated portions like when fire came down from Elijah's Uh call and devoured the altar and the stones and everything, I'd make the whole bed shake. The kids nearly fell out of the bed when I illustrated that. But that was great when you rise up, when you lie down to have that conversation, it was to be a God-central home. It was to be a home where there was a lot of God talk It was to be the expectation. And by doing that, guess what? The kids grow up with the expectation that it's okay and normal to talk about the things of the Lord. They feel very comfortable in that arena. Not just, oh, what are we supposed to do during church? Oh, is there kids church and they go flee off to some corner? No, they're quite content to sit during the congregational services of worship, and they're part of that. And that's I believe in a family-centric worship. We don't need to ship them off to a different room like churches for big people and you little people go get donuts and crayons. I mean that's that's not uh You know, if you keep advertising that, you know, the pastor might want to come off of that. Donuts, crayons, I'm all around. Especially the crayons Uh teasing aside. Look at Hebrews 5, 12 to 13 says this, for when for the time ye ought to be teachers. Wow, what what a rebuke that is. You have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. You become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. Everyone that uses milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness. He is obvious. There ought to be over time, and the passing of time doesn't automatically generate a mature Christian, there has to be some exercise of the uses of grace. You ought to be familiar with the book You ought to know generally what the book teaches. You ought to understand where certain things are found. You ought to be able to know how to go and find them. These are expectations that the mature Christian slowly but surely over time is going to get these 800,000 words. packed up in between their brain. General lay of the land, an understanding of the fundamentals of the Bible. Notice in Titus 2, 3 through 5, it says this, that the aged women, we have a few of those here Likewise, that they may teach the young women. So there is a teaching role. Are you ladies teaching the young women? Here's part of your duties. Teach the young women to be sober. Now that doesn't mean stay away from the bottle, but it's primarily talking about a sober-mindedness, not to be drifted away into foolishness, sober, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. And there's a whole series of teachings that could be be deduced from that, which Lord willing will touch upon next week, but just understand that there is a teaching rule, there's an expectation that when women get older, They're to talk about things. It's not the review of systems, you know, oh this is broke today. Oh, this you know, it's not the review of systems. This isn't a medical intervention. It's to be a uh a discussion about let's get let's pull alongside these young young ladies. And let's talk to them about in this sojourn of life. There's certain things you need to be aware of. And as my mentor, Brother Bernie used to say, why does God tell us these things? Love their husbands, love their children, obedient. Because they need to hear it. Because I need to hear it. Whatever God commands in there is there because me to hear you say, really they they need to be taught to love their children? You know how many most horrible place for a baby to be found today is in the womb of a mother in America. She's likely to kill it. So from the get-go, there's hatred From the get-go, there's hatred. Children are inconvenient. Are children inconvenient, Anton? Have you discovered perhaps some measure of inconvenience in the household because of a new baby? Uh could you think of maybe one or two things where the child inconveniences you? Yeah. One comedian called the kids uh uh uh anchors and diapers. You kind of present a drag in life. You know, you really things just tremendously slow down. So they're taught to they need to be reminded to love their children and so forth. Again, I could go off on all these things But there is an expectation that you're going to mature through the exercises and your understanding and your use of the scriptures into a role such that you could share with others, here's how you're going to get through this journey. Here's how I got through this journey. And failed or succeeded, but here's what the scripture says. So there is the expectation of that. Alright, question time. I actually have questions this week. I apologize. One of the most difficult things for me to do is shut up and ask questions It's very hard to do. Yeah, Penny's rolling her eyes. Boy, does she ever know that She knows it of me, I'm not talking about you. So, um, men, women, young people or older, how would this affect one's choice of a spouse? Everything I just said, how would this affect a person's choice of spouse? Yes. First of all, look at the home they're coming from. Uh-huh. Were they taught where the where they uh is a young woman you want to marry, has she been taught by the older women to love her up? husband to love her children to be keep her at home chase. Yeah, that's an interesting perspective to want to look at. You might want to explore uh the household from whence they come. Yeah. Is it one of a lot of violence Uh is it one with a lot of drunkenness? Uh that there's the wrong kind of nurturing environment there. Yeah, how else would that affect your choice of a spouse? I disagree. I think you Just look to the person. Find out what the person thinks. Because taking the background into account is not often a very good thing to do. Did did you ever hire an employee? Oh sure, yeah. Did you do a background check? No. I do a check as a Homes like you know, not godly homes. Yeah. Bring a lot of baggage to a marriage and that can ruin a lot of things. They have like these Well this is how it was done in their house, so they think they can bring that over and that doesn't mean it's it's a good thing for the current marriage. So it comes with a lot of badge. So family background makes a huge difference Yeah. Now to uh uh uh to to uh you know I want to get off the family background for a moment because there's other things to uh investigate concerning the individual themselves. But the um so first generation Christians, right, where they've come from a long line of pagan worshiping people, right, like a Ruth the Moabites. If you went into Ruth the Moabites' home Ah, what a disaster. There'd be idols of Kimosh and Molech everywhere and and and that would be the culture. But now this individual has changed. Obviously it would take some time to There's an awful lot of grave clothes that got to come off, some some um unabnormal expectations for what constitutes a good Christian home. For instance, uh my mother is recounting to me she was ever grateful to uh Pastor Tussaint at Irving Bible Church because when she began to attend, uh coming from a mostly Catholic background family, but never really buying into it. And my dad from the Missouri Lutheran Synod went to this Bible church And the pastor was talking a lot about the difference between Protestantism and true biblical Christianity versus Catholicism. And it was very helpful to see, oh, wow, yeah, that really is a problem, and to help put that baggage in framework. What about the individual themselves? What about the 'cause that's the one you're marrying. I mean yeah you do connect with the family unfortunately in a marriage. But what about Yeah. Yeah. And it's a constant learning thing. Yep. What about the individual? What are you looking for in this individual? Uh Anton and Victoria. If they're uh willing to do these things as well as their own track record of, you know, do they bear some of the characteristics that they have a desire to Be faithful to God's word, to walk in his ways, and so you know, in the things that they're called in now, whether it's working or even honoring their parents parents uh do they care for that? Absolutely. And then you'll see, okay, well if they're doing this now then perhaps in marriage the the hope is they'll continue in that way. When I was interviewing people uh uh one of the best forms of interviewing is called behavioral interviewing where uh past behavior is the best indicator of future performance. So you can begin to inquire of the person, how describe a situation where this occurred. How did you handle it? Or walk me through that scenario. Because people tend to resist change and they change very slowly. So yes, if your potential spouse does in fact have somewhat of a observable, demonstrable track record of yes, being diligent about the things of the Lord, you have reasonably good expectation that that's going to continue going forward. And that's a good thing to look for. At least they advertise up front. Hey hun, hey sir, this is what I intend to do. As for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord like this. Victoria? Um are they at least when looking for a godly husband, you would want to make sure that they hold fast the word of God and that they would be a defender of the faith that they not just gonna be, you know, quiet and like not not engaged in the battle that we're in today, but that they would actually be seeking to be a little bit of a mind stirred up and thinking along these tracks. Yes, Carol? Well so you you'd want the husband to love or the spouse to love God more than he loves anything else in the world. Right. So I think and more than he loves me. So if I know that he loves God more than he loves me, I know he's It's gonna go in the right direction. Right. I don't want him to love God more than he loves me. Yes, yes. All right. So obviously this is therefore a relevant topic because it's getting closer and closer to home, right? This is uh in in a church setting you have leadership and you know you touch upon that leadership once a week, maybe twice, but in the house, boy, it's 24-7. You know, they're always there. So that's a very important thing to consider. So let's now look at the responsibilities of the husband. What gets laid upon this old boy's shoulders? Before looking at this, what would you say are the main responsibilities of a husband? That way, if I have to skip over some parts, because you already know it, we'll do that. Lead the family. Okay. All right. Okay, head of the household, leading the family. All right. Yeah. Other thoughts? Any protect his family and provide for them. Protect and provide? Right. Absolutely. Yes. Yeah. All you have to do is just tell them what you expect. Okay. Well I did. Tell them what you expect. Great. Here's the expectations. Come right out. Right. I married you because you have a six hundred pound pair of brains inside. Right brain, left brain. Both of them working in unison, you you'll be able to get this. I just tell both through something. Both parts, right, right. And hope the left brain doesn't go grocery shopping. I was gonna say uh love your wife and then also protect your home from both physical harm and spiritual Yeah, and the protection from the spiritual, right? There's all kinds of channels out there as to how to protect your home, you know, uh physically. But the spiritual damage, boy, well We just let that flow in. In fact, we sometimes buy services to pump it on the TV and dump all kinds of disreputable characters right there in the middle of your living room, right? That's horrible. Um when you find uh Abraham seeking a bride for Isaac, um the parent was very involved Yes. The parent was the one that sent. And there was the the warning, don't find a wife. You find it's if you don't take a wife of these people to to an olderness. sons. But so that all said, number one, pray for your spouse before you meet them. And then pray that God will bring them back. to you. Mm-hmm. Absolutely. So the responsibilities of the husband, I've got uh what do I have here? I've got five points here. Uh first one, you know, easy, just be like Jesus to her, right? That just makes it real simple Simple to say, right? Some things are easy to say. Harder said, easier said than done is the old phrase. Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself forth. That's all we have to do. And of course some will point out that's impossible, but I think it's there because God believes there's some element of it that's possible. And it says even as, and that word as is a simile, a similitude. So we are not to be called to be identical. There's only one Christ in this universe. And so he is our model. He is our example. And God gives. uh men just as much as women, different gifts, and the man needs to fashion, refine, and hone that particular gift and set of gifts and skills and abilities he has to conform those as much to the image of Christ as possible. I will give a shameful example of myself where I have a gift of I can think quickly on my feet and when I will get into discussions with my wife where she will disagree with me. I'll come back very quickly and boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, hit, hit all these reasons as to why it's not. And I'm used to doing this in engineering because this is how engineering engineers hash out ideas when you're around a bunch of other grade A individuals, not grade A, type A, you know, all wired individuals, this is the arena. That's not the arena at home. That's not using my skill to love my wife. I'm peppering her. I'm slicing her death by a thousand paper cuts. That's not good That is not good. And so that gift needs to be refined, needs to be honed, needs to be brought into the image of Jesus. How does Jesus deal with People like the woman at the well, how does Jesus deal with other women in Scripture? You don't see this rapid tongue lashing that doesn't come about. So That's an area where that needs to be refined a little further. And I would hope that later my wife could testify that I've made a measure of progress in that area The husband also, second point, is to be king to her husband. So we talk about prophet, priest, and king. What does it mean to be a king? No, it doesn't mean to be I uh and this these are your blanks, he's not to be a dictator, he's not to be an ogre, but he's to be a provider and a protector. You know, a good king can go a king can go one of two ways. He can be a good one, he protects and provides Turns out that Julius Caesar was an excellent quote-unquote king. He was a ruler, and he was excellent. In fact, he was so excellent they said he must be a god, and that's Elevated to a god status because he was an excellent act. He really cared, he was self-sacrificial, he really cared for the welfare of the nation. He provided and protected for them. It was excellent. Husbands are to be the same. They literally bring home the bacon. They are the ones that provide for that household. And they protect it. They are concerned. On all fronts, health fronts, you don't want a moldy house for you. your spouse to live in. So things have got to get cleaned up. Trash has got to get taken out. It's got to be a safe household. I mean all of that, the whole umbrella of that. They used to say pastor and work is a lot of time just pushing the vacuum cleaner around the place. I mean that's part of it, but it's all giving it protective environment. Ephesians 5 is the passage that He speaks of Christ Ephesians 5. 26. The purpose of Christ's coming to the bride, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holding without blemish, so men ought to love their wives as they own. bodies, this provider, this protector. This next question I've got is a little obtuse. I was just going to give the answer, but I thought. We would maybe discuss it a little bit. King, provider, protector. And given what we just read in Ephesians 5, that he might sanctify and cleanse it and so forth, that he might present it to himself. But that it should be holy without blemish. See that word that shows up three times in that passage. So what does this imply about God's approach? to this business of husbands and admonishing them. I it's an obtuse question, I get it, but I'm kind of focusing on that word that, Veteria? It could be totally off here but I get the sense that God is pointing to a greater spiritual picture in this. He's he's saying, yes we have husbands and wives here on earth, but It's it's a picture of Christ and the church. Yes. And him cleansing and sanctifying. That's good, yes. Uh that's even better than the answer I had. One of the most common reasons I hear for divorces is, quote, incompatibility. You ever heard somebody complain about that? Incompatibility. Or incompatible. Um and I would say, well, of course. Uh you take any two individuals Any two. They are not carbon clone copies of each other. And frankly, I would not want to marry a spouse that's identical to me. I would strangle the other one. I would not want to live with myself. It would be horrific. But incompatibility is a common answer, and the reason I bring that up is because, as Victoria is pointing out, there is a greater Purpose. If you see the word that in scriptures, that's a purpose statement. God has a purpose. God has a plan for marriage. What is that plan? What is that purpose? It is a picture. It is a pointer to Christ and his church. to Christ and his bride. And to the extent that the man so runs his house, so that it does point men to Christ, he is fulfilling that. That picture, that job, he's fulfilling it. Because marriage is not in heaven. You don't have marriage in heaven. I'm waiting for a bunch of hallelujahs in the audience. I didn't hear any, that's good. Because Jesus said to the Sadducees who did not believe uh in the resurrection nor in angels, he says You do err, not knowing the scriptures of the power of God, for in men neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are likened to angels. Jesus flat out said, No. So There's a purpose to marriage here and now, for the procreation and the extenuation of the human race, for the bringing in of God's elect, for the raising of godly seed. Those are purposes. But God has a larger purpose in mind beyond your happiness. It's not about your happiness, right? It's wonderful if it operates according to God's ways, you will be happy in it, Carol. And the two become one. Yes, they do. It is. Yes, it it is not to your benefit. Absolutely. So the king has a goal in mind. Our God has a goal and a purpose in mind. All right. So, the responsibility is the husbands. He's like a king, a provider, and a protector. He's also like a prophet. How's he like a prophet? He, here's your next blank, declares the word of God to the family. He has to forthell the Word of God to his family. That's part of his role. He has to be the one giving it. Now, one of the temptations I've seen in religious circles, whenever I check out different churches on their website. I don't do this regularly, but when I do, because somebody asked me if I know about such and such a congregation, as I'm poking around looking for statements of faith, leadership, etc. Uh Invariably I'll come across some pictures. Many of them like to post pictures. And the real religious settings tend to have a bunch of women gathered around. In general, the women tend to be the more religious, religiously inclined species, if I can say that. that or gender not species you're not a different species my apologies total slip of the tongue uh different gender yes there's only two genders I'll go on record for that I'm on record there's only two double X XY chromosomes that's it um So, one of the failings that husbands will do is they will outsource the job of declaring the Word of God to their family to the more spiritually minded one in the house, which would be the woman She ends up having to take up that role. She ends up having to bear that. Now, praise God, because it does say in Proverbs 1. 8, that was your fourth scripture at the top. Forsake not the law of thy mother. At least she is in a role and she can carry that out to her children. She can teach her children that. But the primary responsibility is the father. And throughout scriptures, it was the fathers who were the ones to do these things. For instance, in Psalm 78, 2 through 4 We read, I'll open my mouth in a parable, I'll utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers, plural, meaning father and grandfather. Grandpappy's not supposed to sit around back and yeah, back in my day we stood on a rock and cranked the phone up with a handle. You know, that's not the stories they need to hear. They need to hear about God's goodness to them during the times when they cranked the phone on the handle, all right? We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praise of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he hath done It's a record of how God got them through the hard times, how God provided for them, both in the good and the bad. It's to be that kind of teaching That's a blessed thing when you have that kind of lineage. It reinforces. And boy, I tell you, grandparents have a powerful role to grandchildren It's something about another an older saint talking to a grandchild. Some things they say will stick forever. They have a r a rare and unique position to be able to deeply impress upon this child. Here's what I believe. Timothy knew it. He knew of it because Paul points out, your grandmother told you about these things In Ephesians 6 and verse 4 it says, Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Notice the contrast. There is a bringing up in the admonition of the Lord. The father who fails to do that invariably does the opposite He's if he's not interested in their welfare, their instruction, their well-being, he's interested in himself, in his interest, what I want to do. And what did we say earlier about children? They're kind of uh what's the word? drag, they're anchors and diapers, they tend to have high constant needs. And they're not about you and they're not about your interests and they're not about your likes. And so the child presents a need, dad's all about himself, he's going to dish out a bowl of wrath. And so we see how that can play out. And Scripture says, don't provoke them to wrath. That doesn't mean you never give them a swatty stick with some instruction. It doesn't mean you don't pr it means you don't provoke them to wrath. So the fourth point, I gotta get going here. I'm running kind of short on time here. He's a king, he's the prophet, he's also a priest, he is the one to intercede for the family. Now he's not only doing that, is Wife will do that when we have the family too. But he intercedes. It's constant prayer is the model for all the family, but particularly for the husband. Notice in 1 Peter 3, the admonition Peter gives, and this one I've I'm a little I was a little late to the game on picking this one up, but I uh Appreciate God putting it scriptures. 1 Peter 3:7. Likewise ye husbands, dwell with them. That is the wife That doesn't mean man you have husband you have your summer home in Florida while your wife stays up here taking care of business and then you come home. I've known a a couple that live like that that where for four to six months of the year the man lived away from the wife. I'm just over here for a while. You're over here doing your own thing. No, that's wrong. That is incorrect. That's not a family choice. That's unbiblical. He says to dwell with them. And he dwells with them how? According to knowledge. Alright, so according to the knowledge. Yes, men, women are wired very differently. Their brains work very differently than yours. Thank God. They are like a pile of spaghetti. And when a meatball hits it, whatever that Meatball hits that little strand of spaghetti has to be thought out. What are the impacts to this? What are the impacts to that? What are the impacts to this? They're integrational. They think through different things Men's brains are like waffles, right? Lots of little boxes. And the meatball bounces around and boop hits one box. That's the box it's in. That's what I'm going to pay attention to. And so we are we think very differently. And there's a whole science behind that, gray matter versus white matter in the men's mind and men with the logic side, women with the integration side of it, and they're intentionally and they are a wonderful help meet because they'll say Uh Han, before you go off and do this wonderful idea of yours, have you thought about and then she can spell out all the millions of different ways that this has an impact on things. But in times of crisis, women are horrible at responding to crises in general. Because they cannot go on one box and deal with the most important thing. It's too much to process at once. That's just a generality. That's a free biology lesson for you there. So the the husband, therefore, and I said that because I'm really focusing on this one phrase, according to knowledge. So man, it's going to take some effort to understand your wife. It's going to take a lot of effort to understand her, what makes her tick. So before you go and say something, you can stop and think, okay, if I say this, what's she going to say back? And that little voice of Oh for sure she's gonna say this and this and this. Okay, that's probably not the thing you want to say. You need to have a whole long internal conversation And if you don't know, then you need to learn and understand. It's okay to ask questions. Is it okay to ask questions? Would you wives like it if your husbands ask questions? Hey, how would this sure you would. Sure you would. What in the world were you thinking? That's a that's the wrong question. Yep, yep. Don't you can keep that arrow in your closet. I ain't putting that one in my closet. Man, that's So uh the uh the point is that the reason that you dwell with them according to knowledge and you give honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. So what's the point of all this? If you're dwelling with them according to the knowledge, your prayers are not hindered. If you're not dwelling with them according to knowledge, men, your prayer is bouncing off of a brick wall. That's bad. If you don't have God's aid in raising the home, this is bad. So God actually takes note of the marriage. God's, as it were, looking over the shoulders. Oh, but I'm a baby Christian. Doesn't matter. God's looking over the shoulders. Man up, put some big boy under all underwear on real fast and figure out the program and get with it. Because God takes it seriously. Then we get to the back side of the page. I'm really running short on time, but this is all important stuff. To love her and not be bitter. Now, this is probably next to impossible for somebody who's newly married to understand this. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Why would God say, be not bitter against them? Any ideas? If you raise your hand you're so came. Anton's the only one who can speak here right now. But it makes sense because the wife can provoke her husband to bitterness or he in his own flesh can be upset about something that he should be and be bitter so it's it's a Natural fallen man fleshly response. Yeah. It is the natural response. It is a uh natural meaning the the old man, and I like the way you you can Clarified that. Uh I think the problem now is that women think that they're men. And so there is no you don't have the two sides of every question. Right Correct. Yes. Yeah, that is a huge problem in a lot of homes. Yeah, when you when you're confused about what your identity is. If you try to go about this thing known as marriage, which is both a religious and a secular institution, that's why there's so much contention about in their land, and it ought to be so, because frankly the the the uh uh covenantal vows known as marriage have long predated America's existence and so whatever our laws and land say are an interesting experiment against a centuries and millennia old tradition uh which plenty of millennia have proven if you break that model it fails miserably society wide because not only is a well-run home foundational for ministry, it's also foundational for Secular ministry, meaning leadership in the land, it's also fundamental there. The same principles are found, just on a different scale This bitterness business, however, is something, or in addition to that, is something, I believe, that happens over time It's the little annoying habits. I have little annoying habits that my mother is still trying to correct She's seen it in me since I was one year old. And I still have them. Have they changed yet? Don't answer the question. So they're just some little annoying habits that are still there. And And and and they're there and they rub and it can make the spouse bitter to me, but I'm using myself as an example because that's okay for women to beat themselves, right? That's that's that's the that's the approved Communication is a huge problem too. Yes, if communication is broken if we can't talk about these things. Hey Hun, you know, you do something that annoys the upper Will you start hanging the toilet paper on the roll the other way or would you quit squeezing the toothpaste in the middle? Those are minor things, but there can be major things as well. So the husband can be bitter against the wife uh for little annoyances. That's how I can see that can come up, is that they grow and the and the molehill becomes the mountain. And when does the mountain explode? When the man's exhausted, when he's tired, and it's just it it's just the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back and there's an explosion and God says, be not bitter against them. Bitterness. It's not that point of explosion. It is that simmering, lingering nonsense in you. You've got to get rid of it. Bitterness is a state, and that state has to be removed, it has to be cleansed, it has to be excised from the person. Ecclesiastes 9. 9 says, Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest. All the days. Of the life of Ivanity. What an interesting contrast. You're living in a vain life. Get over it. The world was broken Solomon's day, it was broken King David's day, it was broken Enoch's day, go as far back as you want, shy of a handful of years after Adam and Eve, it's been broke ever since then, and it continues to exhibit its brokenness going forward because it's run by broken people on a twice-cursed planet. But he says, live joyfully with thy wife. Then it's not all about work. Man, I we can work ourselves to death and work, work, work, and work, but there's got to be some joy in the journey. You know, it's kind of like the wagon masters of old. You had to get all the wagon trains over the mountains to the promised land of Oregon or California. But You couldn't exhaust the people so much with rigor in a constant driving of the mules and the trains that People would just wear out along the way. It's a journey. It's the balance between, yeah, we've got things to do, but we've got to have some joy in the journey. There's got to be that, and you've got to live joyfully with the wife of your youth. He says that's your portion in this life. This is what God's giving you as a portion in your life. Come in. Penny, I'm sorry. I may be extrapolating too much. much from scripture here, but looking at marriage and husbands and wives, and these two verses in particular, seem to be focusing on the emotion. Yes. Oh yes. Love, bitterness, joy. Women are emotional creatures. Oh bingo. Yeah, you're nailed. Exceptional boy. We need that emotion. Emotional. Yeah. Exceptional point. And I thank you for that. That is an excellent point. See how we have blind spots? Yeah, I'm not going to focus on it. I'm going to focus on the technical material. And the technical material, oh I missed that part. Yes. Absolutely. Yep, you'll you'll pick up on these things. Absolutely. That's why they're called help meet. They can pick up on these things. Another aside, I just have to give this. I um first time I became a supervisor and I was involved in a uh a group interview where there's different strategies for interviewing. Is it you know You know, every thirty minutes one person, you know, you just y you just move the candidate to three different offices one at a time, or do you have the candidate for an hour and a half in front of all three? Because one may pick up something the other doesn't. So my two bosses at the time both happened to be women and both were married. And I'm this I was newly married and we were interviewing a candidate and I was looking, I was there for the technical things. Those women pulled so much more out of that interview than I did. They were like, well, did you see how they reacted to that? Oh yeah, I saw that I'm like I don't even recall were we in the same interview talking to the same person? They were picking up I mean their ability to catch nonverbal cues I was like, you know, in Morse code and they're transmitting an HD TV. I mean, it was just night and day difference, their ability. I was clueless in that area And so, yeah, that's your portion in this life. Learn to enjoy it. Learn to love her. It doesn't get better than a God-fearing wife. The tail end of this is how a man should prepare himself for this job. This is known as highly effective habits. I'm just going to read the highlights. You've got the scripture verses here. If not, you can go to holdingfast. net and pull down the notes. You've got to get familiar with the Bible, fellas. You have to get familiar with the Bible. You need to get and keep a steady job. 1 Timothy 5. 8, if any provide not for his own, and especially for those of his own house. He is denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. That's a pretty stark statement He can't sit around in his tush and play video games all day waiting for a job offer to drop out of thin air into his lap. He's got to be hustling to make ends meet and provide for his house. If it's two, maybe three jobs Third point, get a grip over your own passions. He's got to rule over his passions. And men can be passionate. They can be emotional creatures as well, but they tend to be led by them, not in charge of them. Anger in one is particular that needs to be dealt with. And there's a lot that talks about being slow to anger and ruling over your own spirit. There's a lot that talks about that. And some other basics that are pretty fundamental, getting rid of the bottle. Alcohol's gotta go. That's a non-starter. And getting away from foolishness and foolish friends. You know, and sometimes those foolish people happen to be family members. Oh, well, they're family. We gotta stick with. No, if they're fools, you gotta get away from them. You have to cut off this connection. Foolish, forsake the foolish, go in the way of understanding. The companion of fools shall be destroyed. A fool uttereth all his mind, and so forth. That that's gotta be cut out, you know, and I remember years ago um uh uh my family uh my dad's side happened to have a bunch of fools. Some of his brothers were Uh pretty pretty horrific and thank God uh through mother's uh influence I think it came in the form of thou shalt never or thou shalt not uh but there were certain uh family members of the uh the dad called them in laws and outlaws. Of the Cluth house they were just too drunk and too foolish and mom said, nope, these people have got to go. And praise God they did. They went. They disappeared. And uh because the that that companionship of fools, that just got to get cut off quick. I sorry I've really gone too late, Anton, could you briefly close this in the air Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for uh granting us this time this morning to look at this uh biblical uh doctrine of of husbands, we pray you would help us, uh Lord, that are in that role currently, to fulfill it faithfully, to love our wives, to be a picture of Christ, Lord. Uh please uh help us all, Lord, in being conformed to the image of Christ and and what He's called us to in His Scripture to be faithful.