We are continuing in our thirteenth chapter of summary of Christian Doctrine. And I must start off with an apology because last week I think I went at the most breakneck speed possible I left you all the blanks in the handout and didn't slow down to fill you in on what the answers were. And so if uh you missed one step, you're like that proverbial string of Christmas tree lights where one bulb is out, nothing else is lighting up, and I can't find the missing bulb, and so you just get frustrated. So what I'm going to do is give a summary a executive thumbnail summary of what we covered last week and then I will ease into this week and I'll try to cool the afterburners. If we don't get through everything this week, that's okay. I even gave you my full copy of notes, so you have everything there filled in for you. You just have to promise not to cheat and look too far ahead. But this material I think is thick and dense enough that it probably doesn't hurt to have it in writing and hear it. and see an illustration of the two. We are talking about now how God saves sinners. And I think it's fascinating. The thing that fascinates me the most about this is that God is like an engineer. I'm an engineer. I really am an engineer at heart, and God designs things and he does things on purpose. God is also a lawyer A lawyer par excellence. There is no greater lawmaker, lawgiver, and law enforcer than our God. He is an exceptional king He rules and over this universe and he defends his people. Uh and and so forth. You fill out any profession, and he is the best at each of those. I wouldn't say divorce attorney, because he's not that. So Um in some cases he could be. Well he certainly took care of national Israels. Well, let's talk now about I'm going to review what we did last week. We talked and we introduced, it was not intended to be a comprehensive um treatise of the subject. For that I defer you to Mr. Burkhoff's systematic theology book, his 600-page Magnum opus on the entire topic of Christian doctrine and a whole chapter devoted to this issue of covenants. There is a thing called a covenant of redemption. There has to be a basis on which you and I can even be considered to be brought into heaven. So repeat after me. Just this last part. Covenant of redemption is between God, between the Godhead. So covenant of redemption is between the Godhead. Alright, that is redemption, alright The redemption is not between God and man. God doesn't depend on man to redeem man. It structurally isn't there. It is in the Godhead. It's between God the Father and God the Son. Now we have the covenant of grace, and again you're going to repeat after me the ending phrase, it's between God and man. Covenant of grace between God and man. All right, so now This is the bestowing of God's gracious plan of redemption, all that Christ has accomplished. He has to get that to us, and that is grace. What's interesting is that you can think about that a little bit. There was no grace shown to the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't have an ounce of God's grace as it were given to him. He had God's love, God's favor, he was doing it. But when it came to the time of the cross, what was one of the most horrible things he stated? My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? You and I can never cry that out. As believers, we can't say that. The Lord Jesus had to say that, and because he did say that Therefore, our God will never leave nor forsake us. That's the fundamental aspect that's coming through of this covenant of grace between God and man. That's how He teleports us. He brings us to heaven. So we just discussed those two, and I'm going to give a quick review. Uh what's the proof that we have? That's an interesting idea, Vince, that there's this idea of a covenant in the Godhead. But you weren't invited to the Council of Heaven. God didn't ask you to sit at the knights of the round table as it were and and join in on this. How do you know that there's a covenant of redemption? Well very simply the Bible uses the word covenant in passages that talks about the Messiah and we looked at Psalm 89 Where the psalmist is speaking about David here, under inspiration, that God has made a covenant with my servant David. He will make him higher than his firstborn. He will do all these wonderful things for him. and that he is uh thou he shall cry thou art my father and then lo and behold we go to the New Testament where Hebrews says aha that's messianic Hebrews tells us God never said that to angels. He sure didn't say it to man. And Peter in his sermon says, look, concerning our father David, he's dead and buried with us, and his sepulchre is with us to this day. the servant that uh that God had in view, the greater David was the Lord Jesus Christ. So we find out that in Psalm 89, based on New Testament insight, is referring to a covenant that God made between the Father and the Son. You see that same covenant word in Isaiah 42, where he says, Behold my servant, mine elect. I the Lord have called thee in righteousness, will hold thy hand, I'll keep you, and I'll give you for a covenant to the people. And then we find in the New Testament, there is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself who says This day this saying is fulfilled in your ears. And he goes on to state it. So Christ himself says, yep, I'm the fulfillment of Isaiah 42. And that was even more prophetic in its nature because it included the Gentiles. And so we began to get insight that not only was there a covenant, but it included not only Jews but also Gentiles. So that's the covenant language. That's why we can call it a covenant. But now what was in that covenant? Do we have any further insight? And so from last week we saw that Christ spoke of promises that were made to him all throughout the book of John, John 6 in particular. of all which he has given me, the work which thou gave me to do. He often spoke about the work that his father I have completed the work that you have given me to do. Christ said that a lot. Well that implies Like when Gabriel goes to Mrs. Ross's, she's got a punch list for him that says, here's what you gotta do. And he comes back and he says, I've done it, or he hasn't. Uh thankfully more often than not, he has done it, but uh that's a good thing. Well the Lord Jesus Christ completed everything that God gave to him, and then a very exciting verse in Luke 22 where Christ said I appoint unto you a kingdom as my Father has appointed unto me. Now you're not going to find any of this in your handouts. I'm just reviewing what we covered last week, and then because I went too fast last week, so I'm just giving you a survey and then we'll get right back into what we're talking about today. So that was the covenant of redemption, which is between the Godhead. It's between God and God. Now we're going to talk about the covenant of grace, just a review. And that main promise, does anybody remember the main promise of the covenant of grace? It was this, I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. Alright? So the main Promise of the covenant of grace is, I will, the D and the E hashtag D. Yeah, and you'll find that a lot in the New Testament. So when you see that language, just know that he's talking about you Know that he's talking about you. So this is that main promise. We saw the connection to the Abrahamic covenant promise in Genesis 17. God said, I'll establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee, to be a God, and to thee, and to thy seed after thee. And lo and behold, we find from the book of Galatians That says, if you be Christ, then are you Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. And we see that very promise reiterated in the book of Hebrews Uh and we see it foretold in Jeremiah and Ezekiel. And again, Hebrews confirming that that is talking about us now. And we enter into that by faith. That's that covenant of grace, which is between And man, right. So that's how we lay hold, that's how we comprehend, that's how we latch onto this benefit that God has graciously bestowed to us. It's a free gift. And he quickens our hearts and enlightens our mind and opens our understanding to be able to acknowledge and to understand and appreciate That wonderful promise that he'll be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. Well, what does it mean that he'll be a God to thee and thy seed after thee? Well, that's all the benefits that flow out from much more of the New Testament language. What does it mean to have the true and living God on your side? Does that mean death is a problem? No. God in fact specializes in raising dead things up His glory is particularly shown by dealing with he's like, give me a bunch of dead things, I'll show you something that you've never seen before. And he raises it up to life. So don't you ever get depressed. that a situation looks too bad because our God specializes in rescuing disastrous situations. He's a master at that. And it's it just brings tears to my eyes. He's so glorious at doing it. That's an overview of what we covered last week, of which I went too quickly and I apologize. This week we will go hopefully at a more leisurely pace, and I must admit, it is difficult for me to come up with questions to ask because they're either stupid simple how do you spell grace type of thing or so ridiculously complex that it's a quiz for which you'd have not prepared. And so I don't want to stretch your mind too hard. If you'll bear with me, this will be kind of a little bit more of a discussion than a dialogue. Discussion as its root word has the word percussion in it, where you're just getting a drumbeat, you know. You're just hearing things hit your ears and I'm not really entering in a dia. A dia is that word through. You know, we're two-way communication, a dialogue. We're not going to dialogue much today. So I am trying to impart some info interesting information. Today we're talking about the sun the sun in the covenant of redemption, which was between the Godhead, right? So we're talking about the covenant of redemption today, right? I've said before, and I'll repeat it again, that the Lord Jesus Christ had a nigh unto impossible task to fulfill when he came to this earth. You nor I would want his job description. You would not want to enter into that job. He fundamentally received nothing of benefit from this world. His paycheck was less than zero. It was a pile of debts. And liabilities, and heartache, and disappointment. The amount of grief that the Lord put him through is frankly beyond our puny imagination. We curl up into a little pity pot ball so quickly When even if but a measure of your flesh is touched with a tiny bit of pain or mental anguish or some kind we just how we just curl right up into a ball Our Lord Jesus Christ soldiered through it all with stunning power and glory and success. And because of that, God has highly exalted him. Christ had two fundamental jobs in this covenant of redemption. He was the covenant Head, meaning he would then stand as a new representative. As we remember looking at man at the creation, Adam stood as the federal head of the human race. If Adam did well, he and his seed after him would be blessed. If Adam blew it, he and his seed after him would be cursed. And we saw an illustration of that, what it meant to be a federal head. at the battle of David and Goliath. Anyone remember that story? We all remember the five stones and David slinging the thing, but the precursor was the interesting part because Goliath comes out, the champion of Gath And he is a federal head to the Philistines. Send me a man to battle, he says, and if I conquer him, then ye shall be my servants. But if you conquer me, we will be your slaves. That's a federal hit. What happens to him happens to the rest. The other men were not involved in the battle. They could be armchair quarterbacks all they want, which means sitting there and telling how the play should go, but it doesn't matter because it's between those two. And their success or failure would flow down on the rest. Adam stood in that. He blew it. That's why you and I are under the curse. Because our federal head blew it. Well, how is God going to fix that? Solution. You need a new federal head. You gotta have somebody else who will stand in there, who will succeed, and then upon them will flow the blessings Well who would who could that be? Well it can't be anybody down here. We're under the first curse. We got a basic problem. We're not qualified. Well, let's pick up animals. Well, animals don't cut it. The blood of bulls and goats have never atoned for sins. They were just an annual reminder. What about an angel? Sorry. Wrong category. Wrong class. Whoso sheds man's blood by man shall his blood be shed. It has to be the same. Where are we going to find a man to stand the gap? The Lord Jesus Christ, the God man. So he would be the covenant head. Folks, he's your only shot. He's it. This idiocy of propping up some other man into some office and saying, well, we'll follow him and he's the salvation is bankrupt from the get-go. It is legally idiotic and and and unacceptable. It is intellectually stupid, and it is nothing more than an emotional pull and draw, and they appeal to the lust of the flesh, the pride of life. And all that's lost in this world. That was the first role that Christ had in the covenant of redemption. The second role is that he would be the covenant surety. I just love to talk about design. What is a surety? Does anybody know what a surety is? It's an old English word, but we still have it. Something that's for sure. Something that's for sure? Okay, in a legal sense, what's a surety? Uh have you heard of a cosigner? Okay, what was that word? A guarantee. A guarantee, sometimes known as the guarantor and the contract. What happens if uh say Ivon wants to move out, you know, and he's moving out of his house and and it's great and he goes to some place of Potomac, wants to move in, and they look at his income and it's like, well, we're we're not really sure you can afford this, but if you get a cosigner like Mrs. Ross, uh she'll we'll let you move in. Uh now What are your thoughts on that, Mrs. Ross? You're being a co-signer to Yvonne. I've done that before. You've done that before. You're very gracious. All right. I will know who to go to. All right. Well we flushed out some good information here today Those of you online, her email addresses No, excuse me. What it means is if Yvonne can't cough up the money that month, on whose door does the landlord knock? Her door Jesus Christ not only is the federal head of that redemption, but he is also the surety. The backstop in case something you and I do fails. Now, God doesn't fail. Okay? He doesn't fail. So he doesn't need to put any kind of warranty on it. He doesn't but so that you and I could have an even more sure hope. He is our surety. Meaning if Adam, the federal head, blows it, there was still a backstop. And it was Jesus Christ. Joe, you have to do that. Yeah, and I'm not sure how it is with real estate, but with an auto purchase, the cosigner's name is the first on the title. Hmm. It flips above the head because the cosigner is the one who is the real responsible person, not the person. I remember when I was selling cars, a lot of people would complain about that. Well, no, why is my name first? I'm the co-signer. Legally, you have to be first. So that's Christ's twofold role. Now let's flow this out here. The Lord Jesus Christ Not only was the head, not only was the surety, but as the head, he is representing a people. Because he's a federal head, right? Goliath comes out, who's he representing? Philistines behind him. David, who's he representing? Israelites behind him. Christ, who's he representing? Any ideas? He represents himself. Alright, everybody. When we say everybody, who's that? The elect. We would say the elect. And that is that the Jews only? God's chosen? Is the Jews only? We would say no. There was a season when they were known as the elect of God, the chosen of God, and what God had ultimately in view was all those who believed on him. There were plenty Jews with whom he was very angry because they didn't believe, because they were not his sheep, as he spoke to them in John 6. He says, You will not believe because you're not my sheep. You can't hear my word because you're not my sheep. Other sheep he says I have, which are not of this full, them also shall I bring. He's referring to Gentiles. So Christ is representing a group of people in the Bible known as his elect. So that's who he's representing. So you see, this whole business of who becomes saved and the details of that, remember the covenant of redemption is where? It's in the Godhead. Did you have a seat at that table? No. Do we know every bit of the terms and conditions of that covenantal, of that discussion, of that agreement? No, we don't. The secret things are known unto the Lord. I don't know who God's electar any more than anybody else does. But I do know this, that he has a people that he intends to save And the commission to me is to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now some have taken that super literally. St. Francis of Assisi, I don't know if you know how he came about, that particular Catholic. He preached to the animals, literal animals. He said, There's a missing mission field here. I need to go preach to the deer and the rabbits. That's how he started. Because it said, every creature, so I better go to the animals. And so he has one of the most unsuccessful uh ministries you could possibly imagine. Of course, the poor animals if any of them believed this gospel would be doomed anyway, but uh that's a different story. All right Let's look at the requirements in this covenant of redemption. What did God the Father require the Son to do? Three fundamental things is what God the Father required the Son to do. Number one He has to assume a human nature. Jesus said, God is the Spirit, and God the Son dwelt in heaven and dwells in heaven But he has to assume a human nature. This whole business of the incarnation of Christ, right out the gate. puts us into the category of some very deep, hard to understand theological concepts and terms. And this week I was blessed. I was really blessed. I can say the only time this week I've really just, because I hadn't spent much time in the scriptures this week, had some other frustrating issues on my plate. I was blessed with this very first passage. Please look at Philippians 2, 6 to 8. It's in your handout, but if you have your own Bible, you might want to take note of some of these. I did not realize how excellent this passage is in helping us understand. How the Lord Jesus Christ took on a human nature. The Greek is very precise, and it's very interesting. In Philippians 2. 6, we have several words. I'm going to emphasize those as I read it. Philippians 2. 6, beginning, chapter 2, beginning in verse 6. Who, speaking of Christ, Being in the form, the Morpe, I don't know if I'm pronouncing it right, so just hang with me. Being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Notice he made himself, all right, of no reputation, took upon him the form, the morphée, of a servant. So notice, being in the form of God, he never stopped being God. He was in the very morphée, the form of God. He then took upon him the form of a servant, so he had a dual form instance of God and of a servant. Now he goes on. Was made in the likeness of man. Doesn't use morphée. This is a different word. This is homo Homo homoyoma. I can't even homo meaning like. It's a likeness. Now it doesn't say he's the form of man, because man, as we realize, has a lot of problems. So he is like us, and Romans 8. 3 says that he was made in the likeness of sinful flesh He wasn't made in the form of sinful flesh. In other words, he was fully human, and he is like us except without sin. Isn't that interesting? It uses that word that says he's the likeness of men. He is a man, but he's not like us in that He was not sinful. Very careful the use of the words here. And then it goes on. And being found in fashion as a man. And I like that word in particular. That's a totally different word. And you know this word. You've seen this in English. It's one of these Greek words that's come over in the English language. The schema. The scheme of things In engineers we talk about schematics. If you give an engineer a set of schematics, well we know exactly how it's wired. Jesus is wired the same way you and I were. He could cry at the death of Lazarus. He could rejoice when things happened. He would grow weary with Tiredness. He would be disappointed at things. He was wired as us, but he was in the form of God. In the form of man, in the likeness of man. Yet without sin. Isn't that a marvelous verse that kind of hits at the aspects of the the the human nature of Christ? In Hebrews uh two it says back to your handout, for as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, and that's that word koinonia. We in our spirit-soul existence have fellowship with this body of flesh and blood. We we know it well, don't we? The strengths, the weaknesses, the desires, the disappointments, the hopes, the fears, the hunger. Boy, recently we had barbecue here at the Cluth House. Oh, that was a good day. Mother's heat pump blew out again. That was a bad day. We understand the partakers of flesh. He himself, speaking of Jesus Christ, likewise took part of the same. He took part. He joined into it You can never say, oh, I'm going through something that Jesus has never gone through before. Well, he kind of had a full gamut. Oh, but he wasn't married. Oh, yeah, he was married in actual Israel. He came down and boy what a doozy she was. What a piece of work she was. What a lot of help she was. So yeah, he knows that. Oh, he hasn't had a problem with children, really. Spiritual children that he had. Doubting Thomas, I mean, are you kidding me? He had he definitely had it. He felt it. He saw it. So the first requirement is he should assume a human nature. The second is that he should place himself under the law to pay the penalty and to merit eternal life for all whom he represented, for the elect. Uh Can you think of a famous case you've heard recently on the news where Somebody has committed a grievous, long-term sustained series of crimes, a serial, just the worst, think of the worst, serial rapist or something. uh somebody who's been found living in Venezuela all these years and was responsible for the deaths of millions of Jews. Can you imagine going to the authorities in that region and raising your hand saying, yeah, don't prosecute him, put me on trial instead. Can you imagine this bottom? Can you just for a moment put yourself in the place of the condemned, saying, I'll stand in for that. Can you imagine doing that for two different criminals? You see where I'm going. Christ had an impossible job. The enormity, the breadth, you're shuddering, you're shuddering, and that's the right response. You just shudder. It's like, I can't imagine that. I just don't even want to enter in. It hurts my head too much. That's step two of three that Christ was required to do. You think you're finding the Savior someplace else, folks? Really? Really? Galatians 4 says this, when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. The exacting, unretracting, unforgiving, relentless law of God. Demands payment for sins. You know how that was illustrated in the Old Testament? There was a holy box that Israel had. What was the name of that holy box? Not Pandora. It wasn't Pandora. It's close. The only one I know is the Ork. The Ork of The covenant. The Ark of the Covenant, right? The thing that the Ark yeah, the Ark of the Covenant. It was basically a box. It was made of a common wood. It was covered with gold. And there were some contents inside. One of the contents was Which were the Ten Commandments. The law of God was in there. So here's this holy box. It's in the Holy of Holies, a place where the high priest came how often? Once a year. Only once a year you could go in to see this holy box. You left a Dixie cup in there last year, you're gonna see that same Dixie cup a year later. They didn't have Dixie Cups, you get my point. Once a year visited. Inside that holy box is the law of God. Imagine that law of God. It's depicted in the Bible as having the eyes, the eyes of the Lord, run to and fro throughout the earth. The Word of God is searching, searing. It's a dividing asunder of joint and marrow, and the soul and spirit, and it's a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. that ever-searching law of God, which of whom no one can be hid. And it looks up. And on top of this box was a seat. It wasn't a place you'd sit. In fact, you wouldn't want to sit there. You'd get your pants messed up. Because in there the high priest went once a year with the blood of a lamb. He sprinkled it. The mercy seat. So here the law of God looks up. The only way mercy could come, the only place mercy had a place of rest. And the only place the law of God felt justified is the law looked up to the top of that seed and said, I see the blood. I'm satisfied. I'm satisfied. But every year he had to come and come. But Christ has entered into the heavens once. into the the ultimate holy place, into the presence of God. And he offered himself, his own blood, for sins. Nevermore to be repeated. There's no need to be repeated. When he cried out, it's finished on the cross. What happened? A veil. A very large, thick veil that separated that Holy of Holies, rent from top to bottom, says, you're not coming here anymore. Nothing special about this place. There's access to grace, access to mercy. 24-7. You can peer inside. You can see the picture because I, the Lord Jesus Christ, have satisfied. So that law of God had to be satisfied. Christ had to come under the law of God. Galatians says, who gave himself. This was voluntary, folks. Remember that earlier illustration? Go ahead. Pick some heinous criminal that you'll stand in the gap for. Let my name, let my reputation, let my finances, my house Let the destiny of my children and grandchildren be put at risk. I will stand in for such a one. Who will do such a thing? He gave himself. He gave himself for us that he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God. Christ says, think not that I'm come to destroy the law of the prophets. I'm not come to destroy, but to what? Fulfill. That was his purpose. To fulfill it. Every jot and tittle. And if you study carefully the passion week, that very last week that led up to his atonement All the peculiar steps the Lord did. He came back, he returned, he preached over here, he stopped at Bethany, had a dinner, he's making his way in, he does this. All of those steps. And the timing of it. And when he turns to Judas, he says, What thou doest, do quickly. Meaning you got a job to do, son, get moving. And I need to be on a cross soon and you gotta go do your job. So that I can be tried and guilty the next morning to be up on that cross. Time's a ticking. Go. Christ is in control that whole week. To fulfill scriptures. And he did it perfectly, under pressure. He stood before the most powerful man on earth at the time, Pontius Pilate, in his region. And Pilate left shaking. Find no fault in this man. He knew he'd come up against somebody very different Centurions and the soldiers said that a lot too. Never man spake like this man before. They said, why didn't you bring him? So I'm telling you, you just haven't dealt with a guy like this before. Somebody very different. Came under the law. And the next thing he did That good shepherd. The third thing, after assuming human nature and coming under the law, is that he has to apply his merits. To his people. I mean you talk about how bankrupt we are. Great day. You know, it's what to what can I liken this? Um You know, I remember as a young kid, I had a really interesting upbringing. Uh uh we had a biracial family, and I never really thought of it much as a kid, but in Texas it was a big deal. I had a German father and a mother of Mexican descent which means I'd have really good chocolates uh on uh on on on one visit and brisket and barbecue and all the smoked meat that you got from the German side and then I'd go get some really killer burritos and fried ri I could have lived on the rice and beans Uh and the fresh made tortillas, I mean, woo, I was loving it, right? I mean this was a great cultural background to have. I loved it And at my abuelitas, that's my the Mexican mother's mother's, my grandmother's house, for Christmas time, they'd have a gift exchange where Because there were so many kids in the family and we had a million guys still won't know how. We've got to hold enough to make a new village in Kazakhstan or something. But uh Uh but we would exchange yeah two villages probably and there would be a war with each other. But uh we would exchange names And um uh and you whoever's name you pulled out, you got a gift for that individual, because there were just too many people. But you did have a tree full of gifts. And of course as a young kid, what are you doing when you walk in? You're kind of taking a peek under the tree. Is mine the small little box or mine the big box? You're you're looking for your gift. What do you do at Christmas time? You you go and you look for your gift. Folks, we weren't even interested in looking for this gracious gift that God gave us. This tremendous gift of grace. That is that frankly, this is a gift that I'm still taking the wrapping paper off of. I'm still discovering, I haven't hit bottom on this box yet. This is such a rich, deep, and enormous box. I have not gotten to the bottom of this treasure chest. There's things I continue to pull out and continue to learn about. And renewed hope and assurance you find from this tremendous gift. And one of the things, glory be to God, that I'm even interested is that Christ has to apply his merits to his people. They're so dead in sins and trespasses that they simply need to be woken up, drugged by the neck, shoved their face into the You know, they say you can't lead a horse to water. Well, that's kind of like us. You know, you gotta be thirsty before you'll drink, and that's what he does. He makes you pretty thirsty. You get tired of eating the cactus and the sand and the salt of this world, and finally, like the proverbial son, comes to his senses saying, I can return to my father's house. It wasn't that bad back there. There's food back there. Make me a servant. Make me a servant. What a profound statement. John 1028, I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish. You see that gift? I give them. I'm growing older. I'm seeing more gray hairs. I'm feeling pains in the elbow and the ankle and other places that I didn't think would show up. tweaked my back the other day and had a strange pop. I'm like, well that's a weird pop in a weird place. Never had that before. And it's just a reminder that, yep Buy your casket now before the inflation's too high, it sucks up all the rest of your inheritance. And um, you know, it's a fearful thing to think about that. But I think the more I Listen to the scriptures and I understand what God's talking about, you grow less fearful of that. God gives you eternal life. Now, what does that mean? That means you will never Have a cessation of conscious existence. It doesn't stop at death. Your physical body will depart, and we dread that. And we don't desire that. But understand as a believer what God has given to you is eternal life. You have a continuous conscious thought. The next second the soul departs, you're still aware. Very much aware, and you're in the presence of glory, and the pain is gone, and everlasting fullness of joy is there. And crossing that Jordan River just wasn't all of a sudden so bad. It turned out to be over much worth it. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. That's a promise of God. God's obligating Himself to do this. In other words, if I the Son can't come under the law, can't assume human nature, I'm not a good surety. But God doesn't lie. He's his own surety. It's impossible for God to lie. His very character is at stake, and he gives them eternal life. He says, and the glory which thou gavest me in John 17, 22, have I given them that they may be one, even as we are one. Hebrews says, being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation. In other words He's written the book, right? All the terms and conditions of salvation. He's written You see why it's called a gracious covenant? It's God taking this redemption that he alone wrought by himself. And now he's even going the extra mile to bring it down to you and I and apply it to us in a way that cannot fail. If any of those for whom Christ represents winds up in hell, God the Son failed. And that cannot be. That cannot be. He says that neither can any man pluck them out of my hand. No man is greater than my father. My father and I are one. You can't be plucked out of God's hand. Even your own will can't pluck you out of God's hand. You can try. God will whack you around a bit, son. You're hanging around too close to the edge of the hand here. We've got to tip it over and get you back in the camp. He'll do that But you cannot lose your salvation. I like this verse in Hebrews 7. 25. It says this, wherefore he is able. I love that phrase. He is able. You ask me for a prayer request, and I give you a text, that's going to be the response I give sometimes. Just remember, he is able He is able. He is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. You know, we don't even know how to pray right. If I got an invitation to a White House containing a president that I actually cared to visit, uh I might have to be schooled up on how to approach such a one. Which gate do I go through? Do I have to show a guard? What documents do I need? When you get there, is this a photo op? You know What do I dress? I don't want to have the same stupid tie that he does. Should I bring my wife? Who else can I bring? Can I bring my cat? You know, I mean you might want to know how to show up before a ruler What's acceptable? You might gun. I need my gun, right? I think that would be unadvisable. Like that might be advisable. Yeah And yet we have access to God. That veil of the temple is red. So what will you say? How are you going to present your request to God? You know, He's a father. Hopefully we're not that I hope my children aren't that terrified of me their father. There's a measure of healthy respect Um, but sometimes I get the look. And Dad loves it. How do we speak to God? Well you know you have an advocate 24-7 full-time on your behalf. He ever lives to make intercession. You're too tired to pray. You're just too worn out. It's just been a really long day. And all you can utter out is, Oh Lord Jesus, just please help. That's all you can say. He ever liveth to make intercession for them He's able to save them to the uttermost. And so this is what was required of the sun. And I think I'll stop right there because that's more than enough to chew on. And next week we'll look at all the promises that God gave to the Son to enable him to do this task, because God the Father is a good father, and he's going to promise to his son By way of an example for you and I, that he gives you and I promises as well to survive and make it through this crazy, mad Spinning out of control, over-the-edge, nuts, world in which you and I dwell and live in. You think you've seen some insane things show up in the news? Hang around It's going to get even crazier, folks. But we have a God who is sane, sober, moral, prudent, level-headed, who is no novice at governing the universe. This isn't his First rodeo, we're not the first batch of kids he's ever brought through to heaven. Hang around. He'll hang on to you. You'll see greater miracles. So with that I I am there. If you want, you can keep your hand out so I don't have to reprint for next week and bring them back and we'll cover it at that time. Uh Joe, would you Pastor Joe, would you mind closing us in prayer? Oh, I didn't. Oh, I'm sorry. You said yes. I thought you had a question. I'm sorry. Gracious Father, how amazing and abundant is thy mercy. Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ did indeed endure the cross, despising the shame. And oh Lord, we realize that He is the only one who could endure the cross We could not endure the wrath of God. But he stood between us in that wrath, just as the blood upon the mercy seat stood between the eyes of God and the broken law. Father, we thank you. Thank you for the teaching that Brother Vince is bringing to us. Lord, pray that you would continue to bless and guide him in his study. And Lord, that we might be edified and strengthened and indeed instructed in the things of God. Lord blessed now as we prepare for worship. Father, may you indeed prepare our hearts to receive thy truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.