All right. Well, uh you'll observe from your handout that I have a very dense, long amount of things I'm trying to cover today, and that's generally a bad idea. But It is a relevant topic as all of our topics have been, courtesy of Mr. Burkhoff. We're dealing with the intermediate state, what happens when we die. And last week we looked at the death of the saints and what a glorious ending we have, and I trust that gave you great encouragement. So this week, I uh since I I'm doing Bible studies with Christians. I don't do Bible studies with unbelievers. They need evangelism. This week we're covering the topic of the doctrine of hell. And I'm doing it a little differently. I'm going to tell you five bad ideas about hell that are out there. It has been said through the Barnard Research Group that 6% of people who are churched reject Christianity because of the Bible's teachings on hell. They don't believe that God, a loving God, would send people to an eternal hell. They just cannot fathom that concept. And the Bible is very clear. As I trust you'll see going through these pat these uh doctrinal ideas, I think the Bible's pretty clear about the state of the wicked, why they're there, and it's hard to argue against that. If you have a problem with that, you really have a problem with the testimony of Scripture, because God makes no bones about it. In fact, the Lord Jesus Christ, of all the prophets, he of course was that ultimate priest, prophet, and king. He spoke more about hell than any of the other prophets. And certainly he knows about it because he's the one in charge of it. So there's some five bad ideas. We're going to take these one at a time. And the first one is one called Sheol Hades. It differs by its name. And uh this is a modern idea. What it basically says at death, both the, and here's your fill-in-the-blanks, both the pious and the wicked. descend to Sheol, that's the Old Testament word for hell, or to Hades, the New Testament word for hell. They say they descend there. Alright, I get it that the wicked descend there, but why would the pious go there as well? Why would the Christians go there? They would teach, therefore, that in this location there is no reward, there's no punishment, it's a dreary abode, it's a joyless, slumberous inactivity. And pretty much every human being shares that same fate, they would say. But this idea is false for a number of reasons. And so here's the scripture verses I have before you to show you why these are false. For big reasons. One big reason and three good ideas to shore up the truth of what's going on here. The idea is false because Scriptures represent Sheol in the Old Testament, Hades in the New, as a warning. It's presented as a warning, meaning, watch out, you don't want to go there. Now, if it's a warning against death, of which we all partake. That would strike us as a little odd. For instance, Psalm 9 in verse 17, the wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. That's a pretty sharp warning. This is what happens to those who forget God. The harlot in Proverbs 5, her feet go down to death, her steps take hold on hell. Solomon here warning us, his sons at first, and by extension us, that you don't want to go with this harlot because her steps take hold on hell. Don't go there. Proverbs 7. 27, the same teaching. Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death. Down to the chambers of death. It sounds even worse than the grave. Proverbs 918, speaking of the young man deceived by that harlot, but he knoweth not that the dead are there, and that her guests are in the depths of hell. Notice he says he knoweth not He doesn't know something about this woman. Proverbs 15 tells us the way of life is above to the wise that he may depart from hell beneath. This is a powerful argument that says for the believer, he has a way that is above that which most all unbelievers descend to, which is hell and death and destruction. Proverbs 23, 14, thou shalt speaking of a good passage on child discipline and nurturing. Thou shalt beat him with the rod and shalt deliver his soul from hell. If the child does wrong, at some point he needs to be told in a very strong way, what you're doing is absolutely incorrect. And sadly in our day, parents don't do this The child grows up ignoring authority. They have no respect for authority. Someday he decides to commit a crime, maybe with a gun. And he meets a police officer who decidedly tells him no with a bullet through the forehead. That's the first time he actually learns no. I think that's a little late I think that's the wrong way to finally get a message through to his head. It's far better when they're moldable that they receive the rod of correction. Luke 16 we read about the rich man. And Lazarus it says, and in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torment. So this is a description of the rich man. And this is a place called torments. And he begs in verse 28, uh Abraham. I have five brethren that he may testify unto them. Send Lazarus to them, lest they also come into this place of torment. That whole parable. that the Lord Jesus gave. It is as a warning. You don't want to go there. And so it's not something held out as a final destination for both the righteous and the wicked. It's held out as a place of warning for all, so that we may learn. But indeed, that word Sheol and Hades are used as a place where uh believers go. How are we to understand that? Well, we have to understand that scriptures, just like any other uh book capturing a written language, words have different meanings depending on context. This is a fallacy that the that the one definition fits all. There's no language where you have one definition that fits every single word. The classic example I use is the word run. I believe it's one of the words with the most number of meanings in the English language. You go run to the store to get some tissues because your nose is running. And when you went inside you left the engine running. And you're also running a business, you're running for office. You have a run in your hose, you let the dog run, and the dog run outside, and oh by the way, none of those mentions of the word I said to you overlap. They have nothing in common with each other other than that three-letter word run. But they all mean something different depending on the context. And you understood exactly what I meant because you understand English. Same is true with the word Hades So Hades or Sheol can be a reference to the grave for the body. Abram said this, my son shall not go down with you. Jacob says this. He says, for his brother is dead, he's left alone, and if mischief befall him in the way which you go, you shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. This is the patriarch Jacob. He's not in hell, but he is buried He's buried in something called a grave, and so the King James translators were right to render that word Sheol as grave, because that is one of the senses of the word. It's listed as a state or condition or place of death. You see in 1 Samuel 2, 6, the Lord killeth and maketh alive, he bringeth down to the grave and bringeth up. And that grave is the word Sheol. He leads them down there. Psalm 8948. What man is he that liveth? Shall not see death. He shall deliver his soul from the hand, shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave, Sheol? So again, a reference to a place of death. The same is true in the book of the New Testament, seen in the book of Revelation. So you can see it as a state or a place of condition of death. And of course, all do go there. But the idea of what you and I would understand to be as hell, that biblical teaching of the final state of the wicked, no, believers don't go there. That's not for them. There is the places where it is clearly referencing that state, and that's in Deuteronomy 32 and verse 22. The Lord says, A fire is kindled in mine anger. And shall burn unto the lowest hell, and shall consume the earth with their increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountains. Folks, that's a pretty ultimate Condition. That is something that is very catastrophic and something we find at the end of time. When the Lord returns and He takes over the uh planet and He uh delivers it to ashes and he delivers his righteous uh to heaven and the wicked cast into hell and he creates a new heaven and new earth. Yes, I can see that happening there. I can see that happening at that point. Psalm 86, great is thy mercy toward me, thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. It's interesting to use that phrase the lowest hell because the scripture seems to indicate that there is the the the Hades that all men descend into upon death, and then there's the lower Hades, that ultimate hell that has no relief whatsoever. They are risen from that first, and if they're not righteous in Christ, they are cast forever into the last So this is the uh one of the bad ideas called Sheol Hades. Just to be I missed this, but the two blanks at the top at the very beginning. Pious and wicked. It's a place where they assume that both the pious and the wicked descend. That's a bad idea. That is a bad idea because the pious do not go there. Second point is one I'm sure you've heard of, and it's a Roman Catholic doctrine, and this is the bad doctrine of purgatory. Purgatory. And if I ask how many of you heard that, I dare say everyone's hands will be raised. What does it teach? Well it teaches that those who are perfect at death, yeah, who's that, right? Those who are perfect at death are at once admitted to heaven. But those who are not perfectly cleansed at death enter into a place of, and here's your next fill-in-the-blank, they enter into a place of purification. You see, purgatory is held out as a place of purification. And the length of your stay varies according to the need of individual cases. And it can be shortened by prayers, it can be shortened by good works, it can be shortened by, you guessed it, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, yep, a little bit of And the masses of clergy are pious friends Uh just pray long enough and give hard enough and dear old Uncle Bubba, who was a drunk and a child molester all of his life, we'll spring him out. Boy, it's gonna be hard. He's He's feeling the heat right now. He needs your air conditioner on him, but you can do it. Pull him out. Well, that's a totally false idea. It's a false idea on multiple fronts. Multiple fronts, it's bad The first of all is the idea is false because it banks on this idea that says our good works are meritorious, that somehow My good works give merit, and because of my good merit, I go to heaven, but by lack of that merit I descend into purgatory. Well, that's Before we even get to purgatory, we've already gone off the rails. Purgatory is just a holding bucket for the bad idea that preceded it. Because the scriptures are very clear, and the Apostle Paul is, I don't know how clear he could get. It says, Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Verse 28 of Romans 3. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith. without the deeds of the law. How much clearer can you get? He's very express about that, because uh this is not something that uh you and I can produce enough of as sinners The idea is also false because it would require men, and this is probably the most blasphemous one, it requires men to add to Jesus' work It's somewhat like looking at an Olympic medalist who just scored a perfect 10 in all of their trials and you come up to them afterward and says, yeah, that's nice, but you need to do a little extra before you get this gold medal No, they just scored a perfect ten. They get the gold medal. Everybody gave them a ten. That's a cheesy illustration, but the Lord Jesus Christ, you can't add to his work at all His work is absolutely utterly entirely sufficient. It needs not one ounce of anything that man can add to it. In fact, it would detract from it at anything. In Romans 5 it says, by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one, Uno Ains, Wahid. I don't know too many languages, but I can tell you right now it means one. By the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. And this is where obedience comes into play. It's the obedience of Christ. Aren't you glad our Savior was obedient unto death? Romans 11, 6, again, the Apostle becoming extremely clear, he says, if by grace, then it is no more of works, otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it, it being salvation, if it be of works, then it's no more grace. Otherwise, work is no more work He makes a clear distinction that the two cannot mix. They're inert. They don't combine. There's no additive ability to them. They are There's a Venn diagram with nothing touching. It's either works or it is grace. You cannot have middle ground. And so purgatory is bada on that account. Yes, Victoria. to go back to the first verse that you offered as proof against the bad idea of purgatory. Um there was a phrase in there that really caught my attention and I don't think I've fully understood it. Maybe you can parse it out for me more. I'll see if I can. I may have to defer it, but what is that phrase? Sure. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Romans 320. Mm-hmm. It's like We know, like I've always known, yeah, we decan's our works don't save us. Um but What does that phrase mean? It's an interesting tie, yeah. What does that mean? The phrase is saying that the purpose of the law is to expose sin, not to improve man. The purpose of the law is to expose sin. It does a very good job of that. But it's not, its purpose has never been to help you. It's help is that it points you to your sin and it defines and it models and it makes a little silhouette of a perfectly righteous individual And of all the people that pass in front of that silhouette, only Christ fits it perfectly. So by the laws and knowledge of sin. Yeah, that's what's going on. There's more to it, but suffice that for now. Paul called her the schoolmaster. This is sin. Stay away from it. Yep. And furthermore, this idea of purgatory is false because it says we can perform a work in excess of the command and get credit. The high-powered theological term is called supererogation. That is, oy, that pope or that cardinal or that bishop. He is just so righteous. Boy, he's such a righteous man. Forget the fact that he's molesting children in the back room, but boy, he's such a righteous man. He looks so nice. He's so well coifed. He's such a holy man. Boy, if I could just get him to pray for so-and-so. If I could just get a little bit of his Extra work, because he's got something in he's got a little in heaven, he's got a brownie jar that's got a lot of brownies in it. He's got some some goody points in there. If some of his goody points can be transferred, that would be great. That's the idea. Super arrogation, meaning I've done so well I get extra credit in life. Right? There is no extra credit, folks If anything, you get extra debt. There's no extra credit, so far as God's concerned. The Apostle Paul says this in Romans 7. 18, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me. Now he's speaking as a believer. But how to perform that which is good I find not. Verse 24. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? So he's going out of his way to point out, no, even as a believer, the the stain, the sting, the sense of sin still remains. Now I have to stop for a moment because I don't want you to think that a believer can do nothing good whatsoever, nothing pleasing him God's sight. The difference is that in the believer, sin no longer reigns, but it remains. It's still present. But it doesn't reign. It doesn't have that domineering force it once had where you must obey. The flesh, the world, the devil, that's broken. That's broken. But a believer can say no to those things And he can walk according to the will of God. He can't do that. Can he do it perfectly? Not in this life. But I'll tell you what, it's a big difference. That's a mighty big difference. Isaiah 64, 6, we are all as an unclean thing, all our righteousnesses. Now it doesn't say unrighteousness. It says, all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. And we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. And in the original, that word filthy rags is rather strong and sharp. Uh the idea is also false because it says that the Church, in this case the Roman Catholic Church's power of the keys is absolute and judicial. Now you may not be familiar with this, but they believe that they hold the keys to heaven and hell. That they've got the keys. Only them. Only they've got it. And um they uh believe that uh that key is uh uh uh in their power and control and so they can do as they wish to lock or unlock you know Uncle Bubba out of the the prison of purgatory. Well, let's go look at some scriptures that talks about this. Matthew 16 is where they get this idea from, because the Lord Jesus says to Peter shortly after his confession, I say also unto thee that thou art Peter And upon this rock, that would be the rock of his confession, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. The tense of the Greek is really interesting here. literally rendered in the English, whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be having been bound in heaven, meaning you're just echoing what heaven is already Pronounced. So it's not so much that you're the one turning the key, you're the one recognizing, yep, the Lord has declared this person to be given up. Now, what is this key? Well, it's not a judicial key. Luke 11, the Lord Jesus tells us what it is. Woe unto you, lawyers, you have taken away the key of knowledge. Ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in, ye hindered. So the key that's held by the church is the key of knowledge You and that is the key. It does unlock men from the constraints of blindness. It does open their eyes to spiritual things. It does release them from the devil's prison. Yea, when the preaching of the word comes, God's pleased to quicken it. That is the key the church has. But if you change this, you shut this book And you pull something else out and you preach from that, well, you're using the wrong key. That key won't unlock it. Oh, but I don't understand the Bible. Well, pull out your car key. It's got some sharp edges to it Or if you look at the waveform that that little beep is making, it's got some really odd spikes. Why don't you just round a few of those off and see if it opens up your car? No, it won't. There is some peculiar language in the scriptures because that's all part of its nature. It's a key. It's a key of knowledge. I hope that illustration is helpful. The Lord Jesus says in Revelation 1 and again in Revelation 3 He says, I am he that liveth and was dead. I'm in Revelation 1. 18. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. No, that's a totally different set of keys, and the Lord Jesus alone has those keys. Revelation 3. 7, he makes it clear. These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth, and shutteth, and no man openeth. You see, the Lord Jesus alone is the one. Who declares, heaven is opened for this individual. Heaven is shut against this individual. Hell is wide open for this individual Depart ye cursed into everlasting darkness. He and he alone has that authority. You don't find any parable where the believers are the ones making the pronouncement You don't find that. They are binding some hand and foot, they are around the throne giving glory, but they're not making the pronouncement The Lord and the Lord alone. He's committed all judgment to the Son, to the Son alone. He alone has that judgment. And in fact, one of my favorite proof texts against the idea of purgatory is the thief on the cross. Here's a man who was dying on a thief because he was a man stealer. You can deduce that from the Old Testament. The only reason you would crucify a thief is if he was somebody who was trading in the souls of men. He was a slave trader, the worst kind of thief that could possibly be. He's robbing the life and the work of an individual and enslaving him under others. He was crucified. And yet he had heard the message of Christ. And somewhere along the line, right at that 23rd hour, 59th minute, 45th second of life, He becomes saved. But what a testimony he has. That's a good sermon if you ever hear one about the thief on the cross. We indeed justly deserve this reward. He agreed. Yep, I ought to be up here Whereas before he was slinging accusations to the Lord. You know what the Lord said to him? Well, you better call out for some Catholic friends down here because they got a whole lot of praying for you, son You're going to be in the back of you're in the back of the bus in purgatory. No. He said, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. The Lord didn't say you better find some Baptists and get wet quick, son. Have somebody haul a lot of water up here. You better hope there's some water. Because you're not going to make it. You got one last thing left to do. No. Today you shall be with me in paradise. If ever there was a purgatory candidate, it was the thief on the cross, and that's not What the Lord Jesus said to him, you're not going to purgatory. You'll be with me in paradise. And wherever Christ is, that's paradise. That's paradise So purgatory is false, and I've just given you a thumbnail sketch of the key elements that make it false. Now, there's another doctrine out there. We've looked at Sheol Hades, we've looked at purgatory There's a third one. It's called soul sleep. Soul sleep. This is a Jehovah's Witness doctrine The Jehovah's Witnesses push this. And what it is is that they believe at death the soul, not your body, the soul enters into a state of, here's your fill-in-the-blank, unconscious sleep that your soul becomes unconscious. That you you you're simply uh not aware of anything And it's a peculiar fascination for those who find it hard to believe in a continuance of consciousness apart from the brain, that when the brain ceases, how can there still be consciousness? because you you your mind is decayed and there's no pathways there. How can there be any such thing as a consciousness? Evolutionists like to uh go down this path and so it's very appealing to those who believe in theistic evolution And the idea is based on several passages. For instance, Matthew 9. 24, Jesus said unto them, Give place, for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth, and they laughed in discord. This is one of his earlier miracles. He comes in to heal somebody. He arrives, quote unquote, late. The girl dies, and they said, um Uh it's too late, says no no, step aside. She's just sleeping. He says she's sleeping. And so they would say, Ah, see their soul sleep And in Acts 7 and verse 60, and he, Stephen, kneeled down and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he said this, he, that is Stephen, fell asleep. And there's others in 1 Thessalonians and Psalm 115. Psalm 115, 17 is probably one of the more powerful ones. uh that they use. It says, the dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into silence. This is a passage that Mr. Camping actually used. He kind of had a tolerance to this idea of soul sleep as well, unfortunately So the idea is false because scriptures teach that all, repeat, all, experience a conscious life immediately after death. Oh. After death, you will be more awake and aware than you could ever have imagined. In Ecclesiastes, we read this in 12, Ecclesiastes 12 and verse 5. Ecclesiastes 12 is speaking about uh it's very poetic language, speaking about the end of one's life, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, fear shall be in the way. The almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail, because man goeth to his long home. And the mourners go about the street. What is this long home? Verse 7. Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it. So there you have the spirit essence, in fact, going to God That sounds conscious. That doesn't sound like it's sleeping. That sounds like it's in God's presence. Psalm 90 and verse 10 The days of our years are three-score years and ten, if by reason of strength they be four-score years, yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow, is soon cut off, and we fly away. The believers depart Elijah was brought to heaven in a chariot of fire. Moses was brought into the presence of God and was still there. Of course, our famous account. It's kind of a semi-parable. There's strong elements of literal truth to it as well, and I think this is one of them. In Luke 16, the rich man and the beggar, it says the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, seeth Abraham afar off. So this is immediately upon death. And, you know, it's Something that crosses my mind, but I'm too polite to say because of the grief, the grief that many have. Uh uh nearly every funeral I've been to of an unbeliever, they always call it a celebration of life, and they'll say, well he's in a he or she is in a better place. A better place. And I just want to say I wouldn't count hell a better place. I just know that would just add, you know, just just a tremendous shock to them, and maybe I shouldn't be afraid to mention that statement, find some passage in scripture to say that, but they didn't believe in Christ. Folks, your loved one isn't in a better place. They're in hell. This is a warning to you. You need to repent lest you come to this place. You want to know what he's saying? He's saying, I have five brethren. Tell them Send Lazarus that they come not to this place of torment. Maybe that would be the passage to give them. God would give me the boldness to say that. It might rattle somebody. uh and uh and and awake them from their their real sleep. Um we also have uh second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 8, the apostle says, We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord The apostle says, I'm going to straight betwixt the two, whether to uh desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. So for the believer, uh The Bible is very clear that there is no cessation of consciousness. You continue to exist. There's no cessation of life. There's no pause. You have eternal life. It continues. And for the wicked They continue on as well, straight into damnation. So that's soul sleep, and that's the ideas there. You uh uh uh there's other passage in Revelation which makes it pretty clear that the believers uh do not have termination of life. Revelation 6. 9, when you'd open the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God and for the testimony which they held. So here the souls of the saints are there crying out, O Lord God, how long till thou dost not judge and avenge thy servants. uh from them that dwell upon the earth. So there they are. They're pleading. They're they're speaking with God in heaven. We find them there. And um uh uh believers teach eternal life with the believer's soul again no termination of consciousness. Alright, there's a fourth bad idea. Sheol Hades. Oh Mike, yes please. Old Testament passage before Psalm 19 That was Psalm uh uh the soul that returns unto God. That was Ecclesiastes twelve seven. Yep. It wasn't on the sheet. The soul does not go into soul sleep. It is that that's what soul sleep teaches, that the soul becomes unconscious. Oh, unconsciously. Unconsciously. Yes, they're unconscious. Fourth one is annihilation, the doctrine of annihilation Uh unfortunately, Mr. Mr. Scamp, he strayed into this as well. It is an atheistic doctrine, sadly And so why Mr. C, who was always very vehement about the teachings of hell, for him to slide into that was uh quite disturbing. It teaches that, you know what? There's no conscious existence, if any, at all after death. If there's any existence at all after death, they teach that Although man was created immortal, they who continue in sin are deprived by God at their death of their immortality, and finally destroyed, they're bereft forever of consciousness And the atheists base this comparison this idea on the comparison of the brain with the liver. They say, for instance, as the liver produces bile, so the brain produces consciousness, that is, its function. They would say that's what we call the soul. It's this function of the brain. And so when the brain stops, so does your soul. That's their reasoning. That's how they come to this point. But here's the confusion. They're confusing the worker, that is your soul, your spirit, with the machine, which is your brain, through which the soul operates. So they're confusing the two. There actually is something that is given by God uh that uh endures beyond that. Yes. It's interesting that in Revelation six nine, which you referenced earlier, he sees the souls. They seem to be disembodied. Yes. They're recognized as who they are, but there's no body involved. Because the body is the thing that is asleep. It's the body that's asleep. sorry I didn't round that point out, but thanks for bringing that up again. It's the body that rests in the grave awaiting the resurrection. Then it will be rejoined with the soul. So the shell, the house, you're just out of your house. Thus though I give my body to be Mm-hmm. Yes, it profits me nothing, right? Because the body's just a shell. There's no value to that. Alright, so the idea is based on a threat to sinners with death and destruction. It says in Malachi 4. 1, the day comes, they shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble. And the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, and it shall leave them neither root nor branch. So that sounds like a complete there's the word annihilation. Sounds like they're absolutely obliterated, and there's nothing left 2 Peter 2. 12, these as natural brute beasts are made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not, and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. Hear that phrase utterly perish. Now it's there's two reasons why this idea, this teaching is false Two reasons. One, it teaches that sinners, uh the Bible does in fact teach that sinners will continue to exist. This isn't the end all be all do all. This is a very comforting doctrine to the wicked. In fact, in Uh Isaiah says they've made a a a covenant with death and with hell and say we are at ease. They think, ah, just that's that's where you see a lot of suicide. I'll just put all this away, poof, it'll all be gone. All my problems will be gone. They'll all be behind me. That's why suicide is such a horrible option. Number one, it takes all of your problems, wraps it up, hands it to somebody you love, and multiplies it by nine It just makes somebody else's life that much, much, much worse. And number two, your problems are not gone, and they are now permanently unfixable. It is a horrifically, horrifically bad idea. Sinners do continue to exist. Matthew 25, 46. It speaks of the wicked. These shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. Look at that closely. There's everlasting punishment, and there is life eternal. If you believe in eternal life, of necessity you must believe in eternal punishment, because that's the same Greek word. If you have life everlasting, you also have everlasting punishment. That's from the mouth of the Lord Jesus. In Romans 9, the Apostle Paul is answering a question with a very sharp rhetorical question. He says, what if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath fitted To destruction. Now, this is a hard teaching, and hear me, and I trust you'll be able to receive it. God created man in his image. He didn't create the earth in his image. The water is not in his image, though he uses water as a picture of the gospel and at times of the Holy Spirit. The birds are not a picture of God, though he says mounting up with wings as eagles. They were not made in the image of God The cows are not, though there is a calf that's slain, and the lambs that are slain, picturing the atonement of Christ. It was man that was made in the image of God. Well, what is it that's different about all those? Well, when the beasts die, Yeah. Their consciousness ceases. They stop. There's nothing further for them. They don't have to answer for their sins. They didn't sin at the garden. They didn't do anything wrong. The rocks did what they were supposed to do, the trees did what they were supposed to do, the animals did what they were supposed to do. They didn't do wrong. It was man that screwed up. But man is made in the image of God, and part of that image is that he's an immortal creature. He lives forever. Ah, but man has introduced a catastrophic problem. He has brought upon himself and all his posterity to follow. A mar, a stain. Man has, as it were, has painted upon himself a big swastika against God. And so now this image of God, this thing that God would hold up and say, This is my image This is reflective of me and my glory. Has now been marred, and now it's going to be a permanent destruction to his glory. It is a permanent mark against his glory. And because man has been made immortal, therefore it has to go to an immortal prison. Because that place has got to be where all this that takes away from his glory has to go. And so the Apostle Paul says, well what if God is willing to make his power known? He wants to make it known to the creation. I have the power to do this. I have the power to pull this off. I am an everlasting, eternal, living God. I am the one that has this. Man can't do that. But God can. And so why does God do it? The Apostles Paul basically says, because he can. That's why he does it. Because he can. You can. He can. He's making his power known. Hell is an eternal monument to God's law and his power, and heaven is an eternal monument to his grace and to his mercy and his goodness And so that is the reason. So we see the apostles saying that these are vessels of wrath fitted to destruction. Ah, but if the human body were consumed with fire, wouldn't it just go poof? Yes, it would. That's why God's going to fit it That word fitted is an interesting one because it's the word used when the apostles uh Peter and James and John were out there and they were they had their nets. It says they were mending their nets They're mending their nets, they're they're fitting, they're repairing it. God is able to take this body, this body that sinned against him, this body that was in rebellion against God, this body that was enjoying fornication, this body that was doing drunken things and all kinds of things led about by the world. That same body God will fit to endure an eternity in hell and feel every ounce of pain. That's hard to fathom. But that's what God can do, and that's what God does do to the wicked. And you see, that is a tremendous restraint. Scriptures puts it out as a warning. It would be very I think you'd have a harder case against the Lord if he didn't tell you about that. this. And that's what you faced on the backside. If he didn't say anything about it, if it just poof showed up, I was never told about this. I would have changed. No, scriptures are plain. This is the fate. This is the end. And I didn't even, the word fate shouldn't even be used either. Look at this language in Revelation 14. 10. How do you Get this idea that they don't continue to exist. Revelation 14. 10, it says, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture. And to the cup of his indignation he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the angels, in the presence of the Lamb. People want hell to be a place, well I'll just be partying with my friends. Sorry, you're in isolation. You didn't like God, you'll be without God and all that he represents. God is love and hell there's no love. God is comfort and hell there's no comfort. God is life and hell there's no life. There's death. Everything you didn't like about God is exactly what he's going to give you, everything that is without God. And yet he's there tormenting. He's the tormentor. It says, And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receives the mark of his name. No rest. That doesn't sound like a party to me, folks. Don't kid yourself. Don't follow that stupid nonsense that you caught your college buddies told you or your high school buddies, I'll be partying with my friends in hell. No, you won't No, you won't. That's a lie from the pit of hell. It's not going to happen. Scriptures are very clear. There's degrees of punishment. Luke 12, 47. That servant which knew his Lord's will. And prepared not himself. Do you know that Joe? Prepared not himself. We have to know, we have to prepare based on what we know. I'm saying it to my brother because to whom much is given, much is required Neither did according to his will shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not and did commit things worthy of stripes shall be beaten with few stripes, for unto whomsoever much is given of him much shall be required And to whom men have committed the much, of him they will ask the more. Now I'm not saying that to I love my brother but uh just understand the spirit in which I said that. Please if you look in the context of that passage, I was gonna Luke twelve? Yeah. Yes. It is. And I to be frankly, it's beyond me this passage Other than temporal temporary stripes. Otherwise it could be used by Roman Catholics for purgatory, which I don't think I Yeah, they don't like that for that purpose. Yeah. That wouldn't work. That wouldn't fit their their mode. But it is and I don't think I haven't done a study in this, but I don't think it's in the Synoptic Gospels that I don't know if that's in other passages. I think it's in Luke only, can't in Muc Holmus. Yeah. So it's very um It's an intense passage. It's very intense. So it it is certainly it is certainly a sharp warning to the covenant youth who abandoned the faith. Yeah, there you go. Yeah. That that's what I was gonna say. You know, you think about the advantages we as quote unquote American Christians have had. Yeah. You know, we haven't had persecution, we haven't had to stand up for our faith or die. You know, we've had the scripture in abundance. And we'll answer for that. Yes. Absolutely. One last one. Mike real quick and then Anton. those uh unfaithful servants, uh very unfaithful you would say, or catastrophically unfaithful, he will come when he is not aware, the Lord of that servant, and will cut him in asunder And or cut them in sunder and will appoint his portion, him his portion with the unbelievers. Yeah, it's yeah. In this life he thinks he's he's well. Anton? Yeah, I was just gonna make the point that um uh when Jesus was talking about the rich man and Lazarus, what would be the point of bringing up rich the rich man if there was no eternal torment You know, if it w just cease there. Even if people perceive it to be a parable, which it doesn't say that it is, uh, it still wouldn't make sense because Jesus' parables aren't based on false things. Correct, but I did have one question. Do you notice the people that claim annihilationism if they think that the devil and his angels uh are annihilated as well because the scriptures are just clear saying y you know the wicked are gonna go where the devil where the devil's prepared for the devil Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know if they extend at that point. They probably don't because again this is a popular uh theistic evolution or atheistic view and so they kind of deny the whole spiritual world to begin with. That's just not even in view. Crazy. Our last point that I have absolutely no time to cover in depth, and unfortunately it's also got some of the most difficult scripture that it's based on is the fifth bad idea called second probation. Second probation means you get another opportunity after death, and that's your fill-in-the-blank. It's a scholarly idea, it's wishful thinking. It says if you die in your sins, it's not too late, get a second chance You know, shot at it. Oops, now I'm serious. Where do they get this idea from? Well, they get this idea, they say, because you know, nobody will perish without having been a favorable opportunity to know and accept Christ. I mean somehow they've got to hear, they've got to at least have a shot at it. They've they it has to have been presented. Well scriptures are clear that there's plenty of nations that God and cities, I should be clear to whom he did not direct the gospel for the express purpose that they would go to hell. But the idea is based on 1 Peter, and this is our last section Uh 1 Peter 3. If you isolate these verses out of context, and admittedly they're difficult verses, but you can't work through them, and I don't have time to work through them. So you're just gonna have to believe me, wink wink. Pull the notes down. I'm happy to share them with you. They look at this phrase in 1 Peter 3. 19, speaking of the Spirit of God, by which he also went and preached unto the spirits in prison. And then 1 Peter 4, 6, for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. So They look at that, and I've actually had somebody in my job approach me with this, saying, oh yes, you know, uh Jesus went and preached to the spirits in prison Uh you know, he he descended when he went uh at the cross when he died. He he was down there preaching to people in prison, and some of them might come out. That's second probation, that's the concept there. Uh yes. How is this different from purgatory? Because I know Catholics will Not much different, same concept, same concept, uh, but they're particularly uh uh uh focused on these and the Uh the difference is that these in the second probation camp saying, well, they've got to hear the gospel and live, whereas the the purgatory says somebody's got to do something good to get them out. So that's the the slight distinction there. Good question. All right. So what's going on in First Peter? Well, um Basically, there's a commentary that uh that John Gill gives, and I will try to summarize it for you. It's tricky because that word dead obviously means the same in 1 Peter 4, 6 and the preceding verse, verse 5, who's ready to judge the quick and the dead, it says in verse 5. But the meaning is that the gospel to which men will be held accountable was preached in both the Old and the New Testament. And how do we know that? Because it's been preached to folks that are now physically dead He doesn't say the gospel is being preached to physically dead people. He says it was preached to these dead people. Because Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He did in fact preach to these people. But they're now dead. The cause of verse 6 is that Jesus will judge all men, both the Old Testament dead and the New Testament dead and living, on the basis of Christ and his gospel. So Peter's preventing objection to those who say that Christ and the gospel is a recent event and cannot be the sole basis upon which to judge the whole world. I know that's quick. I don't have time to unpack that. I'm totally out of time. That's what I get for making four pages of notes and trying to cover the whole doctrine sweep in one shot. Just doesn't work There's a several key reasons why this is false, because scriptures show unbelievers in a fixed, unalterable state in hell upon death. And because Scripture teaches the judgment of unbelievers based on what they've done in the flesh here and now. So there is no second chance, bottom line. Joe. Ultimately, as in all false doctrine. It only tries to make God more like man. Man doesn't want God to eternally punish. To be God. Right. But scripture makes man more like God. Scripture transforms us back to the image of Christ. But false doctrine tries to bring Christ down to man. Yep. Very much so. All right, well let's close in prayer, and if I could lean upon Anton to do that, would you mind, brother? Thank you. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for uh granting us this time to consider what your scripture says. uh of the everlasting condition of the soul, especially for those that are uh wicked and remain in unbelief, O Lord. May this be a sober reminder for us, O Lord, and uh what a joy it is for the believer that knows that they're free from it. There's uh no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus and may it be a sober reminder uh for us to pray for for those that are close to us and that we encounter. that don't know you, the judgment that awaits, O Lord. Thank you for the mercies that there are in Christ, and Lord, we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.