Okay. Well, we have a interesting study today on the attributes of God, and there are handouts. Victoria uh I think Mrs. Ross has one buried underneath there somewhere. We're going to cover these a couple at a time. The book you have actually covers all of them very quickly at one shot, but today we're going to be talking about the goodness of God and the wisdom of God. And I think if you were to ask most people, Christian or otherwise, is God good, at least conservative uh people who claim to be Christian, they would all say yes, and they would be correct. We readily acknowledge that. You have in the Psalms for Lord ol uh for thou Lord art good and ready to forgive And Psalm 118, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. You see lots of verses of scriptures that talk about our Lord like that. Good and upright is the Lord. Thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes But that's not what this attribute is really talking about. One of the difficulties theologians have is putting a succinct summary label on the attributes as they try to get a better handle on what the scriptures teach us concerning who God is. And so this one just fell right into the name of goodness of God, but there's a little nuance here, because it's not the fact that God Himself is good, though that is true. What the doctrine is getting at is that God is good to all of his creatures. He displays that goodness very broadly. He's good unto all. Birkhoff put it this way, quote, that perfection which prompts him to deal kindly and bounteously with all his So that's the sense of what we've got going on here. So you can look at your handout here, and you'll see the verses that we're speaking about. And the first is in Psalm 36. Psalm 36 and verse 6, Thy righteousness is like the great mountains. Thy judgments are a great deep. O Lord, thou preservest man and beast. Here this is speaking about God preserving meaning keeping their life alive. He does what is necessary for them to survive. Psalm 104 speaks about the young lions who roar after their prey. They seek their meat from God. Verse 26, there go the ships, and there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein. Incidentally, that would be a reference to a what the old timers would call a sea monster. Or a sea dragon, these creatures that are in the deep. They do exist. These wait all upon thee that thou mayest give them their meat or their food in due season That thou givest them, they gather. Thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good. So that's what the theologians are getting at here, is that God, in fact, um freely feeds and does good to all. Now what's impressive about that is the all part. Our all good in return Have you ever felt the slight when you've made some food and you bring it to a gathering and people either don't eat your food or they eat a little bit of it and then they dump big platefuls of it in the trash can There's nothing more annoying than all the labor and love you show to make these nice desserts and all the painstaking effort to to to do everything, the little sprinkles and all this, and you just see some kid with his hand grabbing a whole pile of them and his mother not stopping him, and he goes and eats all this and just dumps it right in the trash. You're a little less inclined when you find out that the so-and-so family is going to be coming with Little Junior again at the next event, you're a little less inclined to want to make all of those nice things. But that's not our Lord He is good to all. He continues to freely give in spite of what they do to him. That's an amazing attribute, and we'll think about that a little bit more. In the New Testament, we have in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you. This is kind of a description of what I've just been talking about. Pray for them which despitefully usually persecute you, that ye may be the children of your father, which is in heaven. For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. So this is the Example here we have of God's goodness to all. Let's look at an example of God's goodness, and he mentions it there at the tail end of Matthew 5, 45. And that is the example of rain. Acts fourteen says this Speaking of God, nevertheless he, God left not himself without witness, so the rain itself is a witness to God in that he did good and gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Psalm 147 speaks of him preparing rain for the earth. Andy, I want you to think for a moment about this business of something as commonplace as rain. We have a brother in southern Arizona, his name is Mike Taranzoni, and his prayer request this past Wednesday was for rain. He said in the number of years, I forget how many decades he's lived in Arizona, this is the worst drought on record that he has ever seen. It's a tinder box everywhere he wants to go visit. He plans to go on vacation soon and the projected weather forecast is well over 110 degrees I told him that's a bad bad planning on his part. But it's beastly hot and there has been no rain there. And of course in that desert type climate, that is an extremely dire situation. So we've we think about rain and and how it comes and the rarity and the scarceness of it. In our area here on the East Coast, we're uh quite fortunate to be near large bodies of water The Potomac River, owned by the state of Maryland, at least the part it borders with, provides it with ample water supply. We have the Susquehanna, we have other The Tuxent River, we have a number of rivers that come through. We have plenty of water out here, and we don't think twice about it. We get lots of rain. The late summer brings up those hurricanes. All that sort of stuff gives us rain. But did you realize how scarce fresh water actually is across the globe? So I draw your attention to this little table I have on the back of the handout, which talks about the volume of water that is stored in the Earth's water cycle reservoir. Most of it is in the oceans, and of course we know what the obvious problem is with all the water locked up in the oceans. It's far too difficult through desalinization plants to make it potable fresh water. So 97 and a quarter percent of the water right there is locked up in the oceans. Now you have some in the ice caps and glaciers, another two percent in groundwater. Well, all three of those are kind of difficult to get to. It's not kind of right in your front door. You can't hold a cup out and get it. You've got to do work to go retrieve it. Well, if you add up those first three, and this is not a math quiz, but if you add up those first three, you're at 99. 98% of the Earth's water locked up in those resources. That's an awful lot. Lakes, 0. 01%, soil moisture, just you know, wet dirt. The atmosphere, clouds have some, streams and rivers, and of course you a living thing So you certainly see that there's a great scarcity of fresh water. And so it is a mercy of God to transport water from off the surface of the ocean through evaporation, put it into these clouds, haul it inland where it condenses and drops out. That's God's natural desalinization process. And it's wonderful when it comes. It clears out the air. We may complain about it, but we ought to be careful because we're actually grumbling against God. He's the one that sends it to us. Now, back in Acts 14 on the front side of the little handout here, you have the passage of Acts 14. Nevertheless, he left not himself without a witness. And we've just looked at the example of rain, and I want to ask the question, what kind of a witness does this give? How might God use that witness? His presence. Okay, his presence, yeah. Well in what sense? Is he present in the rain or what are you thinking? Well it says in Acts 14, nevertheless, he left not himself without a witness, meaning God gave himself a witness in that he did good and gave us rain from heaven. So the book of Acts says that the rain from heaven is a witness to God. And I'm just scratching our heads a little bit and saying, well, how does that work? What does that mean that that is a witness? I'm I'm okay with presence. I just want to kind of round it out some. Victoria? I know this is kind of obvious, but it's a witness to God's goodness to his people. And and even to the unjust. Okay, so it's uh it's it's a witness to the fact that he cares enough to send it. All right. What else? Uh anybody want to round that out some more? Glory, you look like you have some thoughts. What's that? To get our what the water would just have to witness the fruits. That's right, yeah, there's a benefit from the water, it comes. So the benefits with the water, drinking water. Yeah, drinking water, fruits, okay. Yeah, that all testifies of the Lord. Farmers of course uh in the Midwest back in the day before irrigation systems and even still to this day They're prayer warriors. What are they praying for? Rain. Praying for rain. Rain to come at the right time and just the right amount. Well there was no rain before the flood, isn't that right? Right. That's correct. Before the days of the flood it says a mist went up from the ground and watered the earth, and that makes perfect good sense. I believe the source of the flood and the source of all the water in the ocean was large subterranean chambers, the waters underneath the earth that the Bible talks about. I believe there were very large caverns of water, and when the great fountains of the deep broke open, which I would uh I believe is the mid-Atlantic ridge if you look at a globe which has the terrain model to it. Right in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean you have this ridge thing of mountains shape. I believe that's where the earth cracked like a balloon and all that water came spewing out and that's what flooded the earth and that's what gave us the oceans. It basically flipped the water that was under the earth became on top of the earth. So it was a huge displacement. But before that, the water was underneath the earth, and so it would have come up through chambers as mists or springs and things of that nature. Yeah. I wonder what the people thought when they had all been drowned. We've never seen this before. The water started coming down from the heavens. I'm not sure they would see that as a A blessing. Well that certainly was not one. That was a rather violent uh act of the judgment of God. Uh and and it's one of my favorite topics I love to talk about And it's not the topic at hand. So uh you're tempting me to rabbit trail and I'll resist the temptation for the moment. So God gives us a witness by giving us the rain because he doesn't have to. He can send that cloud elsewhere. He directs the winds. If you ask any meteorologist what controls the weather, they'll give you one main answer. If you tell them what's the main thing that controls the weather, they'll tell you it's the upper winds. This thing called the jet stream. And they may understand a bit of how it operates, but I truly believe that that is one of God's tools for directing rain, is that jet stream and how he controls and maneuvers that Uh of course he uses things he created. He doesn't need to bypass something he made. He can choose the solar flares to come out at a certain rate. He can uh choose to obliterate it, uh the effects of it with volcanoes and the like, but all of that is in his hand. And so he controls all these things. And it is a mercy of God to in fact give us plenty of fresh water and rain. So yes, it is a witness to his goodness. It's a testimony to uh uh to to his uh ability to to bestow these things to us. All right. Well, we leave that for the moment, and maybe that's piqued your interest, some, and look into it a little further. We now look at God's wisdom. And God's wisdom is an aspect of his knowledge There is a difference between wisdom and knowledge, but let me ask you, what do you think is the difference between wisdom and knowledge? A wise person versus a knowledgeable person. Is there a difference? And if so, what is it? Yes, I think there is. Okay. Because uh a wise person has it within him. The knowledge of per knowledgeable person does not necessarily become wise. He becomes knowledgeable, but oftentimes not wise. We're seeing that more Okay, all right. Okay. Uh what is it? Two things. Okay, so you got the word discernment in there. That's good. Means okay, I like that word discernment. Okay, and then a person with knowledge is what? Knowledge is just like facts, he knows some facts, that's all. Yep. He's sort of filled up with facts. Can't use it. Excellent. Excellent. Like that very much. That's a very good distinction between the two. One can accumulate many facts. Yeah. I knew a fellow in college, his name was Greg, and he was the first person of this type I'd ever met. Have you ever heard of a um I don't know if it's a personality disorder or what the proper term is, but have you ever met someone called an idiot savant? Oh yeah. An idiot savant is someone who you meet and their social interaction skills are just kind of not there. They have some really strange, annoying habits. They're maybe not truly present, but they have some phenomenal mental abilities that you cannot explain. They can do things that are just beyond comprehension. So this fellow was an idiot savant. He was at the University of Texas. And he had memorized Every single call sign of every single radio station, AM and FM, in the entire United States of America And so people would go up to him and say, Yeah, I'm from such and such a town and he would in his unusual character I'm not mocking the fellow, but I'm just illustrating Oh, well you're from Beaumont, Texas, and they have these radios, and he would know what the radio's call sign was and what the pr how the announcer would would say it. Some people had testified that as he was sitting in the student lounge, as the television was scrolling baseball scores or something, he had a memorized. He had a literal photographic memory. For him, it was no sweat. He could accumulate facts like nothing. And I'm quite sure he passed with flying collars at the university. But I would never hire him as an employee. I don't need a walking encyclopedia. Maybe there's a place I could use that, but discernment, the ability to apply what you have and what you do know and to make proper application, that's different. And so that's a good distinction between wisdom and knowledge. This is one place I don't like Birkhoff's definition. I'm I'm still scratching my head where he got it from. He says that perfection of God whereby he applies his knowledge Okay, to the attainment of his ends in a way which glorifies him most. All right. Yeah, that's I sort of get it, but my head I'm I'm too dumb to follow that kind of thinking It's sorta correct. I mean I'm not going to argue too much with it. There's this other fellow, Mr. Smith, that says this, that attribute of God, whereby he produces the best possible results with the best possible means I can follow that. I like that one. The best possible result with the best possible means. And so this is what we're talking about in the wisdom of God. And I like that phrase, the best possible means, because sometimes God picks means that you and I would never choose. You would say, wow. Joseph getting to the throne to being in charge of Egypt, second in command, who would have thunk that the way to get there is through a pit, through slavery, through a false accusation, through a Being a political prisoner for two years to helping a couple of um ex-servants in the house to then being brought in at the right place at the right time with the right answer to the right question And that was it. But that was the best possible means because everything lined up picture perfect. There's no question our God is indeed a wise God. You have many passages which speak to that. Romans 11 is 1. Oh the death of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgment and his ways past finding out. Have you ever met a truly wise person before? What characteristics of a truly wise person that you've met, what characteristics about them stood out to you? How did you know, boy, that's a really wise person They're usually rather quiet. They live within themselves more. They take in the knowledge. and process it. They don't brag. They're not quite they're not braggadocious, okay? They're they're somewhat quiet. I I like the quiet part because the proverb says a fool utters all his mind. This person is is chewing it over. Present company accepted of course. level headed. They don't get easily riled up by one thing or another and very level headed. When they're presented with maybe ideas that are like wrong. They don't fly off a handle. They usually know how to deal with it in a cool, collected, calm manner that just completely shows how it's wrong. So yes, so Gloria is a budding software engineer working in teams of people and you will hear all kinds of interesting interesting ideas in your collaboration of your educated and esteemed colleague. You're low on the totem pole, so they're not going to be looking to use the epitome of wisdom. However, when you see that's not to insult But when you see somebody, I'm really digging a hole fast here, when you see somebody on your team bring up a really dumb idea How does that wise person respond to them? You said in a calm, cool, collected manner, carry that a little further. The person who brought in the bad idea, how does that come out to them? I guess where I'm leading you to is the other person uh is amenable to it. And they say, yeah, okay. They're not shamed. They're not uh uh utterly black unless of course they were they have a wrong agenda. If they're truly a an honest person and they just happen to have a bad idea, uh they are gently corrected But if they have a bad agenda and a bad idea, then they're also rightly shunned out. Truly wise person that I know. And uh But he mostly just stayed away from people like that. If they were working under him, then he found a way to get rid of Yes, correct. But it was a very thinking way. Yes, correct. Right, right. Very quiet way. Yeah. I uh my my wise mentor, Brother Bernie, uh truly was a wise individual. And uh the hallmark for me was that uh uh you know you're speaking with a wise individual when they dispel great clouds of doubt with very few words. There's all this fog and confusion going on about whatever the situation may be, things you're hearing in the news, uh a conundrum that you're dealing with. multiple business contracts, whatever, and they just cut right to the chase, they just see right through the nonsense, and they very quickly describe everything. You can't find that kind of information uh in a book. Uh y you get the trivial examples in the book. They deal with the very difficult examples of real life and they just cut right through it. Who's a wise man you read about in the scriptures? Who's the King Solomon? Anybody remember his famous case? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the two women who were complaining Uh and uh it was interesting they were listed as two harlots and they had two babies and the one claims the other one, you slept on top of mine and killed it, and the other one says, No, you slept on your own and killed it. This is my baby, no, this is my baby, and they're arguing, you know, who's what who's got the baby? That's an interesting case. Yeah, I suppose today's politicians, uh I'm not sure what today's politicians would do, but I'm sure some, maybe looking for the shortcut, says, well, you're both adulterers, so you know, off You have no standing here, you're you're illegitimate anyway, so just go out of here. Yeah, off with their off with all your heads, right? You're all problems in my land, right? That's the the simple approach. But uh Yeah, take the child away, we'll appoint him an attorney, figure out what's best for the child, and we'll you know put him in social services. There's all kinds of ways to But Solomon devised a test to get right to the true mother's heart and to discern that between the true mother's heart and the true heart of a woman who could care less. Because the woman who could care less is the one who was care less and rolled over on her baby. And so he cut right to the quick on that and said, fine, bring him here, I'll cut it in half And um which kinda sounds like a crude britt meal. He certainly had the power to do that and it obviously cut right to the quick. The one mother said, Oh no, no, no, please just give it to her, just save spare the child's life. Uh don't Don't let that happen. The other one says, no, let it be cut in half. She said with the responsibility, she really didn't care for it anyway. So it was an excellent test, and all perceived his wisdom. The Queen of Sheba came up from the south, had many hard questions. As any leader of a large group of people might have. There are some sticklers of questions you enter into when you climb up into the halls of government Uh we complain a lot, but there's an awful lot of meetings that go on behind the scene trying to hash out policy, at least there should be, to try to figure out what's the best way to guide, rule, and direct people. the the bane of human government's existence is the rule of unintended consequences. However good the in uh the The the law may be, invariably a policy comes out which backfires because it had some unintended consequences that we did not uh want to foster and foment on the people and it comes back to bite you. And so she comes with lots of questions. And uh it says that uh to her, she says the hat was not told me when she saw the extent of his wisdom, all of his servants as they operated. Solomon was a great example. Our Lord is one, it says in Colossians 2. 3, back to the handout, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. It refers to the treasures of wisdom. Proverbs talks about with all thy getting, get wisdom. It's the principal thing. Indeed, to know what is the right path to take at many times in critical junctures of your life is a vital thing to have. And if you don't have that, you're stuck. And he's like, what do I do? Some people who are led by emotion are not going to go down the right path. Others who just reach out and uh You start asking people, and if you're not asking the right people, if you're asking people in your own little echo chamber, you're gonna hear what you want to hear, and then you go down a wrong path as well. Then a multitude of counselors, their safety. And the implication that we're counselors is that they're wise counselors who can render good reasons, who can dispel those clouds of doubt and can help you see through what you're really trying to achieve. Proverbs 8 has a lengthy section that talks about it. Proverbs 8, chapter 12. In fact, in the book of Proverbs, which Proverb means parable. It's a book of parables, not practicalities, although there are some practical applications. Proverbs 8. 12 says this, I wisdom dwell with prudence. This is God personifying himself as wisdom itself. I find out knowledge of witty inventions. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride, arrogancy in the evil way, and the foreword mouth do I hate. Counsel is mine. Sound wisdom. I am understanding. I like that word understanding. Understanding implies that you're standing on something that's under you and it's solid. You have a solid position from which to operate. If you're off balance, if you're teetering on one foot, if you're on sinking sand or shifting, if you're trying to wallow on the bank of a shallow river and you're getting up to your knees in mud and you can't move her, you don't have a good under Standing there, you're not standing anything firm. You can't operate very well. You're just slogging around, dealing with one crisis after the next I have strength. By me kings reign and princes decree justice. By me princes rule and nobles, even all the judges of the earth. And the implication here is that these are righteous kings, righteous princes, righteous nobles. The land does rejoice when you have a righteous king, when you have a righteous ruler. They make judgments that everybody can plainly see is patently, obviously correct. This is wonderfully helpful to the people. We love it. Sweden, I hear, is very pleased with their king, uh one of the few governments in our world left that has a ruling monarch. Uh I have uh relatives through the Sava's family that live in Sweden. They love their king. They think he's great. Given this latest COVID crisis, I think he'd be great too. He said, phoo you on the mask. We're not doing that. We're not shutting down They fared no worse than anybody else. They're right smacked dab in the middle. They had average performance just like everybody else. Just impressive. And of course, only in the land with a king can you get away with that because elected officials Fear of getting kicked out and people are saying, help us, help us as if though the government could actually keep a one one thousandth nanometer thing away from you He goes on. Riches and honor are with me, yea, durable riches and righteousness. My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold, and my revenue than choice silver. I lead in the way of righteousness. In the midst of the pass of judgment, that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance, I will fill their treasures. That is one of the main characteristics of our God, is that He is an exceedingly wise God. Let me ask a question. When we grumble, what does that say of our opinion of God's wisdom? Very poor opinion. Very poor opinion. It's as if though God had a lapse of wisdom, a critical lapse of judgment. Lord, you obviously have overlooked something here. Look at this problem I'm in at the moment. Obviously something is screwed up in heaven. Maybe the paperwork got misshuffled and filed. You might want to check with your lower administrated angels. They've obviously screwed something up because look at this pathetic lot I'm in. And God in his wisdom says, no, I have a better goal and aim and end in mind. You're a little too short-sighted. you're focused on something after the flesh. I'm not interested in keeping decaying flesh alive. I'm interested in renewing and rejuvenating and giving you a new body, a new soul, a new heaven and a new earth And so quit looking at the garbage can you're in and look to the place out of the garbage can where you're going to have a better existence for all eternity. So God is an incredibly wise God. The end of his glory we read in Ephesians 1 is this The end of his wisdom, excuse me, is his glory. Ephesians 1. 8, wherein he has abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Verse 12, that he should, that we should be to the praise of his glory. Verse 14, the earnest of our inheritance to the redemption of the purchased possession and to the praise of his glory. I one of the things I look forward to when Christ returns and he sets up the new heaven and new earth, and there's a a place wherein dwells righteousness. The thing I look forward to is I truly believe that we will finally see. Ah, now I understand why you did it this way. Now I understand why you did it this way. Boy, boy, that was a good move. Woo wee. I kind of sort of hope, although the Bible says the former thing shall not be remembered nor come to mind. But in my childish thinking I would really love to be in a position where I could see for a moment God's vantage point in my life. And I could see the bad decisions and the bad turns and the choices I made and his gracious intervention. and the new path he put me on. And I could look and see, whoa, I'm so glad you did that. Boy, that really hurt, but wow, what a raft of pain and agony and misery I missed from that path Oh, I'm glad you spared me from that choice. I remember that. I was really interested in that, but boy, you ripped that away and I was so heartbroken or whatever. Oh, great day. What a catastrophe that would have been. That would have been bad for multiple generations. Oh, thank you, Lord. I really, really think that I'll see how his intervention was extremely absolutely the best thing. I think you can see that now. In the rear view mirror we certainly can. Absolutely. Much of it we can. Yeah, yeah, much of it we can. at things with a positive attitude because you know that what God does is always right. So you look at what He has done and you say, Oh, I didn't do very well there, but he did. He made it perfect for me. There you go. Later on. Yep, absolutely I have a favorite example I'd like to give to people about this aspect. You're absolutely correct, Mrs. Ross. A great measure of it we can see right now. There is this clip I have in the back of my Bible. Give me a moment here to find it. I've kept it over the years. Yes, this is great. This is an illustration that shows how God's wisdom uh has played out in the lives of two different people. a historian went back and traced the lives of two individuals. One was a man uh named Max Jukes. He was a well-known atheist living at the time of our other fellow of interest, Jonathan Edwards. So this would have been during the 1780s. Excuse me. A fellow named Al Sanders wrote a book called Crisis and Morality. He traced the two. Let me read to you some a brief clips uh clip here of this. Max Jukes, the atheist, lived a godless life. He married an ungodly girl, and from that union there were 310 who died as paupers. 150 were criminals, seven were murderers, a hundred were drunks, and more than half of the women were prostitutes His 540 descendants cost the state one and a quarter million dollars in support. Now, this is back in the 1780s. That's no chump change where you could buy a loaf of bread for a penny. The great American man of God, Jonathan Edwards, 1703 to 1758, so I'm sorry, this is the early 1700s, the time of the start of our nation. Lived at the same time as Max Jukes, but he married a godly girl. An investigation made of the 1,394 known descendants of Jonathan Edwards. Of which 13 became college presidents. 65 college professors. Three U. S. Senators 30 judges, 100 lawyers, 60 physicians, 75 Army Navy officers, 100 preachers and missionaries, 60 authors of prominence One, a Vice President of the United States, 80 became public officials in other capacities, 295 college graduates, among whom were governors of states and ministers to foreign countries. His descendants did not cost the state one single penny. Is there a difference in how God wisely deals? And is it different for you to fall under the wise and gracious and loving hand of our Lord? Tell me God doesn't know what he's doing. I thought that was very interesting. And I'm sure you would if you look at their lives and the difficulties they faced, there were hardships Because frankly I have ever I've never seen the bed of ease and luxury produce wise people I've never seen that. It's only going through very difficult times do you actually find that crucible forming in people the actu the excellent attributes that need to be there. But don't you feel that they often the ungodly often promote that sort of thing. Oh of course they do. They propagate it. The Psalm speaks about that. They uh uh They repeat the same bad advice that they got from their fathers and forefathers, and they continue to make the same stupid mistakes and reap the same horrible rewards. It's pathetic. Certainly one area we see God's wisdom, and one that I do get excited about is his wisdom and creation. We read in Colossians 1, for by Him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether they be thrones, dominions, principalities, or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And of course Many of you know those opening verses of Psalm 19 where it speaks about the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament shows his handiwork. uh day into day uttereth speech, night into night showeth his knowledge. All of the wisdom of God in creation. I just marvel at the seventeen year cicada that's currently um Blessing our area with their presence and their interesting call. Of course, it does do a number on your windshields and some of your tender vines and branches. But what a creature. Can you imagine? You know, engineers learn they have to deal with something called the operational environment when you build something I cannot fathom how I would build something that would be tiny, very microscopic, because Mama Cicada is using her ovipositor, which is like a sawzall, to go right into a tree and drop all these little tiny microscopic eggs. I can't imagine designing that little egg so that it will come out in due time, fall to the ground Begin to burrow its way into the earth, find tree roots, nibble gently on the tree roots, gets water, sustenance there, totally in the dark, totally in the dark, sit there, For seventeen years, half the time to sleep, and then somehow, somehow, him and her and all of their Other friends have this same clock simultaneously set that at practically the same day, seventeen rotations around the sun. Yeah, they erupt out of the ground to a world they've never seen before, to a world their parents were not around to describe to them because they died long before they fell off the branches. to sprout wings and fly. And fly they can. And they know by the way when the rainstorm came, they stopped chirping. They stopped chirping. So they know not to chirp during the rain. All right. They didn't figure that out. How does that happen? I can't design that. IT components are obsolete in six months. That's why every time you log on to your computer it says, oh I know you logged in, but I have something I want to do right now Can I update your entire computer? You need to update this now. It's like, no, I want to do my work right now. So all of our knowledge in IT is obviously not that wise. Are any of you using a 17-year-old Technology, piece of technology, and it still is useful and functional and will be in another 17 years? No It's astounding how God does this in his creation. And it continues to propagate. And it's just fine. It's responsive, it's adaptive. It's incredible And so we see tremendous wisdom of our God in his creation. We see the wisdom of God in providence in how God rules over the sons of men. And you and other one of my favorite topics, God repays man's ways right back on the top of his head. That's a big feature in his ruling. Psalm thirty-three says this the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The council of the Lord standeth forever the thoughts of his heart to all generations. We worry Many a time had horrible government rulings, but you know what? Our God rules even over them. I would be greatly disturbed at many things I hear and see in the things of our land, in my state, in my county, and at the federal levels. But I know this, there is one who sits upon the throne. And he rules and superintends over all of that. And I dare not question his wisdom in dealing and dispensing with all of that. Could it be that the wicked rulers we have over us in many instances are a direct result of God's hand of judgment upon those wicked people who have elected those people in place? And he's saying, you want foolishness? I'll give you foolishness. You want bondage and slavery? I'll give you bondage and slavery. And our God does this many a time. But we trust and pray that as our God looks upon his people, even in the form of disastrous government, which happened years ago in the 500 BC era with Judah and Jerusalem, when God brought the Babylonians in, sacking them three times, in the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar, in the thirteenth and the twenty-third. Don't quote me exactly on that, but it's in the last chapter of of the book of Jeremiah where it lists those times. Three times they came, sacked hauled people away. And yet God gave Jeremiah a vision for those in captivity. There's a basket of figs. I see very, very good figs, and I see very evil figs, very naughty figs, or just evil, full of evil and wickedness. That's how God views us. And so in his wisdom he says, okay, that nation is like a basket. I'm just going to convey them over here. I'm going to convey the evil over here, and I'm going to convey the good over here. But he views that nation just as a basket. basket. What he's interested in is the figs. The nation doesn't matter to God. What matters is his people. That's what he's cared about. When you think about what he thinks about, worry about what he's worried about, he's not worried about anything. But you're focused on what he's focused on You get above the present freight. Your boat begins to plane. You can ride over the waves and you're not swamped and you're not putting your bow underwater and taking on water and crying out, help, help. You're riding over the waves We see our wisdom of God and providence. Everybody knows Romans 8. 28. We know that what? All things work together for good. To everybody? No. To them who are the called according to his purpose. That's right. Lastly, we see the wisdom of God in his greatest work in redemption. It says in 1 Corinthians 2, we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. That's referenced in 2 Corinthians 2 as speaking about the gospel, God's plan of salvation, and God's wisdom, the way he found to redeem lost and fallen people. And to pay for their sins and to give them his eternal righteousness was through the death of Christ on the cross, a voluntary death that God the Son would take upon himself. Well, those are just touching upon different aspects of this teaching about the wisdom of God. And then I have a final question, and we can wrap it up here. Wisdom, the Bible says, is said to be practical. Old Proverbs 8 says, search after wisdom with all thy getting, get wisdom. What are the various ways in which God's wisdom helps you as a Christian? Which way? What are the different ways that God's wisdom helps you as a Christian? Knowing that God is wise. And seeing that he gives wisdom, how is it that that helps you? What benefit is that to you? Just being able to depend Okay. He's always there. Yeah. The dependability factor is huge. Yes. You've got someone you can lean on, you boy, you know I'm not gonna I'm not gonna fail here. And you know he's never going to hurt you on her That's a big thing. Yeah. The hurt that comes was not unintentional, it was measured and with a design and a purpose, I think is kind of what you're speaking about. It it wasn't a it wasn't an evil uh intent. I'm not sure that he ever causes anything that is evil. We cause that ourselves. We do, we certainly bring it upon ourselves. And he takes that and makes Yeah. If we listen. Right. We don't always listen. I was gonna say uh direction. God's wisdom gives us direction and discernment with where to go, what to do, to keep us from the falls that are presented along our journey, so to speak. Absolutely, boy, I'll tell you there are some critical decisions in life that you can't go back and remake. Once that decision is made you can't change it. It's kind of sunk in stone. Uh It's uh there's some very big decisions. He can. Yep. He can certainly uh if if you're one of his, that's the hope. If you're one of his, that certainly is the hope. Alright, well we'll wrap it up there and uh ask Anton to close us in prayer. Father in heaven, Lord we Do praise you for revealing yourself to us in your word and how you've shown us, Lord, even uh the wisdom of God. Lord, that you're one that's worthy of uh to be trusted, to put our full hope and faith and confidence in. And Lord, we pray you would help us uh to walk in In like manner, uh trusting, Lord, that your way is best, trusting that uh following Christ Lord is is the right thing to do and and uh to seek after thee and and all of our uh decisions and and and walks of life life and uh and journeys. Please Lord continue to guide us and we thank you for this time. Consider your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.