They should be enlightening enough. The millennium fact or fiction. When I say the millennium, does anybody have an idea what I'm talking about? Okay, one thousand what kind of one thousand years? We're in the year two thousand twenty-three. We've had two millenniums so far. What millennium are we talking about? Which millennium? That uh Jesus is going to reign one thousand years. Okay, yeah, the millennial reign of Jesus Christ for a thousand years on an earthly throne in Jerusalem with a uh renewed reinvigorated uh uh Jewish nation. And this is a uh teaching that is consistent with uh free will and pre-mill Baptist thinking, it's very common in those circles. In fact, I would say it's the dominant eschatological or end-time view in churches today. I uh don't want to be too harsh on them, although I disagree with their dispensational approach to scriptures. I don't believe that's warranted. And in time past I've been much more harsh against those, particularly with the dispensational pre-meal view, because there's a lot of unsavory elements to it I've recently discovered that there are still some lingering historic pre-mill brethren around, which are 99% in agreement. with the omillennial position, and uh and we share a lot in common. So for their sake, I don't care to be too harsh. Let's look at the only verse in the Bible The only passage I should say in the Bible that even mentions 1,000 years. One passage. One passage. That's it. The only passage that even remotely mentions it. So off the bat, that ought to raise A question, if this is such a huge upcoming event, why isn't there more information in the scriptures about it? There's one passage, right? Now I have it printed for you. I prefer if you open up your Bible and turn to the 20th chapter of the book of Revelation so you can look at it yourself, maybe make notes in your own Bible. Because I'm going to read the first six verses. The very end of the book, Revelation chapter 20, in the first six verses, we find our only passage in all of Scriptures that even mentions A future thousand years. Or I should say mentions the thousand years in a futuristic context. Alright, so here we read as follows, beginning at verse 1. And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil, and Satan, who do you think God's talking about here? And bound him a thousand years. And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled And after that he must be loosed a little Caesar. And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither received his mark upon their foreheads or in their hands And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Years. So I have some questions for you as we've read that. First of all, where does this take place? What does the Bible say? Where does it say it takes place? You're kind of pausing a bit. Angel comes down from heaven, so they indicate it's not there. It must be in the Okay, what'd you see just before that? I saw. Right. He saw. Okay. So he sees something. He sees a heavenly scene. It's a heavenly it's a view from heaven, if you will Okay? So we have a heavenly scene, a view from heaven. Okay. And it says he's coming down. Alright. Now, uh, where do you read about the Jews? Where where where does it which passage mentions the Jews? You mean like initially from the start? Well, in this passage we just read in connection with a thousand years, where where does it mention the Jews? Victoria, you're shaking your head. It's probably a beginner rhetorical. Doesn't. Yeah. It doesn't mention the Jews. There's no mention of the Jews here. Where does it mention uh an earthly kingdom? Do you see any mention of an earthly kingdom? See the word kingdom No. Where does it mention the land of Palestine or Judea or that? Where where does it mention that? It doesn't mention that. It's not mentioned. It's not there. Where does it mention Israel as the place where Jesus will rule It's not there. What's my point? My point is, if this is the only passage in the Bible that mentions a thousand-year reign, Where do you find warrant for saying this is where this is the proof text for Jesus ruling in Palestine on this sin-cursed earth? It's not in the text. It's just not there. You don't find that. All you find is that there is an angel. He lays a hold of the devil. The devil is bound. He is prevented from deceiving the nations for a period of time called a thousand years. And then he has to be loosed. And it says a little season. He's loosed. He can't bind people like he used to for that thousand years, but then he's loosed. Then you see souls, and notice it says, I saw the souls of them. Where do you find souls? You find souls on earth. Now these are beheaded people now. Are they on earth or are they in heaven? These would be people in heaven. So it seems like this whole scene takes place in heaven This is heaven's vantage point because he's looking now at beheaded souls. These are not beheaded souls on earth. These are beheaded souls that are in heaven. And it says They didn't worship the beast, they didn't his image, they didn't receive the mark, and because of that they were beheaded. These are people who died for the faith. They're in heaven. You see the souls of them. And then it talks about they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. I suppose in the word reigning you see some implication of kingdom, but they're reigning with Christ. But it doesn't say Christ left heaven. You have an angel leaving heaven. And so there's just a lot of questions in the passage. You've got this thing called a first resurrection. You've got something that says the rest of the dead live not. So first of all, let's tackle the very first phrase, which is that isn't questioned, that thousand years. I submit to you that that phrase thousand years is a spiritual term. It is not to be taken literally as 365, 3,652, I mean days we have in a year. I mean three sixty five three hundred and sixty five and a quarter. Three thousand six hundred thirty-six you know what I mean. Days in a year times a thousand. And leave you And leap year well and leap century. It's not that. Why do I say that? Well, we observe that God uses that phrase a thousand years in other places in the Bible For instance, in the book of the Psalms, God, through the prophet David, said, Every beast of the forest of mine and the cattle upon a thousand hills Ah Lord, I own the thousand and first cow uh hill. That's my those cows are mine. No. When he says to a thousand hills or to a thousand generations He's talking about a an inordinately long period of time of indiscriminate amount. It's in in this case it would be all of them. Every beast of the forest, the cattle upon a thousand hills. Language is to be understood metaphorically for a long period of time. The thousand first hill doesn't contain my cow. What about this business of a resurrection? Well, we find in our Revelation passage, it says that these souls are there. And they have thrones and they're sitting on these thrones and judgments given to the to those on these thrones and it says they're reigning. But the rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years were finished. That's almost parenthetic, because it then goes on to say this is the first resurrection. Later it talks about a second resurrection. As a first resurrection, a second resurrection. Well, that's interesting. If we have a first literal resurrection, that means some people who are dead come back to life And then the question is, well, who? Is it believers? Is it unbelievers? Only believers, both? What happens? And then you have a second resurrection. Well does that mean that The believers that were there died and they come back again? Or is it believers only and then unbelievers? Well, if the believers are gone and the unbelievers are around, what happens? And you get some really interesting, strange situations from that But actually this isn't hard because Jesus himself talked about two resurrections. He said it very plainly. And we find that in the book of John. And you can look, I've got it in your handout here in John chapter 5 and verse 24. You're welcome to look in your Bible so you know where you've seen it and get it familiar, or you can look in the handout if that's easier for you. John 5, 24, the Lord Jesus says this. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that has sent me, they hear the word and they believe. We understand that. hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is, notice this phrase, is passed from death unto life. What does it mean when you pass from death unto life? You were dead and now you're alive. That's a resurrection. But wait a minute, this is somebody who hears the word of God and then they believe. Well, how can that be a resurrection? If you've ever met Jesus Christ, you absolutely know what it is to come to faith in Christ. Salvation is nothing shy. of a resurrection of your soul. That thing that was dead in you, that spiritual life that had been missing, has now been imparted. And you now have a new creature in Christ. It says he has passed from death unto life. Verily, verily I say unto you, The hour is coming and now is, Jesus said. As he was, the Son of Man was walking here on earth, he says, the hour is coming and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live Alright. Jesus says as he speaks, as his word comes unto men, the dead are going to hear his voice and live. Now there were some literal physical resurrections, but Was that every individual? No, it's people who heard him became born-again, new, no-kidding, believers They've had a change of state. Their soul has been resurrected. And Jesus says, that is a resurrection. They're going to hear, they're going to live. They're passing from death to life. And if you're a believer in Christ, A true child of God, you have experienced the first resurrection. You know what it's like to pass from darkness, deep confusion to light, to sense, to understanding, to being, and I could go on and on and on. You understand. Now look at verse 29. Jesus talks about another one. In John 5 and verse 29, it says, And they shall come forth, they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation. Well, that would be the second resurrection. That would be the literal bodily resurrection that Jesus says there is a time coming when you are going to have the great general resurrection. unto damnation or unto everlasting life. And where everything we've studied so far matches with this. If you're talking about a physical resurrection, that occurs That when Christ returns, dissolution of the universe, his coming, his parousia, his apocalypsis, his revealing, his unveiling, all that stuff, all that table matrix that showed when that happens, yes, there is a general resurrection They all come forth. But right now, you have it in the soul. They hear the word of God, and your soul lives. When he comes in full glory, with trumpets blaring, his word blasting forth, indeed, all will come forth from the graves. And so you'll find that. So, first and second resurrection, I have no problem with that because the Lord Jesus described exactly what he's talking about. He's talking about the resurrection of your soul. Now, if I take that information back to Revelation 20, sounds like he's talking about the entire New Testament period. This is what happens with believers. They're resurrected. Oh, but we're not sitting on the throne, really. Well look at that. Oh, but they're not, they haven't uh uh they they don't uh uh Uh th they're they're they're not in that kingdom yet. Really? We'll look at that. Uh well what about this binding verse, the angel coming down and and the dragon he's and he's and the devil's being bound a thousand years Well, uh there's other insightful verses. There's more points I want to get to about this nature of the kingdom for a moment, because the the question of today is the earthly millennial fact or fiction. But let me point out some key verses that will be helpful to you. At the cross, we read in John 12, 31, the Lord Jesus basically said, the devil has been cast out. Now is the judgment of this world. The prince of this world is cast out. Well, cast out where? Cast out where? Well, I think we get a little insight here in the book of Revelation. He's been cast out. And in Matthew 12, 29, we find that the strong man has been bound. You see, when one stronger comes in, the strongman who is protecting his house, nobody can come in. But if the strongman is bound, then his house can be plundered. Well, that strongman is the devil. The unsaved are held captive by him at the will of the devil. They can't believe. They're tied. It's impossible for them to come to faith because the devil. has sway and control over them. But the Lord Jesus cast out the devil and he has been bound at the cross As a result, one sermon Peter preaches, bang, 3,000 people are saved. From the three years of ministry of the best preacher who ever walked this planet, the Lord Jesus Christ, you barely have 500. You have 120 in the upper room. 500 brethren saw the resurrected Christ. You don't have many disciples. So this is the chaining of the devil. We read in Jude 6 and 2nd. Uh a Jude 6 that fallen angels are in chains, they are chained. But then we find near the end of time in 2 Thessalonians 2. 7, that Antichrist is loosed. There's a loosing, and he's loosed a little season. So this occurs near the end of time before Christ returns Well could the devil perform signs and wonders? Yes, he could. He could certainly do miraculous things. He's bound right now, he can't. But when he's released, yes, he can Do believers reign? Yes, they do, saints. The believers sit in the heavenlies in Ephesians 2. 6. They do reign. We reign with him Oh, it will be revealed. Remember, David was anointed king, but when did he finally get to the throne? It was a mighty long way. It took him through caves, it took him through battles and trials. Samuel had anointed him as king. He was anointed. He was the anointed of God, and likewise you have been anointed with God the Holy Spirit. You've been anointed as kings and priests with our Lord and our God, but you don't see your throne just yet. Yet you are seated in the heavenlies You better believe it, Ephesians 2. 6 says you are. And so I find a lot of New Testament for support for all of this language consistent with everything else we've studied. And I apologize I'm going over these latter parts to try to explain Revelation 20, but I wasn't really trying to exegete all of Revelation 20. I'm trying to give you a toenail, thumbnail grip on it. Any questions, and then I'm going to get back into this topic of the kingdom because that's the more important one to cover. That's the larger issue that surrounds this. Well in Luke 10 we had the reference to I beheld Satan falling from heaven and then skip one verse as rejoice not that the spirits are subject to you. Yes. And there is a very real sense in which the spirit The evil spirits are subject to the believer today. They are. And that's not that we're talk you know, we're being frivolous with it. But that all goes into the binding Absolutely. Absolutely. You found your answer. Okay. All right, good, good. Well, I do want to give a very brief, and by brief I mean very brief, historical background of this whole premillennial position. It is well documented. If you do not have this book on your shelf, you ought to buy it. It's written by a fellow named Stephen Sizer. He's an Anglican minister. He no longer is in the Anglican church. It's called The Roadmap to Armageddon. The title has slightly changed. This is Christian Zionism, Roadmap to Armageddon. He does an excellent job of documenting the history of the view of the early church, which was dominantly a millennial. The handout you have that is stapled to your Sunday school notes shows the dominantly a millennial view of the early church fathers, and you can read all of their writings up through Augustine in 413 A. D. They all believed that there would be exactly what I was talking about, namely when Christ returns, it's judgment day, there's a general resurrection. There is no earthly millennial. In fact, that was something that they didn't really even enter into their minds. It wasn't anything they even remotely considered possible. Now what did happen was that over time, after the Reformation, you began to get those who started to look at a dominantly uh that that started to introduce the idea away from the dominant amul view to a premillennial view And they began right after John Calvin. Calvin was Amil, but he wasn't strongly Amil, meaning he didn't footstomp it too much, and his disciples, Biza and Buzer, began to insert uh to apply this phrase Israel in Romans 1125, and so all Israel shall be saved. So does not mean then, so means thus, in this wise, in this manner, the manner that Romans 115 Earlier verses have been talking about, Bizah and Buzer, two of Calvin's disciples, viewed that as unbelieving Jews. And so they began to start to slip in these ideas. Then a fellow named Darby came along, John Nelson Darby, he began to introduce dispensationalism. He kept repeating the churches in ruins. He began to push distinctively premillennial views, and he was a very charismatic figure. Then you get to Dwight Moody uh who had a respectability for Zionism. He began he gave it some measure of respect. He was a disciple of Darby And so was sympathetic to his ideas. Then you've got C. I. Schofield, who canonized Zionism when he wrote his Schofield Reference Bible All of his little reference footnotes included all kinds of pointers to this idea of a millennial. Then you get to Jerry Falwell at Liberty University, who was an ambassador of it. He really pushed it very heavily. And um in fact even Ronald Reagan uh spent trillions of dollars preparing for a nuclear gog and magog war. And then you had Hal Lindsay and Pat Robertson who also were prophets of Christian Zionism. So very lengthy, detailed history, very well documented research, but that's not all he covers in here. He also covers some of the other ramifications of it and a lot of scriptural analysis, which is very helpful. I want to turn now and point out, and by the way, if you'd like the book and uh just can't afford it for now or are interested in it, let me know. The church will buy you a copy of it. They're inexpensive enough to purchase. I think it should be on your bookshelf if you don't have it. Let's talk now about this idea of the kingdom of God. I am very grateful for a fellow named Pastor Mark Two Saint. Pastor Two Saint was the senior pastor at Irving Bible Church. Irving Bible Church was a church I basically grew up in from age, I don't know, mother what age, four or five years old up through 17 when I went off to college. It was literally a stone's throw across the street from my house. I could look out my bedroom window across Finley Road, and there was Burring Bible Church. He was very helpful to the family. He was conservative. He did not question the canon of the Word of God. He preached all the counsel of God. And uh unfortunately he was a premillennial uh uh dispensationalist, and he wrote a book. He taught at uh uh Dallas Theological Seminary. He wrote a book about uh the kingdom. And he went through the book of Matthew and showing that Jesus was talking about two different kingdoms throughout the book of Matthew. And he and he sought to make a big distinction that there were two different kingdoms. And this led to a lot of groundwork for people who would say, for instance, Pastor, who was the pastor when you were there at Central Baptist? Carroll, Dr. Fred Carroll. Who would say, well, you know, the sermon, and I heard Pastor Carroll say this, so I'm not making it up. The um the Sermon on the Mount is not for you and I today, that's for the millennium. That's for later on. So somehow Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7 really don't apply to you and I right now. Those are some instructions for later on. So I suppose the people there listening in Jesus' time who heard his words that Yes, is actually that d don't take notes. You don't need to worry about that now. This is this is way off in the future. Just just just listen to how nice he speaks. Yeah, that's right. I I I I don't know how we'd get there. That's just off the rails nuts. Let's talk about the kingdom of God, shall we? Because we really need to understand just what the kingdom of God is. Because if the kingdom of God has anything to do with an earthly dare I even it almost sounds blasphemous to talk about this. A physical seat made of rock and leather and whatever and padding with physical border Jesus is a Border Patrol agent He's gonna come down as king of kings to be a lowly king. So Jesus gets a demotion and he sits in Palestine and and There's just so much about it that is that is that just uh it just hurts my head. We need to really talk about just what is the kingdom of God. And so we're gonna spend some time talking about that. Do you have a comment? Well If you want to be here, we could be there Absolutely. The kingdom of God, the first thing in your handout, the first fill in the blank, well the first fill in the blank that I had mentioned for you is the word only end time verse that mentions a thousand years. The next fill in the blank is kingdom Kingdom of God is spiritual and universal. It's a spiritual kingdom. How do I know that? Well, listen to this language. In Matthew 11, 12, the Lord Jesus says, And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent taketh it by force. There's violence, Jesus says, in the kingdom of God from the days of John the Baptist until now. Yes, there was the killing of the infants, the slaughter of the infants. But that's interesting because Jesus says there are violent people who take it by force. They're taking it. They're taking it by force. That sounds different. It doesn't The Pharisees were worried about fanaticism among this Jesus cult causing the Romans to want to come in and say, hey, knock this off. Caesar is king, stop this business and get impounded. They were worried about the Romans, so there wasn't any warfare between the Jews and the Romans at that time. So what is Jesus talking about? Matthew twelve twenty-eight he says, But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. Well, that's interesting. Here, when Jesus casts out devils, he says to these people, that means the kingdom of God has come to you. Oh, hmm. Sounds like a spiritual kingdom. Sounds like something has conquered the individual and someone's been driven out, and now they have a new master, not Satan, but the Lord Jesus Christ. They have a new role and position, not a slave of the devil, but a co-heir and a joint heir with Christ. In Luke 17, he says, Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. Jesus plainly says the kingdom of God is within you. It's an internal kingdom. Don't be looking out here. That's his whole point. Look, oh, over here. Oh, no, over there in Palestine. There it is No, it's going to be fill-in-the-blank location. He says, the kingdom of God is within you. And when Jesus is standing before Pontius Pilate, And that is a very interesting series of questions that are being asked. Pontius Pilate is a slick politician. Remember, to be That high up the Roman pecking order and the Roman organization, you had to be a political cutthroat You had to be a political animal. You had to know exactly exactly what words to speak and how to speak and how to get to it and how to be able to prosecute other people quickly And the more I read that passage, the more I realize how so much in charge Jesus was of that whole discourse. I mean, Pilate met his boss and got owned big time. Pilate asked him, says, Are you a king then? And Jesus said, No, that comes later. Let's back up. John 18, 36. Jesus answered and said, My kingdom is not of this world. Now, is Jesus just saying something politically convenient at the time, but secretly saying, yeah, later my kingdom will be of this world? No, when he speaks, he speaks truth to everyone. He's not double-toned. Jesus just told Pilate, my kingdom's not of this world. So why do we go around saying his kingdom is of this world? Jesus told Pilate it's not. If my kingdom were of this world, he even gives an explanation, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to the Jews, but now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king, to this end was I born. For this cause came I into the world. So he came as a king, the suffering king, the suffering servant, but he says, My kingdom is not of this world Colossians 1. 13 says that Jesus has delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his near Son. So the kingdom is a spiritual. You're already in the kingdom of God. You're in the kingdom of his dear son. We're not waiting for anything. It's here. It's in you. It's in other believers. Has it been fully revealed yet? No, but it's very present. You better believe it, because where the kingdom is, the king is. The next point I want to make to you is that the spiritual kingdom, and that's your next fill-in-the-blank, is foretold in the Old Testament and has been fulfilled and validated in the New. So there's a series of verses I have on your handout. that alternate between blue for Old Testament and green for New Testament, which shows their fulfillment. Isaiah prophesies this in Isaiah 61, verse 6 But ye shall be named the priests of the Lord. Men shall call you the ministers of our God. Ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourself. Notice, you'll be named priests of the Lord. 1 Peter 2. 9 says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, and so forth So according to Peter, that's fulfilled. You are a priesthood. You are a holy nation. Did you catch that? It's a nation, it's a kingdom with God over it. Hosea says, Take with you words and turn to the Lord, say unto him, Take away all iniquity and receive us graciously. So In this manner will we render the calves of our lips. Calves, C-A-L-V-E-S, meaning the animal used for offering. We're going to render the offering the calves of our lips. It says in Hebrews 13, by him therefore, Hebrews 13, 15, by him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise. Notice that same language, sacrifice of praise. Calves of our lips, same idea. That is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. Micah has a passage that in verse 8 The part I have underlined, Micah 6, 8. What doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with? thy God. And the opposite of that was verses six and seven. I'll read verse seven in the middle. Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams? with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? You see, this is a huge problem I have with us this idea of The nation of Israel being reconstituted. Folks, it was a theocracy. There was a combination of the political and the religious. They were not separated. The Jews don't believe in separation of mosque of mosque, of synagogue, and state. They don't believe that. So, for the nation to be reconstituted, they would need priests, they would need a temple. What do you do in the temple? Sacrifices and offerings. For what purpose Jesus says they've been replaced. What God expects is the fruit of the lips, the praise of his lips, to praise the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he expects. And so the kingdom is a spiritual kingdom, and that spiritual kingdom was foretold in the Old Testament. The Jews have no excuse. Third point, item number C, is that it is a heavenly kingdom. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. It's a heavenly kingdom. 2 Timothy 4. 18 says as much. The Lord shall deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me unto his heavenly Kingdom. That's what we're looking for. That's the one that I see can endure throughout eternity. Last point is that it is an eternal Kingdom, number D, eternal kingdom, it's one that knows no end. This was Isaiah's prophecy. We read it every Christmas time, the incarnation, of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom, to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform. Ah, someone will say, throne of David. That's over there. It's not what Peter says That's not what Peter says when he quotes from Joel and from Amos, rebuilding the rule in Acts 15, rather, the Jerusalem Council. When they said, nope, this is talking about God bringing in the Gentiles. Restoring and repairing a tabernacle is repairing. The tabernacle is building in bringing in the Gentiles, which happens now. Daniel 7, there was given him dominion, glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages shall serve him. His dominion is an everlasting kingdom, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. All right, that's a pretty big statement. One that doesn't end. Why would it end in a thousand years? Why would it stop there? Why would it start So many years after the cross, when Jesus says the kingdom of God is among you, you've got some strange kinds of punctuations in what Jesus refers to as the kingdom if you have an earthly millennium. It doesn't wash. Luke 1. 33, he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. Hebrews 1. 8, unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever, the scepter of righteousness. is the scepter of thy kingdom. And so on and so forth. Hebrews 12 talks about this. 2 Peter talks about an everlasting kingdom. And Revelation talks about his kingdoms is forever. So it's a spiritual kingdom, it's a heavenly kingdom, it's an eternal kingdom, and I can't get around all that. Let me uh having talked now about the kingdom, I want to spend the balance of my time Pointing out to you some key points that I have observed over the years that also skewer this idea of an earthly millennium Uh the first is this, is that many of their support for this comes from a lot of passages in the Old Testament. And if we've learned anything, if we've learned anything from the new, is that you can't mix the old with the new. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank in that right column. You can't mix the old with the new Listen to how the Apostle Paul describes it in the book of Galatians, chapter 4, verse 21. Just listen carefully, just listen carefully, and see if you hear him leaving any room. For some kind of a re-establishment. Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the free woman was born after the flesh. Notice that emphasis. After the flesh. Fleshly kingdom. Fleshly guards. Earthly walls, earthly building material. But he of the free woman was by promise, which things are an allegory, for these are the two covenants. The one from Mount Sinai which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar, for this Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to Jerusalem, which now is and is in bondage with your children, but notice this, Jerusalem which is above. Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all. So in God's economy, he can clearly talk about Jerusalem and leave it obscure for you to figure out which Jerusalem he's talking about. The Jerusalem it now is, or the Jerusalem which is above. So in the Psalms, when David says, oh Jerusalem, and he loves it, which Jerusalem do you think David's talking about? At the end of the day, it's a Jerusalem which is above. If David's a born-again believer, and I believe he is, then absolutely he rejoiced in the same God and the same gospel you and I do. He looked forward to the atoning work of Christ. We look back to the atoning work of Christ, but it's all by faith. The other point I discover is that there is among brethren that I love dearly and have been very grateful to, Angela, I am very, very grateful to uh a a a certain group uh up in rising sun maryland have been very very helpful to us. I asked this fellow, he's a pastor, he's also uh a minister that started uh many many wonderful works. And I mean that in a positive way, not a negative way. What do you find to be the main reasons why you would hold out for He says the land promises have not been fulfilled. So he would go back to the Old Testament and say that God gave to Abraham certain land promises. And those land promises have not been fulfilled. Now to his credit, I appreciate the fact that it doesn't matter when God has promised something. If it hadn't been fulfilled yet, it's still in force. It's still in effect. It's still on the books. God still owes it. And that's a very serious and a very legitimate point. So when God says he will give him all the land of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Jebusites, the Gergeshites, the fill-in-the-blank ice, all the different ice He meant it. And if we can be shown that he hasn't done that, well, then it, yes, we would expect that to be fulfilled because God promised it would happen However, there are a number of passages that make it very clear, no, no, no, God did in fact fulfill all the land promises. None are open. How can I be so bold as to say that? Because Joshua declared that, and years later, Nehemiah declared that. And that is the thrust of their argument. Read, for instance, Joshua 21, 43 through 45. This is the very end of Joshua. You know, Moses' right-hand man came in, wiped out all the territories. And here's what he declared, Joshua 21, 43. And the Lord gave unto Israel all the land which he swear to give unto their fathers. And they possessed it and dwelt therein. Now notice that. It says the Lord gave them all the land. He didn't say except for. Verse keeps going. According to all that he swear unto their fathers. The Lord delivered all their enemies into their hand. And then he goes on to say, there failed not aught. Not one ounce of any good thing which the Lord had spoken unto the house of Israel all came to pass. So from Joshua's vantage point, and I think he's a little historically closer to the event than you and I are His declaration is that it's all been fulfilled. You know what? The Lord made good on his promises. That's what he's saying. Alright, now you go forward another few chapters Joshua 24. 11, he's speaking to the people, and you went over Jordan and came into Jericho, the men of Jericho fought against you. And the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Gergeshites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. and I delivered past hence them into your hand. So he lists all the same nations that God promised to Abram slash Abraham. Joshua says I delivered them into your hand. Fulfilled. Nehemiah chapter 9. Israel's been rebellious. They've been carted off. Now they're being brought back into the land. And in his prayer, Nehemiah, the governor, the first governor of the area, as granted by Cyrus, says, Thou art the Lord God who didst choose Abram and madeest a covenant with him To give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Jabusites, the Gergeshites, to give it, I say, to his seed. And hast, past tense, you have performed thy words, for thou art righteous. What's Nehemiah's point? Lord, you gave us a covenant. Part of that covenant was that you'd give us the land. We would worship thee and thee only. We would carry out the needs of this covenant And Nehemiah then says, Lord, you promised this. You kept up your end of the bargain. You kept up your end of the deal. You are righteous. We can't say, Lord We would have kept all this, but there's this one little matter tending a line from latitude 32 northward through the area of so-and-so. I mean You think this would be the time when Nehemiah would pull it out, Lord, there's still something left on the books. I mean, that's the point of his prayer. He doesn't. He doesn't say there's something left open and undone. That would undermine his point. That would undermine his prayer. He would have used it in his prayer to argue for something different. He can't do that. He says, you are righteous. You have in fact given all the land. So the land promises are fulfilled. So that kicks that argument out. And by the way, that's a mighty big argument they rely on. That is a mighty big argument. And so I would argue from Joshua's point of view, right there when it occurred, Nehemiah's view, later when he came back in the land, arguing to God for his blessing, beseeching the Lord for his blessing, he beseeches, not argues the case against The problem is the people failed to drive out the inhabitants as they were commanded to do. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. They start with the that's why there's any question. If they had driven them out, it wouldn't have been a question of God Yeah, yeah. They settled with them, they were content to dwell with them, but God gave them the land. The condition wasn't Oh, I'm going to give you the land and uh it you know there has to be a complete removal to no no God gave them land. He he kept his end of the bargain up. There's nothing left in that promise to look for The last point I've discovered personally is that worship occurs in spirit, not at Jerusalem. If you do rebuild a Jerusalem, I can tell you one thing, whoever's left behind ain't going to go be worshiping over there. That's not where worship occurs at. It's not going to happen there. Because Jesus says so. I can say it on his authority. John 4. 20, he's talking with the woman at the well in Samaria. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, the woman says. And ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. She's talking about Mount Gerasim, the Samaritans Picked up and were in the northern kingdom. They had their own deal going. You don't have to go to Jerusalem. The king said you can worship over here. And so she's talking to Jesus. Well, Jesus, you say You should worship in Jerusalem. Our fathers worshiped here. She's talking about where worship occurs. And Jesus says in verse 23, But the hour cometh, and now is when the true worshipers Shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is the Spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Did you notice that word must? It's a must. Because Jesus has come. You must worship the Son. You must worship Him in the Spirit. And you must worship Him in truth. You can't go back to the signs and shadows. Last point I want to make. The unsaved would never even see the kingdom of God. It's invisible to them. Jesus says to Nicodemus in John 3. 3, Verily, verily I say unto you, except you be born again You cannot see the kingdom of God. So imagine for a moment the kingdom of God is a literal physical place. Here's a Palestinian walking down the sidewalk. Bang, he runs into something. What was that? He didn't see it It's some invisible thing he just stubbed his toe on because Jesus says you can't see it. So it must be invisible to them. How is it that everybody keeps banging into this thing? They wouldn't understand what they're running into. That doesn't make any sense But if the kingdom of God is spiritual, internal, can I look at you and see the manifestation of the kingdom of God right now? Not physically. With eyes of faith I do. Absolutely, absolutely. The last point I've discovered is that the dispensationalists change their views with the news. Oh, the ten-headed beast that comes out of road. That must be the ten members of the EU, the European Union. Well, they've added and subtracted so many from that, but that got shattered. Oh, well it's got to be the Russians preparing an army of horses. The Russians are not going to prepare no stupid army of horses. Give me a break. It's not going to happen. You know, I've seen all kinds of fanatical ideas, but their end-time view changes with the news. It just, and I tell you, it makes for a very attractive program Right? Because everybody wants to look at these external things, but we've already covered the things that God talks about to pay attention to. In the last days, terrorist times shall come. And the things that he lists are not wars and rumors of wars. It's none of that. Nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. These things must be, but the end is not yet. In other words, that's not the sign. That's not the sign. But we look at these things as if though it is. Jesus says it's not. You need to look out what's happening in the churches, what's happening in the congregations. Do you see homosexuals becoming ministers? Do you see that? Oh, that's of concern. The world don't care about that. They're not writing the, they're not reporting on that. They're not getting excited about that. They're defending it So I leave that. I I'm over my time. Thank you for your patience. Uh Anton, could you close the bread? So Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for this time that you've given us to gather and to uh hear and consider your word, your scripture, and And we do thank you, Lord, that this morning it was elaborated to us that indeed your kingdom is a spiritual one. I pray you would give us more insight, help us to grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ and His kingdom. Help us to have our affections indeed set on the things above and uh e even the admonitions are are uh a way of turning us uh away from focusing on the things of the earth that we're indeed supposed to look at the things that are not seen, that are eternal, oh Lord. Your kingdom is please continue to guide us and build us up in the faith. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.