So if you grab your handout, which you have near you, hopefully there's one in the seat near you, we will pick up uh somewhat where we left off, although I will back up some. And this is the 11th chapter. Meaning this is part of the covenant deal. You've hopefully had some coffee stir up a few membranes of the brain and we're ready to answer a few questions. You know, the Jews are going to come back into their land someday based on Genesis 15, because that promise is still there time out. In that covenant promise. You don't want to stand before God and say, make it right. God can move him around as he wants. He says in verse 12, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, notice that phrase by one man. And it's that burning lamp, God Himself, that obligates Himself to this covenant promise. And thought, hmm, I think that's why I need to get to cracking. applying to the case. Okay. No weeding. Let's fix them. in a covenant relationship with God. Ugh, wow, what a start. But God said, from dust thou art to dust you shall return. We need to understand just what is a covenant. It covers all the points, but it's almost more of an outline to his book called Systematic Theology, which if you don't have a copy on your shelf, I highly recommend. clay from the spindle and wiped it on his eye. That's the token of it. that 15th chapter, and I'm going to point out in a running fashion, because I've got some questions I want to ask about stuff later. The parties are God and Abram. He was a shepherd. Know of assurity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that's not theirs. Verse 4, Abram is the beneficiary, because God says to him, This shall not be thine heir. Because the Lord is Abram's shield and exceeding great reward. SHIELL. What an understatement. In five or ten more years they're going to get released, so I got to get to work. and the region to be inherited and the current inhabitants to be ejected are specified in verses 18 to 21. To who? uh some were saved. Yeah. They go, God's gonna make me a great nation. And so Abram is asking a pretty legitimate question. That all things work together for good to them that love God, who are the called according to his purpose. Jesus provided in Joshua twenty-one and Nehemiah nine, because the Lord clearly said that all came to pass which he had spoken, which he had promised Abraham. Kept up Howard, end of the deal. And what does he conclude in Nehemiah's prayer to the Lord, which God accepted? and companion to that when you come to the New Testament, and so all Israel shall be saved. houses they didn't build, olive trees they didn't plant, it was all ready to go. Keep it, and that word keep is also rendered to guard it or to protect it. the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. So it was the opposite side. And it turns out there are three passages that those in the Reformed tradition have turned to to illustrate, no, clearly, Adam did stand. for a restoration and if you eat of the tree of the garden and blow it, this is how you get back. in that covenant. It's actually not hard to understand, but because we have not had it exercised in our ears much, because there is a dearth, I think, of sound teaching on this area that isn't coming from any pulpit. From Adam to Moses. Here Paul has another insight. Blew it. how they begin to tie together and you can begin to sense the platform on which we're standing. Now some of you who have kids, they play in the yard and they come back full of clay. entire video, but Holding Fast also has the video in the study. Times not. You know, they tell you to read the fine print, and of course you always get stuck in a contract that you didn't read the fine print and you get nailed by it. He actually gives it to you in reasonable terms. the 15th chapter. Furthermore, the parties also include Abram's seed, that would be his descendants, not the corn he's going to spread in the field. And we would refer to that as the Jews, the nation of Israel, the land promises. And that shield would have to be there because we're talking about people that don't exist. Says in verse 7, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it. All your stuff gets yanked up. Abram's going to get a child who will be his heir. children and grandchildren and great grandchildren. And Abram's seed, verse 18, is going to receive the land listed. the filth and the stench of the nation reaches a certain height, God says, enough, hits the eject button, wipes it clean, brings in a nation and a people whom he intends to bless instead. And so they were quite, quite pagan, quite violent. Yeah, God told Abram to leave his country because he would make him, quote, a great nation and bless all the families of the earth. Boy if I had a gold star or a candy bar or something, I'd cost us a penny. Lord, why? and gave him the name Abraham, and foundest his heart faithful before thee, and made a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amers, Amorites, Perizzites, and Jebusites, and the Gergeshites. of any good thing which the Lord had spoken unto the house of Israel all came to pass. been born and we as modern Gentile believers were not yet saved. Now, the fact that Abram was considered righteous by faith, that is found in Genesis 15 and picked up all throughout Scriptures as an example that one who lays hold on God's promises by faith is considered righteous. The covenants kind of tie together. But the Israel of of God, the spiritual is Israel. uh that there's a greater Israel in view. All you're getting is some war-torn real estate overseas, right? What is the covenant of works? Being a prosperous man, being a healthy man, man who was created to work. I mean he was basically a gardener in a national planetarium, not planetarium, a national arboretum all day long. The disembarking from the Ark, Noah's covenant, God made it also with the animals to not terminate their lives. Adam was created in a wonderful garden. A what tree? I'm being a little joking here, but I'm trying to drive home a point that what Adam had was phenomenal. Totally unnecessary. We like to kind of direct our feet to and kind of back into it. Then you take one more step down the next stair. verse seven for you. Hosea 6. But they, like Adam, have transgressed the covenant. In a lot of our legal documents you'll have something that talks about, and if you don't like this, you agree to arbitration that will be binding as opposed to going to court system. That compares Adam's relationship to our covenantal relationship with Christ. Confronting people with that truth without being confrontational. So he's covering this time between Adam and Moses. in a way to Christ. in Austin, Texas, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in Washington, D. That's how he's comparing Adam. that the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us without any personal work on our part to merit it. It's imputed to us. Even so, your righteousness. If you have other questions, you can see me and I'll be happy to try to explain some more to you. Through Christ. Conform us to his image. We've been looking in the 11th chapter of Burkhoff's book, Summary of Christian Doctrine. It's interesting that word Adam is has its root word red, like the red dust of clay, and that's an appropriate name for man. The beneficiary may not be the same as the parties. Other individual may be the named beneficiary. In verse 1, we see the parties of the covenant. That's pretty impressive. I'm childless. multitudinous as the stars of the sky, as the sand of the sea. Not just so you could wander around aimlessly in a Walmart parking lot in Egypt. That's why I'm calling you out. like any life would. Any kind of a wealthy nation or a powerhouse of a nation on the face of the planet, God tells Abram, your seed are going to be slaves over there. He doesn't use the word slaves and he doesn't use the word Egypt. So much later that they were able to break off their earrings and make a molten calf out of it later on at the foot of Mount Sinai. The Lord our God is able to do exceedingly above all that we think. As elderly people you begin to wonder, gee, I'm pretty near the front of the line. What are the signs? And it's part of this Abrahamic covenant. that Abram would in fact inherit the land. And change. Some people like to slam the Bible for the cruelty God did to these poor natives in these other lands. They were full of such horrible sins, sins that you can't imagine so horrible. I've heard of a missionary story where they were preaching through the Old Testament to lay the groundwork to get to the cross, and it was very impactful to the inhabitants of this island area that when it dawned on them that they were full of iniquity, one uh tribesman went and painted Sodom and Gomorrah over his tent, saying, We are as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah. Well, there must still be ten righteous in my city, is all I can figure. fighting, battling system. Gee, Lord, we're we're not even in the stadium yet, let alone in the race. Yeah, promise was there. Pointing out to God his covenant faithfulness says this in Nehemiah 9, Thou art the Lord God, who didst choose Abram and broughtest him forth out of Ur the Chaldees That's not the stance or the posture you want to be speaking to the Lord God of heaven and earth, the omnipotent sovereign judge You're faithful. So, yes. statement in those instructions God gave to Adam. Federal meaning he's the named designate the designated head of all that's involved in that. We read in Genesis 2. Put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. Alright. All right. In a sense, he didn't need a good promise because he had already been created and everything was good and he already was in a state of extreme blessing. trees. What was the sign or the pledge or the token? some reassurance of hope that things were going to be get better than they are. And this is where I want to spend the the bulk of my time at to discuss this. Is that a problem? He says, but they like men, and that word men is literally the same word Adam, but they like Adam, we'll we'll we'll also look at it in the sense of the phrase like men, but let's just roll with Adam for a moment. God is looking at the rebellion of Israel, and he says, these people, they're in a covenant relationship with me, and they have transgressed the covenant. There's a guard there. Let's strain at that for a bit. There's the all that are in Christ. Do I know who the elect are? It doesn't say as in Moses all die. The Ten Commandments weren't given to Adam. It was Adam's sin that all of a sudden brought death to everybody. Well that's pretty powerful. It's pretty clear to show that we all break the law of God. Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men, the justification of life. And you would say, Jesus Christ. Burkhoth, I'll leave you with this quote from him. And the Apostle Paul regards this as a perfect parallel to the manner in which the guilt of Adam is imputed to us. This naturally leads to the conclusion that Adam also stood in a covenant relationship to his God and to his descendants. Father in heaven, we uh thank you for granting us the time to consider the covenants that you made with man, O Lord. Let's look at this topic, first of all, of just what is a covenant, because before I can begin to explain how Adam stood in a covenant relationship with God, which is where we're going in this study. purpose for the covenant, for a reason, to encourage hope, to keep hope alive, bright and burning. So just cheer up, honey. the chattel on the very bottom of the row. But if you read in Leviticus why God ejected them, it's because their wickedness had reached to such a deep extent into heaven that God spewed them out of the land. There's a part of this rule that they did, there's a part of Canaan they didn't get. In fact, fast forward after they had returned into captivity, meaning to Babylon, and then had been released, that Nehemiah, as he's in the temple praying, again another good prayer And to give Abram an heir. God, he didn't need to be taken a step further. The covenant promises we've been reading about later in Genesis is when man has fallen and he's in a state of darkness and God gives him a promise to give him light The struggle for many Christians who are beginning to get serious about their walk with the Lord begin to enter into this area known as Christian liberty, and they begin to wonder just how much liberty do I have uh a promise made that you know he could continue in these things so long as he didn't do the one thing he wasn't supposed to do. disposed and inclined to good. A loaded statement. I'm a son, a daughter, a child of Adam. Who is man? Even though that 400 years was ticking and it was right there at his doorstep. And yet it's always well with God's righteous. He got the message. Sure, he he he he wants an error. It certainly is a common thing among some. He's looking around his tent. So here it's been a long time, and this promise is that Abram, you're gonna be a great nation. And so because Abram is concerned, and don't think of this as an emotional question, Abraham is held up as a man of great faith. And the Lord gave them rest roundabout according to all that he swore unto their fathers. These people are some a thousand plus years closer to the event than we are. And the Apostle Paul begins to see some overtones and some reflections as God lays this one out. You will find it pretty clear that Adam stood in a covenant relationship with God, and he was the federal head of the human race So we find in Genesis 2. And God does give a believer a great amount of liberty. Right here doesn't mean that it doesn't use the word covenant elsewhere in the Bible So, in a sense, yes, Genesis 2, 15 to 17 is a covenant. You know, Peter says the Apostle Paul, speaking in them of things hard to be understood. Can only be explained on the assumption that Adam, like Christ, was the head of a covenant. That's the reason God gives. You remember what the scripture says? So Abrams probably had a few nights to be able to sit around meditating in the starlit night of his camp. He is one who is actually thinking God's thoughts after him. If God has given you a promise and you don't see proof of it coming through yet, it is a legitimate question to ask God. Moses, the deliverer, who carried out the deliverance of the children of Israel from Egypt after their period of 400 plus years bondage, and then he hands the baton to Joshua, who runs around and conquers the land. So right off the bat, Adam has a little hint that there can be problems in the garden. He could have it freely. Some people contend, no, it should be the word men, it shouldn't be Adam. One of the most important relationships to look at, of course, is the very first relationship that existed between God and his creature, whom he called Adam. Genesis 15 is the known as the Abrahamic covenant. So those are the parties, God, Abram, and his seed. God's giving Abram a pretty big gift. Oh, God made a promise and it's coming to pass. Just real quick, um there was a lot of talk over the San City Holiday about how we ran off the Indians and so on. What question does God answer with this covenant? We ask God questions that we ought not to be asking. Consistently in the scriptures, I have found tremendous answers to prayers when we get our head around what God has actually told us and we ask for that. Hint men. It was a wonderful job. Do you see the import of that argument? The prophet would come to the people of Israel and they would say, but wait a minute, Adam wasn't in a covenant relationship, God, so why are you saying that we've broken it because Adam wasn't? And you're still not off the hook. Even so, in Christ shall all be made alive. That we need to look at it slowly. Of that covenant relationship. They spoiled Egypt, all the wealth of Egypt. Uh the question that was sort of before us. I mean, I haven't woken up one morning and said, gee Lord, what are you going to give me? All right, so that was the homework assignment. That part applies by a principle, by a biblical principle. Oh, let's go over here to the grapefruit tree. And this is the chapter that deals with man in relation to God. I just find things like this in the Bible absolutely fascinating. An heir. Not Genesis 15. Uh what was the reason given? What was he to do? Keep it to guard it. All right, uh there's a promise. No. There weren't any. That's why we're in this state of misery. Adam and Adam Adam and Eve were under that covenant of works and they did fall. How long were they actually in bondage? Which tribe? You can look on the back of your But does the future hold? No we no weeding. I'm willing to bet that there was a porterhouse tree that put down medium rare stakes. We praise you, O Lord, that after the fall of Adam and Eve, there has been uh grace different men. Look now toward heaven and tell the stars if thou be able to number him. I mean they may be in prison. Lord, why are these afflictions coming upon me? You're righteous. But it doesn't need he doesn't have to, I don't want to say, it's a blessing and it continues to be a blessing, but the land promises and that portion done fulfilled The summary of where I'm going is that as God created Adam and gave him a commandment, you can find elements of a covenant in that God and Adam. You have to keep doing it in order to live. Like men. Well it turns out that the Apostle Paul makes a declaration in 1 Corinthians 15, 22. about this relationship between Adam and Christ, and I'll have to wrap it up there. And he says at the close the Lord God gave un the Lord gave unto Israel all the land which he swore to give unto their fathers, and they possessed it and dwelt therein. Who are the beneficiaries? There's a promise made, the articles of the covenant, the matter to be established, that which is to be performed And then there may or may not be a sign or a pledge, some proof, some token of evidence when you enter into a covenant relationship in marriage. Can you tell me why? Is the Genesis 15 covenant to Abraham still in effect, meaning, are there any yet-to-be fulfilled promises? Can you imagine? Yep, you cannot eat from one, but you can eat from all the others. Sorry, Mrs. Abram asks the question in verse 2. Thoughts? The land and all no, but in him shall all families of the earth be blessed. 7, the Lord is contending with the nation in a state of rebellion, and as he's pointing out their sins, The marriage is not the ring, but the ring signifies, hands off, we're for each other. Alright. Who's going to be my heir? And that's the other thing I find in God's covenant promises. Nehemiah was very well aware of that promise. Yep, you eat of the forbidden tree, you will die. Adam didn't have the Mosaic Covenant. It's reckoned to us. And we're going to just review. You got a newborn baby, you can pick him up, you can wash him up, you can stick him in clothes, put him over here, stick a binky in, whatever you want to do, you're moving this child around, right? Can you find any covenant elements? You just, you're hungry? The Apostle Paul is dealing with that period of time between Adam at the Garden and Moses, meaning the receiving of the Ten Commandments. Well good morning everyone. How did God create him? Other terms and conditions, in the fourth generation, Abram's seed returns to bondage because the iniquity of the Amorites is not full yet. Is he asking God for approval? We've been rebellious, we've been stiff necked. Warning, don't go there. A bacon tree now we're talking a bacon tree. A token is like some visible representation God says He's gonna do something, that is a binding promise from the very character of God without Him saying two words And it is a contentious verse, but I would argue it is a clear verse And again, it makes sense if you understand them as standing in the position as a federal head, the main representative for everybody. Oh, we forgot this thing. You have carried out every ounce of your covenant promise. They just don't get this, right? Does Mrs. So we pray all these things in Jesus' name. And so we're not talking about planting things. So God also gives Abram an immediate reason as to why he's wandering around and boys husbands. Because they were constantly fighting each other and they would dislocate each other from off each other's territory, and it happened constantly. So there was nothing wrong with that covenant. That reason is going to be important going forward. They were constantly wiping each other out. Yeah. 15, and the Lord God took the man, number one, he took him, notice all the verbs, and put him into the garden. Okay. Adam is like a type in a picture of Christ. And if you bought the book thinking it was something like the reader's digest, you were sorely disappointed. Verse 1, after these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield. What were the terms and conditions? Flaming sword, cherubims, God's presence, Christ Himself, driving them away. I didn't do it. We ask you to continue to help us to grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's some goodness coming out of this. Ross, I didn't I couldn't find a smaller font to print it in, so you would strain harder to read it. Some, all right. So we did a nice little review of Genesis 15. And the Lord God commanded, and that's a loaded word. But notice, how did Christ's righteousness come to you? All this constant change and move reloc mother, are relocations fun? Yep, we're full of sin too. Let's see. But according to Joshua 21, and you can look in your handout. Genesis 17 does because that's specifically where the word seed is used and in Galatians 3. You don't want to support those people. Ross keep a directory of who the elect are? We wouldn't do that. Now, that he would be a blessing to all families of the earth. It was nice and verdant and green and pleasant and everything was bright. And before you know it, well I just fell into this thing. The seed is also a part of that covenant. Very strange sign of verse 8 through 12. Can you show me why? Well, at this point we go back to Genesis chapter 2, 15 through 17, and this is when God created Adam. He walked with God in the garden. He was created righteous. That's pretty powerful with one individual can do that much harm. Verse 18. Because Moses thought, it entered into his mind, ah, I'm the deliverer, I'm raised up, it's about 400 years, time to get to work. Right. Who would get a benefit from this commandment? He's going to have innumerable seed. Alright. What are you going to give me? So Nehemiah steps up to pray to God and says, Lord, here's all these problems we've got, but you're righteous. 15 elements of this covenant between God and Adam. So clay appears to be God's building block for you and I. The people were urgent upon them, and they took off their earrings and they gave them the stuff. And were there other thoughts or comments on the homework assignment? The first is the book of Hosea. I'm a descendant of Adam, and because of his sin, death has passed upon all men. We didn't I didn't even see the tree. The Gentiles were not plan B. No sweating. Remember that grapefruit tree in California? We elect officials. It's a blessing and it's it's nice to see that ah I can die with a measure of hope. God is obligating himself through that sign, typifying that burning lamp that passes between them, saying, I will be cut in half like these sacrifices if this does not come to pass. Foremost in his mind. Okay. You say you're right, you go to hell. What's the promise of this? Other thoughts? Is that every single human being that's ever lived across the face of the planet throughout all time? But God intended 430 years, and we know that from the book of Acts as well as the Old Testament. One, two, do two people count as a nation? God had already done everything needed to give him a pristine environment. Well, let's go now to Genesis 15 and we're going to look at that. You've, you know, said some things to me. What was the what's the what was the text? Adam was in a covenant of works with God. For instance, God may make it between himself and man, but he may get no benefit from it. And that's why Abram was bargaining with God, will you destroy Sodom if there's ten righteous in there? Material? I wonder why there weren't any visible tokens. Same argument applies. The Apostle Paul is going to draw an analogy in Romans 5 beginning at verse 12 Is he body, soul, body, soul, spirit? And that was last week. I'm not going to give you a quiz. But that's part of this promise. Right. Circumcision of the heart. We don't have to use the word promise when we're making a promise. Man is made from the dust of the ground, clay. This is our first covenant element. They do tie together. We split our study from last week concerning the covenant into two parts because it was just too much material to cover at one time. We use that term in life insurance policies. It's too risky for us. This got broken the move. Yes, and the Indians were quite pagan in their worship, and they were uh a very violent people. Others are quite content to be childless. Yes, somewhat, but it's more than that. Care for the few trees. Just gotta get up and go walk to these trees. I like to usually talk about that word all because there's two different sets of all. He says this the parallel which Paul draws between Adam and Christ in Romans 5 in connection with the doctrine of justification. I didn't do righteousness. That's a good prayer. We ask for things that we ought not to be praying for. Man was created to work. So now I have my questions. What is that question? So insofar as the land promise is concerned, we can't look back to this past and say, Well Just one stinking tree. If you go to YouTube and look at Living Waters, he does a masterful job in his evangelical confrontations. You can distinguish there's a bit of a difference there. Whatever it was, Moses considered this covenant promise, I believe. Those principles still applied. You would point to him, who was imputed unto me. That's the reason. Hmm. I'm frankly impressed that he had the patience to wait that long before asking the Lord, what are you going to give me? And saints, let me give you a hint. When was it given? Yep. Verse 19, For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. But in your handout, we're going to look at what's in a covenant. If you want to know the reason for that, you can uh catch last week's study. Oh Lord God, have justice on us? Therefore, as by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to comment condemnation. Amen. We understand that. This is huge. They were full of violence. Sitting around playing video games all day is not worth that. He talked with him. Because it's a useless illustration if Adam wasn't in a covenant relationship with God. We've already talked about that. Ah, but cheer up. You can find them there. They're mentioned as well, and they show up again in verse 18. Seeing I go childless and the heir of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. David says in the Psalms, it's good for me that I've been afflicted. Well I did seek to complete the homework of Senate and the answer I came to was no. But in fact, Abraham looked for a country with it with a city whose builder and maker is God, a city which hath foundations. Was there a reason given? That's our fifth covenant element. They like men have transgressed the covenant. But it says, for as in Adam all die. C. And in fact, the biggest beneficiary we read, which is the next part, is Abram How's this going to terminate? It's just like our land. Okay. Okay, alright. No sweating. To dress it and keep it. This is an easy question, guys. Are we going to pine and die away here in Egypt? They had so much stuff and riches coming out. That promise is still there. Okay. All year long, I'm willing to bet that there was a porterhouse tree up there. He didn't get that Ten Commandant. Death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure, the type of him that was to come. He was already in a pristine environment. There have they dealt treacherously against me. I wasn't there. And so this is the promises of this covenant. At least there must be ten here gathered, hopefully. Here's how some cough drops, okay. It was always plan A. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die Why did you put yourself on the stairs to begin with? Wow. They make decisions on our behalf that affect us. We don't know who may or may not exist. Because I'm your shield, because I am your reward, this is what I'm giving to you. They're understatements. But if you didn't care to watch or see that study, you can pull the notes down from HoldingFast. What will you give me? Lord God, you've promised that, but Lord, I don't see any good coming out of this. You just read it. Because if he said Egypt, they just scratched their head. They had sodomy in the land and bestiality. Hint. You know why it's good? Yeah. He didn't need proof. I'm not going to have you pull it out yourself. We're going to try to identify the elements of the covenant in here to see if we can find these six things that we listed Why is it foremost in his mind? That's also in and itself a type and a picture and a figure of heaven. Ah, hmm, hint. That was a forbidden tree. God gave Adam a tremendous amount of liberty. If you blow it, all the bad's on you. That makes everything right. I've got about a dozen minutes to go over the covenant of works If you've never had grapefruit right off a grapefruit tree, let me tell you what, it's something else. There's no need to retranslate that word. This is a multi-generational gift. And so God is going to protect them. So you're you're tying it to land. Last I checked, nations have lots of people, children, old and young. Pluck and eat the fruit today. Well, how have men been in a covenant with God? Who is God? But Genesis 17 is more where you want to anchor your thinking at. No. It's a covenant, the first covenant that God made with Abram. He said unto him, So shall thy seed be The next point of a covenant is the reason. The promise. All these animal sacrifices are made. It was a horrific society, and God said, yeah, enough of that. What was the the language that the Bible used? He finds it a good comparison I didn't reach the tree. There's other parts of the promise too. Then the terms and conditions, and this is the last part of our covenant elements, there would be a bondage period of how long? Why does Abram even ask this question? I mean, great day. Genesis 15. But the elements of the covenant were to Abram and his seed to specifically give that land. I'm sure you're familiar with that. So that as they sojourn through it, they begin to wonder why, wow is this, why is this horrible thing happening to me? And though it doesn't use the word covenant, when you search elsewhere in the scripture, and we'll look at three passages, which is what I really want to get to To dress that word is also rendered to serve. Somebody who represents me makes that, and it has an impact on me and a whole lot of other people I'm concerned. One of the reasons God gives why the flood of Noah came up. He appointed. But it doesn't say covenant. And the Ten Commandments clearly were a covenant. I happen to have a copy here. If you want to come to God in prayer, this is a great way to come to God in prayer. To give it, I say, to his seed, and hast performed thy words, for thou art righteous. I know others had done. No neck pain. If you're looking, can you find them? And in your handout, I've printed Hosea chapter six. Uh he had a tremendously good deal. Christ did. It's not mascara. So Abram would tell her, the Lord God promised us that everywhere we walked, that would be our He says they're going to be strangers in a land not theirs, and certainly if you're treated as a slave, it's a caste system. Um yeah, that's sort of related. Hey hun, welcome to the day. He's there with God. I heard one brother say it's kind of like, you know, sin's in the basement. It doesn't say Moses. How are you a beneficiary of his righteousness? Fundamentally, that's what we're studying here. How wonderful. Alright, we've gone through Genesis 15. So in that sense does not the covenant We're still beneficiaries of that. I want you to dress it and keep it. Thoughts? Was there any provisions in that covenant for a repair? This do and live. How does that all work together? I'm here because I'm going to give you this land and you're going to walk and everywhere you set your foot that's going to be yours What's it going to be like? They were four hundred and thirty years, yeah. It's obviously not referring to the physical seed of Abraham And in fact and in fact uh the even the land promise to enter into a land Fact the matter there wasn't. Turn now to Romans chapter 5 where we find the strongest point. Long before Egypt is even Now there's many, many promises, this fourth part of the covenant that God gave to Abram. Abram's seed is going to be a stranger in a land not theirs. Abram is going to die, verse 15, he's going to die in peace at a ripe old age. Genesis 15. Joshua says, nope, God made good on his promise. It has echoes, and I just love how God's very efficient and economical in his covenant promises because it begins to echo So let's refresh our memory and let's read Genesis 2. How does he operate? All right. You see, in God's playbook of how to deal with nations, when This is a simple one, right? They're part of the deal. All right, let's run with that word men. Why is he reasoning that way with God? Because number one, God adhes that you're listening. We don't know who the elect of God are. There's other things to talk about there. When Jesus healed a man, he spit in the ground, made Well for that to happen, they can't be eaten up along the way. You're going to come out with great substance. But that's an aside. There's no question what Nehemiah is referencing is the Genesis 15 covenant. He didn't need that level of specificity because he hadn't fallen. I didn't do it. All right, thank you very much. No, he's asking for mercy. Kind of a threatening promise. Yeah. He was in the best possible environment. Verse 18, the biggest beneficiary is his seed because they get the land. This is Joshua. Lord, what are you going to give me? You've got to guard it. Go to this tree. Isn't that how God often comes to us? They weren't even in existence just yet. And there stood not a man of all their enemies before them. Yes, Penny? We are violators of the Ten Commandments. Surely they did die. No, we're not. Here, please, take it, just leave, go Now whether it was exactly at 400 years or Moses thought, well, there's you know And the promise was, don't go through this door because down there is darkness. He could go walk and freely eat. That's another reason why God's giving this covenant. But they had a lot of stuff. Alright, let's keep going with that. What's gonna happen here No, no, no, no, no, no, no Five more days, brother. What's that penny? If we say we're gonna do something, we It's actually dirt, needs to be taken off. Egypt, what's the big deal with Egypt? You have made him a great nation. And then the terms and conditions. You know, you die, you bequeath it to your grandchildren. He's going to put a hedge about them because his promises that they will be his multitude. Question number one, what question is God answering with this covenant? Why does he want an error so bad? Lord God, you promised and fill in the blank and spell out the promises He's given to you. This is these foundational basics, Yvonne, I got to cover with your generation. I'm willing to bet, but I don't know, maybe that's just my vain thinking. Anton, would you mind closing us in prayer, please? A reason, the purpose for the covenant, sometimes that's given, sometimes that's given. It's on the back side of your handouts, if you just flip to that back page, there it is all in red And the bacon tree was a forbidden tree. In fact, he may have most of the downside. Parenting now. And Let's go to the blueberry bushes. It looks like this What are his characteristics? What's the essential elements in nature? There's all or most of these six elements, the parties with whom the covenant is made. But we're going to look at Verses thirteen and fourteen. He that shall come forth out of thine own bowel shall be thine heir. The seed would come out of bondage with great substance. 16 references that seed spoken of in Genesis 17. There's no such thing as a lazy man Pluck and eat the fruit. He charged him. Does that worry some of you? Now, just because it doesn't use the word covenant Because that's a pretty wide open term for men. It brought it in. He was my federal head, and he According to Paul, the essential element of justification consists in this. It's loaded with promises, just loaded with it. Thank you. That was Christ, right? I mean there's only God and Adam, not even Eve is around, right? Was it death? So it is with Adam. That's really nice because Sarah, I'm sure, got tired of the constant movement. Yeah, these named countries kicked out And so we thank God for his mercy. Garden needs guarding. You do this one thing, you'll die. And maybe you're stuck with it. It was very thick, condensed. They're cut in half. I might learn thy statutes. Who are we to go back and say, no, no, no, no, no, he needs So your question about does the covenant relate to us And that's how it works with us. No, you've blown it. No. Now who's that all? And I'm here to tell you that clay is a lousy material to build houses with unless you turn it into brick and you burn it and roast it. It's a very good question that Abram has. Fact the matter last week we heard that it was so severe that when they busted it, if they even wanted to try to get back in the garden, they couldn't. He says, For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. In other words. All right We're going to look at the elements of that covenant. Unto thy seed have I given this land. But here it's just between God and Adam. And so it was kind of the opposite. That was the Mosaic covenant. So, that is the covenant of works. It's just a good reference book. Why did God give this covenant? What an understatement. Isn't that horrible? This is But it's always that one don't go there area that somehow He also I've given you all the answers Almost there. I didn't. He is indeed Abram's great reward. I do see some elements of the good traits of the family being reflected there. Oh, poor people, they're ejected from their land. So To dress it and to Verse 14, nevertheless death reigned. No, relocations are not fun. And you'd like to die in peace, at a good old age. Yes. Reason or purpose That's sort of a command, but They don't walk around with E-L-E-C-T on their forehead. Well God also has his fine print, but at least it's not in ten point font uh read at sixty miles an hour at radio station. Verse 5 we have Because God's our shield. Oh, I'm going to drive a new chariot. We're going to bring the gospel through here. Man. Hint, the promise is in the negative What's going on here? It's all that are in him. I wasn't there casting a vote in Annapolis, Maryland. He was a But it did clearly indicate What did he use? So she's got her her toe on it. Wasn't it before this when God called him? And that's what Nehemiah gets. And so that still flows out You've got to serve it. He didn't need a token. I think conservative churches get that. He desperately wants an air. And frankly, this portion of Romans 5 The land was filled with violence. 15 through 17. All organic, by the way. He said, of every tree you may eat. I'm just going to suffice to say Paul is comparing Adam. And I hope you can appreciate as we've been laying down these doctrines. What our history does not record is that there was a great revival among Why would Abram even ask that question? And so it's the spiritual Israel. He didn't need again, he didn't need Obviously not. There's an appointment. Yeah, man would. It's an anti-promise So they were in bondage four hundred years. So let's start with the parties. All the fruits, all the wide, wide variety of fruits What's he like? And those are very important to look at. And you go, pfft, sounds like my land. It was a constant You you've you've you've put in your own words. Opening verses. You have these terms for how do we resolve our differences. And there's big implications to that for the human race, that they are responsible to God. Why stand on the first top stair? Genesis 9 said covenant. Get away, get away, get away. Great substance. Doesn't everybody You've got great liberty in Christ. Anton. And yet, Lord, we praise you that we can have life uh eternally. What is this relationship between this God and this creature called man? Think about that. A smoking and burning lamp passes between. They were when we talk about returning the land to the Indians, the question comes up, well It's not still in effect because of the passage You've kept up your end of the deal, and the very next portions of Nehemiah is going to be, and we haven't kept. When we were living in Southern California, it was phenomenal. But Adam did, and you're stuck with it. What did you do today to impress God so much that he said, Behold, thou art righteous You're not going to read through it. Abram asks him a question, and then God gives him the covenant. It's incredible that you've done that. He's kind of clay-like in color. Look, Abram, I called you out of your home place Why would he use this? And number two, you're tying your outcome and your future to what He's promised. Why are you asking me? It's very short. Alright, is Genesis 2, 15 to 17 a covenant or not? The key phrase then is like And Ray Comfort does a marvelous job of What did you do to deserve death? Verse two. Because what's he asking for? The Lord delivered all their enemies into their hand. Those land promises. All right. It kind of refers to the whole human race. Do you bequeath stuff to your great-great-great-great-grandchildren that you don't even know He's made this promise. So if you want to see that as effective for us There's a charging. He was created righteous. How many part of it? You can't get rid of it. Who do we call those people? You're going to get more than that. Pretty much the human race. God's going to protect them. Absolutely. He didn't need a reminder. Thank you. It's a specific, unique relationship. I would say um yes, because there was And that's why it's known as a covenant of works. So how does that roll down to you and I? He says, in Adam all died, not in Moses. There is an exchange of this thing called rings. And they worshiped they had the great spirit that was in every animal And in fact, Here was my homework assignment from last week God's making a covenant with Abram that's going to benefit people that don't even exist yet. And those who are joined with him in that rebuilding of the Temple. And at this point Christ had not yet been I'll read it to you from here if you don't want to turn, but I would encourage you to turn to it if you can. It wouldn't enter into his mind. You see that in verse 1. They're painful Is he asking God for approved? It's like a dictionary. There's a commissioning, if you will. Right. No, Adam was. I mean this is not hard. Man was a beneficiary. That's a reference to Egypt. Oh, this is horrible. It wouldn't help anyway. Enemies, amok So uh he was to um Genesis 15, God says I'm making a covenant with you. I'm out of time. Now I meditated on this, and I don't know how long I've missed that, but Adam was a fruit eater. How long is this affected for? So Abram is going to get an heir. I've already written you the answer. The land, I see that. They preach that. That's a pretty bold statement. So God's the prime mover on all this. There was no cure. The elect I have no idea who the elect of God are. net. That's nice to know. So yeah They've transgressed the covenant just like Adam. Because he's righteous. He is there. You'd like to see more But I don't want to get off on that So he gives that Who are the parties in here? As you said, God walked with him in the garden. You're going to go consult it from time to time And Adam all died. Mission Bible has the He is his great shield. There's several we find It's one of the strangest signs, frankly, in all of the Old Testament. You're you're the bottom, like India. He didn't make it with the animals, although we saw in Now here's the interesting point What's Nehemiah's point? They teach that. I hope that's helpful. There failed not aught He was naturally A new chariot, a better tent? Lord God, you've promised Okay He says they got it. Which was the main teleste He's looking up Glory. Isn't that phenomenal? And it wasn't time yet He knows that, and that's all that counts. So Abram's question is He even names all the lands He just created him. There was no restitution. But it doesn't say covenant here. You like to see that There wasn't any of that. Lord God So that was totally unnecessary. Thoughts on this? It's a legitimate question to ask. An air. But that's a side topic.