Been looking at the creation in general. That was last week. And this week we are going to look at the spiritual world. Yes, there is a spiritual world. Now, there are two errors to avoid. There are two extremes that we want to dismiss. One is a complete denial. of any form of spiritual being, a denial that there's even angels in existence. This was the problem that the Sadducees had. They denied the resurrection, they denied angels, they denied spirits And so that is one extreme. Then there's another extreme, and the other extreme is to worship them. Colossians speaks about this. It talks about worshiping of angels, intruding into those things which he And I think that word seen has to do with a sense of perceiving or without any knowledge. generating all kinds of things about them. So we're going to try to strike the balance from scriptures as to where that lies, and that's smack dab uh lined up with what the word of God says to the best that we can. There's no one chapter in the Bible that talks about angels. There's no one book that gives us an extensive amount of teaching about angels. But there's three key passages, and there's a handout for you, which you can turn to and look at the three key passages. The first one is Psalm 103, a wonderful psalm. The first 18 verses all talk about the glorious, wonderful, redemptive power of God. But then at the end we find something that's interesting. The commandment here in verse 20 of Psalm 103, Bless the Lord ye his angels. So now this is a commandment from David, the psalmist, to bless the Lord angels. And they do what? They excel in strength. That word excel is a very strong word. They're majestic. They're champions. They're heroes. They're gold medal winners. That's how powerful they are. They excel in strength And of course we know the Assyrian army discovered that when 185,000 were wiped out by one angel. They excel in strength. They do his commandments. They are in heaven. They are right there around the throne of God. uh on to be in the presence of God, you have to be almost just perfect as God Himself. I say almost because no one is a duplicate of God, but they are highly conformed to his image, hearkening unto the voice of his words. So that's the first thing we find about angels in Psalm 103. The next key reference is in the book of Hebrews. In the first chapter, in the 14th verse, it says, Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be the heirs of salvation? Two different words in the Greek for that word minister. The ministering spirits, it speaks of at first, is a word liturgical. Now we use that in a church sense, but the Greek sense of it means that they serve the state at their own expense. They are ones who voluntarily serve the state, they're ministering spirits. They voluntarily serve the kingdom of God And they do the will of God there. They're ministering spirits. And what are they there to minister? What are they doing? It says they are sent forth to minister, and that's our word normally used for deacon, a servant. For them who shall be heirs of salvation. In other words, they're doing God's will on his behalf towards your salvation. Do I believe that The elect of God have protective angels? Oh yes, I really do. That might have been an idea I scoffed at years ago, but no, I can tell you I do believe that. I do believe that God's people have, as necessary, an angel dispatched to watch over, to protect them I can think of a time when I was in no condition to be behind the steering wheel of a car, and I do not remember how I got home. I don't know how. And all I can figure is an angel drove that car home. That's all I can figure. I have no idea how it happened. Jude 1. 6 gives us another insight into angels. It says in Jude chapter, the only chapter there, verse 6, the angels which kept not their first estate, their first habitation, their beginning, but left their own habitation. He hath, speaking of God, hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. So we find there that there are angels that had a habitation, had an estate, had a presence, had a location. This would be heaven. And we read from Ezekiel 28 and Isaiah 14 that Lucifer apparently One of the chief angels apparently drove some sort of rebellion, wanted to be like God. He left that estate. He left that abode. And he was cast out. And he was reserved in chains unto darkness. So God can reserve them. I don't know what that chain looks like. That's just a descriptive term. It's not a physical piece of steel. These are spiritual beings So these are some key scriptures that begin to inform us and give some interesting, penetrating insights into this whole angelic realm. When we studied creation and when we studied the opening chapters of Genesis, the opening verses, we don't read any explicit account of the creation of the angelic host. They're created beings, so they were made somewhere in there. If I were to place it anywhere, I'd put it on the fourth day when he made the stars. They're also referred to as the heavenly host. And so I would imagine that at that point, since they're light, airy type beings, that at that point of time the angelic host was created. That's just my assertion, but we do know that they were created. So again, there's these two extremes, complete denial that there exists, like the Sadducees, and the other end where we begin to worship them. We fall down, we're concocting all kinds of ideas, we begin to substitute their characteristics and qualities for that of God, and we're so impressed with them we worship them. The Catholics oftentimes fall fall uh fall into this uh they will claim some um um particular icon that's traveling around has had all kinds of angelic visitations associated with it and Rose petals magically fell out and so forth, and they attribute it to angels. That's the worshiping of angels. And there's other worship issues of idolatry that are associated with that Well, let's start with some basics. Do angels even exist? What proof do we have that angels even exist? After all, they're immaterial spirit beings, and by definition, I can't see them. Well, the only way that we can find any sure proof, and my basis and my authority for being able to boldly assert that in fact angels do exist comes from the scriptures. And I will rest entirely on that. And I'm going to point out what the Bible says is proof for the existence of angels. If you find fault with the Bible, that's your business, you go tackle that. You can wrestle that mountain and try to do what you will with it. But as a divinely inspired book, giving us insight from God Himself, the Creator Himself who, as he introduces the word angels in the scripture, simply mentions it, presumes that you understand that they exist. We will look at scriptures that prove that. Now, it's actually not in here, but I thought of one additional proof text of reference that would serve as well, and you might want to open your Bibles to the book of Genesis, the earliest chapters. Do you recall what happened after the fall? What happened immediately after the fall? Alright, there was some sort of angel. It's called a cherubim in Genesis three in the last verse. Man was driven out of the Garden of Eden. Hint, it's not in Babylon or Iraq. We don't know where it's at because after the flood of Noah's day, all of that was wiped out, and they would have just renamed rivers and the like from memory of the old world. He drove out the man and he placed at the east of the Garden of Eden cherubims and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life. I find that interesting. Those who would dare try to venture back into the Garden of Eden were encountered, would have encountered angels. They would have seen them. They might have tried to have gotten back in, but the angels were there, and they were overpowering. They were overwhelmingly strong, and there's a flaming sword to keep them away. Because God said, Now lest man put forth his hand and take and eat of the tree of life and live forever. In other words, unless you do something to save yourself, God's going to keep that possibility from happening, and he dispatched angels to do He could have dispatched the angels to simply kill men. But God had a plan of redemption for them. So that's the first place. Now, number one, I draw from that that men would have seen angels. And they would have seen them all up until the time of the flood when the Garden of Eden was destroyed. So isn't it interesting that we have many traditions throughout the world where angels are always depicted as looking like men. But they have wings. Why is it every nationality, tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation has some kind of a depiction of angels as men with wings. Well I'll tell you why, because there's a deep-seated memory of the human race that would have seen the cherubims at the Garden of Eden. They would have said, don't go near there, because there's this angel there and he'll wipe you out And they realized that the curse of God was in effect and they would have turned away. So there was a time, a season when angels, and again you say I thought they were immaterial beings. Yeah, they appear in the form of a man sometimes. They can do that too. They came and talked to Abram, as we've seen in a previous study. Uh and and so um uh I think there was uh some clear there was no rejection of the concept of angels back in the earlier pre-antideluvian world Well, uh ask these famous Bible characters if they believe in angels. Let's start with Lot. The angels came to Abram and said, I'm going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. They go off to Sodom and Gomorrah, two of them. They grab Lot. They yank him out of the house. He's pleading for more time. They let him flee Zoar. But they grabbed him by his hand. So number one, angels can grab you by the hand. And they can drag you out. Number two, the angels declared in Genesis 19 that they could not do anything against the city until Lot had left. Remember that key verse from Psalm 103? They were hearkening unto the commandment of unto his word, doing his commandments. God said, destroy Sodom, but not Lot. That was the commandment. So the angels are They gotta get Lot out. They're gonna do whatever it takes to get him out. And so Lot certainly believed in angels. So do his daughters, because they grabbed their hand as well Ask Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedigo if they believe in angels. You remember these three fellows who were bold enough to disobey the king's commandment to not fall down and worship this golden idol set up on the plains of Shinar? And at the sound of the I love these instruments, the sack butt, the dulcimer, all these other the pipes, the always, I mean they might as well have had a rock band out there that cranked it up. Everybody was supposed to bow down, and everyone bowed down, but three heads popped up, really sticking out in the crowd. The fire was heated up, they were thrown in. But Nebuchadnezzar, an unsaved man at that time, pagan king, is shocked Because he sees four men walking in the fire, and he declares them to be likened to the Son of God. Now some have said, well, that was really Jesus there. Because he's said he seems he's like the Son of God. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said, an angel has been sent. That was their declaration. Was it Jesus? Was it the Son of God? Don't know. Don't know. And I'll keep asserting that because there's one thing we seem to forget about angels. They're either unchanged, reserved to darkness, or they're at his throne, always seeing his face. Now to be before the throne of God, observing his face You're holy perfectly. You're sanctified perfectly. You're fit to be present before the King. And so they are so conformed to the image of Christ that in fact you look at them and sometimes you think, Wow The apostle John made that mistake in Revelation. An angel appeared, he fell down on his face to worship. The angel said, Get up, I'm a man like thee. You know, I'm I'm I'm I don't think he said a man like thee, but I'm I am of my brethren, right. So he was so conformed to the image of God that from his sinful perspective, this man was in fact Jesus. So there are times when the angel looks exactly like Jesus or vice versa, it's hard to disambiguate the two. And so I would just assert there are times when you can rest cautiously in asserting, oh yeah, that's Jesus, because then you might go down the arrow, well there's no such thing as angels. The the angels exist in the righteousness righteousness that Adam had three fall. Yes. Adam and the angels were both created But the difference between man and angels is angels are unfallen. They say unfallen angels are unfallen. Yes. Uh but they're not God. Yes, absolutely. But they're not God. So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego certainly uh believed in the presence of angels. Daniel himself, uh later, we were sunk into the pit with the lions, declares God has sent his angel and has shut the lions' mouths. not hurt me. Daniel didn't doubt that a bit. In the book of Luke, Zecharias didn't. He was struck dumb for his unbelief, for his questioning the On coming the imminent incarnation of the Son of God, angel answering said unto Zecharias, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God. Now here we see that this angel had a name. One of two angels that have names in the scriptures. Not just a proper noun, but a specific name. I am Gabriel, Gabriel, meaning that he is a valiant man of God That's what his name means. He says he stands in the presence of God. So Zecharias doesn't doubt that. The shepherds in the field didn't doubt the presence of angels. They're out there and the the the the night sky lit up and exploded with angels It says there's suddenly there is with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God. I can't imagine how much noise one angel makes destroying 185,000 Syrians What does the entire heavenly multitude sound like when it lights up the skies? Gotta be a little bit more powerful than a Texas thunderstorm, I would imagine. Glory to God in the highest. They were praising God. The Lord Jesus, after his temptation, it says, The devils, and then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. So they found a opportunity to minister to Christ, I would assume, and to his physical needs, and they were there to take care of him and do what was needed after the flesh. We see in Acts 5, the apostles were in prison. It says, the angel of the Lord came by night, opened the prison doors, and brought them, the apostles, forth. So here they were stuck in prison. Lo and behold, an angel comes and cracks open the prison door. Again, you see there's strength You see their stealth and you see their service for the people of God. It wasn't time for the apostles to die. It wasn't time for them to end their ministry. They had books to write, they had sermons to preach, they had places to go, things to do. This prison is just but a inconvenience. God will send his angel. You see it in Acts 12 again, Peter. The angel of the Lord came upon him, a light shined in the prison, and he smote Peter on the side, raised him up, saying, Arise quickly, and his chains fell from off his hands. Peter certainly believes in angels He was brought completely out of the city from the deepest prison safest maximum security zone that that city could afford was nothing to an angel. As it were, it was just a trip to 7-Eleven Walk down there, pull out Peter, kicked a few gates open, set him out here, see ya, poof, gone And then Herod certainly believes in angels, and in fact there is testimony from unbelievers as to the death of Herod who also have witnessed this account. They said that his herod was in the crowd, and he gave not God the glory. There was this oration he gave, and the people were crying out, it's not the voice of a man, it's the voice of God. The ancients who write, I think it was Josephus who recorded that as he said this, he saw an owl, and then he doubled over and then a few later days later died. So Exactly as the scripture declares, he was eaten of worms and gave up the ghost. Well, you can't get severe uh uh uh intestinal uh issues uh where you would expect to find worms and they had an explosive overgrowth and it killed him. Now they accounted to the fact that he happened to glance up at some stupid owl. And but the scripture tells us what happened. An angel smote him Could that angel have appeared in the form of an owl? Don't know, don't care. An angel smote him. And so Herod certainly does believe in angels So that's the biblical proof of their existence, and we've got a number of individuals from the Old and New Testament. And oh by the way, there's other interesting aspects of angels we're going to look at next. The nature of angels. We've been talking about angels in the old and new as if this was a generation of angels back then and there's a new generation here later. No, actually not. Angels, let's look at some of the characteristics. They're pure spiritual beings. They're not infants with airy bodies, right? the uh I can't think of a famous artist's name who painted the Sistine Chapel. Michelangelo painted the Sistine Chapel and he made pictures of little angels with little cherub wings. You know, little little chubby bodied children with little, you know, and um well they're that's not them. That's not them. They're very powerful, very large, very strong. In fact, in Ephesians 6, it says that we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. We wrestle against principalities That word is archai, it means chief, it's the word first estate in Jude 6. It's the beginning in the order of rank and time against principalities, against powers, that's the word exusia, meaning a uh uh it it's uh it has the sense of a privileged force mastery as in a superhuman potentate or authority against the rulers of the darkness of this age, the cosmocrator, the world ruler. It's an epithet for Satan Satan is an angel, fallen one, and he has below him a hierarchy. There are sub-angels below him There is an organizational structure. If the mafia has an organizational structure, what makes you think angels don't? They're not stumbling around cast of heroes. What are you doing today? I don't know. What are you doing today? No We wrestle not against flesh and blood. Our struggles that we have are against a much more powerful foe. Frankly, I'm amazed we're still alive. Because those foes are extraordinarily powerful. They're very real. And again, gets back to why I believe God does send forth ministering spirits. to minister, to protect, to serve, to guard God's people. I think that is a very real possibility, and I I think it's more than possible And so our wrestling is against a spiritual force. The Lord Jesus said in Luke 24, 39, Handle me, touch me. He says, For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see me have. So these spirit beings don't have flesh and bones. Now apparently they can take on a human form. They may appear as humans, but just like Manoah and his wife discovered that as they were offering him some food and he touched the tip of his staff onto the food, it became a huge fire like Like an offering, and as the fire leaped into into heaven, he disappeared right up with it. How is it that he could change his form immediately and go right up? I I don't understand. You know, there's some incredible creatures that God has made in his universe. Um I know pastor is into diving. Uh I'd be terrified to go any more than uh eight feet underwater. I'd think I'd be in a feeling like I was in a tomb. I immediately hyperventilate, which would be bad. But down in the relatively shallow waters, 20 to 30 meters, is a fascinating creature called the cuttlefish. And it is an incredible animal because it is able to change the color, the texture of his skin Every single pigment can change into the most exotic array. It would look like a rock, it can look like coral, it can look like a female version of itself, it can look like a male version of itself. It can just totally, it can put on this light show to dazzle the crabs, and the crab is standing there like, what in the world is that? And while the crab is trying to figure out what it is, zap, he grabs it and eats it. Now if God can do that with a cuttlefish or a chameleon or other creatures that you and I can see where they can change their colors, is it isn't it a light thing for God to create an angel who can change? And so what an impressive feat that is. Colossians tells us that by him, that is Jesus, all things were created that are in heaven. and that are in Earth, visible and invisible. As one with a physics degree in background, I appreciate the invisible world, the elements of uh the the laws of of gravity and physics and nature and so forth are just fascinating to me. Uh uh my uh physics class in waves, wave propagation was one of my favorite classes. It was really fascinating how waves propagate and work and how they change velocity and shape and and the diminuation. I mean there's just I don't know for whatever reason I was just fascinating with that It's really impressive. Today you and I live based on a tremendous harnessing of the application of waves, whether it's radio waves, LIDAR, light waves, or GPS, all of that is based on wave theory and wave principles. That's the transfer mechanism. And uh now how did I get on that topic? Uh oh yes, invisible. These are invisible things. So if God created dumb laws which are soulless or have no being or essence, how much more? He can create things that are that are uh uh uh living entities. We read in uh Matthew 22 30 because the Sadducees came and they thought they had Jesus were going to stump him now and they gave him this quiz This little hypothetical situation. If you ever get hit with a hypothetical in college, understand this. No one can defend a hypothetical because you can never prove it wrong. You can always twist it around and well what if this? Well what if that? You can always get hit with the what if and it just it just it's a foolish question that can be unending And so you can preempt your discussion with hypotheticals by saying, well, that's a hypothetical question, and it's impossible to defend or refute. However, I think this. So you can just declare it right up front, and then if they start to argue that, yep, you know, well whatever. Give me a real example. Give me bring them back to reality. Give me a real example. Give me a real qu what's your real question? Just go right behind it, because there's probably a real question behind it Well, the Sadducees came to Jesus, and they were trying to prove that there was no such thing as a resurrection. And you remember the account. Man, and he had seven brothers. One dies, bears no seed. His brother marries, bears no seed, dies, and so on to the last. In heaven, who shall he be? Aha, we got him. Because a man is to have one wife. So how's this going to work out in heaven? Obviously there's a problem here. Well, these are people that were intruding into those things which they had not seen. And the Lord Jesus said, you do not do err, knowing Neither the scriptures nor the power of God, he says, For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. So number one, angels do not procreate So the cherubims that were at the Garden of Eden with the flaming sword casting and turning every way, they still exist. They're still around They don't die because they've never sinned. So there's a set, finite, fixed number of angels, and they continue to exist to this point. Isn't that fascinating And so he says in the resurrection, men are like that. That number is fixed. There's no procreation. Fixed. At least he says they're likened to angels. That's fascinating to me, that insight. They are as the angels of God in heaven. Here's an interesting question. I'm going to read this verse, and I want you to tell me what do you find fascinating about this verse? It's in Luke 8. 30. What do you find fascinating about this? Jesus asked him, this is a man possessed, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion, because many devils were entered into him. What do you find fascinating about that? I'm sure all of us may think we've met a demon-possessed person at some point in their life. They were inhabiting a man, number one. I want to emphasize that word they. Yeah, the there was uh A multitude of them. Must be a capacity of some sort within a person to be able to inhabit More than one. Yes. In fact if you look at the account where talks about Legion, uh a Roman legion is anywhere between three to six thousand members. This man is filled with three to six thousand devils. Can you imagine the torment this poor fellow? But also just for the moment, considering our topic of angels, the fact that you can jam 3,000 to 6,000 individual entities in you, whoa! That has got to be a very different scenario, and yet they're very powerful. It seems like they're not constrained in space, but there's a distinct quantity and entity to them Yeah, very interesting insight. Revelation 5. 11, and I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne. The number of them was 10,000 times 10,000. I don't think God's limiting that number to 10 billion. I believe he's indicating that there was, from his perspective, a seemingly infinite number. The book of Revelation uses a lot of similes, a lot of metaphoric language, and yet here we find that I'll venture that there's at least 10,000 times 10,000 angels. And again, I get back to that one who's dispatched to go dust off the Assyrians. Think of the power. You know, it gives you this idea that when the Lord Jesus says to Peter, put away thy sword, do you not think I can presently call to my Father and he shall send me? Twelve legions of angels. In other words, I'll snap my finger and it's judgment day. Boom, it's over. He shall send forth his angels and harvest the world. Don't you think I could do that? He has them at his command. They do his will It's truly interesting the resources, the assets our Heavenly Father has in his arsenal. So this is the nature of angels. Some angels are good, holy, and elect We see in 1 Timothy 5, 21, the apostle says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that thou observe these things. Now A case can be made that this reference to elect angels is a reference to ministers, ordained ministers They are in the pulpit. For instance, in Revelation, he frequently writes, and to the angel of the church of so-and-so. The angel there would be a reference to the minister, and not an angel was in the pulpit, a minister is Yet I think a case can also be made likewise, and of course God could be very efficient and economic by saying it this way. that there are some angels that were also elect. They were elect, they were chosen not to fall, whereas man was elect to be redeemed. It's a different type of election. Chosen, but unto or for a different purpose. Because there is no redemption program for angels. Some angels fell. They can't confess, repent, believe. That's not an option. They're reserved to change. They made one mistake, that's it, they're out That's pretty severe. And it would be make sense in some respects. Again, I'm not too hard-souled on whether this is actual angels or a past. But a case can be made for angels in that he's charging Timothy according to a governing hierarchy. Because remember, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. We are wrestling against a whole hierarchy that's against us. Well, we have a hierarchy that's for us. We have a hierarchy that's for us. for us and he's charging them by that God, Jesus Christ, and his servants that are there, like angels. And whether you see that as Fellow pastors or as angels, that's okay. Some said that's a for reference to ruling elders as well. Um Matt Mark Mark eight thirty eight says, Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. The angels are holy. They're good. They're holy. And when Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, sitting upon his throne, and the angels ceased not to cry, holy, holy, holy, they weren't talking about themselves. They're talking about God, yet they themselves are quite holy. It was gonna because our God is so holy he cannot tolerate having unholy servants about him. Here's an account of a man being kicked out of a wedding because he didn't have the right garment on, how much more so if an angel is not properly Properly clothed before our God. We've already mentioned this. Other angels are fallen from their first estate. They're therefore evil. We get that language from the sixth verse of the book of Jude. We also find in 2 Corinthians 11, 14 that Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. I profited for years from the ministry of a radio minister who had a 90-minute QA session, and one of the most enlightening things he pointed out was that the devil does not come with red pointed ears and a tail and a red coat. He doesn't come like that. He's not big fat obvious as wicked He comes as an angel of light. He looks super righteous. He appears very holy. He, in fact, is an exceptional theologian, above and beyond what you and I could possibly attain to. Does anybody know why Satan is such an excellent theologian? Why would he be what why would I say he's an excellent theologian? You have some thoughts, Penny. He knew God personally. He knew God personally. He was there with God. He was there with God, and he has been around for a really long time. He has seen how God operates in this world. So he can argue very, very fine points of theology. He knows scripture and he knows it well. And so he comes as an angel of light. No, the devil is not in the red light district in Denmark. The devil is not at the liquor store, though I wouldn't doubt that he has some of his minions hanging around down there The devil is principally a theologian. If he is present on this earth, you find the most holy, upright, seemingly righteous-appearing religious organization, and undoubtedly it will be a Christian one. And that is precisely where you will find the devil. I'm sure he's occupying a seminary somewhere where his throne is in these current days. That's the devil. That's the angel. He is a theologian extraordinaire. The Lord Jesus said of the Pharisees, ye are of your father the devil. Now think about that. These are the Pharisees. Of whom he said, The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. Therefore whatsoever they bid you observe and do, that observe and do, but do not after their works. And later when he goes to flame, he says, You're the father of the devil Wow, that sounds pretty wild. They're in Moses' seat. Whatever they're commanding you to observe and do, that do. But he points to them and says, You're of your father the devil And his desires you will do, because you want to kill me. Abraham never did that. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth. He was a murderer, because in his fall he led many with him Led many astray. Second Peter said, If God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness reserved unto judgment. He did not spare them, so there is no salvation plan. For angels. Interesting. Interesting insight we get. There are two classes of angels, and when I went through this study, this was one of the most fascinating parts to me. The classes of angels. There appear to be, from scriptures, we are informed by the Word of God, mostly in Hebrew, that there are cherubs and there are seraphs We sing it in our songs, cherubim and seraphim, falling down before. Alright, cherubs and seraph So let's talk about them. Cherubims reveal God's power, majesty, and glory, and they seem to be a guard of his holiness. They reveal God's power, his majesty. It was a cherubim that was sent, as we read in Genesis 3. 24, to guard the Garden of Eden. He sent cherubims there. In Exodus 25, 18, the fashion of two cherubims was commanded to be made and placed in the Holy of Holies over the mercy seat over the Ark of the Covenant. Now watch this. How were those two cherubims placed? Do you remember? Somebody described how they were set up. Go ahead, both of you. Okay. So from the sides mark called they were kind of they had their wings overspread. They had their wings overspread. Right over the mercy seat. Alright, so you had the two cherubim. So here's this holy golden box. It was made out of shaitim wood, a very common average wood, kinda like you and me, overlaid with gold, uh some external material not native to wood. Kind of like our righteousness, covered up. Actually it's a picture of Christ there. He was flesh but righteous. And so here is this holy box, this golden box, and on top you've got the cherubims with their wings and their faces are to each other and they're covering it. They're covering it. Right? Under the wings. Isn't that fascinating? Because in the book of John, chapter 20 and verse 12, what does one of the apostles see when he enters into The now empty tomb. It says he seeth two angels in white, the one sitting at the head, and the other at the feet of where the body of Jesus lay. Already in the tabernacle you had an early snapshot of what you would see. Here was the Ark of the Covenant. There's no body there, but there's blood there And they're facing each other, one at the head, one at the feet. How precise the Word of God is In Samuel you read that God rode upon a cherub and did fly. He was seen upon the wings of the wind. Apparently cherubs are strong enough to Ride on their backs and fly, I don't know how that works. I don't understand that, but that's the language In Ezekiel, you hear the language of what happens with the cherubs. In Ezekiel 10, the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house. The house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. At the sound of the cherubim's wings was heard even, and the sound of the cherubim's wings was heard even to the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh. In other words, even the flapping of their wings sounded like the speech of God. That's how holy these creatures are There appeared in the cherubims the form of a man's hand under their wings. Out in my backfield, that's the neighboring property is a patch of trees. Some are dead, some are alive. And there are bats that live there. Now bats don't have wings. They fly with their hands. They're basically a flying hand because their their their bone structure radiates out from their shoulder and so they they literally are flapping hands, which is why they fly really kind of funny and differently. And I like the bats because they eat their weight mosquitoes every night and they're wonderful things. And you should never kill a bat, and they're practically never full of rabies. They're perfectly fine. And they're wonderful animals. And you know, if you don't like to look at them, fine, leave them alone. But I stand out there in the driveway at dusk and just watch them flap around. I I call to them and I'm just cheering them all as they fly overhead. They're just wonderful little creatures And so here's these little wings. Underneath the wings, the form of a man's hand. Again, little insights we get into their nature. That's the cherubim. Now here's the one that are most interesting. The Seraphim. The Seraphim. You only read about those in the book of Isaiah in the sixth chapter. It says And that vision that Isaiah had as he's looking at God upon his throne. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. So these are six-winged angels. Read. They've got a lot of lift. There are some military helicopters that can pick up a tank or two and fly it into the battlefield, and tanks weigh about 45 tons. That's a lot of lift. These angels with six wings got a lot of lift. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. That's a lot of lift. I mean just from an engineering perspective, I guess I'm fascinated with that, but that's not what being focused on. In the text, they've got six wings. One cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Our God is said to be a consuming fire. His holiness is so upright and pure and righteous. He is so bright. That in the new heaven and the new earth it says there's no need for the sun, for the light and the glory of the Lamb is the light thereof. The seraphim, we read in verse 6, then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal, a hot coal. in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. Now, number one, everything on the altar was holy. That would include the coals. Number two, everything is purged by fire. Now I used to have a fireplace and I used to really light it up and get it hot. You know, you start off with uh some some old scrap wood and then you put some oak in there. Once the oak gets going, then you put this what's the yellowish kind of wood? Locusts. Then you put locusts. Locust is the hottest burning wood. And I busted out several fireplace doors by burning locust wood too hot until I finally got ceramic and then it could withstand the temperature This angel has no problem whatsoever going over and grabbing a hot coal with his hand. He can grab it. And what's interesting is if you look at that word seraph, The word seraphim means burning or poisonous. It was listed as the fiery serpents that bit the people in the book of Numbers is the root of that word. It implies a burnt copper color. So seraphims apparently have no difficulty hanging on to really hot things. Let me give you a hint. Like fire and brimstone that can rain down on Sodom and Gomorrah. They can shuck hot burning things all day long like you and I can toss around a dishcloth. It doesn't phase them a bit. That's God's seraphim. They have that ability. And you read in the book of Revelation, in the 14th chapter, what I believe is a description of one of the rolls of the seraphim. Speaking of the wicked, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels in the presence of the Lamb. Now that word angel is our word angels, but I submit to you that those are seraphim Because they can handle the fire. They can handle the brimstone. They're listed as being able to do that. So Does God have some pretty impressive spiritual resources available to him? Yes, he does Alright. Well there's more in your study which we can get into which might get a little argumentative and so I'm just going to touch on it. And these are the angels who had specific names. There's only two in the scriptures given to us that are given by name. One is Gabriel, the other is Michael. Gabriel literally means the valiant man of God. He appears in the book of Daniel, and later he comes in the book of Luke, when he was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, where Gabriel personally makes a visit. to Mary to inform her. And later he informs Joseph, don't leave your wife. So he seems to be involved in delivering a supernatural message. Then you've got Michael, which shows up in the book of Jude and the Book of Revelation. Some would assert that this is really Jesus because his name means who is like God. And of course Jesus could appear in another form. But I would wonder, you know, when we think about his name who is like God, even the name Israel means he will rule as God. When is a a name just a name or a common noun? I have no trouble seeing him as Michael um to read in there that it's literally Jesus. Uh okay, I'm I'm fine with some people saying, well that's Jesus in there, but why does the scripture go out of his way to give Jesus an unusual name? Um and and uh uh you would expect him to be called Jehovah. I mean that's the name I mean he he's not shy to use his name Jehovah thus the Lord appears all throughout scriptures. Uh why wouldn't it say Jehovah was contending with the devil? No, Jehovah doesn't need to contend with the devil. He doesn't get into an argument with anybody. He wins every speech. And so um, you know, I think Michael's a proper name. Uh Uh and uh you know why can't there be ranks among angel uh angels? Why can't his name simply reflect the glory of God? Uh you know it's an archangel's presence and voice that attends to Christ's return. It says the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with us Shout with the voice of the archangel. Well, it's an archangel who's shouting. Well, which one might that be? I'm Bethon Gabriel or Michael is going to be making that noise. So again, I don't want to intrude too far into things I haven't seen. But this is the scriptural data concerning the spiritual world. It's most fascinating. It's one that we, I don't think, rightly consider. We just touch upon it. There's little trinkets sold at stores that, you know, I hope don't inform our theology, but let's get our thinking from the scriptures in terms of how angels and the angelic host really often. Okay, well that's uh the lesson for today. Uh Anton, if you could close us in prayer. Thank you. Father in heaven, Lord, thank you for this time. That are your scriptures and what you teach us, Lord, of uh your creation, things that are seen and are unseen. Lord, we do pray that you would uh transform our minds by the uh renew our minds by by your word, O Lord, and conform us to the image of Christ and and help us to grow in the grace and the knowledge of Christ. and of your word to be able to rightly divide it Lord. We praise you for your teaching and ask Lord you would continue to build us up in these phrases. We pray these things in Jesus.