In this topic of Christ's second coming. And we're going to turn now to the warning signs. These are the great events that will precede Christ's coming. And there's five of them, but I'm going to start off with the first event, which is what I call, and this is your first fill-in-the-blank, the non-event, to which the worldly often point to. Every time there is an earthquake in fill-in-the-blank location of the planet, does this mean Jesus is coming? Did you see how big that earthquake was? Wow, it had a tsunami. No, it's it's not that. What about this war? China and whoever are gathering together and they're on the border over here and there's this great battle about to begin. Surely that's the sign of Jesus coming. No That's not yet. Uh why do I say that? Well, if you look at your first passage and your handout, Matthew 24, which is kind of a mixture of AD seventy and the end of the world. Matthew twenty-four, it says, You shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you be not troubled. For all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. Boy, I wish I had that as a track to hand to people when they say, do I think that such and such is the event? Just hand them that and just move on. Just cut the conversation real short. Nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. There shall be famines. Oh, did you hear about all the locusts going through Africa that's eaten up all the plants and all this great famine There shall be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in diverse places. All these are the beginning of sorrows So, no, don't pay attention to those things and act like that is a sign of Christ's return. It is not It's not an earthquake. It's not locusts. It's not really big locusts. I don't care how big the locust is. It's not the locust. It's not the coronavirus. It's not the earthquake in Turkey, it's not the earthquake in Alaska, it's not the earthquake that hit Sendahai Japan. Are you starting to get the idea? I mean I beat on this because it is a almost predictable response every time I hear in the news Some big catastrophic worldwide event that CNN and all the news focus just zero in on and they go to the you know, some poor pig farm and zero in on the destruction there, some guy's shed falling down, and then replay that fifty times, you think the whole country's wiped out. No, that's not it All right, so let's just anchor that down and just just don't go any further with that. Luke 21, 9 says as much as the same thing. But there are five things that the Lord and the apostles do call out as being indicators of when he will return. These are check boxes, if you will. These boxes have to be checked. When all five boxes are checked, then you need to be on high alert. But in my lifetime, I have not seen all five boxes checked. Will they occur in our children's lifetime? Maybe. The first century church thought Jesus' coming was imminent. They were, if you read some of the patristic, the church father citations and quotes of things, they all were expecting Jesus to return soon. From their vantage point, there were several of these things glaring and glowing in their face, but the end had not yet come. So let's look at some of these things and let's put them all together And the first event is the calling of the Gentiles, that your next fill in the blank. The calling of the Gentiles, and you know this one This is pretty straightforward. It says, This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. Mark 13 says the same thing. The gospel must first be published among all nations. So step one, there will be a global outreach of the gospel. Does it happen all at the same time? I don't think so. Does it happen uh Uh is there going to be some uh uh global evangelical spread that all of a sudden converts it at that point? I I don't know how it happens, but from Jesus' perspective he says it's gotta go to all nations If you look at various Bible translation teams, Wycliffe comes to mind, and there's a few others that are doing open, I forget the other one. Anyway, there's several Uh there are thousands of people groups that still do not have, according to our understanding, a copy of the Bible in their language. They do not have a missionary that has been sent to them. So there's still plenty of people groups that have not been reached. They still exist in our time. Jesus says, all nations, all the world, and it's a witness to all nations. And that would make sense, right? This is the times of the Gentiles. This is when The gospel is going out to the Gentiles, no longer constrained to a little nation, it's going worldwide. So that's the first event that all have to be called. And that's of course very similar to what happened with Noah and the Ark, right? They were brought onto the Ark both clean Jewish and unclean Gentile animals. It's a prefigure, it's an early picture of the bringing in of the lost and that ark, that only place of safety Prior to God's deluge upon the earth and the destruction of the world at that time, that then was, the ark is a grand picture of Christ returning. Jesus says as much in Matthew 24 as it was in the days of Noah. And he likens that period to just before his own return. So that's the first one. I think you all can understand that. Second The second one is the conversion, and this is your third fill in the blank, the conversion of all the Israel of God. The conversion, the bringing to faith of all the Israel of God. And I say all the Israel of God. For a reason. First of all, where do we find this idea that all Israel is going to be saved? Well, we read it in Romans 11, 25. It says, I would not, brethren, 25 to 28. You might want to turn there in your Bible, or you can look at your handout. Romans 11, 25, for I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own conceits. That blindness, and here's a key phrase, in part Is happened to Israel. So there's a blindness that's occurred to Israel, but it's a partial blindness. Not everybody is totally blinded. Until the fullness of the Gentiles be come in. And so, so does not mean then, so means in this manner, and so all Israel shall be saved. As it is written, their shall come out of Zion the deliverer shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant unto them when I take away their sins. As concerning the gospel, their enemies for your sake, as touching the election, they are beloved for the Father's sake Those who are blinded providentially and hardened, as God has declared through his prophets, would happen to the majority of Israel who would be blinded to the truth and to this day remain blinded. They're not going to become saved. God does not have two separate plans of salvation. It is not a special deal for the Jews and the normal course of salvation for you and I And some would and some would say, and then there's a third one for little infants, they get a different plan too. No, no, there's one plan of salvation. There's always been one plan of salvation, and that's faith in Jesus Christ. There's got to be a new creature. And that's God's work. He's the one that creates the new creature. But there are some among the Jews who are the elect of God. They shall come. Well, who is this all-Israel that's got to be saved? Well, folks, it's no different than what we have in the first event, the calling of the Gentiles. You see in 2 Corinthians 3, that's our next passage here, 2 Corinthians 3, 12 through 16. This is talking about the blindness. I'll talk about who Israel is in just a moment. The apostle says that we have a hope, and we use great plainness of speech, and not as Moses, which put a veil over his face. That the children of Israel could not steadfastly look to the end of that which was abolished, but their minds were blinded. Alright, so he's referring to a time. Moses comes from seeing God on a mountain and he saw the backside of God's glory. He was so bright, his face shined so brightly that they couldn't even look at Moses and they put a veil over him. And the Apostle Paul reaches back and says, you know, excuse me, you know, that's an allegory, that's a bit of a picture. Because even to this day there's a veil upon their face. Moses, the giver of the law, is veiled. That old covenant is veiled to them. They don't see Christ. They don't see the glory of God. Moses is a reflection of the glory of God But it was veiled to them. That's the imagery the Apostle Paul is using here in Corinthians. He says, to this day, they still have a veil over their face. They still don't see it. They still don't get it. However, he says, unto this day remains the same veil untaken away in the reading of the Old Testament, which veil is done away in Christ. In other words, when you see Jesus Christ, the veil is pulled back. Moses was a pointer to the glories that Christ would bring in through his life, ministry, death, burial, and resurrection. But it says Nevertheless, when it, and that could literally be rendered one, shall turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away. This is how a Jew becomes saved. They've got to turn to Christ. Jesus Christ the Messiah is the only option God holds out for salvation. He is the only path. He is the only way. He is the way. And there is no second or third chance. Fence, I think it says all Israel, and so it means all Jews. Well, the Apostle Paul in the earlier part of Romans says this in Romans 9:6, they are not all Israel, which are of Israel Verse 8, that is, and he's very plain, they which are the children of the flesh, physical descendants of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and the patriarchs, they which are of the flesh, he says plainly, these are not the children of God. So you can see why the Apostle Paul was not too terribly well liked by the Jews, because he's teaching this. He says, they which are the children of the flesh, Romans 9. 8, these are not the children of God. But the children of the promise are counted for the seed. Well, the promise is to God's elect. The promise is to those to whom God intends to save. That's the Israel of God. He says in Galatians 4. 28, now we brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. So that's just a brief synopsis to try to help you understand what it means by the calling of the Gentiles and the conversion of all Israel. All Israel is the Israel of God. All of God's elected got to become saved. To get back to my ark illustration, all the animals have got to get onto the ark. That's salvation for them. All right, so you're salvation as well. Third one. This one we've got a question afterwards. And this one's probably a little more visible. This is something that you and I can observe a little more readily. It's hard for me to know worldwide who all has already or has not been saved. People are not walking around with a big E on their forehead, you know, that says they're the elect of God. I have no idea ultimately who all of God's elect are. I can have good suspicions for a great many, but I can't Not even a great many for those in my neck of the woods, but at the end of the day, can I really turn to any news channel, even a Christian news source to see, okay, have all the elect men saved yet? We can't. So we understand that this would be God's criteria. And so you and I can look out and see God's Son rising up, and we say, well, it's still another day. That must mean it's another day of salvation. God still has some people left to save, to be saved. And so that's why this globe is still spinning and we still have our life going on, as bad as it may seem for some. But the one we can look at is number three, the great apostasy and the great tribulation. The Great Apostasy and the Great Tribulation. This is one that does come to us a little more closely. 2 Thessalonians is very instructive. In fact, all of the Apostle Paul's letters to the Thessalonians, every single chapter says something about the return of Christ. Either just one sentence or some expansive teaching. And 2 Thessalonians is no different than 1 Thessalonians in that respect. 2 Thessalonians 2, 3, and I'm just going to look at the first part. We'll look at more later. Says this. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day, he's talking about the day of Christ's return. That day shall not come except there come a falling away first. You could probably hyphenate the word falling away because it's one word in the Greek. It's the word apostasy. Apostasia. He says there has to come an apostasy first. Well, what is an apostasy? A falling away, which is what does that imply? Not following, not wanting to know about God's word, just falling away from Everything you knew? Yeah, so okay, you're you're hitting on it, so everything you knew, who's the you that you're talking about? People who are unsaved to begin with or people who think they're safe? Okay, unsaved. All right, let's I want to pull that thread a little bit. Probably people who think they're saved don't Ah, okay. So yeah, you can't the the the atheistic evolutionists can't apostasize. They were never, quote unquote, in the faith to begin with. Now there may be some who started off in the faith and have wound up in that camp. Yeah, they are an example of that So a falling away in apostasy is an inside job, if you will. It's corrosion from within. And so the focus here is within the church within the congregation. That's when we talk about falling away. We don't look at how degenerate the wicked have become. They're just going to continue to degenerate. Wickedness begats wickedness and darkness just gets darker. It's the camp of the saints where you find this concern. Turn to 2 Timothy chapter 3 in the first seven verses. I've got it printed for you, but if you want to check it in your own Bible, you can just so that you have it in front of you. 2 Timothy 3. 1, the apostle writing to his protege, Timothy, one who would carry the gospel torch to you and I. He gives us a nice list. How about this? So rather than talking to me about earthquakes and famines and pestilences, this is a better list. But it's not an exciting list. It's not something you find on the news. This is what it says. And this note also that in the last days, perilous time shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves. That's actually one word in the Greek. It's hedonistic. They're hedonistic. Love themselves. Covetous. Boasters. Proud. Blasphemers Disobedient to parents, wow, that's makes you wonder what kind of a time existed when children weren't disobedient to parents. I mean it's so commonplace these days that we can't even we don't even have In our cultural collective memory a time when there was, generally speaking, a time when children were obedient to parents. I mean, that's a pretty stunning commentary. Unthankful When was there a time when the general public, for the most part, was thankful? Unholy, without natural affection. Truce breakers, false accusers. Boy, that's a tough one to face. Being that's something that really irritates you, doesn't it? When you're being falsely accused of something that you're not even remotely close to doing. And Yeah, that's tough. Incident. Fierce. Fierce is is pretty stark language. They're just in your face type of thing Despisers of those that are good. They're not content to not do good. They see those who are good and they despise them and they're fierce about it. They're very open. Traitors. Now again, that sounds like an inside job. The most famous American trader was a brilliant general named Benedict Arnold. He was well trained, but unfortunately he sided at the end with the with the uh with the Tories Hetty, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. I think actually I made a mistake. That word lovers of pleasure is hedonistic, not the other one up. This is the one that he missed in lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. And this is the scary part right here. Having a form of Now that's a very telling comment because you can wrap all that other stuff up above into this, but denying the power thereof from such turn away For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of God. Well, I shared some of mine. What are your observations on this list on Second Timothy three? I wonder so. What's that? Don't we have some? Don't we have some? What do you mean? Yeah, well these uh Some preachers and some uh woke people. The woke people Okay, the woke people and you but you're saying we have some, so let's kinda merge those two together there. Um I mean uh some preachers that uh Yeah, you see some false preachers that seem to fit in this mold. Yeah. Yeah. Certain elements. You certainly see elements of that, right? Now you were mentioning woke, okay. Okay, all the woke people. All of them. All of them. All right. They certainly uh fit into that. Now would you say they have a form of godliness? That is their god. Okay. Okay. They certainly worship that and that that that uh mentality and that ideology. And they also hate those of us Who do not fall into that? Certainly they despise those who do good. Absolutely despise it. And they're fierce. That's right. Yeah, they're very fierce about it. Okay. What else Creep into houses and lead captive silly silly women. And um so many times you see a situation where a solid church has one or two that come in and get something stirred up and It ends up being a lot of women that are very loud about it, but you see it's a man that started the problem. Yep. You know, we're a local set is destroyed because someone creeps in and stirs up. That's hard for me to imagine, but I'll take your word for it. What else are your observations about this? I I guess look at the parts that I've got underlined. Those are the things those of you can see underlines. The uh covetous without natural affection, lovers of pleasure, having a form of godliness What what are your observations about that? If you were to stitch that together and give me a picture. Ms. Saba was starting to hit on it. She's she's starting to hammer in that direction. Well what don't we stitch and say for if we are going to say this person is Well we are to judge righteous judgment but we don't condemn We don't condemn to say they're absolutely going to hell. God may have mercy. But this is a description of an apostasy, and it's not an occasional apostasy, it's a great apostasy. There is a large falling away. It's not a few. So that's the reason why we say it's very close to Jesus Christ too because of these uh preachers and not preaching Well there's always yeah there has always been the tears in the in the midst of the wheat, that's true. Yeah, yeah. I want somebody else to build on what you're saying. You put a good foundation down, you put a good stepping stone down. I want somebody else to kind of build on top of that stuff. What is that So considering these various characteristics I guess you could call them. You kind of get the sense of people being very selfish. Um very cold, you know, a lack of love for um the Lord. And honestly I'm kind of still hung up on number two with what apost well actually it's three, what apostasy is Um is that only focused on those in the house of God, meaning just people who were maybe like children of of leaders in the church or of Christian professing Christian families who maybe grew up and then fell away, meaning they professed faith for a time and then they left. Is that what that No, you're not. Uh I'll answer the second question first. You're absolutely correct. It's those that are in a congregation, whether leadership or otherwise They're on a they're they're on the list of people we send birthday cards to. They're on the you know that sort of thing. That's what we're talking about. Does it mean they were never s We can go to those conclusions, but let's just focus on what this sign is for the moment. I want you all to tie that I'm still hitting on something. We're not quite to the little we're we're beating around the we're trying to get to the mountain, I'm trying to get you to a mountaintop experience here, right? Alright, so I want to tie two things together first without natural affection and having a form of godliness. Somebody tie those two together for me and stitch that together. Who are we talking about here? Homosexuals come to mind for someone. Alright, homosexuals, alright. That would be the without natural affection. Alright, but has a form of godliness. Most homosexuals I see pr Going down the pride parades and all that, they they don't even try to have a form of God. They're far away from it. And this is an apostasy. Religious leaders. Religious leaders, all right, let's tie those two concepts together. Religious leaders who are homosexual. Now that seems like a pretty far stretch to the first century audience to whom this came, to have homosexual religious leaders. Can you imagine that such a thing might actually happen someday? And of course, and of course, you already now know where I'm going. There are major mainline denominations that are fighting for the right to have homosexuals, to include women ordained as leaders. And what else follows with that? Are they fierce? Oh yeah. You you come to them against any tell them that they're not qualified and They may mob you and lynch you. Do they love pleasure more than God? Obviously. Are they covetous? Do they have their hands out? Do they have big buildings? Do they have lots of money going on? Yes. So start to put in your mind that kind of an individual. I'm not I'm not talking about just the the the the run-of-the-mill false gospel preacher, although they certainly are the dust and the dirt leading up to it, right? They're certainly part of the problem. They're not standing the watch. They're not but These individuals here, it says this great apostasy, this isn't average apostasy where they're just deviant from the foundations, fundamentals of the faith. They are radically deviant, and yet they insist they have a form of godliness. They insist it and they advance it and they militate their agenda. So these are religious folks that are proud. They could be homosexuals, homosexual elites, very rebellious, and they actually hate the true Christians, and they fight against the true Christians. This is the great apostasy that I believe the apostle is talking about. Would you include spiritual weakness in high places? Would you include them in that? They're in leadership high places But they're spiritually defunct. They're drivers of it, absolutely. The spiritual wickedness in high places, I believe, is that angelic driving it. It seems like a you could almost cross over there a bit too, where there, you know, the leadership. is now a high place for those are leading the track. Well, no question. It definitely is the leadership. They when we talk about the spiritual realm, that is the view from heaven that you get in the book of Revelation. When you look at what is the That's the NOAA weather satellite looking at the hurricane. If you want to look at the reporter out the front door, what does it look like? That's what Thessalonians and Timothy are describing, what you're going to physically see coming at you So if the more I study this language, the more I tell you it just comes into clearer focus with a lot of things we're seeing here. Is this phenomenon of homosexual ministers who were very fierce, covetous, greedy. Is this just something that's a problem in some nut job church in California? No, it's all over. It's all over where? The country. I w It's certainly all over the country. This country. This country it certainly is. I don't think it is in the other country countries. Not yet. Not yet. Right. So this is something to consider. See, I want you to get some spiritual glasses on folks, so when you start trying to think about, well, is Christ coming soon You're at least looking for the right things. So that would be something to look for. Homosexual uh church leaders in Belarus or some other or Australia, or I'm sure it's in Australia, New Zealand, they're they're they're they're all for rails already. These are the signs. This is the third one, the Great Apostasy and the Great Tribulation. And so now it's no mistaking. No surprise, I should say, we read in 2 Timothy 4 and verses 3 and 4. This is your next verse after the question. The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. I'm wondering when the time was that they did endure it. I mean it's so far gone in distant memory, I don't even know. But after their own lusts, notice the driver. Shall they keep to themselves teachers, having itching ears, and shall be they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. And a lot of what they're teaching is complete fiction. It's just a fable. It's just a myth. It's just a fanciful story. And boy, they look real religious, and boy, they got plenty of money somehow. 2 Peter 3, knowing this first. 2 Peter 3, 3. Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts. Now There's a common phrase, if you glance back up, there's a common phrase, and that phrase is in the last days. You see it in 2 Timothy 3, this note also that in the last days, perilous time. She'll come. Peter says, in the last days. Appear to start sometime around Pentecost. Pentecost began the current era of time known as, quote, the last days. Now that's interesting. Why do you suppose they might call The time starting at Pentecost till now, the last days. Well, because there's no other dispensation other than Christ returns And it's all over. This present order and this present world and this present time are brought to a close and eternity is ushered in. It's a whole it's it's it. It's over for us. And we read this in Acts 2. 17, this phrase last days. It says, It shall come to pass, in the last days, saith God, I will pour out my spirit upon flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, your old men shall dream dreams. So this was kicking off the uh Pentecostal um uh era. Uh there is a brief season when God would work miraculously through these means to bring us the canon of the Bible To bring us the word of God. And once we have that final revelation complete, this is the prophetic word. This is the vision. This is the dream coming to you and I to this day. But it started, quote, in the last days, as the Apostle Peter declares, as he's understanding an Old Testament prophecy in his time The last days refers to our current gospel era. And that's your last fill-in-the-blank. It's our current gospel era. The first two verses of the book of Hebrews, Hebrews 1, 1, and 2 Begins this way, God who at sundry times and diverse manner spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. And it makes sense. You've had all the types and figures come along. All the earthly kings who would be but mere shadows of the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, David, Solomon, and the like. The great prophets, Elijah, Isaiah, all of the great prophets, Moses, of course, the prophet, again, weak signs and figures. The great high priests that would come along. But now the last one sent was the Lord Jesus Christ who fulfills all that. He's like, those were warm-up acts to use a a play uh stage analogy, Christ is the final act and he comes and then we're waiting for him to return. That's it, the last days. Okay, you're back to your handout. The fourth sign we look for is the revelation of the Antichrist. The revelation of the Antichrist. And we read again in 2 Thessalonians 3. I split the verse up earlier. Verses 2 Thessalonians 2, verses 3 and 4. Let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come, except there shall come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed. The son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God or that is worshipped so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Other passages make mention of Antichrist Alright, so this is the sign. It's a revelation. It's an unveiling. It's not a mental thing. It's like, okay, now I understand who this is. If you read Martin Luther's treatises and the early Reformation period as the church was being brought out from the darkness of Roman Catholicism. From his vantage point, the Pope was the Antichrist. And frankly, the Pope was doing everything he could to look like the Antichrist. He was declaring himself to be God He was there in the uh in the holy place. Uh he was persecuting a lot of saints. I mean he was doing his dead level best to do everything he could to look like the Antichrist. And so when you read a lot of Luther and Luther's commentaries and revelation, he locates it squarely on the shoulders of the Pope. And I can't blame the guy. I mean it certainly did look like it. But obviously He ultimately wasn't the Antichrist, although he came as close to it as he possibly could. It seems like he went out of his way to be that, but it wasn't the Antichrist. But it does say in here that he's the man of sin, he's the son of perdition, he opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God. Now the first one, the apostasy, is opposing all that is called God The difference with the Antichrist here is twofold. One, it's not a great wide thing. It's an individual. It's a himself. It's one individual. And he exalts himself above God. So there is an exaltation, and again it's in this religious realm. But the kicker here is that it says, so that he as God sitteth in the temple. Alright, let's talk about this. So what temple might this be? What are our options? One in Jerusalem. Okay, one in Jerusalem. Is there a temple in Jerusalem there now? Not now. Not now. Okay, so that's one option What are some other options? You know from other passages in New Testament that temple refers to the body of believers. comes to my mind, but I don't think the church. Okay, very good. Nice distinction there. So there's um there's the temple which I believe is referring to God's congregation. I don't believe it's referring to brick and mortar. And we've covered earlier passages that talk about temple and the future of national Israel. I didn't do an exhaustive study on it. But if a temple were to be rebuilt in Jerusalem, how would they appoint a high priest? If you remember Moses' requirements. They had to be able to show the lineage. They had to show that it went, it was traceable back to Aaron. Had to be traceable back to Aaron. In fact, when they came out of captivity, you read in the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah was the governor, the first governor of the rebuilt second temple. There were a group of people that came in that said, Yeah, we're we're of the priestly tribes. And they said, Can you show us your records? And they're like, um Nope. Can't do it. He says, sorry, can't take you in. Couldn't show the records. Where are the records stored today that carry that have all the descendants, the lineage of the Aaronic tribes? Where do we have the records today? Where are they at? Anybody know? If you're all coming up with an empty slate, that's because the Roman general Titus burned them. They were destroyed. Those records are gone. They are forever lost to the ashes of history. The Jews had no way to identify. By male descendant lineage, who is or is not a son of Aaron? It's impossible for them to do that. Which is why the Jews to this day trace their lineage through the mother, because she's a little easier to trace. Not through the Father, because they can't. Let's just suppose again that a temple is built. What purpose would it serve? What normally happened in the temple? Sacrifices of animals. Alright. Why would we have animal sacrifices again? What purpose would that be? Take away our sins. We don't need it anymore because Jesus has done that. Yeah, Jesus has done that. So that would kind of like being If if Ann and Gloria sent out wedding invitations again. It's like you're already married. So there's no purpose to the temple There would be no purpose for God to providentially step in and help Israel stand up a new temple to do what? What purpose? There's no purpose therefore. Its purpose is gone because Jesus Christ has come. Jesus Christ has taken away our sins. We don't need those pointers again. So if it's not a physical temple that's in view, what temple does the New Testament have in view? Well, lo and behold, we do find That beginning in Acts 15, we get some insights as to what temple God has in mind. There was a Jerusalem council. Gentiles are being saved Some Jewish Christians are saying, well, they have to come under the law. Others are saying, no, I don't think so. And there was a di a debate about that Well, James stands up and he says this in Acts 15, verse 14. Simeon hath declared how God at the first did visit the Gentiles to take out of them a people for his name. He's referring to one in their midst who had gone up and had great success evangelizing Gentiles, and he's telling everybody about it. Then he comes down in verse 15 and says, you know what? There's a statement here that matches what we're seeing. And he says, this is according as it is written. After this I will return. This is verse 15. And I will build again the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down, verse seventeen, that the residue of men might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things Well, what James is saying is that this rebuilding of the tabernacle that is spoken of in the Old Testament in the book of Joel and other places, is nothing other than the bringing in of the Gentiles into the gospel. When are we ever going to get brick and mortar out of our head? The building of God is what? One word. The building of God is, let me ask it this way, our heart. Who? Yes, people. People, you are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. The building is you. It says in 1 Corinthians 3, 16, he says to these Corinthians, know ye not that ye are the temple of God? Ye is an old English word which in the Texas version is rendered y'all. Y'all are the temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy. Which temple ye are? So the New Testament temple is the congregation of believers. That's what he's talking about. 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Notice, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. This is an exhortation, first and foremost, to the church. Verse 16 What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God, they shall be my people, wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate. So the brother Ments, if the temple is the church, and the church is bought with the blood of Christ, isn't the church only those who are the elect of God, only those who are saved? I suppose you could say, yes, the church is only those of the elect of God. I would refer to then the temple being the congregation. The church is within the congregation. There's always been a mixed multitude. Folks, there's always been a mixed multitude. In fact, Second Timothy two twenty says this but in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. Paul speaking in a parable. It's referring to this temple. There's a great house. And there are vessels of honor. There's also vessels of dishonor. And it's among those vessels of dishonor. That you will find the apostasy. Among those vessels of dishonor, you find the great fallen grave And I would also suggest here very briefly that a case for a thematic connection of the Antichrist appearance can be made with the destruction of the Jerusalem Temple in AD seven. For instance, when you see bad stuff, in this case Satan worship in the holy place in the Old Testament uh in in Matthew 24 uh the temple get out. By thematic, there's a thematic connection there. We've already looked at that it's a pretty strong reference to AD 70, but it kind of lays a backdrop for historically what it might look like going forward. The spirit of Antichrist is in fact already here, and this is your next fill-in-the-blank, the next column here, 1 John 4. Says, uh, every spirit that confesses not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of Antichrist, whereof you heard that it should come John under inspiration says, even now already is it in the world. So that spirit of, and 1 John 2. 18 says the same thing. He says, there Little children is the last time, as you've heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists, whereby we know that it's the last time. So John under inspiration says there's a lot of Antichrists out there now. That spirit of Antichrist is there, that spiritual warfare Joe that you were alluding to in the heavenly places. There is that demonic activity that is there. But there is one individual who will show up, and let's kind of drive a point to this here. How he might appear. So let's look at some Old Testament things, and then we will look at the last sign what I want to get to. You know what, for sake of time, I'll let you read Ezekiel 28. 2 and Acts 12. 21 on your own. But fundamentally, it'll be an individual that's going to set himself up and declare himself to be God and seek to be worshiped. That's how it might appear. Somebody who's gonna go beyond, I just want a bunch of likes, subscribe to my channel, hit the alarm button. I mean it's gonna go beyond that. This is a point where they're gonna be very open about it. No, I am God. I think there's some rat singer that that that claims to do to be that, but you know, he's just a clown and he'll he'll be dead soon enough. Um no, I'm not predicting any murder or anything like that. I just know that uh the how oft is the candle the wicked put out, so he's just nothing new. He's not even claiming to be religious. Fifth point, the fifth preceding event before Christ returns is signs and wonders. Signs and wonders Second Thessalonians 2, the apostle, continues in the section talking about the Antichrist. He says, the mystery of iniquity does already work. Only he that is God who now letteth or restrains Will let, meaning restrain. That's an old English word meaning restrain. Only he who restrains will now restrain until he be taken out of the way. There is some restraint in place right now. But at some point this restraint is going to be removed. It's like the gates are open. The demons of hell, as it were, are unleashed. And then shall that wicked be revealed. Now I didn't capitalize wicked, the translation does, because this is a reference to the Antichrist whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him, this is the wicked, whose coming, whose appearance, Christ is coming, he's coming. There's always an anti antithesis that occurs. His coming, the Antichrist coming, is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. You remember when Moses went before Pharaoh? He had a rod, he threw it down, it became a what? It became a snake, a serpent. But Pharaoh's magicians did the same thing. Except Moses' rod ate theirs and then he took it back up. That didn't play out too well. And it's not going to play out too well in the end either. Because Satan will also come with his signs and wonders, but his signs and wonders are fake, designed signs and wonders, and it's going to deceive the masses. Wow, this must be God. Look at these incredible things he can do. And they will be miraculous, folks. The devil is allowed to come with miraculous signs and wonders at the end of time. That we have not seen yet. It's an individual claiming to be God. It continues. He says, his coming is, oh, I've already read that part. And God's answer to that, as this miraculous event occurs, is that God answers, that's your last fill in the blank, God answers with heavenly signs and wonders. Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, the moon shall not give her light, the stars shall fall from heaven, the powers of heaven shall be shaken, and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. As it were, Satan thinks he's got some very impressive signs and wonders. God says, you want to see signs and wonders? You want to know who God really is? Let me show you what I can do. Whoosh. Watch the universe destroy. Whoosh. The earth falls out from underneath you. And you're descending over a mass where you're just, it's just your soul and The Lord Jesus Christ and the brightness of his power and his coming and the revelation of the sons of God. He'll pull the road totally out from underneath him. These are the five signs the Bible talks about. So don't please come to me. Please don't come to me with the next earthquake or the next bestival. Doesn't fit into any of this, okay? If you get anything out of this, if I could just stop a few people from coming to me with that, I would be happy. We're out of time, folks. We need to wrap it up. Yvonne, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, as we look into your word, we Pray, Lord, that you would illuminate it to our minds, uh grant us proper understanding of the truth that has been recorded for us, Lord, for the benefit of your people, Lord, and help us. Lord to rightly divide it, uh to know it and to apply it, Lord, and uh help us indeed to uh know and understand the signs of the times and uh to um take advantage lord while it is yet the day of salvation to go out and to um preach the gospel that all your elect might hear and be saved, Lord, to to do the work that you've called us to. Um, for indeed the uh the night comes where no man can work and Lord uh So we just pray that we would be faithful in this time to do that which you called us to. And we ask your uh continual help as we We go about this sojourn in Jesus' name. Amen.