Is it good to see people again and be able to talk without coughing, although I may still clear a little bit from time to time. We uh are returning to our study on Burkhold's summary of Christian doctrine And we are at a part where I kind of wish we hadn't had an interruption because we might have forgotten where we were dealing with. This chapter has to deal, has to do with the relationship of man in a fallen state. uh unto God. What is that? And we're dealing with this topic of sin, an unfortunate topic that we have to deal with. But there is this little niche question that has posed some difficulty for the church over the years, and so we're going to discuss it now. And it has to do with Romans 5. 19. Now I do have a handout there for you, and you'll want to consult with that as we look at different passages. But in Romans 5. 19, we read the following, and it's just the first half of the verse. It's right there under the title section of the Summary of Christian doctrine, chapter 12c, transmission of sin. In Romans 5. 19 says this. That's the key phrase, by one man's disobedience, many were made Sinners. And so this study is trying to answer a very basic question. How were we made sinners by Adam? How did that happen? We don't deny that the scripture says this. That's not what we're questioning. We're just trying to understand in what sense. How do we view that? And there is a rather important reason as to why we would even ask this question, and it has to do with Jesus Christ Himself As you know from our study in the Trinity, and if you've been around churches for a while, you understand that we confess with the church historic that Jesus Christ was fully man and fully God. Anything that detracts from his deity, of course, we would bristle against. Likewise, anything that detracts from his manhood And more importantly, his sinlessness, we would likewise bristle at. So we don't want to come up with a doctrine as to how sin was transmitted to you and I that would Inadvertently pollute the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's why we're trying to look at this and to understand how this came about And it turns out that there's three theories as to how sin was transmitted through Adam. The first two are bad, I'll just give you that up front, but they're floating around out there. And the third one is the one that we would hold as being more conservative. And I will confess that if you poke at it harder and start to ask more questions, you're going to quickly run into my wall and limits of understanding. I'm only going to be able to go so far. There's not uh much light given to me on being able to divine this further, and I've searched through Burkhov and he seems to stop at a certain point as well where we're just kind of shut up to saying Yeah, that's what the scripture says, and it's pretty profound, and we just can't articulate beyond a certain point. But there are some things we can certainly get a good hold of, all right? Romans 5. 19 is our central passage. So how were we made sinners? Three theories. The first is the realistic theory. This was posited by a fellow named Tertullian and Augustine of Hippo Basically they said humans are effectively a single unit in Adam. Effectively we were all in Adam, and when Adam raised his hand in violation to the law of God when he went forth, we collectively as part of him also did the same. We were just sort of all combined with one every cell in his body said, yay, verily, let's go do this. That's kind of the view. And it means we all actually sinned before individualization, before we actually became our human nature that we see. Now there's some problems with that. The first is that it requires a tradution view of man. Tradition is from the Latin word tradux, meaning an offshoot, which has the idea that Mom has a half soul, dad has a half soul, and that came together to make your soul. And the problem there is that it inherently pollutes the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a lot of attractiveness to the tradition view, but It fails at a critical point in that it doesn't protect the sinlessness of Christ. It also means that all of Adam's descendants are held responsible for the first sin at the fall as opposed to what did Romans 5. 19 say? By one man. It said by one man. All at the garden sinned. It said by one man. So if the scriptures wanted to footstop that, it would have indicated all in Adam did this. And that's not what it says. So you can't hold to that view and it it's not going to work. It does require Christ to be sinful upon birth. It would uh of necessity uh bring him into that position. So that doesn't work The second is mediate imputation. Now this is a high-powered phrase, and if you're saying, boy, you're really starting to spin my head, I'm going to make it simple for you. The new school Presbyterians came up with it. As the more I looked at this yesterday, I said, you know what This is the Hillary Clinton view, is what this is. This is exactly what this is, and you'll see what I mean by that in a moment. The idea is that it denies the guilt of Adam's sin. and denies that that's directly imputed to his descendants. Rather, we're considered guilty because we're born corrupt. You can be morally corrupt But not guilty of original sin. Isn't that a perfect example of the Hillary Clinton view? You can be morally corrupt but not guilty. So this is a problem. This is a very big problem. And the biggest you know Adam just happened to be the first sinner. And the problem with this is that the foundation is on top of the house. You've got this thing upside down. Well why do we say that? What it says, um uh uh uh the the reason it's it's bankrupt is that the inherent depravity of Adam's descendants is a result of Adam's sin and cannot be considered the basis of why they're guilty of Adam's sin. So it's it's either the the basis or the result. You can't have it both ways, and that's what they're trying to do with that view. So that's why it's got some bizarre uh title to it because it's a head twisting uh uh view that just turns things upside down and that's why I call it the Hillary Clinton view. So if we reject that, we'd like to put it in prison too, but I can't do that The third thing is the representative theory. This does a little more justice to us, but the key difficulty, and I'll tell you right now, the key difficulty is how do you explain it simply? Alright, how do you explain this simply? Basically, it looks at Adam as our representative head. We have understood that Adam is our federal head, and I found some scriptures to help us understand what federal head means. A really good illustration in the book of Samuel. And as a result, he had a twofold relationship. He had a natural relationship to all of his descendants, and then he had a covenantal relationship as the head of the covenant. He stood in both ways. You and I are in a natural relationship with our descendants, but we're not our federal head. I can't say that I represent my segment of the human race. That's not going to work. Adam can be said to do that. He's known as that first Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, the second Adam. They were two separate federal heads. So in a natural relationship, Adam's sin corrupted him, and this corruption passed down to his seed. Think about the body dying, all right But the liability, the guilt, was Adam's alone. It says in a place in Romans, even after them who had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, right? So we I'm not considered guilty because I can say I took of the fruit of the tree and ate. That was Adam's sin alone. But in a covenant relationship As our covenantal head, and this is kind of the important part that brings a lot of clarity to this, and this is what I really appreciate about this view, is that as the federal head, he represented all humans Because he blew that covenant, he triggered all the covenantal curses that come with that covenant to include the penalty of sin. which is death. And so as a result, because he, the federal head, blew the terms and conditions of the covenant, he brought upon himself and all of his his his posterity the curse that the covenant called out, which would be the wages of sinist Yeah. And therefore, uh the guilt of Adam's uh first sin is imputed to us committed by our covenant head to all that are federally related to him. And so as a result, they're depraved and sinful by reason of the covenant curse. Think of the Ten Commandments showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments, right? But visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. That's a covenantal curse. So when things are done at a federal head level, there is a massive ripple effect because of that covenantal curse. This is the length of the law of God, and it makes perfectly good sense. God created human beings to live fundamentally forever. There was no reason why we should have died except for one reason, sin that entered the world in death by sin. But that doesn't change God's view and and how he deals with a human race that was intended by God to live a very long time. And so it's a covenantal curse. What do I mean by federal head? Well, you'll look in your handout to 1 Samuel 17, and this is, I think, very helpful because it's where we read about um David and Goliath. It's at the bottom left corner of your handout there. David and Goliath. And so if you recall, the champion of Gath comes out and he's taunting Israel morning and evening for 40 days. It was miserable And listen to how he described the terms and conditions. He says this, am not I, meaning Goliath, a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me, if he be able to fight with me and to kill me, then will we be your servants? But if I prevail against him and kill them, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. Do you see what's going on there? Goliath says, I'm the representative of the Philistines. Bring your representative on, and we'll fight. And whichever one of us wins, all the rest behind us become your owners and you our slaves. That's a federal head That's federal representation. What happens in that field of battle between those two individuals has ramifications to everybody on the side, even though They weren't involved in the fight. That's a good example of federal representation. Adam likewise had a fight at the garden and he lost the battle. And therefore, we have a consequence that's fallen down upon us. So this is the representative theory. He was our representative. He failed. He triggered the covenant curses. And as a result, we are under the curse and the wrath of God because of that. The problem with this is it's hard to describe. It takes a little bit. You have to understand covenantal views, a representative, but it seems to fit Because the other part of Romans 5. 19 says this, for as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so, meaning in the same fashion By the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Well, how am I made righteous? It's in imputed righteousness. Therefore Adam's fall was an imputed curse. It was reckoned to him. And so it seems to fit the text. It seems to fit the description and oh well it's a little difficult to describe. So that's uh the summary of this transmission of sin. So now we're going to talk about uh this transmission and just what all came down that. sad, difficult pipe known as the covenantal curse. We talk about actual sins and we talk about original sins. Actual sins versus original sins. Actual sins are many things that you and I actively commit. Original sin is one. It's a singular thing. Actual sins are the omission, commission that proceed from original sin. Original sin means all men are born in a sinful state We're just born in that state. It includes the elements of guilt. It includes the element of pollution. Guilt is imputed because atoms are representative. We're guilty because he failed. It's imputed to us. You're reckoned under the curse. And pollution is inherited by this covenantal curse, so we're inclined to sin It's not a result of the imitation of Adam. We weren't in him doing that same thing. We didn't, as infants, mimic what he did. Though we will later, but that's not the source of original sin. So man, we say is totally depraved. Have any of you heard of that term, total depravity? That's a fairly common term. Now let's unpack that a little bit and let's clarify it some. Total depravity, people get excited about that word total and think of it in terms of depth, the depth of our depravity. But you need to think of more of it in the breadth. in that it touches every part of the human nature. It affects the mind, it affects the heart, it affects the emotions, it affects your chooser. You can't choose for Christ. Your chooser is broken. It affects every aspect of the human nature, body and soul, is what is affected. Man is totally depraved. It does not mean that man is as thoroughly debased as he can be. And I truly like this notable quote from Pastor Carroll when he was the pastor at Central Baptist Church. He says Man is not as bad as he can be. There's always room for deprove debasement. There's always room for further debasement. Yeah, he's he's actually got that right. Uh it doesn't mean that man has no innate consciousness in terms of what is good and what is evil. There is still some lingering sense of that. Inherently people still know murder is wrong They know theft is wrong. They know uh adultery is wrong. Inherently, there is still that sense, though darkened, though uh shaded and jaded, it's still there. It doesn't mean that men cannot admire virtue in others. It doesn't mean that you can't appreciate the fact that, you know, I think the you would look up and say, uh well, you know, that he's a good man. He he's a or this person, he's an he he's really He's an evil person. There is some sense of that. It doesn't mean every man will indulge in every form of sin. It doesn't mean that. So don't think in terms of depth Think in terms of breadth. That's what we mean by total depravity. He the when you say your car is totaled, uh what it means typically there is that the damage is so significant in one part of the car it exceeds the value of the car. What we mean by total here is The bumper, the fender, the motor, the tires, the transmission, the oil, the you name it, every component of the car has been affected. That's when, you know, train wreck comes to mind. So that's what we mean by total depravity. Total depravity has several components to it. We're going to look at those. It means the first is that there is a lack of spiritual good, and this is the most important one. I have met some people that are stupendously honest. In fact, I have said on perhaps more than one occasion, my dad is the most honest person I've really met. Uh my dad was an exceptionally honest. Is that true, Mother? Have you met anybody that was more honest than my dad? Uh he would fill out five pages of an IRS form to prove uh his integrity in a certain area. I mean it just and get five dollars credit for it. He was just as exceptionally honest. He would go the extra mile or two or ten uh because he was an extremely upright man. Even in his unsafe days. He had that quality to him. And I was very impressed with that. He saw no good that would come out of a lie, and he was just exceptionally honest. So when we talk about total depravity in the area of doing good, we're talking about doing spiritual good principally. For instance, now you can turn to the scriptures that we have at hand on the bottom right of your handout The Lord Jesus makes this statement in John 6. 44. He says, no man can come to me. That word can is the word dunamis, meaning you don't have the ability. to come to me, except, there's one exception. Except you're a really good guy. Except you were baptized at birth. Except somebody You know, fill in the blank. No, Jesus makes it clear that people do come to Christ on one basis. He says, accept the Father which has sent me. meaning not the father of lies, but the father of the Lord Jesus Christ, except the Father which sent me, draw him. And that word draw is the same word used. in the gospel accounts when it speaks of Peter and the other fishermen dragging their nets to the shore. The fish were no more interested in getting caught Then you and I were in interested in getting saved. God has to draw you, has to change your thinking. And so uh uh this is what we mean by an inherent lack of spiritual good The second is in John 15, a little later, Jesus says, Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, no more can ye except ye abide in me So again, there's that lack of good. There's an exception as to when people will bear fruit, when they abide in him. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. It's a pretty comprehensive statement the Lord gives. Without him, there can't be found any spiritual good, meaning spiritual fruit coming forth. The Apostle Paul says in Romans 7. 18, I know that in me That is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. How to perform that which is good I find not. Some have debated whether Paul is speaking of his old self or whether he sta uh speaking in as an enlightened state. I tend to think of him. Speaking as a an enlightened sinner, one who has been saved, because he alone has good understanding. He can sense, he can detect inside of himself. Yep, you know what? There is I don't see this internal, inherent fountain of goodness just bubbling forth that I had in the old state as much as in the new. He says, no, I don't really find that. What he does find is success in Christ. He says in Romans 8, because the carnal, that word carnal is sarks, it means fleshly. The fleshly mind is enmity, hatred, warfare against God It's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. Again, notice the reference to the law of God. We're talking reference to spiritual things. You can have people that are very moral insofar as the law of the land is concerned. They can be very upright insofar as the law of the land says. They can be good corporate citizens. Good uh citizens of their state, of their city, their county. But that's not what God's talking about here. He says with respect to the law of God, it says they Cannot, uh it says, neither so then they that are in the flesh cannot please God, they're not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So this is God's assessment, and I think he would know. 1 Corinthians says, the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness unto him, neither can he know them. So this is our ability mentally to perceive, to grasp, to understand the depth of what God is talking about. The breadth of his commands, how exceeding broad are thy commandments, it says in Psalm 119. We talk about being spiritually dead. We get that language from Ephesians 2. 1. You has equickened, meaning made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. And Ephesians 4 shows, I think, more of that breadth and scope. It says in Ephesians 4. 18, having the understanding darkened, that's understanding, alienated from the life of God through ignorance. because of the blindness of their heart. So again, just hitting on all the elements that make up the unique composition known as human. All of those things are there. On the back page now we look at the universal sinfulness of man. Universal. We find in 1 Kings, Solomon says, There is no man that sinneth not. His declaration is that you cannot find any exception to that. Psalm 143, verse 2, Enter not into judgment with thy servant, for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. Meaning if you were to stand before God apart from Christ, representing yourself, as it were, at the throne of God's justice, he says, you're not going to be justified, not going to succeed. But Romans 3 has the listing of the four nuns. You know there are actually four nuns listed in the Bible. You know, the Roman Catholics can celebrate this. I don't know why they don't make nuns, uh some of these nuns listed. In Romans 3, it says there's none righteous. No, not one. That's the first nun. The second is there's none that understandeth There's our second none. There's none that seeketh after God. They're all gone out of the way. They're together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Just so you don't miss it, no not one is added on to indicate the universality of the human condition. There's your four nuns for you right there. Proverbs twenty and verse nine. Who can say I've made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin? It's a rhetorical question. The answer is no not one Well, like Ecclesiastes, there's not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. That's a pretty broad assessment, a big statement. Again, this is all in relation to spiritual good before God. There's some very nice you know, um upright people in the world who who seem to be very good neighbors and and I would treat them well. God's vantage point, he doesn't view them that way. All have sinned and fall come short of the glory of God. This is the goal, this is the standard. It's not that I'm better than my neighbor. It's are you as holy, perfect, and righteous as God Almighty is. That's the standard. What men tend to do is that we lower the standard. We put it put it down to something we can get over Uh and uh that's not going to work. First John 1 8 says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Now this is coming from the Apostle John writing to other saints, and so he's speaking to Holy Ghost-filled people, saying, hey, you can't say that you have no sin. You're making God a liar. But for the believer, there's a difference. In the unsaved sin reigns. It reigns over them. They are under its dominion, under its power. They cannot get out of it in and of themselves. For the believer, sin doesn't reign, but it remains. There's elements of it still there. Like Joshua who went in. He had to clear the land of the inhabitants. God fighting many of the battles for him. So it is with us. We have been given the victory in Christ and given the command Go out and clear this land of the old inhabitants, and we're busy casting them out by the power of God, and this victory will be ours. We can have victory over sin in our lives. You can find that in a believer. Only in a believer. Sin is guilt. There's the element of guilt. Romans 5 says, as by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to condemnation. That's what guilt is. And Romans 3 is very clear. Whatever the law says, it says to them who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world, not just the Jews, all the world may become guilty before God. Tag, we do have the guilt as well. Sin is pollution. It is a pollution. The heart is deceitful above all things. I think many of you know Jeremiah 17, 9. And Romans 8. 5 says, they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. They think about fleshly things. They're minding earthly fleshly things. You know, and I think that is something that um Parents ought to be conscientious of and aware of, and that is godlessness. One of the things that Angela and I were committed to early when we were raising our children is we did not want to present to them videos, movies, things of that nature that did not involve some Christian God-glorifying aspect to it Because we don't want them to begin to think that you can have fun without God. That is a godless view of the world Yes, you can have earthly fun. You can have pleasures of sin for a season. But you don't want to get the idea across that, hey, there's actually fun without God. Godlessness is one of the biggest problems in our society today. We are a godless society. God is not in all their thoughts we kind of want to keep him out. They explicitly want to keep him out of the sciences. They very much want to keep him out of Hollywood. They very much want to keep him out of uh the movies and the arts and music I was reading about a famous musician from the 70s. They were the grandchildren of missionaries in China. And these grandchildren had come across a hymn that gave glory to God, and they changed the words of the hymn to remove the glory to God, and they aimed the glory to man, to themselves, in the hymn or in the song that they gave. Very popular singers, very popular. It was the Carpenters One of their songs. They twisted a hymn to bring glory to man. Again, trying to rob God of his glory, God takes personal. It's a big deal with him. And so um sin is pollution. Uh there are those who mind the things of the flesh, they don't want to put their thoughts, their emotions, anything, they don't want to bank it on God. The world drums up this idea that God is a is a killjoy. He's just a dread, he's a boar, he's the big ogre, he's uh you know, and it's this miserable thing when in fact he's life He's light, he's compassion, he's hope, beyond hope, he's riches and treasures untold. He's a life beyond this world, he's a life-giving spirit. Well how would we ever come to the conclusion that he's something to be avoided? That this is the drumbeat of the world, and so we don't want to uh buy into the lie. You don't want to buy into that. Sin has its seat in man's heart, and I think this is very insightful from the Lord Jesus. He says, out of the heart perceive evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications. Theft, false witness, blasphemies. Blasphemy is another convenient sin in our society. Some of us have problem with that. Yours truly has had to work hard to repent of certain things. And uh whenever we say OMG or we use uh God's name or the Lord's name in a flippant fashion, that is a blasphemy. That is something, and it's a heart issue, and it's something we have to deal with. It's something we have to take seriously. It's something in the Old Testament that would result in stoning. So sin has its seed in man's heart. Adam's guilt is imputed to us. It is imputed, and we find that. We covered that already in Romans 5, as I mentioned By one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. We know we're righteous because we're impu Christ's righteousness is imputed to us. That does not mean that Christ's righteousness is given to me in the sense that now I am physically and really just as righteous as Jesus. Whatever I do walking on this earth, I am just as righteous as he is. No, no, no, that's not the case. The illustration of the picture given all throughout the Old Testament and throughout the Bible is that of a covering. The great way to illustrate this is in Jacob and Esau as they're coming to get old blind Isaac's blessing. You remember that? Isaac was old. He's in his tent. He senses and knows his days are drawing to a close. But he can't see. He's blind. And he calls his son Isaac young. He says, go get me some venison, some savory meat, and prepare it for me that I may bless you. Uh what I'm saying. He called uh uh Esau into the tent. I'm sorry, uh uh mangulate the names. So uh uh so Esau gets the command, he goes out and he hunts. And then Rebecca hears this, and she says to Jacob, I need to let you in on something. Your father's going to bless your brother. I want you to do something. You go in and get the blessing. I'll make some I know how to make food that'll make your dad happy. Trust me. Got that covered. You ladies know how to make something that really is going to please the husband, right? And then he complains. Ah, my brother Esau is a hairy man and I'm a plain man. I'm smooth. Peradventure you will feel me. Don't worry. Go get me a goat. I'm gonna kill it. We're gonna, you know, cover you up. Alright, you see what's going on? He's getting covered. The smooth guy is getting covered with his hairy skins so that when he would present himself to the father He would appear to the Father as the Son of His love. You understand that That is a form of imputation. That's a form of covering, Christ's righteousness from Isaac, who could not perceive anything other than touch and feel. It's a picture of how God the Father, through the law of God, looks at you and I, who should be guilty, who should not receive a blessing, yet in fact we appear to the Father as the Son of his love. And so that's a great picture of imputation. It's a covering, all right? That's the only reason why we're righteous. And as a result of that, the covenantal blessing then flows down Not because he was still Jacob. He was still Jacob. Bless my soul, he changed over his life, but he was still Jacob. We are sinners by nature. We see that Ephesians 2, among whom also we all had our conversation in time past, in the lust of our flesh. fulfilling the desires of the flesh and by mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. And speaking of children Children are never made an exception to total depravity. One of the most Egregious errors is this doctrine known as age of accountability. How many of you have heard of that? Age of accountability? How many of you actually heard a number for that age You heard a number. At what age are they pure, holy, righteous, uh up upright and upstanding and just picture perfect, clean And then after that they all of a sudden fall totally off the wagon and they're just miserable little rots. I've heard twelve, I've heard thirteen. What are the numbers that you've heard, right? Eight. Eight? Yeah Yeah, I would take eight minutes for a high. The Bible infants are laden with original sin, though they have not yet committed actual sins Infants are laden with original sin. We read in Psalm 58, the wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray as soon as they be born. In Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. Children love to play and do silly, foolish things Because that is what is in them. We enjoy it, don't get me wrong, I'm not going to chastise my child for doing something that makes me laugh, but we must understand that foolishness is bound in the heart of a child and left unchecked it will only grow into greater and greater foolishness, needs to be reined in. Isaiah 48, God says, I knew that thou wouldst deal very treacherously and was called a transgressor from the womb. So God locates that sin based on original sin all the way back to the get-go. The Lord Jesus says this in John 3 He says to Nicodemus, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, meaning born from above, I like born again, there's nothing wrong with that, twice born, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Why would a man need to be twice born? If and unless there was a problem with himself in the first birth. If the first birth is wholly perfect and fine, and the children are upright and righteous until age 8, 12, 13 Then why fight against abortion? Because aren't they all automatically going to heaven? I'm not going to talk about infants in hell and things of that nature. I leave all that to the Lord. Our God will judge that which is right. Thankfully, the uh entrance to heaven is identified and ordained as the election of God and the imputation of Christ's righteousness And we find that our God is able to save anyone at any time in whatever means he chooses. Jeremiah was saved in the womb. And I do not doubt that there are a great many infants who have been unfortunately terminated at early age at birth that are in fact in heaven But I cannot say that across the board, 100%, that's the case. God does visit the iniquity of the fathers upon the children under the third and fourth generation. And that's a hard saying. Christian parents who have lost a child had a good hope. They had a good hope Because the God of the Bible is gracious to you and to your household. And so parents in the Christian household have a good hope In 1 Corinthians 15 it says, For as in Adam all die, there's no exception for infants, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. You're either in Adam, and you inherit death, or you're in Christ, and you inherit life, you're made alive again. So I hope that's helpful. I didn't have too many questions today, and so I have failed miserably at that, and I apologize. If there are any uh other comments or observations or uh questions, I can take them at this time I was just gonna say before regarding the age of accountability, I've heard someone phrase it as level of accountability, that you know, children are infants from the womb, they don't understand everything. But then once they come to full understanding then they're held accountable but that still doesn't, you know, fall into in Adam all die. And from the womb indeed you're born in iniquity Yeah, uh not sure if everybody heard that on the microphone or not, but Anton was saying that he's heard and said an aged accountability, level of accountability, which seeks to uh tie the accountability of the child to the knowledge they have. And while that's certainly a step better than just a carte blanche across the board age, it still falls short of the fact that uh of the language of scripture in Adam all die. uh that we're all still subject to that and that we still have this problem and we need to be born again. Okay. Well this is uh the lesson for today and we'll uh stop right there. Anton, would you mind closing us in prayer?