Study on the summary of Christian doctrine, which by the way, this is what the book looks like if you're interested in getting a copy. And it's a succinct version of this, which is Burkhoff's systematic theology. Nice big black, dusty book. Book of theology. It's actually quite good. It's available in a PDF form, so if you want it, I can email it to you. And it's well worth having if you How they question or trying to understand why a certain doctrine is the way it is, there's typically a page and a half, two pages showing multiple sides of any particular point of doctrine in the scriptures, and it's very helpful. Today we're continuing to look at the communicable attributes of God. Boy, that's a mouthful. It means the attributes that God has, that He shares with His creatures. And today we're going to talk about the will of God. Now the will of God is something, of course, that We seek, we want to know, we desire to understand, but only his will is ultimately sovereign. You can give man all the will you want, he just doesn't have the ability. That was made very clear to me one day when I was stuck in an airport in New Hampshire. In Hartford and I uh Connecticut, excuse me, and I could not get out. The plane was delayed, it was the last flight. There was no way I was going to get back home I was going to miss my connecting flight. I wanted to leave, but I had no ability to go, and so your will was impotent insofar as that's concerned. However, God's will is radically different. What he wants, he does And we're going to look through some passages that talk about that. We're going to kind of go from the order of, yeah, I understand, I can see that, to things that might get a little more difficult to get your head around. Uh we're going to go from the easy to the much more difficult, and then I've got some questions along the way. The first about the will of God is concerning creation and concerning preservation, how how and why this world continues to operate. In your handout, the first passage, Psalm 135, verse 6, whatsoever the Lord pleased, that did he Now where did he do that? Where is his pleasure extended? Well it says he did it in heaven. Well we can understand that. That's his home. And in earth. Earth it says in the Psalms is his footstool. In the seas and all deep places That pretty much is extensively as far as you and I can understand. The heaven is above the heaven of heavens and it's it's you know, where the heaven of heavens is above the heaven where the birds fly, where the Cosmos has the stars, the planets, and they all do uh according to his pleasure. Revelation Chapter 4, verse 11, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure, for thy will, they are and were created. And so all of these things serve to operate at his pleasure. Isn't that the ultimate expression of our will when we want to do something? When we want to do something, it's because we want to do something positive, something that is for our pleasure. So there's a degree of reflection of that we see in our case Uh we would say somebody is a little nuts uh if they're doing something that's obviously contrary to their own benefit. Maybe they're hurting themselves or they're uh They've got some psychomatic issues, mental issues, and they're obviously not operating correctly, and it's because they're doing something contrary to their own interest. Now we see God's will sovereign even in the areas of government. This is an area where in our town the local news is the national news. And it's hard for us to escape some of these things. But in scriptures, the s the scripture says in Proverbs 21, 1, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turneth it whithersoever he will This is uh again, I don't think, too hard for us to fathom. He fashioned and created man. He created him with intellect and ability. Uh he is able to commune with him and He is able to influence uh the key even the king. We don't have a king in our land. That element of divine power had begun to be broken in our planet at the uh and an issue uh it in the I think it's the eleven hundreds with the Magna Carta where the nobles had signed an arrangement. Do you know the better date, Loren? frowning your brow like I've really got the date wrong. But it's anyway, it's it it's several hundred years prior to the Reformation. But the Magna Carta was signed in uh in England And it broke the back of the king, because he was at a weak point, to negotiate a deal with his nobility and princes that there would be some shared power structure and some more um what you would call fundamental Western rights. That began to crack that. But that was not the case in the days of King David. The king had the power of legislation. of execution and of the judicial branch. All three were in him. And you stood before him, all he had to say was, You're dead, and that was it. No one would question him or dare back off. And there are some despotic leaders in our land who operate that way. Yet the comfort to the Christian is that the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. He is the one that turns and moves and directs it, and we have several examples in scriptures of God doing that. We'll look at Pharaoh later and uh we can also consider Nebuchadnezzar as well. In fact, speaking as speaking of Nebuchadnezzar, he's our next reference, his quote, under divine inspiration, comes in Daniel chapter four, where he says, And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He, speaking of God, doeth according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth. And none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? That's a tremendous statement. reflecting the omnipotence of the will and the power of God. What he wants to do, that he shall do. He doesn't have to take counsel. He doesn't have to pause. He doesn't have to reflect. I'll get back, I'll circle back to you on that and let you know uh what I'm thinking here, or uh I'll consult my you know institutional directors of medicine as to what No, what he says he wants to do, he does. And in fact When it's carried out, you can't stop him. King, army, it doesn't matter. You will be flat. You will be the parking lot over God's plan if you dare to stand in the way. So these are just but a sampling of verses, these doctrines of the the um the strength of God's will. Uh again, Burkhoff's very thick book will give you plenty of other ammunition to shore up that point. And then we get into a topic where there's more lively debate in the evangelical church at large, Christian churches, even in reform circles, sadly, and this is the matter of election. Election is a doctrine that says God chooses whom he intends to save from before the foundation of the world, and those whom he does not intend to save, he simply passes over. It is completely fair to all, and it is merciful to those who are the elect. If God were going to be fair to every single human being on the face of the planet, they would all get justice and and stand up under his divine righteous law, and of course that results in our doom. None of us can stand before him And God makes no bones about this in Romans chapter 9 as he speaks to Moses. The Apostle Paul, under God's inspiration, says this, Romans 9. 15. For he, that is God, saith to Moses, I will, notice the exercise of his will here, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy. and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. So this is the quote from the book of Exodus, where God is speaking to Moses about where his compassion and mercy will go. And the Apostle Paul draws a nice little bow tie around that statement, looking at that word will, I will have mercy, I will have compassion, on whom I will And he puts that, and he concludes it this way, he says, so then it, meaning this business of salvation, this business of election, is not of him that willeth, meaning people. My will doesn't enter into my election. I can't will myself into a position of election before God. That's not something that I can do. Nor of him that runneth. Uh this is not talking about racers. This is those who are walking in the law of the Lord and they e maybe even running in the way of the Lord, or maybe they're running in the way of wickedness. It says it doesn't matter what direction you're running. That's not the basis of your election. It's not on your will. It's not on your running, but is of God that showeth mercy. This is the underscoring point. Salvation is a tremendous gift of the mercy of God. Nothing short of that. It is entirely 1,000% anchored on his mercy. There is not a shred of human effort or hand in it. You could say by design it excludes the fallen creature's input because it would be imperfect. It would simply be inadequate. Ephesians tells us when that will of God was exercised. And he says in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 11, in whom, speaking of Jesus Christ, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance. Being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things. That's a big statement. He works all things. Our God is one who works. He works all things after the counsel of his own will. Isn't that amazing? Why do you get so much junk mail in your mailbox? I don't know. Am I alone in that? Do you get a bunch of junk mail? Little ads, why do you think you get so much junk mail in your US postal mailbox? So it's the will of the what does the company want you to do? Business. What do they want you to do? Yeah. They want you to buy something. Right? They want you to buy something. Why does that work Why do they bother doing it? I throw uh most of it just goes right to the trash unless it's a really nice piece that's not glossy and I'll save it for an oil change. Does Black House it Yeah, you they might entice somebody to do something. And you would say that This person is influenced by emotion, by the ad. Somehow they're just enticed a little bit to say, oh, I'd like to do that Do you believe there's such a thing as emotional buying? Emotional shopping? Maybe you see uh uh Uh I'm a sucker sometimes for these hard luck cases that come up, you know, so and so has got this horrible problem or disease or whatever and and and the sad case that comes up and and they're needy and you just your your compassion goes out to them and you you think, Okay, this is something I need to support. Or uh you see the latest and greatest whizbang doodoll is nice and shiny red and you've got to have it because they're trying to appeal to your will. But here It says God works all things after the counsel of his own will. He consults his will for counsel, for guidance, for direction. If I were to consult my will for guidance and direction, a lot of it might be emotional based. It would not be logically based. Because At first, you may want to jump in on this deal, right? There's impulse buying that's expressed by an emotional expression of your will. But God's will is so perfect that he predestinates everything according to the counsel of his will. His will is in concert with his wisdom. It's in harmony with his knowledge, with his wisdom. There's no distinction. His will is not arbitrary. It is fully founded on a solid ground. You know, we would ask, how can the will of God allow so much evil and suffering in the world? Have you ever asked that question? You ever wondered why, if God is good, and the scripture says God is good, why is it there can be so much evil and suffering in the world? Where was God when, and you fill in the blank? about some horrible incident that occurred. When the planes flew into the towers and these innocent people all went into work and people dropping off their children in the nursery in the bottom part of how is it that a good God could be there when that horrible thing happened? And those are tough questions. And when you're one who's the recipient of a very hard bit of news to hear of a loved one, having received some tragic blow, yea, even death, as a result of that, you begin to question, Lord, why? Why? I don't know if it offers any comfort, but it does help offer some explanation, and it does give some empathy, because even the death of Jesus Christ on the cross Well, it's according to the will of God. For instance, read here in this passage of Luke 22, and then we'll get to Acts 2. Here in the Garden of Gethsemane is he's praying, and he knows what's coming. Jesus is Almighty God. And he says, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. Now this is not saying Christ had a will that was different from the Father's will. He's speaking after the manner of a man. He's saying this prayer and recording it so that you and I would know that there was no other way for you and I to be saved. The only way, the only path for atonement, the only way for forgiveness is as Christ would go to the cross. And so it's not that his mind was weakening or he was getting uh weary of the task. Uh no, he was repeating this prayer. Many of his prayers were not recorded. This one is, so that you and I would know. Even if Christ asked for a different way, it would not be granted. It had to occur this way. Acts chapter 2, Peter, his first sermon, preaching, says this, him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. So where was God when that evil thing happened to so-and-so? Well, he was the same place when his son hung on the cross. That was the Father's good pleasure to do that. He was pleased at the sacrifice of his son. This was not a murderer hit job. This is not some um uh some trial that the atheist attempt to make God out to be an ogre as if though why would you murder your own son? The Bible never describes it as murder because murder is when you come upon someone unawares and take away their life and it's totally unexpected. And it's unjust in that sense. It's unawares, unjust, isn't expected. We're talking about the God man here, who is life in himself. He has life in himself. He's a life-giving being. And thus his death is not an ultimate cessation, because he said to the thief on the cross, this day surely you'll be with me in paradise, paraphrasing it. And so it was a voluntary giving up of his life. He gave up the ghost. It wasn't taken from him. He says, I lay down my life. And so it was something that he voluntarily did, and because he did it voluntarily, it was in accord with the Father's will that he would voluntarily lay down his life Even the sufferings of Christ are according to the will of God. And that might offer a measure of comfort when people begin to ask, where was he? Well, he's the same place when his son was on the cross. Same place. He hasn't changed. He has a purpose. He has a purpose in what he's doing. It may not be evident right then and there, as it was not to the disciples, but in time to come it was revealed what it was. You know, the our Baptist brethren, uh, even those in the Reform camp, will uh take exception to the extent of God's will, they'll say he's very sovereign in very a great many areas of life. They would agree with everything I've said up to this point, that he is sovereign in the matter of the universe. Amen. They'd say he's he rules in the hearts of kings in the realm of government. Amen. He rules even over wicked deeds. Amen. But boy, you come near that little area called your salvation. Whoop, all of a sudden his will somehow stops right there and it's held captive. It's held hostage. by Almighty Man's will. Uh they'll use phrases like, uh, God's a gentleman. You know, he won't force his will on you. Really? Yes, thank God he does force itself upon you. Otherwise you'd be stuck in the grave. Um, you know, uh he's he's written out he's signed the the check Uh Ernor, he's written out the check, you have to sign, you got to do something on this check, a two-party transaction. As if the man is the Almighty Kingmaker Well, that's not what it says in John 1. You may want to go to this place in your Bible and mark it because it's a classic passage. It's John chapter 1, verses 11 10 through 13 is where the context begins, but I'm just going to focus on verses 12 and 13 of John 1. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And our Baptist brethren would stop right there. Our many Baptist brethren would stop And they would say to them who believe on his name, see that's the power he gave you. You can believe on his name, it's up to you. So and they'll they'll put a period there. They won't quote it. But that's How does that verse end? Is there a period there? What's that punctuation mark there? Them that believe on his name. What is that? It's a colon. When does a colon stop a sentence? How would you like to be quoted mid-colon and stopped You're kind of chopping something off because the tail part of verse 13 says this, which were born, speaking about the new birth, the second birth. Not of blood, meaning just because mom and dad are children of God doesn't make you a child of God. It's not by bloodline birth, not by passage of DNA, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. So twice he insists, it's not the will of human flesh. It's not man's will. It's not the preacher's will. It's of God's will. That is the difference. That's the kingmaker. Let me put it to you this way. Some would say, well, that's not fair. I've got to have a say in it. That's just not fair. Well, frankly, I believe it would be very unfair if God left it up to a dead creature. Stand out at a graveyard. Because Ephesians says we are dead in sins and trespasses. Stand there and say, oh please, O Lazarus, won't you rise up out of that grave Oh, please, won't you come today? Open them dead eyes and come to the light. Oh, if you would just cast off your grave clothes, oh please come Oh please come. And you could beg all day long at the side of a dead man. Would he ever come? No. Would that plan of salvation be fair to the dead man? No, it would not. And that's how the Bible describes the unsaved, that they are dead in sins and trespasses. Well, if if God is to be fair, he would give us justice. So Anything. I mean I don't know how you can't see they can't see that and realize that it's all God and not Absolutely. I still need it. Right. It's it's correct. And it will remain a mystery for some season until you But that's why this is where it you know, God opened our eyes. Correct not theirs. That's right. That's correct. It's spiritual blindness and it's a willing blindness to not see that. James even says it more powerfully, James 118, of his own will begat he us. How? What means? with the word of truth. So there's means. God uses means. He's pleased to allow us redeemed but still sinful men through the preaching of his word to call them to believe. But it's his will that that should happen. That we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So this whole matter of regeneration hinges on the will of God Now, does that mean that my will is not involved? Does it mean to say, oh Lord, no, I don't want to be saved? Oh no. No, it says in the Psalms, thy servant shall be willing in the day of thy power. What enters into their mind is this is the most fantastic bit of good news I've ever heard in my life. Glory be to God. Hallelujah Thank you, Jesus. And they are ecstatic to hear this business of salvation. They're very interested in it. Their will has changed. The problem with man is his chooser is broken. And therefore God fixes that so all of a sudden, yes, they will run towards righteous things. They'll run towards the Word of God. That's the difference. It doesn't stop there. It continues on into this business of sanctification. In Philippians 2, 12 and 13 it says, Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out, not work for, work out, work this thing out. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. If it was his desire to save you, give you a new life, call you by his word into the grace of his son, and draw you to him, he's not going to drop off He's not going to dump you off on the side of the road with the work half done. He's going to keep working this. He's going to keep completing it. His will and his pleasure is to sanctify you. It is a sanctifying process. There's another passage I don't have on your handout, but it's in 1 Thessalonians 5. I'll read that to you, or if you want to flip there with me, you can. It's 1 Thessalonians 5. 23. It doesn't specifically mention this business of the will of God, but it does talk about God sanctifying. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23, and the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved, blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he that calleth you, and who will also do it. Isn't that amazing? God takes full responsibility even for our sanctification. We can't stand there at heaven's gate on that great day and say, Lord, boy, I've really rolled up the sleeves and done a good job, haven't I? Look at all this back here. Isn't that great, Lord? Boy, that's fantastic idea. No, we would be like those in Luke 17 who would say, uh, and we are unprofitable servants, having done that which is our duty to do. Unprofitable servants. That's the mindset because as we begin to become more aware of just how sinful our nature is and how prone we are to fall and how our minds wander so readily, we can certainly agree with God that all flesh is as grass. And that goes right back to the verse you just read, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Because we can't be holy of ourselves We have we are to strive for righteousness and yet we will always fail short fear and trembling. That's right. That's right. A more difficult thing is we get away from some of the, you know, theological topics which we can speak about in in times of good health, uh in times of a a good sound mind and in the strength of youth, we can speak about these doctrinal things which are of great interest to to young people who like to just dive into the doctrine and the the scriptures and and to really understand how the Bible connects. But then when it touches you When the difficult things of life come, when the uh the um the waterfalls of the stream of life begin to loom nearer and the rocks show up and the canoe gets a hole in it, so to speak. That's when it becomes difficult. Uh even the suffering of believers is part of the will of God. If he allowed his son to die a horrible, shameful, painful death on the cross what makes makes you and I think that we will be spared of difficulties in life. In 1 Peter, the apostle writes, it is better if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evildoing Now, of course, if you suffer because you're a murderer, a thief, or an evildoer, you ought to expect that, as the thief on the cross says after his conversion. We and we justly so, but this man hath done nothing wrong was his testimony I deserve to be up on this cross is what he said. That's not the kind of suffering I'm talking about. I'm talking about when you're doing everything right. And for no cause that you can attribute to your own, you find that there is a tremendous batch of of pain and suffering that you yourself are experiencing and there doesn't appear to be any imminent relief. It's very hard for people who are in chronic situations that are unresolvable, where they're stuck between a rock and a hard place and there's no obvious way out God knows how to hedge and hem people in at times to such a situation. Philippians says, unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, it's a gift of God. But also to suffer for his sake as part of his gift. And it's an unwelcome gift. Suffering is. One of the best messages we ever had preached to our fledgling church plant back in 2013 was from a missionary who had been held in prison and beaten and he came out and he left escaped from Eritrea with some of his family. uh they were able to escape. The church wanted to push him out uh so that he would be spared and he continued his ministry much like we're doing now remotely. But that was some of the most telling points. Here's a man who had literally been physically beaten He didn't want the sermon recorded in the or stored lest it impact others in his congregation. We understood it, but I truly wish I'd kept a copy of it somewhere. Because he said suffering is the most unwelcome gift. It was a packed house we had. We had about seventy people jammed in here and it was And as I listened to him, I said, you know, that is exactly how a believer would go through the element of suffering. He was concerned about his family, about others. He knew where he was at It's almost as if though God gave him that great dose of spiritual strength at that hour to bear up with it. But he was very much concerned about the others who no longer had a pastor. He was in prison for a good eighteen months or so So and it was not a light duty tour of duty. He had uh he had issues, you know, kind of like John Kane where he couldn't raise his arm in some places and there were gouges that could not be healed. Yeah, suffering is in fact at times. I feel like that is what brings him glory. It changes people. Suffering changes them. He often uses that. You're absolutely correct. Yeah, you're absolutely correct. And all who are born of God have invariably gone through some great period of suffering and struggle, an initial period And in my life it's been initial period kind of like a pulse. You know, every decade or so there's some tremendous crashing waterfall that hits and then there's a season of peace for all. And then another crashing one. Now look at the life of Daniel, uh starting from his early age as a noble prince who had a great outlook in life, and at the age of sixteen yanked out of his country, all of his fellows killed. hauled off to a distant country to serve in some other place, made a eunuch, uh put into a trial. I mean it was just and then there would be a season where he would prosper. And then another trial where he's about to lose, you know, the the He was with the king's court and another one's coming in. What's the typical response? You kill everybody there and bring in your own. But he survived through it all. So he had several distinct trials in life, each one becoming all the more difficult. And that those little children's books would show a young Daniel being lowered into Lion's den. Oh no. Yeah. He would have been about seventy, maybe eighty years old when he was lowered in the lion's den He was an old man. He was an old man. You know, the whole destiny of life and his of man and where he will go is according to the will of God But it reads in Acts 17 that he has made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation. This is a very impressive feat of God's sovereignty to me in that he will even determine where ultimately you can live and will live and say no further. I think I have the freedom to go to a ticket counter at Delta Airlines or some international service company that Can ferry me all the way over to another distant land and I can go visit and tour and maybe rent an apartment and live there for a season. I may think I can do that. But God has appointed these boundaries. You may think I'm going to go on a journey and come back and discover that, nope, you sure ain't. They're stuck there. All kinds of stories of missionaries who have gone abroad, sending their family home and only to find out that they can't reunite with them and never see them again. There's interesting stories of people being abandoned in the mission field. They couldn't get back for furlough, and they were there. And God directs and moves. You know, it's very interesting to be a servant in the hand of the Lord. You really don't quite know where you may end up at. We ought to say if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that, James 14 fifteen. That's a good caveat, Lord willing. Sometimes I wish I were a little bit more bold in my days working as an engineer in business meetings. Engineers at the level I was at were making long-range plans that would run out one to three to five years. Some programs can be a decade long, and you have to bid something. You have to bid a baseline. that says this is what our plan was and this is the funding against that plan. It's complete, it's comprehensive, compelling. And as soon as you win it you sit down with the government and say, okay, now what are we really gonna do? Because things have changed in all that long two to five year acquisition cycle. And I've always wanted to conclude those meetings whenever we submit the proposal and say, well, Lord willing, this will come to pass. Lord willing. Or willing. They're over there calculating. They got their calculator how much money they're gonna make right now and just they they've got the accountants you know over there busy working up the the math and their pay raises are all baked into the escalation rates and all this and I just wanted to say Lord willing. Lord willing. Yes Pay it's an interesting witness test When you're dealing with people that you may not know personally, when you make a statement like Lord willing or we are praying and seeking the Lord and they will either look at you like you are from some for and plan it or start asking questions or suddenly realize they're a believer and there's that unity in it this whole other Yeah. Sometimes I've been bold enough to say that and then you're right, others believers will all of a sudden pop up out of the medical community and this wound. Yeah. You know, they'll say it's gonna look like this, it's gonna look like that, and they'll say, Well You know, we're really crying about it. Or you know, silverwolves this will happen and the reactions are intrinsic. Yeah, that's neat. That's neat. So we see the the big areas of life and we have a big God and He's a very powerful God. We acknowledge that and those who believe in a God would certainly acknowledge that their God is big. Our God of course is the God of everything and we know He's that ultimate source. What's impressive to me is that not only is he the God of the big things, but he is the God that can microscopically engineer the tiniest things in life. I was sitting on the patio the other day. Tiny little hug, little little I don't know, you know the little black gnats. Well this one was green. He was all green. Never seen one so all green tiny. Maybe it was a baby, I don't know. And he just landed on my shirt. I tried to blow him off. Whew, I gave it a big puff. He stayed on. His wings didn't deform. I mean this thing can't be more than two and a half millimeters. It's tiny. I blow harder. And his little wings just kind of flat back. And I go underneath and I start flicking it. He's still on. How can God engineer this little microscopic thing that can withstand the equivalent of an eighty mile an hour blast on his little tiny wings that I could easily squish w with my finger I was just so highly impressed that my God can make you you've talked about this thing you like to look at in the ocean, the plannings is what they call it. A little tiny fish that doesn't leave a little area that's no greater than, you know, two square feet Our God, His will, His power extends even to the smallest things of life. And the Scripture gives us several examples. Jesus said in Luke 12, are not five sparrows sold for two farthings? And not one of them is forgotten before God There's a lot of sparrows out there. God remembers all of them. He says not one is forgotten. You see a dead bird on the ground? God intended that to happen. He said, but even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. You believe that? You ladies, you ever look at your hairbrush before? You ever count the hairs that are left over in your hairbrush? You keep track of those? I mean ladies Oh my God, why? Why are so many coming up? He keeps track of all those things, things that we don't bother. His accounting system is even far beyond. He keeps track of every one of your trillion cells in your body. We read in Jonah 4. 7, when it serves God purposes, he will do this. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered. All throughout Jonah you see God prepared. That's an interesting read if you go through the book of Jonah. God prepared a great wind. God prepared a great fish. God prepared a worm. You see that again and again. God prepared an east wind. All throughout the book of Jonah, you see that phrase, God prepared. And even the sinful deeds of man are under his control. And the key word there is control. And this is where we fail to truly understand our God. That he controls all things is not in question. We'll get to him in a minute. How that control is exercised is beyond really our comprehension. We can apprehend it, but we can't comprehend it Joseph began to get a toehold on him when he said, but as for you, meaning Joseph's brethren, ye thought evil against me. This is Joseph's And of course that would be a grand early picture of the death of Christ on the cross. So having covered these things, I have some questions for you. In 30 seconds How would you answer a six-year-old who asks, why does God create bad people? Carol? We're all bad people. They're just I mean, you know, we're all sinful. I mean, ha ha given the capability we're all capable of murder and doing anything, so Um I think just to show that our nature is sinful, whether it's murder or another type of sin or whatever it is. So um Yeah that's pretty good. That's a good thirty-second answer for uh a six year old. Anyone else want to take a crack at a good thirty-second answer for a six-year-old? Because if you don't have a six-year-old yet and you're of an age where someday you may Uh have a six-year-old running around, you may have that question come at you. Anton, what would you say to a six-year-old who says, Why does God create bad people? I'd probably point back to the garden that all that the Lord created all of his creation was good, including man that was made after his image, but that man rebelled in wickedness and because of that You know, surely that same day he did die spiritually, Adam. And so all of his seed it has a sinful nature. which comes out bubbling with, you know, greater immensity with some peoples and by God's grace he can keep back the wickedness. And and some. I hope you have a very precocious six year old. So what's a two-minute answer to the same question for a sixty-year-old? This is a person who's been through life, who's seen some hard things. Two-minute answer. Yeah, that's true. The same answer. But followed with the question, why is God? Save bad people. Same answer for a six-year-old as a sixty-year-old. Look at Proverbs 16, 4. Proverbs chapter sixteen and verse four, you'll need a Bible for that one. I might not give this to the six-year-old because strong meat doesn't belong to them who are in need of milk. But in Proverbs 16, 4 it says, The Lord hath made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil. How would that adjust your answer to the sixty-year-old who asks, why does God create bad people? It's all about him. It's all for the good people Okay. Alright, that's good. Uh uh you you've laid down a good plank. I want to build on that song. I want to build on that. You're you're you're beaten down the right path, but you're not there yet It's all for his glory. Yep, just keep going with that. What glorifies God when it says He has made all things for Himself? Yea, even the wicked, for the day of evil. The day of evil, by the way, is judgment day. When an evil person like me or you shows up before God And he says, come you blessed, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. You're glorifying God because you're a testimony to God's what. God's mercy. You will be an eternal testimony to God's mercy. You'll be a trophy, as it were, sitting there on his wall. Boy, look at this wretch I pulled out of the dunghill and conformed into the fashion of my son. Somebody doesn't become saved. He says, depart ye cursed into the hell prepared for the devil as angels. They become an eternal monument to God's what? Justice. To God's justice. In either case, is God glorified? Yes, he is. God has made all things for himself. Some men will serve as an eternal monument to God's justice, that what he means he says, and what he says he means. Man was made an eternal creature Just because Adam threw away his righteousness and brought death upon himself and his posterity doesn't remove the fact that God made man an eternal creature. Physicians will tell you, you die because your your I think they're called telurons or something or I I forget the name. At the end of your DNA strand begins to fail and it can't keep replicating. In theory the human body should be able to continue to live forever. Well it's more than theory, it's a fact So man will become, unsaved man will become an eternal monument to the justice of God. And how big is that justice? And does that stand in sharp contrast? to the tremendous vessels of mercy that he has. I've got to wrap this up quick. There are many things about the will of God we cannot truly understand. On the back side of your handout, we get to Deuteronomy 29, where it says, The secret things belong unto the Lord our God. But those things which are revealed belong unto us and our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. There are simply some things that God has not chosen to reveal unto us. When He has chosen not to reveal these to us, what does that cause us to do? For some it causes them to sin, yeah. What about those who are in Christ What does it cause them to do? He hasn't revealed everything to you. He hasn't told you all the details. You have to trust him. You just have to trust him. Parent says to the child, follow me. Hold my hand. Why, mommy? Because I said so. Don't let go. Why, what could happen? I'm not going to get into all that. There's a host of evils that could happen. I've been to this place before. Trust me. Old man, follow me. The unsaved, un uh the sinful carnal heart is, well if I don't know all the reasons, I'm just going to go test it and go figure out what could happen. See, na-da-da-boo-boo, nothing bad happened. Well, you don't want to try that with God. Let's go to Romans 9 because this passage, of course, deals with God's will in relation to sin, because this is the crux of the struggle that men have. And I have left the most difficult topic in the shortest amount of time because the rest of it is quite interesting to expound upon. But I really want to get to this place in Romans 9. 19. Thou wilt say then unto me, why does he yet find fault? Speaking of God, for who hath resisted his will? Excellent question. It's exactly the question we all have. Why can God find fault if he is behind the creature, he's willing and moving and directing, and they wind up doing evil? He takes full responsibility that no one can resist his will, and he does whatsoever he pleases. Yea, he creates even the evil, the wicked for the day of evil. Why does he then find fault? On what basis does he find fault? That's a great question. To our thinking, to our ears, based on our level of understanding. Because the God's answer is this: there's a big hand that comes up out of the Bible, and it puts the fingers together, and it slaps you in the face Because what it says is, nay, but O man, who art thou that repliest against God? In other words, sorry, partner, that's a bad question. That's a real bad question. Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, why have you made me thus? You see, the rules of the game are very different when you're dealing with a creator. We're the clay. Kind of remember where we came from? Garden of Eden. Dirt. Kind of formed it. He's the potter. He's the former. He's the creator. Hath not the potter power over the clay of the same lump to make one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor? Now I want to pause right there for a moment. I want to point out something about that lump of clay. We're not talking about the fine white refined clay that you make china with. You know, teacups are made of clay, but they're a fine white clay that's been pulverized, it's very purified, it's very clean, it's a I think it's called kaolin or something like that. Don't quote me on it, but it's a very fine white clay. That's not the kind of clay God uses. He uses plain old dirt. That old red clay that you make the Mexican pots with that you get for 50 cents. And if it breaks you don't care and you throw it away. Out of that clay. He makes a vessel to honor. That's an amazing thing. It's the rebellious human clay that he's taking Rebellious stiff neck, I will not, I won't not, I walk not, I hate God. That rebellious clay. He makes one vessel into honor. I have a cabinet over here with lots of vessels of honor in them I got a patio back here with lots of vessels of dishonor. I don't care if they get beat up. I don't care if they get rained on. I don't care if they get a hole inside of them. What if God, it says, willing to show his wrath, notice this business we talked about earlier. God's monuments, God's declaration, they're there for his pleasure, to bring glory to him. bringing glory to him means a display of things. I have vessels of honor in my display case. What if God willing to show his wrath, to display his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering? The vessels of wrath fitted to destruction. God's a pure eyes that he can behold iniquity, and that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy which he had afore prepared unto Glory. You know what the summary of the answer to the question of verse 19 is in two words? Why does he yet find fault? Who's resisted his will? You know what the summary of the answer is? Two-word answer. The answer is this: I'm God. Pure and simple. I'm God. What are you going to do about it? You're not going to vote him out of office. Well, I'm going to go pack up my bags and go into the universe as a better God. Not going to work. You can't do that. You've got to face this God. You've got to deal with his God. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. Let the mighty man in his might. Let not the wise man in his wisdom. But let him that glory glory in this, that he knoweth and understandeth me. And I am the Lord which exercised loving, kindness, judgment, righteousness on the earth, for in these things I delight. You glory in that you know God. You know this God. You're going to have to deal with this God. You are dealing with this God, whether you know him or not. I have a quote from Burkhoff that you can read in your handout. If the decretive will of God determines the entrance of sin in the world, God becomes the author of sin and really wills something contrary to his moral perfections. Arminians, to escape this difficulty, make the will of God to permit sin dependent on his foreknowledge of the course which man would choose. Reformers While maintaining the basis of Acts 2, that God's decree of will also include the sinful deeds of man, are careful to point out this must be conceived in such a way that God does not become the author of sin. They frankly admit they cannot solve the difficulty, but at the same time make some valuable distinctions that are helpful. I'll give you one helpful, valuable distinction here. How do you harden something? How do you harden clay? How do you make it into a brick? How do you make clay into a brick? What do you do? Eat. Put it in a form. You form it. Yep, compress it, pack it together. You don't let it go this way, that way, that way. Put some heat under it, heat it, until it's bait is real hard. How do you sink a brick? How do you sink it? Throw it in the sea. What did Pharaoh make the children of Israel do? work hard bondage. They had to make bricks without without clay. Without excuse me, with clay without without uh straw What did God do to Pharaoh's heart? Same thing he had the children of Israel do. He had them make bricks. God says, I'll make your heart a brick. What do you do to their babies? Cast them in the ocean. What do you do to Pharaoh's army? Cast them to the depths of the ocean. God's a master at repaying man's ways upon his head. You can't look at Pharaoh and say, oh, oh, this horrible evil government, I can't believe God's a master at repaying man's ways upon his head. You make my people serve in bricks, your heart's going to be like a brick, and all God has to do is pull his hand back. You want my love, my patience, my mercy? Gone. You get heat, you get wrath, you get punishment. You want to throw my children in the sea? I'll throw your own in the sea. God's a master at repaying man's ways of punishment. Brother Anton, would you close us in prayer? Father in heaven. Lord, we thank you for uh the time to consider your sovereignty and that you do indeed work all things after the counsel of your Oh Lord, uh that can be a a hard doctrine for some that they would turn away from you, but oh Lord, uh to whom can we go? Thou hast the word of uh everlasting lasting life. So we pray you would keep our hearts turned to you and we do praise you that you do uh show mercy to your elect and to your Lord help us to trust in you and continue to grow in the grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray you continue to bless these uh studies in your word and of your doctrine, of your teaching. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen