Rustin, hope you're enjoying this series on what my son has recently tagged as a uh rarely taught topic And indeed it is a rarely taught topic. I'm sure you've actually encountered the concept of covenants if you've been in church circles for a while. They may not have used that term, but they would have said things along these lines. uh the Old Testament saints were saved in the same way as the New Testament saints. That's a covenantal concept. Or um a different view is that um Some might say, particularly in the Arminian Baptist arena, the Old Testament people were saved under the law, and the New Testament people are saved under Christ, under grace. Now that's a covenantal concept that emphasizes the differences Whereas those in the Reform camp who might underscore the similarities might uh also go to an extreme position to say, just as circumcision uh was for the elect of Israel, so is baptism for the uh elect in the church. That sounds good, but that's dangerously close to baptismal regeneration and it makes it sound like if you were baptized as an infant or immersed later as an adult or sprinkled as an adult, whatever mode you choose, I'm not going to get too hung up on that. The point is that those are covenant ideas. You know, who is a member of the covenant? In what form do they stand? What's the relationship? And uh you'll hear covenantal concepts in the antinomian camp. They sound very good in terms of the doctrine of salvation, but they will present a view that uh makes it such that uh the uh the the law is null and void and nothing to do with it. They'll emphasize the sharp, sharp, sharp distinct difference between the two and marry the two cross and obliterate the connections of some of the moral code that the old covenant pulls forward into the new and God has those obligations upon his people. So I'm sure you've heard maybe one of those terms or maybe two, maybe all. I've certainly heard them and more. So we're gonna continue to explore this business of the covenant man relationship to it. So review, we have something called a covenant of redemption. That's between God the Father and God the Son. There is the language used in Psalm 89 of there being a covenant, promises given to the Son, requirements of what the Son had to do in order to redeem his people. Man doesn't enter into that at all. That's simply in the Godhead. It's an arrangement, a plan, a purpose, a will of God the Father to redeem a people for himself. He actually obligated himself to carry this out. And praise God he did that and thank the Lord you didn't include us in that because you know, when's the last time you had a meeting and invited a dead person Let's get their input, right? You don't want their input, frankly. It would stink on more than one level. Yes. But now we have how does that wonderful covenant reach down to the humans it was intended to save, and that's the covenant of grace. And now we're talking about God applying that covenantal blessings to his people. How do they even become aware of these things? How are they made partakers of it? That's known as the covenant of grace Somehow in the mind of God, it's kind of all wrapped up into one deal, but in order to keep it clear and distinct so that we don't confuse man's role in what God alone does, Conservative theologians tend to distinguish the two separately. And I think that's okay. Today we're going to look at the parties in the Covenant of Grace So now we're talking about this covenant of God that He's made. He's redeemed His people, done deal. How does that apply to His people? So the question then becomes, who are the parties? Obviously God's on one end of that deal. That's not in question. What is in question is who is it down here? Who's involved? Who's part of that? And I think as we get into that, it might be helpful first to do a comparison between another covenant between God and man that existed as well. Uh does anybody remember what the name of that covenant was between God and man? It's not the covenant of grace. Between God and man. Now that would be in the Godhead. Redemption's just in the Godhead. Grace is what we're talking about, but we're comparing that to another covenant between God and man. Hint, think all the way back to Adam and Eve. Covenant of works. Covenant of works. And as a theological term, it was more clearly revealed when Moses came along and articulated all the requirements. But again, it was a covenant, a a legal document between God and man. And there were six similarities, and I've written them all down in your handout so that you're not left writing There's a number of similarities between this covenant of works. And both cases, the author is God. He wrote both of it, right? The table of stone came down from the mountain, written with the finger of God. Uh the parties in general are both between God and man, and both take the external form of having conditions as well as promises. There were if uh Adam was told that you may freely eat of every tree that is in the garden, but of the tree the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat From the day you eat thereof you shall surely die. So there was a promise, a promise, an implied promise, that you'll live forever. But when you touch this tree, you will die So there's a curse, there's a promise, there's a condition. It's kind of all wrapped up in one succinct statement. God speaks like that very often. He doesn't need to mince words. He gets right to the point. The promise is eternal life. Adam would have lived forever. In fact, under Moses' covenant, you'll live forever if you can keep it, because there's no reason for the covenant to kill you. However, in Moses' covenant, it tells you to run, but it doesn't give you legs. It tells you to climb, but it doesn't give you a ladder. And I think of it as a room with a bunch of little square tiles that are on hinges. And as soon as you trip one hinge and it falls down, all of them fall down and you fall through the trapdoor and you're caught. And so Moses' covenant is very good at catching sinners He's very good at that. But if you're perfectly righteous, he has no reason to trip, no reason to trigger, no reason to pronounce death or a curse, you're perfectly fine, you'll live forever on that. But you have to be perfect. So that's the promise of that covenant. Same thing with the covenant of grace. Its promise is eternal life. Little different basis we'll get to in a moment. The general aim of both is God's glory. It's always been for his glory. He's never changed his objective in either one. There was no fault or problem with the covenant of works, also known as Moses' covenant. It was vaguely revealed to Adam, God didn't need to articulate a bunch of terms and conditions with this brand new made creature. You know, just like when you get a new puppy at home, this is a poor illustration. You get a new puppy at home You love it, you play with it, you know, you have fun. You don't start getting real strict until later when you know you really need to put some hedges and guidelines and so forth on it. And so it was with the human creation that God made, these formal rules and regulations, particularly as the nation of Israel was going to become a great nation, they needed a structure of rules. And guess what? It modeled nothing new, just greater clarity. as to what God had already told to Adam. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second is like unto it in your neighbors yourself. On these hang the two tables of law. There are, however, six important differences between the two covenants, and this is something I think that if you can grasp this and and a It would take another three or four studies to really articulate the differences, and I'm not sure that would help too much. But if you can really grasp this You will be able to discern the difference between the errors that some of the Arminian Baptists will take, where they emphasize the differences too much. And they don't acknowledge the similarities, versus the hardline reform camp, which only emphasized the similarities, but never acknowledged the differences There are similarities and there are differences between the two, and you have to see both. It is indeed a covenant, not according to the covenant that I made with your fathers in the day when I brought them out of Egypt and led them forth. Like Jeremiah says, it is a different covenant, but there are a lot of similarities. God is not a chess player. Man didn't move and God went, I didn't think of that. Okay, I've got to do this now. This is all an unfolding and an unfurling of the same divine plan with the aim being the glory of God. Let's consider some of these differences between the covenant of works. We'll say Moses' covenant. The Apostle Paul refers to it as the law. Many a time when the Apostle Paul says the law, he's referring to Moses' covenant, meaning all of the terms and conditions. This legal document with promises, conditions, you've got to go to Jerusalem three times a year, you have to tithe, there has to be priests, there has to be a specific blood offering of a specific type of animal that has certain qualities. That's all part of the law. It's all one package deal. Alright, so in the covenant of works versus grace, how does God appear? Well, for Adam and for Moses and those under it, God appeared as creator. He appeared as Lord. And that would make perfectly good sense. He was their creator. God created Adam, we get that. He also created the nation of Israel He formed them, he brought them through, he threw out their enemies, he put a hedge around them. I mean, what a miraculous start for this scrappy little nation. of the children of desert wandering people, formerly slaves in Egypt. You know you're not taught a lot of training skills. When you're a slave, they don't say, oh, you know, we need to put them through some skill training, so when they're done with that, they'll have some future to go to. No, they had no skills, basically They knew how to make bricks and they hated that, and that's the last thing they wanted to do. They certainly weren't skilled in warfare. How much less their children wander around the desert? It's a complete miracle. That these million plus people, it counts 600,000 males 21 and up that crossed into the Promised Land What a miracle that these those desert rats would basically overthrow great walled cities and kingdoms. And of course it was God fighting for them. He put them there. He stood them up. It wasn't their straight By any stretch of the imagination. He was their creator and he was their Lord, L-O-R-D, their curios, their supreme omnipotent ruler, and he acted in that fashion. However, in the covenant of grace, God comes to us in a very different way. He presents himself as our Redeemer, the one who redeems us, because again, he's made a covenantal promise, so it reveals himself that way. And as our Father. Personally, you have God as your father if you're a Christian. You can call him as your father. That's a big difference between, I'm going to go visit The man in the supreme office of the land, he's the king of Sweden, versus I'm going to go visit my father, who happens to be the king of Sweden. There's a big difference Through the one, you can only imagine the enormity of the difficulty trying to reach him, trying to bring your case to him. Even getting on his calendar, chances are pretty close to zero that you'll get there But as a child, doors are flown open. There's no restrictions. And so that's how God reveals himself to us in the covenant of growth. And if you see that father language, or I will be a redeemer to you, in the Old Testament, you just know and understand that's the covenant of grace, that's God's plan of salvation coming through to the Old Testament. Saints. They were saved the same way as you and I by grace through faith. And the Apostle Paul proves that in the New Testament by reaching back to the old and pointing out where it showed up, where it showed up. Another key difference is that the covenant of works was established by God's love and benevolence. Some have referred to the Ten Commandments as God's love language to the human race. There's a lot of truth to be said about that It is not this fearful thing. It's fearful of your sinner, but it's not a fearful thing when you think about it. If people were to comply, With those ten simple commands. Seriously, folks, today you could probably print it up on half a sheet of paper Can you imagine if every citizen in America, every police officer, every FBI special agent, every judge of the land basically judged the land by that one simple Folded 8. 5 by 11 piece of paper, but there were no further rules than that, you know, I think I could live under that I think that would be kind of helpful. I think that would be rather useful. I think that would produce a very beneficial society. God thought so. He said, when I bring you to these other lands, they're going to say, what people has such a great set of laws as this nation? of Israel. In the new covenant, in the covenant of grace, it is established by God's mercy. The only reason you and I are recipients of God's grace is because God has simply chosen to have mercy on you. That's the basis for it. It is by his grace, G-R-A-C-E, God's riches at Christ's expense. That's the only reason that that covenant exists, is because of his special grace and mercy to us. Now, third area of difference. I have to be moving here. I could preach on this table just by itself. Man appears in the covenant of works as God's creature. He's just God's creature. Now he has a mediator, but that mediator is an imperfect earthly priest. After the order of Levite, the Levitical priest. They mediated. It wasn't ultimately effectual, but if you wanted to get right with the people of God and with God and his camp in Israel, what'd you have to do? You didn't offer $10 to the Amorites, you, or 10 shekels to the Amorites, you had to go with God's ordained sacrifice to God's ordained priest and God's ordained location at God's ordained time, and that priest through God's ordained method with God's ordained clothing and process, went to God's ordained place where his name was, presented it, and if it was accepted Then you were reconciled with the camp. You wouldn't be thrown out. You were good again until the next time you blew it. And then you have to repeat it all over again In the covenant of grace, man appears again as a sinner. A creature, yes, but as a sinner And he has Jesus Christ as his only mediator. There is no second mediator or third. There's no alternative. We can't go to Mary. We can't go to a statue. We don't go to an icon. Jesus is that only mediator, and he's the priest that lives forever after the order of Melchizedek. And he's effectual. And the fourth point is that all of this was contingent upon, in under Moses, the uncertain obedience of a changeable man. You remember what would happen to Israel when the high priests were wicked God sent a man named Samuel through a very godly woman named Hannah who gave her baby boy to work in the temple of God in an early age. What a tremendous sacrifice. Samuel would be one of the most powerful Old Testament prophets. And it was to this young man at probably the age of 17 he received a vision from God. The first time that God spoke to him, Samuel, Samuel, and he didn't know, and he went to Eli and says, Go back. And finally Eli said, if he hear it again, said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And God filled Samuel's ears with a long, laundry list of Eli's sins. Can you imagine God speaking to Samuel, not to the high priest? And he said he would judge Eli and Israel because of Eli's son's sins. He stood as a representative And so if he was not doing well, it would not bode well for the nation. The uncertain, changeable obedience of one man greatly affected the whole nation. However, in the covenant of grace It's contingent upon the absolute and certain obedience of Jesus Christ, our surety. He's that one man. He cannot fail. It's impossible for him to lie. His character is impeccable. He has an unchangeable, eternal, everlasting life. Your high priest will never die. In the old covenant, the high priest would die yet a new one in. Can you imagine a faithful, godly person, a Jew in their tent? Oh I hope this high priest Yes. All made but with Christ. All were made alive. Absolutely. The uncertain obedience of one man. And Boy, can you really I the longer I live, uh I like this old saying, I I trust this person as far as I can throw them. You know. You just can't trust men that much, you know. You You issue it very gingerly, very tenderly, you know. That's why there's systems of accounting and internal controls, because man's, you know, quite the creature. And the fifth point of difference, the way of life and the covenant of works, you kept the law. It was the keeping of the law. Whatever faith was required was a part of the righteousness of the law. But in the covenant of grace, faith in Jesus Christ is the way of life, and whatever faith is required is itself a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Even the faith that you and I have is a gift of God. That is quite the amazing covenant of grace that God's given to us. Last point in that in works in Moses, it was revealed partly in nature. You can certainly see God's Handiwork in nature, minuscule, little elements of it. It's more explicitly revealed in Moses' covenant as the table came down from the mountain But in the covenant of grace, it's revealed by a special positive revelation through the Word and the Spirit of God. God comes to you in particular. And to you in particular, changes your heart and opens up your understanding so that you personally Personally, Carol, can understand exactly what God means. He doesn't say, go listen to fence. tell you what the truth is and you're like I don't know what the truth is I'll have to go listen to Vince and so you're dependent on Vince. No. He personally opens up your ears He opens up your heart and he personally gives you gifts and capabilities and talents and an interest in the Word of God. That's what he gives you. It's a free gift. It's a free gift. The contracting parties. Who are the parties in this covenant of grace? Not all Reformed theologians are in agreement, but the prevalent view is the parties are God and the elect sinner. God and the elect sinner. That's ultimately the ones to whom God's grace efficiently comes. Christ will not shed his blood on the cross for someone who will not come to him. That would be blood shed in vain. Oops. I overpaid. I paid too much for the sins of that person. Then can you imagine for what reason then would God cast that reprobate into hell? The reprobate could claim, yes, I never believed, no, I was never converted. No, I I I you weren't my elect, but Jesus paid for my sins So why are you throwing him into hell? Do you see what kind of a disconnect that would be at the tribunal of God? Do you see what kind of a case the wicked could levy against God? If that were the case. And so we believe in particular atonement. Christ died to pay for the sins of his elect. He's particular. He's very particular in that The key issue that affects the parties are the conditions. We believe salvation is unconditionally free gift to the elect, but they have to believe in order to be saved, it has to come. And the children, because the promise is to you and your children. Yet not all kids become saved, but it doesn't say unto all your seed, it says unto thy seed. And so there's an interesting use of the words that God makes there. That's a nutshell issue. The matter of conditions relates to whether our faith is required in order to become saved, and whether or not there's one or two covenants of reconciliation, meaning the Old Testament and the New Testament. Were people actually reconciled effectually unto salvation to God in the Old Testament? I would answer no. It was all a sign, shadow, type, and figure. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain, the apostle says. So no, we wouldn't say they were ever saved by keeping the law in the Old Testament. That was not meant to be a way of salvation. That's a method of works, and there is no work salvation in the Bible. The other question, the matter of children, is handled with slight but important differences in the reformed community, but I do have found some clarity here. There's God's viewpoint, that's perfect, it's not fully revealed, it's solely directed to the elect. And there's man's viewpoint, as divinely revealed to us in the Bible, but directed to all mankind without distinction. One speaks to the certainty of salvation. The other speaks to gospel obedience. Alright, I've given you a lot of summary. We haven't looked at scripture yet, and we've got to get to that, so let's do that Alright, the parties of the covenant of grace between God and who? Well, on the back side of your handout are some scriptures. It's between God and the obedient individual. In Deuteronomy 7, know therefore that the Lord thy God, He is God, the faithful God, which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations. In other words, God's going to keep his mercy forever. To whom? The obedient individual. God does not have disobedient children. They love the Lord their God and they follow him. Him. Second Chronicles 6 and said, O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in the heaven, nor in the earth, which keeps covenant, and showest mercy unto thy servants, who are his servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts. I would submit to you that you better have a new heart if you were not. I always somebody told something one time, uh, which I think is a good retort. to the uh phrase, well I was at a revival meeting and I I gave my heart to Jesus. Why would you give him the worst thing about you? It wasn't that the stream was a little corrupt, the whole fountain's corrupt. I mean we discovered that there's a whole lot wrong with us, and your heart was the root of the problem. That's the worst thing you can give to God. He needs to come to you and give you a new heart You need a totally new one. But you can't give him what he paid for. You can't give him what he's already paid for. That's right. Psalm 25, 10. All the past of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies They protect them, they preserve them, they love them, they don't twist, change, alter, denigrate them. They keep the covenant. 2514 The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will show them his covenant. The covenant of grace is veiled. It's veiled to the unbeliever. It's shown to the child of God. Psalm 103. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto, notice this, children's children to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them. So the external proof is, is there an obedient person? Is this person walking in the Lord? That doesn't cause them To enter into that. Remember, this business of redemption is in the Godhead, and he conveys his blessings to them, giving them a new heart, opening their ears and their understanding. But that has an impact on the individual that's discernible, that's detectable, that's demonstrable, that's repeatable. It's scientific They actually walk in God's ways, and though they stumble seven times, yet they rise again. They're interested in the things of God. They're Bible fanatics. They're kind of a big fan of the Word of God. And they love the things that God says. And so that's to whom His mercy is directed, you see. The parties of the covenant include God and all who believe. This is a focus on the family In Genesis seventeen he says, I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee, and their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee And we saw last week that's the main promise of the covenant of grace. I will be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. What a wonderful blessing. Can you imagine if you cut off that second part? I will be a God to thee. Don't know about your seed. They're going to have to swim on their own That'd be rough. You might think, oh, Lord shall save me, but I'm going to be in a house full of reprobates. I'm going to be a household full of No, God promises. Now He doesn't tell us when. We don't know exactly when Jacob became saved. It may be a long time. Pastor Henry Mayon reports his son Paul was lost and out of touch for years. Three years was it three? Before before I was looking at my mother, she was uh noting before God finally had mercy upon him I know single, uh not single, excuse me. I know households where a single individual was saved, where the wife was saved and the husband was not. I know of two. I know of two. And the wife so yearned, no I know of three. The wife so yearned, oh, that her husband might be saved. And she would, now she's a God-fearing woman. Now she's not as manipulative as she used to be. Now she's not as overruling as she used to be. She understands submission. She knows that she needs to submit to her husband. She's there to support him. She's be there to be his helpmeet. And so as a good help meet, she's trying in a godly way to be a testimony to her husband. And I know one woman whose husband recently passed in California, and she would come to the Bible study, she would not dress up, you know, just just kind of just come comfortably, which is fine. I didn't mind that at all. But bless my soul one day, miraculously, because I thank all of God's saving. work of grace is miraculous. Her husband began to be very interested in the Bible. He began to become very interested in what she She was hearing. Oh, you've never seen a woman so lit up. Oh, she went to the salon. She had her hair made up. She got new clothes. She was just It just like the sunshine of spring passed over her again and the age and the and you the the the weight and the grief of her face disappeared and she was just so lit up. She was just so full of joy again It was a mark, you could tell, she was rejoicing, God saved my husband. And it was an amazing thing. And it began to work eventually throughout the family. It began to have an impact. I think I was saved near simultaneously with my mom. And in due time, God saved my dad. It wasn't right away, it's in due time. So we have a wonderful promise of God that He does deal with families. Look at this next one in Acts 2. 39. For the promise of God is unto you and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. God does make covenantal promises to us and to our children. Yes, Gloria. I had a question. Yes. Um the parties in the covenant of grace is between God and The obedient individual and all who believe. So regarding the obedient individual, how's it is that different from the Covenant of Works? 'Cause it seems that it's kind of the the same thing. The Covenant of Works is between God and And you know, those who obey right who keep the law. So is there no difference there? Uh there's similarities and there are differences. So God expects obedience as a matter of sanctification And the covenant of works, she expects obedience as a matter of righteousness. So they're not necessarily the obedience visual means not necessarily The coming of grace. The coming of grace is related to salvation. Yes, but it sh but it it it's how you and I behold. Ah, that one has an interest in the things of God. The language there of God being a God to him, all the past of the Lord, like Psalm 25. 10. The question is about the obedient individual. How is that different from the Old New Testament? In the new, all the past, Lord, are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. So under the old covenant, it was a merited mercy. You had to obey. Right. In the new covenant, it is a reflection of those whom God has already changed. Right. Right, I get that. The general aim and the goal remains the same, the glory of God. The general goal r still remains I'm looking for a changed heart and a changed people. Does that sort of answer it? Okay, so what's I'm trying to understand what the covenant of grace encompasses. If we're talking about the covenant of grace strictly in terms of of you know salvation. Mm-hmm. Yes. Eternal life. Yes. Then the obedient individual doesn't necessarily have a part in that. Right? Because we're not the ones Right, right, right. Okay, yeah, yeah, right. So so this is why we're taking so so you've you're you're hitting the nail on the head and let's talk about that. that so Gloria's point for those who couldn't hear was that and grace if it depends on obedience that ties to our righteousness but Christ is our righteousness how does that work work out. Alright. There is this thing called covenant of redemption. And that we are out of that picture. There's no redemption, there's no salvation. We Work. All of the work is done and it's out of our hands. So now God's going to convey that by the covenant of grace to us. And again, these are just theological terms to try to understand the practical outworkings of how this looks like. So given that all the work has been done, given that Christ has satisfied the terms and conditions, given that He is our obedient Savior, and it's His obedience that counts, Now how do we know to whom the party is involved between bestowing those? Because they have to be bestowed on somebody. Is it upon every single human being that's ever lived upon the face of the earth throughout all time? Now, what do we do with Pharaoh? What do we do with Judas? What do we do with the devil? What do we do with Cain? What do we do with Balaam? And so forth. I mean, you have a lot of characters that you would be hard pressed to say, oh yeah, they're in heaven. Don't think so. Alright, so who are elect? That would be the elect, right. And what how do you and I observe the elect? What is the difference between the elect and the elects that they're obedient? They walk by faith, yes. Yeah. They have uh a faith-based obedience. Does that help? Yeah, that does make sense. Yeah, that's why the the reformers distinguish here. Yes, brother. uh what um the question comment that she made was that we are um the elect yet we're not Perfect. We only perfect in Christ. Yes. That's the perfection that we have. Because we still um Sin. But it's not willful sin. Does that make any sense? It does. So that's why we looked at the difference before, which was the it's between, if you look at that table, uh the um Man appears in the covenant of grace as a sinner with Jesus Christ. And I would point out that that is probably one of the most important entry criteria for you and I to understand, yep, I'm in the covenant of grace, because Freddie, we ought to have no problem saying we're sinners I have no problem saying, you know what, every one of my sins is willful sins. And I'm not meaning in the sense of Hebrews where I'm trying to throw away my salvation. I guarantee you right now, I'll look at this away, I'll look at that away, and a sin. It's willful. And then we come back to scripture and go, you know what, Lauren? That's wrong. We had no problem doing that. But the world does. The world has a big problem saying that. Well, I may not be perfect, but I'm not like Go ahead, go ahead. Fill it out. Right. That's what the world has a problem with. And that's the hope for the day. That's a big hope. That's a very big hope. Joe and Charles question very quickly. Um my child is my child in the womb. And the child of the womb cannot obey what I tell But then the child can begin to obey. And it's the same way, the obedience that is part of grace is because we're his child. He has chosen us for the foundation of the world. The the unelect cannot obey. Doesn't matter how much they want to. Because they're dead. They're dead. They're stillborn. Right. They're still To to Glory's question about you know the obedience is that of work? Well no, we obey because we're his child. Amen. That's true. That's a good illustration. Yeah, what he said. I'm so sorry. No, please, this is good. And I'm convicted of my sin. Yes. I go to the Father in Jesus' name and Jesus force to the mercy seat. That's right. Right, right. They the world doesn't have that option. No, they don't have that option. They don't have that option. They don't have that advocate. They don't have that mercy se If they don't have that covering, all they have is a receipt that says SIN noted. Sin noted. Last one. Yeah, and it's not to say that we're robotic, okay? Because man does have a will. Man's will is subject of all. But it's kind of like my toaster. You know, I don't have a smart toaster. I can stand there all day long and say toast my bread, toast my red, toast my red, and it will not toast my bread until I act upon it. Yeah. And God's command is given, but until he acts upon me, I'll never obey his truth. Charles Rubrie? Um this is interesting. because this was um something we were just uh thinking about me down and some other brothers is that uh you know what does make us different And we know that Christ is ultimately what makes us different, children of God. But the Bible does talk about the children of God. Um the world certain things to project a different uh putting a difference. What's the difference of you know our sacrifices and the sacrifice of a Baal? Well they're sacrifices sacrifices don't work and ours does. Right. So you know, um I think there is in in lifestyle, we know that our lifestyle can never, you know, um get That's not what we're saying. But the Lord wants us to live a life to say, yeah, you know, we we don't hire our colors to run the battle and the prayer in Christ and we will stand up. and there is a difference between us and the world. Yeah, God our God is a good father. And a good father cares about the results and the outcome and the lifestyle and the thinking and the behavior of his children. Therefore he disciplines them as a swatty stick. He uses it lovingly. He has a set of rules. He points to the rules every now and then and says, reminds them, oh yeah, this is the rules. But he still feeds them. He clothes them, he shelters them, he defends them, he protects them. There's a rattlesnake running out there somewhere, that rattlesnake's dead and gone, gets too close. I'm not worried about all the rattlesnakes in the forest. Just the ones too close to my kids. He'll protect them He's a good father. He hadn't quit being a good father. He appears to have been the father. Speaking of father, and speaking of children, let's talk about this other bigger question in terms of are children in the covenant of grace. Now why is that a question? Well, there are those on one side in the Arminian Baptist camp that say, well, um No, they've got an age of accountability. They're quite fine. They're in fact so morally righteous and pure and perfect and holy and undefiled up until they hit age fill in the blank. And then that age is twelve or whatever. I I liked your phrase you used, uh Anton. That's actually better than this, that's closer to the truth. Uh not age of accountability, but age of what was it? Uh level of accountability. Level of accountability or something like that. Yeah, okay. That's a little closer. But uh but until they're they make a confession and are baptized Then they're in the covenant. It's not until that event occurs. So that's one extreme view that is incorrect. And then there's another view that says, oh no, they're born to believing parents and they've been baptized, automatically, yeah, they're saved. They're saved because of that. Not saying in the covenant or related to the covenant, they say they're saved. So that's the question. How does that fit then? Because of the promises to thee and thy seed after thee And yet we know experientially that God did not see unto God did not say unto all thy seed after thee. How does that work out? All right, well. There is a two-fold seed of Abraham that I will use as exhibit A to illustrate this. The Old Testament gives us an illustration or an example of how children are related to the covenant. And to salvation. So, God said in Genesis 17 to Abraham, and this is where your handout comes in handy, I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee In their generations, I'm in Genesis 17. 7. For those watching online, I have to remember that you don't have a handout, sorry. for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. Now you're going to say, Vince, he's talking about Jesus Christ. I get that. There's multiple applications here. That would have entered Abram's ears as, oh, he's talking about my descendants. And some translations render that descendants. Now I think that's a violation. They shouldn't, because Galatians 3. 16 tells you how to translate it. You need to translate it as a singular word that happens to have a plural option. Seed. Genesis 21, we read, God said unto Abraham, let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, because of thy bondwoman. And all that Sarah has said unto thee, hearken unto her voice, for in Isaac shall thy seed be called. This is God speaking to Abraham concerning the matter of Ishmael. And he says, nope, in Isaac will your seed be called. Alright, so God's making it clear that there was a bloodline descendancy from Abraham to Isaac, but it would be the seed of Isaac that God's promise would propagate Alright, we know from the New Testament ultimately that's referring to Christ. Yet, shock of all shocks, God did propagate to a very high degree his plan of salvation to the physical descendants of Abraham. Not to all, not to Ishmael, not to Esau, but to a very high degree, salvation was found in the nation of Israel. That's where the saints of God came. That's from where the prophets came. That's to whom the prophets came. Yes, there was a Rahab. Yes, there was a Ruth and Molbites. Exceptions. Exceptions. Rare. Not the norm. We get to the New Testament, and the Apostle Paul gives commentary because he's wrestling with this as well. He is a bloodline descendant. He was a Hebrew of the Hebrews And he says in Romans 9. 8, that is, they which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God. So he makes it pretty plain. Just because you're a physical bloodline descendant of Abraham doesn't automatically make you a child of God. That's pretty plain. You can't get around that statement. But the children of the promise are counted for the seed. In other words, if God promised it brackets to the elect. That is the seed to whom God had in view. Also notice that the children of the promise are the seed. Every bit as much as Galatians 3. 16 says Jesus Christ is the seed. It's both the children of the promise. It's both Jesus Christ. I want to get to this interesting example. There's other passages in Galatians which speak about this. Galatians 4. 28. Now we brethren as Isaac was, are the children of promise. Isaac was quite the child of promise, right? Abraham, Sarah, very, very old. Chances are zero that she's gonna have a child. Uh you'd have to go another fifteen years before you'd be a candidate, Mrs. Ross, for that miracle. And uh, you know, we're I'm not putting money on it, okay? I'm not pulling money on it for that. I'm not gonna make that bet right now. And uh and yet what a miracle because God's promise. His word came. No, that shall happen Isn't isn't our God great? He makes promises to the most impossible situations. You look at that and go, well, that's a dead option. God says, perfect. You understand. Now you understand. That's where I operate. I operate among dead things because I bring them to life. All right. Galatians 3. 29, if you be Christ, then you're Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. We don't replace Abraham's covenantal promises, we enter into it. We are part of that. We are a wild olive tree by nature, grafted into a good tree. root, that root is Christ, by the way, not national Israel. And we're rooted into that. And so we join into those promises, Jews and Gentiles. In Matthew 13, listen to this language of Jesus. He says, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man, the field is the world, the good seed are the children of the kingdom. But the tares are the children of the wicked one. Notice two sets of children. You've got the good seed, you've got the evil seed. Ones are the children of the kingdom. But notice that they're sowed. The implication is God knows those who are his. And the devil came and sowed his seed out there. So how do we tie this together? I've not seen this in the theological book. This is a Vince Kluth observation, and maybe I'm boasting on myself, but I'm just letting you know if you go look for this in Burkhoff, you won't find it. But this was helpful to me to understand this twofold seed relationship. In John 8, Jesus is having a discussion with the Jews. And they're kind of arguing with him. And Jesus is on the curve. He's really twisting their head up. And he says to these rebellious Jews who are not interested in what he's saying and want to kill him, he says, I know that ye are Abraham's seed. He says, I know that you are physical bloodline descendants of Abraham, but ye seek to kill me because my word hath no place in you. Now I'm not going to get into the argument that he's having theologically with him, but I just want you to listen to his language. He says, I know you're Abraham's seed. I know I'm standing here talking. Because I made you guys in the womb. I'm fully aware of your heritage. You don't need to pull out your birth certificate. For me, I don't need to go to the temple to look it up. I know this, right? I know every DNA in your body Then he comes in verse 39 and says, This. They answered and said unto him, Abraham is a father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, Ye would do the works of Abraham. Because what they said in 38 was, we have Abraham unto her father. And he says, well, if you were Abraham's children. Now wait a minute, he just said a moment ago, I know you're Abraham's seed. Meaning physical descendant. But you are not you're not the spiritual seed of Abraham. You see the twofold? Do you see how that can get blended together? Which is in view in that covenant? I would submit in the covenant of grace, there's a similar aspect. The promise is to you and to your children. And parents, grieving parents who have lost, grieving, believing parents who have lost a child and have had the dreadful misfortune of having to bury one of their children. Ought not to grieve nor doubt the saving mercy of God. I'm not declaring that child saved. I'm saying you have a hope. You do have a hope. Because it doesn't what does salvation look like in a child? What does salvation look like in a in a one-year-old? Do they suckle the breast differently? Do they not cry as loud? I I I can't I don't imagine there's a difference. What does it look like Aren't you glad God saves by grace? Because you don't need a child to make a confession. God can save an infant. God saved Jeremiah in the womb. So what does God need to save somebody? What does he need from the creature? Isn't anything? And so parents of deceased children ought not to grieve that God can be merciful And at the same time, those who have unbelieving children can rest. You know, God's promise is there. I still have hope. And I'm still going to beseech and beg the Lord, oh Lord, please, could my eyes see it Can my eyes but see it? Can I but know? And they may not. And it may be a grandchild of those, because children many a time would skip generations, as a reference in the scriptures. But there is a good hope, and it's the best hope in town. Uh with that I'll close unless there's a closing question or something. I actually heard a defense of abortion that um well all these babies go to heaven And if that's the case, then why stop abortion? Because they're doing the words work and don't keep murdering away because they're all. No, you correct that's that's a dreadful incorrect vote. Yes, and a last to the statement you just made when I I was growing up with the alien. My mother who was trained as a daughter. Um but she paid She never knew uh became a Christian. Oh really? Interesting. She never saw it. Glory. Oh that's wonderful. Joe, could you close this? Gracious Father, indeed, how great is your mercy. There is not a redeemed sinner present here today that deserved any mercy at all. We deserve your wrath and your judgment, and yet, Lord, it is all of grace that we're saved. Father, we thank you, as as Brother Vince mentioned in the in the introduction, that even the faith itself is indeed. the gift of God. Father, bless these truths we've learned and heard repeated this morning to our hearts. Strengthen us by them. Plant them deeply within ourselves. souls. Lord bless us as we uh go into the worship service, Father. May we truly adore our great Savior. And Lord, as we remember you at the table that you have ordained for your remembrance, may we do so in confession of sin. We pray this in Jesus' name.