All right, well, uh welcome and good morning to the uh Sunday school class. There are handouts, and if you don't have one, uh Gloria will be happy to vector one to you. We're continuing our series in uh Burkhoff's book on the summary of Christian doctrine. Well, I tell you, uh it's been 15 years since I've gone through this study, and it's a great refresher. Today's lesson is going to be about God's veracity and holiness. And I trust both of those will be of great interest to you, particularly the one about holiness. because it's going to dispel some perhaps uncommon or common ideas that are unfortunately incorrect. So does anybody even know what that word veracity means? Truth. Yeah, true, truth. Yeah, veritas, true, truth. So one thing God is is that He is comprehensively true. God is comprehensively true. Everything about God is comprehensively true. Burkhoff says this the perfection in which he, God, is true in his inner being, is perfectly reliable in his revelation. sees things as they really are and is in a true relation to all of his people. And that's a tremendous benefit. You ever had a friend that you thought was really with you but you found out later they really weren't With friends like that who needs enemies? This is the very essence of man. He's not always in great integrity in his relationships. The Bible is very clear that God is true. If anything, the scriptures are echoing this statement. And I've just selected a handful of passages Numbers twenty three nineteen, God is not a man that he should lie. This is totally uh an alien concept to God and to his character. He is not one who lies. John 14, 6, of course, everybody A great many conservative Christians can quote that verse. And I was studying that this morning and I'm not sure I really understand the opening parts of John 14. It's quite an interesting discussion. But uh Jesus says into one of his disciples, I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the way, I am the path, the journey. I am the truth. I am the veracity. I am the life. I am the Zoe. uh he is that life-giving spirit. No man comes to the Father but by me. And that's a great verse for children. And I think as adults the more we meditate on it and reflect on it, uh it actually unfolds another level. God is actually also true to himself. God is all that he should be as opposed to false gods. He is true to himself. He's not making vain boasts or pomps, uh, pompous statements when he speaks. He's not being brash or arrogant, though it may strike us that way. He simply is that great, that big, that powerful We read in Deuteronomy 32. He is the rock. His work is perfect. Can you imagine being a student and every answer you give is perfect being a construction? worker and every board you put and every nail you place and every piece of concrete or masonry you put down it's perfect people look at it and say this is a one of the world's greatest wonders It's beyond our imagination. His work is perfect. All his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. Abraham, uh it's not in your handout, says, Shall not the judge of all the universe do right when asking certain questions? He will do right. He judges righteously When we question his judgment, that's because our framework of being able to assess the situation is either deficient because of the one viewing it, or it's incomplete because we don't have all the information. He alone fully truly understands things as they really are. Psalm 96. 5, all the gods of the nations are idols It's interesting he refers to them as the lowercase gods of the nation. Of course, that's probably the same word for God as Jehovah God, but it's referring to these fake pagan ideas. You know, it's really humorous. God even makes an illustration of the humor in the Old Testament where man takes a piece of wood and he carves an idol out of it, and he props it up. And with the remainder of the wood, he burns it in the fire to keep himself warm. He says, Don't you understand what you're doing? You're falling down to a stock. But it came from something that you burnt up to warm yourself with. And you're saying that is your God. That's completely backward. God's thinking, his way of logic is very reasonable God is ethically true. He is ethically true. He has reliable revelation. He reveals himself as he really is. Boy, that's a challenge. Do you reveal yourself to other people the way you really are? I would submit that we all have a little mask on. There's the inside words, there's the outside words. There's the the visage, the persona. And in our digital online era, creating your online persona makes it even easier to put a thicker and more deceptive mask on who we might want to propose ourselves as truly being. It's a reflection of your character. God doesn't have a mask. God reveals himself exactly the way he is. He's not embarrassed to disclose to everyone that he's perfect. Because that would be a lie to say otherwise. And so all of his ways are true. He's reliable. You might want to turn to Romans 3. 4. I remember when I first observed this passage years ago because Uh the reason I'm having you turn there is because it is worthwhile for you to uh maybe highlight in your scriptures. The question is asked in Paul's letter to the Romans about The advantage of the Jew, he's hammering home the essence of faith that we've got to believe, got to believe, got to believe And that the Jew, the true Jew, is one that's inwardly circumcision is not in the letter, but it's in the heart And so he asks, what advantage do they have? And he answers in verse 2, because unto them were committed the oracles of God. The Jews had the Word of God. That was their chief benefit. If somebody in the old world wanted to hear what does the Lord have to say, they would have to go to a Jew. And then the question comes, what if some did not believe? What if some Jews didn't believe this? Shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect? That's an interesting question. In other words, God's been very faithful and true to who he is, what he is. He's carrying out exactly what he says he was going to do and will do But some people say, nah, I don't believe that. Here God's been perfectly faithful to do everything, and yet if it ultimately hinges on My faith to effect a change, what does that do? Does that make the faith of God without effect? That's the question. That's a good question. And so when verse 4 an answer is, God forbid, let God be true, but every man a liar. In other words, God's plan of moving forward is totally irrelevant upon the creature, because God himself is true. If he's declared it, it'll happen. If you reject it, it's to your peril. And so this is the nature of his ethical trueness. We read in Hebrews 6. 18 back to the handout that by two immutable things in which it's impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation. The two immutable things is that God made a promise, and the second is that he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself. He's underscoring how great a comfort we have because it's impossible for God to lie when he says to his sheep and to his children, I go to prepare a place for you. He says, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. When he speaks of his promises, we can rest entirely in it because it is utterly impossible for God to lie. We may take a measure of comfort when a contractor, I happen to be dealing with lots of them now, I'm trying to build a uh granny flat on the back of my house and it's turning out to be a granny palace uh with a flat uh with a flat look to it. You wouldn't wouldn't tell couldn't tell from the uh balance sheet, but uh anyway. Um Lots of promises, lots of declarations. Oh, it'll only take four weeks for this, or oh this will only be, or some of you um had either recently or about to prepare for a wedding and the caterer says, yes we'll be there. Yes, there'll be plenty of food. Um and at our wedding we ran out of Drinks, what a disaster. Caterer didn't quite deliver. There's always some letdown. And you have a measure of hope, but then the hope is dashed. You face the disappointment at the end. There's all kinds of um gravel in your teeth is at the end of it. You'll never have that with a complete trust in the Lord because it's impossible for him to lie. Impossible That's hard for us to get our head around, and yet that is the character that God reveals himself. He's also logically true. God is a realist. I really love my mentor from old brother Bernie. His picture's on the wall over there. He was a realist. He he was able to describe and say things to me concerning how things really were. I had recently got a job in a very large corporation of General Dynamics Electronics Division out in San Diego. They were the smaller of many of GD's divisions And when you're at a 100,000 plus employee company, you know how things operate in the corporate world are, let's just say, not very obvious to a Texas boy. Coming up from a small town. And Bernie was very helpful in that arena. He had uh served as a vice president at American Motor Corporations, had penned the name Jeep. Perhaps you've seen a Jeep going down the road. That was his brainchild to much of his financial success. And years later, when God saved him, he truly could understand how things would operate. He was a realist in terms of things. And it was very helpful to talk to a realist because it pulls back a lot of the mask and the covers and I could begin to decipher between political things versus people positioning versus people trying to get promotions versus all kinds of different motivations that really exist. He was a realist. God is that way Look at this logical sequence of events we see in John chapter 8 and verse 31. Jesus said to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. So he's giving a realistic statement. Yes, there's got to be new birth. Yes, there's got to be an interest in the Word of God, but there's got to be a continuance, because I begat things which are living. Living things like other living things. They don't hang out by dead things. If you continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. When we come to Christ, when we study his word, as we begin to know more about doctrine, when I say study his word, I'm talking about doctrine, I'm talking about understanding what God speaks about, we begin to get to the foundation of all knowledge. God is faithful. This is part of his veracity, being comprehensively true, because when he states something, he is faithful to carry it out. And again, I'm not saying anything you don't know. What's interesting is this passage in Psalm 89, which speaks of his faithfulness and how he fulfills all of his promises. It's an interesting one. I want to direct you to it. You might want to look in the Bible. Psalm 89, 31, it says this, if they break my statutes and keep not commandments. I think that's almost a foregone conclusion for a great many of the Old Testament Jews. Then will I visit their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes. God is faithful to do what his covenant promise said that he would do. That's how the old covenant was structured. It's an if-then scenario. Nevertheless, my loving kindness will I not utterly take from him. Referring to Israel, the seed of Israel, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that has gone out of my lips. That connects back to Romans 3. Shall their unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect? This is just another way of saying that, and perhaps this is a passage the Apostle Paul would have used to draw that conclusion, to connect those gods. God will not suffer his covenant to be broken. When he commits himself to doing something, man will try, it seems, every way to find a way to break it But God manages to find a way to allow their ways to be heaped back upon their head, and He's faithful and carries out exactly what He's promised, which is all the more impressive. Second Timothy two thirteen is one of my uh favorite passages on this concerning our faith. Faith, folks, is a fruit of conversion, not the root of conversion. Faith doesn't make me saved. It is a fruit of the Spirit. It's a reflection. Because let's face it, our faith at times fails. when sinful ways, old habits of the old man creep back in and get us, or we kind of hang out at the basement steps before making a few more trips down into the basement of sin. We just happen to fall into it because we placed ourselves in the wrong position. That's frankly a lapse of faith. We just don't believe what God says concerning it, that the devil's apples have worms in it is a favorite example of it. Does that impact your salvation? Because only believers enter heaven. Well it says in 2 Timothy 2. 13, if we believe not yet he abides faithful, he cannot deny himself. He can't deny himself because he's put the earnest of the Spirit in the child of God. He can't deny that I've made a a work here. I've begun something in here. He has begun a good work in you will perform it into the day of Jesus Christ. He'll perform and you'll complete it And so thank God that he is comprehensively true. And now I have a question, so that I'm not going on to a monologue and putting you asleep 15 minutes into the Sunday school lesson. Can one be a true Christian with little regard for veracity or truth in their lives? Why or why not? Can one be a true Christian with little regard for veracity in their own lives? You're shaking your head now, Carol. What are your thoughts on that? contradictions and not believe and have faith I guess or know what truth is and then kind of at the same time that's not don't think that that's what it's about. Yeah. Okay. Excellent. Yeah. Any other thoughts on that? That's correct. I love it. How should they that are dead to sin continue any longer therein? Mm-hmm. In other words, if if Christ is truly living in us, we're dead to sin. And untruthfulness, the lack of that veracity, is Yeah, real simple illustration. Uh uh somebody's a football fan. Say they like the Dallas Cowboys, I'll pick on on them. Um and uh they got the cowboy jersey on, they got the star on all their bags they towed around and they yeah, I'm a big cowboy fan, but you know, whenever the game's playing I'm not advertising not advertising you should watch 'em. But he's watching hockey or something. something else. He never pays attention to a cowboy game. You scratch your head and say, are you really a cowboy fan? I mean this is the team that you really are rooting and tootin' for here, but why are you interested in something else? There's this, like Carol points out, this contradiction You know, why are you just pretending to be one? Just you know be who you are. If you really like this other thing, you know, advertise and go after that. You know, there's a lot of verses that speak about that because One of the key objectives of salvation is truth in itself. Look at 1 John 3. You can go to the back of your handout because some of the answers on the very back have tricked you. See, I gave you the answers. So just totally flip it around to the very back uh page where the fold is, not on the inside. It's gonna be on the uh it says scripture references for question one at the back bottom. Uh 1 Timothy 2, 4, who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. This is part of the desire, this is part of the focus of where God is bringing his saints. I like this first John 3 passage in 18 and 19. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and we shall assure our hearts before him. Because he is true, we are also brought into an interest of truth. This is kind of a little facet of what it means to be conformed to the image of Christ. So that's why these series of teachings concerning the attributes of God should be of interest to you. It might be nice to know to what you're being conformed to, what image you're being pressed against. In fact, the opposite is also true, because those who reject truth are none of his. Now that's a bold statement. But it's logical conclusion. It's a logical conclusion, is it not? Christ says he is the way, he is the truth, he is veracity, it's impossible for him to lie. He puts his Holy Spirit as an earnest, as a down payment in his children. He's trying to and will conform them to a truthful posture. So those who reject that, those who would have nothing to do with it, are none of his Some may say, well that's harsh. Everybody has their own opinion. Yes, and God has his, and his opinion is that if you don't love truth, you're none of his. Verse John 14, 17 on the very back side of your handout. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive. Did you see that? The world cannot receive the spirit of truth Because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. 1 John 2. 4 He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar and the Truth is not in him. You see, this business of God's veracity reaches down to our very ability to have a discernment of us, ourselves, but also the ability to discern the fruits of others. Jesus speaks of false prophets. You shall know them by their fruits. If there's a rejection of the truth of God, if there's a rejection of some fundamental doctrines of scriptures that ought to be a really big red flag, they may not be of God. 2 Thessalonians 2 says this, with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they received not the love of the truth. They didn't receive it. That they might be saved. For this cause, God will send them a strong delusion that they should believe a lie. You say, oh wow, God's forcing them. Well, no, he's just giving them what they wanted. They don't want the truth? Fine, let me give you a bunch of lies. that they all might be damned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. And so this is a big point about how God operates. Yeah, that's a pretty powerful passage, isn't it, in Thessalonians You don't want to be on the receiving end of that. You really don't. To be given a batch of lies and to be led into unrighteousness is uh is powerful, and our God is faithful and just in all he does. He's simply repaying man's ways apart 2 Timothy 3. 6, of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins. I'm just reading it. I didn't write that. Led away with diverse lusts, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Never able. That's a pretty bold statement Oh, they may be educated and may have degrees, but they'll never come to Christ, the ultimate fountain of all truth. You you highlighted pleasure and righteousness. That goes right to um Carol's point, that contradiction. But the child of God will hate sin. You know, and when when you sin you look at it and say, why did I do that? You know Um again is that contradiction. This is a yeah. And uh certainly a a love for truth, which is kind of more of a metaphysical abstract concept, a a correct way of describing something, does play its way out in our lives. And at this level, speaking of truth. Truth matters. In our age, truth is relative. And that was a an unfortunate social byproduct of Einstein's general theory of relativity, who uh cracked the back in people's thinking of uh Newton's uh fixed laws of physics where he had very specific laws, which are still correct, but Einstein then began to understand that at a realm beyond a more localized influence in dealing with time and energy, he began to realize there were aspects of the universe that were that could best be described as being relative. Well people grabbed that word relative and went haywire with it. that it became relative moralism, you know, what's good for you is good for you, what's good for me is good for me, and all these kinds of ideas, and that ushered in the the sexual helped usher in the sexual revolution of the sixties and all this other nonsense And today, truth is at a premium. What I think is hilarious is those who state there's absolutely no such thing as absolute truth That's an absolute statement. It's a self-contradicting statement. I could talk more about that, but again I don't want to get too far off my script because I want to get to this next topic of holiness. And this is one that I absolutely hated as a kid. There's a book that sat on my shelf practically unopened when I was an unsaved church youth that somebody in the church gave me. It was by, I think it was by J. C. Ryle, The Pursuit of Holiness. Was it Ryle? Somebody might know the name name who who the author was, the pursuit of holiness. Anyway, whoever wrote the book, I never read it. I didn't want to listen to that. That would cut right into my lifestyle. I had no interest in these sorts of things That was just not going to cut it for me. Faith, great. I believe in Jesus. Yep, he walked the seas of Galilee, did lots of miracles. Have no reason to doubt that. Raised from the dead. Amen. Believe that Lord and Savior, yep, I believe. I'd say yes, though. Baptism, oh yeah, get me wet. That's great. Love it. Holiness? I don't want to hear about it. Wasn't interested in it. And that was my position. So that's why this is all of a sudden of tremendous interest to me, because there is some misunderstandings about it. And I won't try to iron those up today. Birkhoff describes holiness as this, that divine perfection by which he, that is God, is absolutely distinct from all of his creatures and is exalted above them in infinite majesty. You see, I wasn't interested in holiness because I wasn't saved. I didn't want to be separated from the wicked and their unsaved ways. Well, I wasn't going to go diving in the halls of sin. I wasn't going to go um uh looking for it and yet it was no surprise that it came and it was embraced and advanced to more and embraced Advance some more. It's no surprise that there wasn't any breaks. I just hadn't found my gas pedal yet. Well, what is this about God and holiness? What does that mean? Clearly God's holy. There's no surprise there. You better believe that God Almighty is holy Exodus 15, 11. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders? Who is like thee? That's a rhetorical question. The answer is, none is like him. There's none like him. Isaiah's classic passage that speaks about his holiness. Thus saith the high and lofty one, that inhabiteth eternity. Wow, what a place to live in, eternity. Whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place, and With him that is of a contrite and humble spirit. To revive the spirit of humble, to revive the heart of the contrite ones. You know Isaiah's vision. He saw the Lord high and lifted up sitting on his throne. Trained this rope, filled the temple, the smoke, and so forth. The pillars shook at the voice of them that cried, the angels flying about, and they ceased not to cry one to another, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty That's the description of God. You could say that holiness is God's most central attribute. It's interesting to think of it that way. That's the best way to describe God among all other attributes is that He is holy. Holy, holy, holy. That's repeated three times in Isaiah 6. That's not incidental or accidental. It's repeated three times Isaiah's response in Isaiah 6 is, Woe is me, I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips, I dwell in the midst of the people of unclean lips. This is his nature. And by virtue of that holiness, he has an absolute separation from sin. The point here is that he has moral excellence. He has ethical perfection. Let's face it, when you've got it right. And you've and you and you you've you've settled on it, you're not going to move from it. That reminds me of a silly joke I heard years ago, that a traveling musician had his guitar and he had one string in his guitar And all he would play is that one string, twang, twang, twang, twang, twang, twang, twang. And people would ask him, well, that's interesting. What happened to the other string says, I found it, this is it. This is the best note ever. I'm not changing it. God in a sense is a one-string guitar. He's found it, it's perfect, he ain't changing from it. And anything else is a complete disaster. Now, he also speaks Don't take my silly example too far, for God's extraordinarily diverse in his ways, and yet he's morally excellent. Job 34. 10 says this: Far be it from God that he should do wickedness. and from the Almighty that he should commit iniquity. Far be it. So there's a landmark statement for you. Any system of theology that comes up with the idea of God's sovereignty is that which forces men actively into a state of iniquity is incorrect, because that would run contrary to his character of holiness. Far be it from the Almighty that he should commit iniquity. God will not do that. He is, and you think about it from the perspective of a judge, we give judges in our land the privilege and the authority to, for instance, lock a man up for life. If the judge pounds the gab gavel and says the jury is found him guilty, I sentence him to life in prison then that is his authority. You and I can't chain somebody up into their room forever. That would be an iniquity on my part, but not on the judge's part. He is altogether right to do that. And so many times God does things which we think are not a judgment, but are just, well, you're just really being mean. No, he's acting as a judge, and he's doing that which is right and he needs to do Habakkuk says, Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil and canst not look upon the iniquity. And Job says, Behold the moon, it shines not, yea, the stars are not pure in his sight. How much less man that is a worm and the Son of Man is a worm. How can the stars not be clean in God's sight? How can they be defiled? Well, because they live in a universe with defiled human beings. We send around our terrestrial ball that we exist on powerful satellites that are the length of a greyhound bus. It takes very Substantially sized rockets to heft these extraordinarily weighty pieces of glass, metal, aluminum, and plastic into space And when aimed correctly, they can observe the most distant stars to observe various colors, and they can observe golf balls on the golf course if they were spun the other direction. What's interesting is how that satellite collects the light, because light basically goes on forever. So if a satellite were placed, oh, say, hmm, two thousand light years away from Earth and had a large enough uh lens to collimate and bring in the light that would have reflected off of Earth's surface, then that satellite could capture the recording of the very events that happened in Jerusalem and in Golgotha when Christ hung on the cross. Those light waves are still traveling out in space. If you go back far enough or close enough, you can see all of human history recorded, the atrocities that Hitler committed your very day of birth. Anything that light captured and reflected off the earth that a satellite could capture, though spread out, could be recollected. Think about the record that the heavens of of the of the starry realm contain of all the iniquity of man on the earth. And our God has a mighty big eye, and he sees all of it And that maybe begins to give you a sense of why even the stars are not pure in his sight. There's a complete record of man's iniquity spewing throughout the universe, and all of it tells a bad tale. Here's the part that I think is interesting, and this was a shocker to me. God communicates holiness to man in two ways There are two ways we are to understand holiness, and I I want to kind of slow slow down here. I've been kind of at a fair clip here. I'm going to try to drop it to first gear for a moment because I want us to think about this Holiness is a positional concept and an ethical concept. Positional and ethical. How does this play out? There is a group of excellent preachers, bar none. They are excellent, phenomenal preachers called the Sovereign Grace Camp. They're Baptists. They cling tenaciously to the King James. Amen. I point people to some of their preachers because they're excellent preachers. They have a bit of a stumble in their ability to articulate this fine point. Some of them articulate it correctly, others not. The idea is that we are justified a thousand percent by faith. Amen? There is nothing we can do to add to our justification. It is an accounting term. We are reckoned. The righteousness of Christ, all of his equity is transferred to my bank account, and the debts are transferred to his bank account Accounting spreadsheet. So he gets the debt and I get the equity. And so on the books before heaven, it looks like, ah, that's my son. Under the hood is old Vince Kluz, with all of his foibles, failures, weaknesses, bad history, rap sheet, you name it, it's all there. So we say justification is by faith. This is what God imputes to us. Ah, the sovereign grace camp would say. This is also true of holiness. All of the holiness of God, his moral perfections are likewise imputed to us. And they will go to passages such as 1 Corinthians 1 And verses 30 and 31, the last passages of 1 Corinthians 1, which say, but of Christ Jesus Of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption, according as it is written, He that gloryeth, let him glory in the Lord. That's true. That's a true statement. How am I to understand that? Well, the way the sovereign Greece camp will understand this is to mean it doesn't matter what you do, Mrs. Ross, in God's sight, you're perfectly holy. If you're down in your cellar playing a game of pinakle with some folks and boozing it up, God says that's holy and perfectly fine. If you're at the racetrack bidding on horses and gambling the Lord's money, God says that's perfectly fine. You're holding Christ. Now they won't preach that, but they don't put a hedge against that. And they may even intimate some examples that begin to crack that door open for you and let you explore it. I visited their churches and it's no surprise out back that some of the men will be out there smoking cigars. They got their big stokies out, talking about their favorite racehorses. How are we to understand this? Then there's the other camp, like the Roman Catholics, which say, if you're not doing all that you can do. . If you're not rolling up your sleeves getting to work, you're neither justified nor sanctified. . They put the cart before the horse. They say the horse has to be completely washed and clean before it's entered into heaven. So where is this dividing line? Sanctification in the Scriptures, holiness in the Scriptures, first and foremost relates to a positional holiness. It's a relationship to Christ. Positional holiness is a one-time deal. It's a one-time deal. It's a statement. Much like this transferral to an accounting spreadsheet. It's a one-time deal, but it has no guarantees of salvation. Alright? There's no guarantee of salvation. It's a one-time deal, it's positional, but there's no guarantees. So now you really got your eyebrows looking up trying to figure out, wow, did heresy just intermission Bible church? We gotta kick some guy out of here quick! The etymology of the word might help a little bit. And I'll do a little explanation here. It's from the root word quad, meaning to cut or to separate. It has to do with a separation. And it's the same idea as found in Greek, hagios and hakiato, to be holy, to be a saint, or to sanctify, to sanctify is the Greek word. It's a separation by relationship. And Burkhov says this, it is not correct to think of holiness primarily as a moral or religious quality, as is generally done. Its fundamental idea is that of a position or a relationship existing between God and some person or thing. Is a relationship. Now here's why I say it's no guarantee. 1 Corinthians 7. 14 says this. The unbelieving husband is sanctified. That's the word hagiatso. He's made holy. The unbelieving husband. Watch it now is made holy by the wife. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified, Hakiyatso, by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. Hagios. What's going on here? Well, you have a household. You have a husband, he's saved, and the wife, she's unsaved, or vice versa. And there's children in the house. What's going on here? Assuming for the moment that the one spouse is pleased to dwell with the other. that they they're content with the situation. They're okay. I'm fine with you going to church, hon, that's okay. Uh not for me, you know, I'm glad you enjoy it. And uh, you know, there's no hint of any kind of uh The distinction. Brother Bernie had that. His wife was unsaved to the day she died. She would openly admit, no, I know I'm not saved. But she had no problem cooking for the saints. She cooked for me four nights a week. Can you imagine? Single person showing up somebody's house, what's for dinner? She happily makes it. It was unbelievable. To the day of her death, she says, No, I I don't believe like you guys do. You know. She was sanctified. There was a relationship in that household. Her husband was saved. Because of that relationship, she by God was set apart for task. There's children that come in that house. There's a relationship because God the Holy Spirit is there. Children are sanctified. They're holy. Doesn't mean they're saved. That's what I'm saying. It's not a guarantee of salvation It's a position. There's a relationship. Because you are related to the Lord God, positionally, you're holy. There's nothing you need to do about it. That is not a guarantee of salvation. Yes. If um 40 righteous had been found in Sodom, they all would have lived. They would not have It's the same thing. They would have been in that position because for 40 rights were not found obviously already ten. It would have been the same thing. So if you narrowed it to Lot's house, that might be a more interesting example. Lot was a righteous man, and he had a household, and that household was sanctified. But it's evident his wife was not saved, and it's evident and there's this there's a deep question concerning his daughters as well Jude 1, which we covered earlier, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, says to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Yes, a true believer is sanctified by God. A true believer is called out. He is separate. He has a distinct, unique relationship with the Lord. Amen. That is there. Hebrews 10, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. This is that one-time deal. The body of Christ once sanctifies carves out a relationship that will exist between God and His people. That's a positional holiness. It's because of the relationship. It's who you are in Christ However, there is a concept of ethical holiness. Ethical. By that we mean following Christ. It's a daily battle. That is the thing that is the evident proof of salvation. Is there something real? And for children, I use this illustration where a little girl really wants uh that neat little doll. She loves to play with dolls. Yes, we still I still give my girlies or granddaughters or whatever uh little girls get dolls Okay, I'm not gonna give them man toys, I'm gonna give them little dolls and play with dolls. Okay? That's what they play with. Boys get little guns and knives and things like that and soldiers and army men. The girls are gonna get dolls. little doll clothes and tea sets and that's what they're gonna get. And the one d uh daughter uh uh likes the uh doll that she gets to change the diaper and you know she kinda has this little bottle and she feeds it and there's a little pipe that goes through there and eventually it wets this pretend diaper. Well what's the difference between that, you know Pee-Pee Paula or whatever that doll is, and the real baby daughter that she's got, who also wets the diaper. I mean, little Paula looks perfect every time Her hair is always neat and the little bow tie is in good shape and her dress never gets messed up unless the daughter decides to spill ketchup on it. And but the real baby is a mess sometimes. There's growth. There's progress. It'll stay the same. That's ethical holiness. That's called growth in grace. It reveals the working out of God's holiness through his moral law. We hear the Ten Commandments and we say, oh, coveting is a bad idea. There's a conscience that comes. There's a law written on the heart. The law given to Israel was intended to impress upon the people of God that God was holy. And that it had a holy law, it had a holy city, it had a holy land, it had a holy temple, it had a holy priesthood. Everything about the Jews was distinctly different than the nations around them, and it was all intended to impress upon the people of God, ye are a holy nation. Fact is, archaeologists rely on this fact when they go digging up in some tell, which is basically a buried mound of an ancient dwelling site, and they go digging and looking. If they find pig bones there, they know it was not a Jewish settlement, because the Jews don't eat pigs. If they find a complete absence of pig bones, this was probably a Jewish settlement, in addition to other things such as the Jewish structure and whatnot. Everything about their existence was meant to indicate we are different. And the highest revelation of God's holiness is in the person of Jesus Christ. He is that holy one and just one. God leads us to ethical holiness through the sword of the Holy Spirit, the Bible. Ephesians 5 says this, that he might sanctify, that's holy, make holy, and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. And that's why believers have an intense interest in the Word of God. Because the more they read it, the more they realize, oh Lord, I had no idea you thought like this. about this certain area of my life. Well that's something I need to correct. Oh Lord forgive me. I'm sorry for that. Please strengthen me and change me. And they go on. And they just kinda it's just a daily battle, a daily struggle I'm kind of being reminded again of the value of prayer. You'd think after some 30 years I'd I'd have this thing figured out. But no, uh there's a lot to be said for intense prayer This is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication. That's a pretty clear passage. That word sanctification, again, the same root word for holy, hakyatso, to make holy. You should abstain from fornication. Every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor, not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God. Let no man go beyond, and defraud his brethren any matter. The Lord's Avenger of all such, as we've forewarned you and testified, God has not called us unto uncleanness but unto holiness It's a distinction, folks. It's saying stay away from the mud and the dirt. You don't want to defile yourself with that stupid stuff. Just stay away from it. Just put a hedge around it. Don't bother going your way into it. You really don't need alcohol. You really don't need these things. You really don't need just stay away from it. It's it's it's not really missing in your life, okay? It's not gonna do you any uh good. And Peter, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy. In all manner of conversation, all manner of conduct, because it's written, Be ye holy, I'm holy. I had an argument with Brother Burney for one year over this verse We argued, we wrestled, our horns locked, and I would say, brother, I'm hope- that's a call to salvation. I am holy because Christ is holy. I was arguing from a positional perspective perspective. And Bernie said, Vince, it matters how you live. And that was the crux of the argument for a year. We went And around and around and around and around and around and around. And I finally got to the point where one day, as I was carrying out the logical ramifications of my position, I realized that, well, it's a holy and a right thing to read the Bible. And that's when it stopped me and says, so if I stop reading my Bible, how does that how does this work? And I realized, yeah, I think maybe Brother Bernie's reading Right. And he was elated and greatly relieved when I came back. But I didn't run away from him. I knew he had the truth. Yes. In all manner of conversation. That's a key phrase there, isn't it? In all your manner of conduct. You know, it's also easy, and I'll close with this, to be compartmentalized Christians, and I've been guilty of this in the past, and it's um It's easy to fall into. There's the there's the the the Sunday gathering where we're in religious people and we know how to act properly, say the right terms. And then there's Monday. High time. I'm in the car. I'm at the job. I'm someplace else. I've got a different persona. I've got a different mask on. I've I've just I changed my clothes and with it I changed the mask. I'm a different person now, right? I'm foul-mouthed, I'm I've got all the latest crude jokes, I've got all the That's not lost on the board That's not going to be of any benefit to you. It short circuits your witness to others, and it will catch up to you. So we'll catch up. Left unchecked when it comes into the house and the family, you'll begin to produce little Pharisees. You won't overtly tell them, but what will happen is you're effectively saying, oh, when we're here, we act like this, but when we're away, we act differently. And the child will pick up on it and they will begin to realize, yes, I can live like a Pharisee and everything is fine. Well, you know what the Lord said about Pharisees. They certainly didn't get a lot of commendations. And he spoke extensively about it in Matthew twenty-three. Well, I don't want to take up more of your time. So I trust this has been helpful. Again, it's a thumbnail sketch. There's a lot on this topic, but I wanted to cover these two on their own and we'll wrap it up Ivonne, could you close us in prayer, please? Thank you. Dear Heavenly Father, uh Lord uh Thank you for uh positioning us Lord to uh be righteous in my sight, but we have no righteousness, the holiness of our own Lord, but uh in Christ Lord uh Father, uh we are perfect. And uh Lord, uh work in us, Lord, to uh to to do thy will, Father. So Father help us to to grow and go to know Lord that that we are indeed alive and be and and uh not still