Church government. Boy government. If ever there's a boring topic, that would be it, right? Yeah, everybody falls asleep in government class Well, this is uh somewhat of more immediate relevance to us. We've been kind of reviewing and discounting all of the false ideas about some of the foundational offices the church has had. The apostles, there's no little a apostles. today. There's no apostles today, period. You would have had to have seen Jesus Christ. You would have had resurrected from the dead in the flesh. You would have had to have been an eyewitness of that. You would have had to have been part of that apostolic band, and of course that was very limited to that first century prophets, that office likewise coming to a close the New Testament indicating that it would close, language being used. You see it as it begins to wane out. And the in very unusual office of evangelists, where you have the one case of Philip. Can be whisked by the Spirit from point A to point B, God speaking to him, go here, go there. He was able to do miracles and miraculous things. And we still see that even with those gifts, they would come to a close. But the concept of mission work and being a missionary remains with us. Now we get to something that is a little less exotic. You might call those the ordinary offices of the church. We begin with the office of elder. That's your first fill in the blank. It is an office, the New Testament office of elder. And frankly I've vacillated some between whether It is an older person that's a bishop or an elder who happens to have older seeing duties. I'm not too particular about which specific title you use, but Regardless, there is such a thing as an office. And for today's study, we're going to talk about the office of an elder. We uh, for instance, just a quick trip through the book of Acts gives us some useful instruction concerning this office and begins in Acts 14 where uh and I think this is probably a very good one to start with It says here in Acts 14, beginning in verse 21, and when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, this is the apostolic ban, they returned again to Lystra and to Arconium in Antioch. confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must, through much tribulation, well he can underline that word much, enter into the kingdom of God. And when they had ordained them elders in every church, notice that's an ordination. They didn't just select, they just didn't pick out, they didn't draw random lots. Oh, hey, you're tall, handsome, and attractive, and can speak well, let's vote U in. It was an ordination. They adorned ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting. They commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. Now I want to make a little point here, which is not a little point, but it's a big point. Notice the apostolic handoff to elder. It doesn't say they ordained them apostles to continue in the church. There was no apostolic continuation. What they ordained was elders, and that continues. So, as the apostles, that foundational gift, there has to be a connection between what they did and the next. about construction. After you put up your foundation wall, you put down a mud plate, which is basically a a large two by four or two by six or two by ten, depending on the width of your foundation wall. That sits flat against the concrete and it's attached to the concrete with these long 10-inch uh uh screws and bolts that are partly in the uh cement and part of it sticks up and you drill holes in the wood, you attach it down, and everything then can get nailed to that mud plane. Well that's what this first office of elder was. They're the mud plates. They're the start and the rest of the elder structure would continue from there out. That's part of that framing uh that God has got going here in this government structure. So there is a handoff of a ruling duty to the elders in and for the local churches. Notice it was in every church. It wasn't elders for that region. There wasn't any concept of a presbytery. And I'm going to rail against Presbyterians upon occasion in this day because I think that's an unbiblical concept In Acts 15 and verse 2, we continue going through Acts. When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question. Alright, now this is uh boy, the devil doesn't waste time, does he As soon as they have an elder appointment, the very next step is they've got some issues in the church. They've got to have some matter being resolved. And it doesn't say, well, go see the prophet. They didn't say go talk to your evangelist as the Baptist church might do. They'll haul in the evangelist that started them and he'll resolve everything. There's a church split and the evangelist appoint somebody new and on they go. That's not what they did It said they went up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders. And so this statement is rather bold because It shows and frankly assumes that the elders had an equivalent ruling level of authority as the apostles themselves. They were both able to adjudicate this matter, and it had to be with the matter in Acts 15. It's about some Pharisees who would come and say, Well, unless you be circumcised and keep the law of Moses, you can't be saved. And there was no small dispute about that. And this was the matter that they were dealing with. So they went up to both of them. Uh Acts 15, 6, when the apostles and elders came together to consider this matter. And so they were considering it. At a fair amount of robust argumentation, James at the end stands up and gives his concluding remark, and then we read in verse 4 of Acts 16. As they went through the cities, they delivered them the decrees for to keep that were ordained of the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem. So They made a decision, they put it in writing, it was short, sweet, and simple. It wasn't this lengthy soliloquy that looked like a first cut at a dissertation thesis. It was a Short, easy to read, because you're sending it to the common people, you know, the man in the pew, the Juan and Maria's of the world, you know, they may or may not have had any kind of formal education, needs to keep it simple, stupid. And that's what they did. They wrote something very short, sweet, and simple. They distributed that to the churches. They delivered their joint judgment to them. So the point of all this at this point is that the New Testament elders were active in the very earliest days of the church And they took up the mantle after the apostles had finished. They were co-laborers alongside of them with the first season to see how they would adjudicate matters And in the Acts 15 account, there wasn't any appeal to miracles. They didn't wait till somebody had a dream or a vision. There was some robust discussion that got to the point of no small amount of argumentation. And eventually, though, there was uh a uh an agreed upon position that pleased everyone and they wrote down their judgment and they moved ahead. Let's uh connect this idea now with the Old Testament. Because the concept of elder is in fact connected to the Old Testament concept of elder. And that word elder used in the Old Testament has a connection that emphasizes their age, and that's your next fill-in-the-blank. There is an emphasis on the age. They're not called gungers, they're called elders. They're called elders for a reason You see in Exodus 3 and verse 16, again in your handout, go gather the elders of Israel together and say unto them, this is Moses. Who's trying to notify the people that I've seen a vision from God? God's given us direction. He's going to rescue us. We need to inform the people. Let's start by talking to the elders. The Lord God of your fathers, God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you and seen that which is done in Egypt. Verse 18, after he tells them how to get their attention, it says, They shall hearken to thy voice, and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, so this is Moses, and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt. And you shall say unto him, the Lord God of the Hebrews have met with us. Now let us go, we beseech thee, three days' journey in the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. It's interesting. We see Moses And Aaron confronting Pharaoh, but did you realize in that first confrontation the elders of the land were there with them? They were there as part of that official representation. This is how it works in much of the world today. You hear in the particularly as recently as the war in Iraq and uh in parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan. uh the intelligence community would look for and find out and connect with the local tribal elders, the village elders. They were very essential. They wanted peace in their land just as much as others did And they knew when to speak and when to keep their mouths shut. They were a good judge of character in terms of who could be trusted and who couldn't be trusted because that asymmetric war on terror was all about an ideology. And an ideology doesn't always paint a flag and wear the same kind of uniform, particularly the ideology that the Isla uh radical uh jihadist terrorists had, which was to dress just like everybody else, but in the end pull off your suicide vest and blow a bunch of people up. Well the village elders would know who that person was. They would know who the bad guys were. They knew what part of town was, as it were, the proverbial south side of the tracks. So even today that concept still works Um you know I'll never forget uh one day I uh this was probably about two, three years after it been saved, I had a knock on my front door and I see Two young fellows standing there and they have their nice little badge on. They have a nice little gold plated badge with the black backdrop. The gold part was cut out, so it was gold and black. Looked very efficient. Elder Ibanez. I looked up some guy looks like he had a little bit of peach fuzz on. He's probably 20 years old. Elder Ibanez, and he was from the uh LDS church or uh Jehovah's Witnesses, it doesn't matter. for forget which um avenue of Satan came to my door. But I'll never forget this young kid and thinking, now son, you're just not an elder. Besides not having the gospel, besides that problem, he certainly wasn't ill material. You have a Numbers 11 back on your handout. How in the Old Testament elders had a teaching role. In Numbers 11, verse 16, the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel whom thou knowest to be elders of the people, and officers over them. Bring them unto the tabernacle of congregation, that they may stand there with thee. This is God speaking to Moses, and even in that wilderness sojourn, it wasn't all left up to Moses. God did utilize elders to assist him. You then read in verse 25 of Numbers 11, the Lord came down in a cloud and spake unto him. And took of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders. And it came to pass when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied and did not cease. previous teachings that to prophesy simply means to declare the inspired word of God. Here they were immediately inspired by the Spirit. Ministers today, as they declare the prophetic word, are not getting new revelation. They're illumined by God. So there was a teaching role we find. There was a ruling role In Deuteronomy 21 and verse 19, this was the example what you might call an extreme form of excommunication. This is parents who unfortunately have a son who's just rebellious, he's a drunkard, he's a glutton, and they're uh uh they've they've got to deal with him. You read in Deuteronomy 21, 19, then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him and bring him out unto the elders of his city, unto the gate of his place, and they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard. And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones that he die. So shalt thou put away evil from among you. And all Israel shall hear and and fear. I halfway wonder if a certain committee in the new House of Representatives might consider this a passage of scripture, but that would be a digression. This is an extreme form of Old Testament excommunication. Yet it does show that this was done under the rule of the elders, to sit in the city gate. was where the administrative functions were, that's where the judicial functions occurred, and that's where the elders sat. They would control who came in, who went out. And that was the way to keep peace in the city. So these are some just Old Testament concepts and usage of the role in the office of the elder. Now We get to the other term that is sometimes used, and that is the word bishop. In the early church, you had bishops that were appointed. Um uh Polycarp was known as a bishop. He was the bishop of the Church of Smyrna. The early church used that title of bishop, which is why I have vacillated over the years whether the office title should be elder or bishop. Uh I I'm I'm fine with either one, both have pros and cons to them in terms of when I think about how the modern day usage of it is uh whether it's accepted or not. But that that word uh if elder emphasizes the the age of the individual, the word bishop emphasizes the ruling function. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank. It's a ruling function. There is uh the assumption of uh wisdom of years and experience that one might expect from an elder, although the pure passing of time doesn't guarantee spiritual improvement. But certainly in their role, they need to be those who are qualified to exercise this ruling function. You see it in Acts 20. I'm just going to jump to verse 28 because he's had called the elders of the church. Verse 28, the apostle here says, Apostle Paul speaking to these elders at Ephesus, take heed therefore unto yourselves. and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. And that word overseer is that word bishop It's the Greek word Episcopus, so there is an Episcopalian church, and that Episcopus, you can kind of draw out from that Greek word what's going on. Epi. over and scope us. Scope, you know, what do you do with a scope? You look, you're you're episcoping, you're over you're an over-scoper. We wouldn't say that, we say an overseer. The idea is that it's somebody charged with the duty of seeing that things done by others are done right. You're one that catches You know, I get frustrated with myself every week as it seems every week I manage to find an error of the bulletin. And I always find it when I'm sitting right there two minutes before Joe's about to preach. And it's way past the time to correct it. I go, how did that slip by? Somebody's got to sit there and check and make sure everything's consistent, it fits, there's no typographs, typographical errors, and so forth. Well It's far more important when you're talking about ruling over the body of God's people. All right. Well, I've gotten through that first part rather quickly there. Now, we're going to talk about qualifications of an elder. I can't think Of any church office, any church function in Scripture which has more detail More there's two instances, two passages that directly speak to it gives reasons why you would want that, and yet in spite of that clear, straightforward language We have so many unqualified elders. It just boggles the mind. Does it boggle your mind? It boggles my mind. It really boggles my mind. They stumble right off right out the gate on the very first qualifications. Uh i it just is amazing to me. Looks the day in a woman. It's just amazing to me how We can take the most explicit, plain language that you'll find in Scripture and throw it over our shoulders and do whatsoever seemeth right in our own. eyes. God help us from doing that. Well I have a question for you and it's kind of an introductory question and we're going to answer it in parts as we go through this section here. And the question is this, which qualifications, as we read through this, are going to come with supporting reasons? There's going to be a supporting reason that's given. And you tell me which qualification has the supporting reason given to it. Alright? Alright, we're going to start in Titus chapter 1. If you want to follow in your Bible, you can, but I'm going to pick on Titus just to start. Titus 1 beginning in verse 5. And I'm going to read 5 through 11. Alright, so this is the section, and I want you to tell me which qualifications come with a supporting reason The Apostle Paul writes to Titus and he says this, For this cause, for this reason, this is why Titus left IV in Crete. It's an island in the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea That thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, the things that are lacking. There's still some things that need to be straightened out. And ordain elders in every city as I had appointed thee. If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of riot or unruly, For a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God, not self-willed, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre. But a lover of hospitality A lover of good men, sober, just, holy temperate, holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able, by sound doctrine, both to exhort and to convince the gamesayers, for there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circumcision, whose mouths must be stopped We subvert whole houses teaching things which they ought not for filthy lucres sake. Alright, so which qualifications came with supporting reasons Yes, Victoria. Oh, does somebody else have anything up with it? Okay. Faithful children not accused of briar armed rule. Um he gives the reason in verse seven that the bishop must be blindless. Oh well maybe that's that's not right The qualification does somewhat tie into it as a supporting reason, but I thought the word for connected fire my brain's not quite audible. Okay, all right. That's close. Uh yes. Holding fast the faithful word so that he may be able to convince others and show sound options. Okay, yep, holding fast the faithful word, right. But you can keep building on your concept, Victoria. What else do you have in there? I mean I I think actually it says for a bishop must be blameless, that is, and again, if any be blameless, so there's a supporting reason to that, as well as the uh the the the the point. So uh certainly uh you see one of the supporting reasons is that if his household isn't evidently square straight, how can he possibly be blameless? So there's the uh uh the household characteristic where, you know, this home-based experience, and Jonah have mentioned this in time past, that a man's first pastor is his home and his family. That's that's a number one. That's your that's your where you cut your teeth, as it were, at your training ground. Um I've also likened it to the fact that Uh here we just had a baby walk through the door. Well he was carried through the door. He didn't walk yet. If you can't take this precious baby who is as moldable as human clay is ever possibly going to get. And you can't so constrain that child to at least be um uh uh uh not guilty of riot or unruly. It says uh not accused of riot or unruly. Uh two year old can't riot they can pitch a fit, but they can't riot, they can't go down down tear down the street. That shows respect for authority. If they don't if they can't at least be brought to the point where they have some respect to authority, because that is so crucial and foundational there. How can he take care of the house of God, which has people who are a little older, converted, has a bag of sins with them? And the devil is attacking it. You know, it it's a step up. And if you don't have that foundational experience set, I'd say that's a bridge too far to jump up to this office of elder uh without that qualification, meaning married man, male, not female, with children, plural, not child, not child less, children I think it's a qualification. I think God puts that in there for a reason. Alright, what other qualifications did you see in here? I mean not qualifications, but uh reasons. I think those are the two. Yeah, Penny got the other one because it's a long section there, that whole tail end. He gives a lengthy description about convincing the gamesayers have to stop their mouth. Notice who subvert whole houses. You know, there's a sense there where that Elder needs to be aware. That thing which that man is teaching is going to get into Christian households and is going to undermine the gospel there. It's going to undermine that ability to establish a Christian home. That's a problem. Throw a flag. Whereas a young, unmarried person They are not going to have that sense. I'm just going to tell you right now, they're not going to have that sense. You cannot really know what impacts can occur in a home. I mean I've had one wife. I only have one wife, ever. And that's just one. There's a lot of different types of wives with different inclinations. So the experience of just one is almost like a bare minimal that you need to be able to detect and to hold forth that sound doctrine. It's about practice. Uh my point is I you can't I don't maybe I'm going down a strange path, but the idea is that to know that a certain heretical ideas going to take root in that household or that household with different wives and different structure. You have to have some sense at least for the dynamics and the operation of a household Let's turn back a few pages to 1 Timothy 3, which is the other section. I'm going over these fairly speedily because I've got some other questions we want to get into, practical ones. 1 Timothy 3, in the first seven verses, we read this. 1 Timothy 3 verse 1. This is a true saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop, now notice it says office of a bishop, so that's actually one word in the Greek. It's like bishopric. If any man desires the overseership And so I'm not too hung up on the exact title of it, whether it's a bishop or whether it's elder, we'll just say elder for the sake of this study. He desireth a good work. A bishop then must be blameless The husband of one wife, are you noticing this consistency here? Vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach. Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy a filthy lucre But patient, not a brawler, not covetous, one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without Lest he fall into reproach and snare of the devil. Alright, so what are the supporting reasons for some of the qualifications in this passage? Oh he can talk to us, that's fine. Unless he's not s unless you don't want him to talk to us because then he can't talk as a violation. Yes. That's almost follows the parable of the sower or the parable of talents. God's been faithful in a few things that we can Yes, interesting. Yeah. It's a foundational idea that you know, if you can't take care of this, you can't take care of that. Right. Right. So I think you're hitting at uh verse five there where he says, if a man know not how to rule his own house, again this idea of overseership, it doesn't mean ruling with a f Rod of iron. That doesn't work. Tell you that right off the gate. Um how shall he take care of the church of God? And notice that phrase take care. Uh I think that's a good synonym for ruling. Ruling is taking care of something. To take care, to take thought, to take concern, to be careful. Uh but yes, if you can't do it there, what makes you think he's gonna do well later? I I know there's some um um One of the uh difficulties of being a uh supervisor in a corporation is you're always All the hard problems go upstream and Larissa, you know this. I think you were a boss for a short season and you you pulled the eje you pulled the you pushed the eject button as soon as you could find it because all the hard problems come up to you And one of the things that is difficult is confrontation. How to confront an employee that's not doing what they're supposed to be doing. How do you confront them? And some think that, well, if I just, you know, reward them with a little something, just, you know, we still love you, you're still good, you're, you know If you just give them a reward, that that will somehow fix the problem. No, it never never does. It rewards bad behavior. You have to consult bad behavior with a bad message, with a tough message. You gotta be the boss. You gotta put on your you know, your big pants and your stern boots and the cowboy hat and the sheriff's got to ride in the town. Um yeah, sometimes that has to happen in a family, mostly with the children. You don't ride in like the sheriff with your wife. That doesn't work. Um you uh have to confront the child. And it you may need to bring the uh Board of Education to the seat of knowledge if necessary to kind of get certain lessons through But it is a caring function. So yes, there is this carrying function. Well, there's another qualification that has an explanation given to it. Hint. The last section. Victoria? So the one about having a good report, because otherwise he would fall into Yeah. Having a a good report of them that are without. Meaning The outside community. Oh, he can be a Sunday picture perfect Christian. He's so nice. He's so wonderful. Look at his family. Oh, they're all great and fantastic. But you talk to his boss Or you talk to his coworkers, guys a cheek, just thief. Oh, he's cursing up a storm all the time. I mean people can live divided lives. They can very much have And have no qualms about it whatsoever. They're just little angels in the church presence, but outside in the world, they're just little devils running around. No difference. No different. No, there's no difference whatsoever So it behooves you, if you ever find yourself in a position where you're trying to select someone for the office of elder slash bishop slash alderman slash elders. Whatever you want to call the role of overseer. I don't want to get hung up on titles. I'm more interested in the function and the role. Yes, you do need to ask about them that are without. Um recall in one instance I was uh evaluating a potential suitor uh from one of my daughters and I started to inquire about uh the uh uh I started to inquire without. I wanted to get testimony from within and started to inquire without and the employer simply buttoned up. He didn't want talk much. We can only say that he worked for us and we're not going to disclose much. Yeah. You're hiding behind the law. I get it. I'm not trying to hire this person. I'm just trying to see if it's individuals. It turns out that he was actually he went to work. The lady in charge of HR was his aunt, and uh the boy had performed so poorly on the job that the family had to thank and dismiss him from service of duty, so that's how he's gonna work there. Uh yeah, not not uh not viable candidate material. Okay, so uh we see that uh there was a qualification of impeccable character, evidenced by his wife, evidence by his kids, evidence by co-workers. They could all point and say, look, here, this is a good individual. You know, you can simply ask the individual, hey, can I see your annual reviews? Does your boss write up annual reviews? You know, sharing this with me. You know, what does the employer say about it? What kind of feedback are we getting there if that's you know available? Not not all jobs get that. We go into 1 Timothy 4. 15. Here the apostle tells Timothy, Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy propheting may appear unto all. Why is he supposed to meditate? Why is he supposed to Be mindful of these things. Why is he supposed to give some hard thought to it? That thy propheting may appear to just the church? No, to all I can tell you that after God saved me, having been an unsaved, wicked employee for a couple of years, that there was a notable change. uh in the workforce as others observed me and said, this is a different individual. And indeed I was a different individual. I had a much more uh I my head was screwed on right, I was starting to become a useful employee, uh, as opposed to one who was just trying to rob the company for everything I could. 1 Peter is our next section, which also gives us some instruction concerning uh elders. It's not commonly thought of as a passage of scripture to go to, but it is there for us to observe. 1 Peter 5. Peter's comment on being an elder is this. The elders which are among you I exhort. 1 Peter 5 verse 1. The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God which is among you Taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. So what are I'm going to change the question here. So tell me what are the qualifications here in this section? What is Peter asking you to look for? Willingness. Okay, willingness? Sometimes people get uh Uh tag you're in. And they sort of oh okay, well I guess Uh looking for personal gain? He can't really be looking for personal gain. Yeah. And the the filthy lucre there I know is speaking of money, but it's sometimes the position is as important to someone It's it's not just money. It's true, it's not a job. You're not looking to get a hireling. But that word filthy has a lot to do with it as well. It's unrighteous. money. It's it's a way to extort and twist the church for your own financial purposes. Uh you're looking to use the church accounting system as a shell and pea game where you're just moving funds around and nobody really knows what's coming or going. Kinda like Judas. Isn't that interesting? Yeah. Okay. Can't be on a power trip. Can't be on a power trip, yes. Can't be on That's pretty good. You got it in six words. I was hoping for three, but that's okay. Yes, uh he's not somebody who can be a lord over the heritage. And uh boy have I seen those. Oh my goodness. I just I cringe. It just seems that I I'm trying to think of how many humble elders I've actually seen. I will I will freely um um acknowledge that the elders I've seen at Pastor Dave Lewis's church at Cub Hill are very humble people. I've been very impressed with the man that he selected for that congregation. I am sad to report that I have not, I can count I would be hard-pressed, frankly, to count on one hand the number of humble elders I have seen in the OPC and in the PCA. humble elders. You push back against them and point out some little errors or whatnot, and man, they are ready to draw you into a trial. They are ready to kick you out. Um I had one guy, one elder, uh his name's Chip. He wasn't an elder, well he was an elder. The the Presbyterians had the concept of a ruling elder and a teaching elder. This was the pastor, so they would have called him a teaching elder. Wife and I were looking for a congregation. Went in, taught well, eloquent speaker, very eloquent man Uh knew his theology well. Tall, handsome, you know, all the whole package. Kinda like Joe. Penny would agree. Um he plugs you a lot. I'll plug him once if I'm about to. them. And uh but unlike Joe, um uh we were in the back just chatting, shooting the breeze about something, and I made a joke, a stupid little silly joke. He was asking where I was from from and from Texas and so forth he had been through there. And uh and I don't know what what the occasion was, but I made a silly joke. I said, yep, I said you can uh There's the difference between being born in the US or being born in Texas. You can buy your United States citizenship, but you can only be born in Texas. It's just a silly little, you know, joke. Kind of snap the the the uh suspenders a little bit. Well that turned out to be a major offense and Angela and I wanted to have him and his wife over for dinner one time I'm just kinda get to know them a little better, ask some more have some more time to ask some questions about the church. He would not get together to us until I repented of the sin of great pride and I said, accuse me of pride? Hard to acknowledge. All of us are proud individuals, and if you find pride in a dusty little corner of my life, or an open corner of my life, sure. But he would not have us over for dinner because of that one thing Dial forward a few years later. Near identical situation happened. It became a very major issue in that church. And his elders said, yeah, you need to just calm down and back off. And he wouldn't. He maintained a militant attitude against another individual for some matter of which I'm not familiar. And um and the uh uh and he got he he got booted out He got booted out. It's funny how little sins make their way out. Gabriel found an individual Gabriel and I ran into an individual from that church while we were out in the field hunting Guy had his dogs out there and I'm in the middle of the field with a shotgun, full camo, he goes, Vince! They know me out of here. And it was this guy from the congregation. He says, You wouldn't believe what happened at such and such a church. And he filled me in. He says, yeah, he's gone. Just this, not as being lords. You know, the elder must view God's word chart as upside down. Okay? If the apostles are at the bottom, and then you're the mud plate on top of it, you've got to understand you're there to support, you're there to help. You're not as lords over the flock of people of God. You're not there as a ruler. You can't be ready to reach in and you know threaten for fear. That if that is that kind of response. You've just got a a problem. Yes. Anyone who feels qualified to be an elder is unqualified. Frother Bernie would rejoice at that. He would want to tell me, he says, I know it says in the Bible, if any man desire the office of a bishop he desireth a good thing. Brother Bernie said, let me tell you, Vince, if any man desireth the office office of a bishop, he's automatically unqualified. That's how you put it He says, I know I'm I'm going against what Scripture says, he says, but in today's world that's I would say you're not going against it. It says desire. It doesn't say we qualify for it. Yes. Um somebody that feels like, you know, I can check all these boxes. Yeah. We gotta find a shortcoming somewhere of ourselves. There has to be a sober assessment. Not to start taking a lot of time, but m my my brother had a fellow approach him and tell him all the things he could do if he was put on the church. And John said those are not, said the qualifications are spirit. Right. Yes. People who are successful business executives, that is a different ladder on a different building. the skills to be a shepherd and go. Moses had those qualifications. He knew something about climbing a corporate ladder. Now he got a big hand up on that, but he knew about that. He knew his wiz he was all the wisdom of Pharaoh's court. God said that's great We're going to put you in my training program 40 years in the wilderness keeping sheep away from so that you're a has-been. You're also 40 years ago. You f yeah, you might have known Egypt for you, but Egypt has advanced far past the time you were here. Moses, Moses who? So that was God's training program for Moses. Again, I don't want to think of your lesson, but Paul was the most qualified But his self-assessment is I believe. Mm-hmm. Yeah. He saw a tremendous number of shortcomings. Tremendous number. What happens when a church ordains unqualified people as elders? What happens? What do you think can happen? Disaster. Disaster? Yeah. What kind of disasters? Church splits. Church splits? Yep, I've seen plenty of those. More than I care to see. Bad doctrine creeping in. Bad doctrine creeping in. Yeah. Uh there was a time when um at a um uh church that had uh a good multiracial representation in the congregation was considering uh ordaining uh their first black elder. And uh and um he had been uh divorced and remarried. That was overlooked. And I thought for the greater good, yes, it would be helpful if the congregation had somebody who you know, was from the black community, uh, that that would be a good outreach. He turned out to be a big problem. He turned out to unfortunately be a big, big problem. Don't give on any one qualification. If one is a no, you say you have to say no. You have to hold your ground He ended up turning and fighting against me later on. Yeah, there's errors in the Bible, then I mean it just You can't you can't let those things slip. You just can't let 'em go by. Can a woman serve as an elder? I certainly hope that's pretty been pretty basic. How how is she the husband of one wife? Can a divorced person serve as an elder? I think you've already heard my answer on that. Husband of one wife. Can a young man serve as an elder? You know? But you say, well, uh I was ordained young as a pastor, that's pastor, that's not elder. I'd say that's along the lines of an evangelist, yesterday. I ask a really general question that I've probably just missed along the way. Could you clarify what is the distinction between deacon, elder, bishop, pastor? Yeah. So Deacon is a we'll get to Deacon next week. Okay. So I'm not going to preempt that, but I will give you the thumbnail sketch. He has a, as his name implies, a service role. He's a servant in the church. But he's an official servant, one that you can entrust to, say, distribute money to widows in need. Elder is has a ruling function. So they they they have a ruling component to them. Pastor's principal objective, he also has a ruling function, he's ruling with the most important thing, with the Word of God, is a feeding function, principally. It's a feeding role. Uh and then what else what other office? Bishop. Uh I would say bishops and elders are synonymous. It's a ruling function. You want to get the funny hat. Uh keep that thought in mind about the ruling function because that would that leads to my next question. Jill, you have to go in. Real quick. In in the Methodist system, which the evangelics that I grew up in came from The first level of ordination was what they called deacon's orders. If a man was to be an assistant pastor of the church, he was ordained, hands were laid on, but he was still a deacon. pastor. Uh and then once a man had been in the pastor for many years and became a senior pastor, then he was moved that elder title. Uh but it was a it was a stepping stone. And I think we see that with the deacons of the New Testament as well, where they were young men, they were serving, and there may be a day down the road when they became elders, but not yet. That's a decent way of let them prove, be proved first. It's a proving function Um there's other ways to prove beyond putting them in the office where they can do damage, but that concept is is legitimate. Um let's um I don't have enough time. Um I'm just gonna mention this. Turn to first Timothy five seventeen and then you can uh look at the uh uh other uh points in the handout there. But 1 Timothy 517. Those who are familiar with the Reform and Presbyterian world No one understand that uh there is what is called a either a two-office or a three-office view. In the Presbyterian church, Deacon, one office, and the other is elder, but they make a distinction between ruling elder and teaching elder, where you might refer to a teaching elder as a pastor. They say those are three distinct offices. And boy do they mean distinct because the teaching elder in their view is the top of the pecking order. Uh they um their words and their uh uh statements, their uh what they say has far greater weight and sway in practice than what the ruling elder says, and more often than not, it's because the ruling elder is not qualified to be an elder to begin with. So that's a separate matter. 1 Timothy 5. 17 is the passage they use to prove that there is a third office. uh teaching elder. 1 Timothy 5. 17. Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in word and doctrine. Does that teach A ruling elder versus teaching elder office. What do you think? This is the passage used to support that idea. I'm gonna be a fish. So does 1 Timothy 5. 17 support the idea that there are two levels or two offices of elder, the office of ruling elder and the office of doctrinal or teaching elder? It seems to point out there's some distinction because it says there's those that Especially labor in word and doctrine. Okay. There is a distinction there. Is the distinction significant enough to say that's a totally different office? I don't know if I'd go that far. Right. They're to be given extra honor, not extra title, right? It's it's It's the fact that you honor those. You uh for instance, somebody like a brother Elliot, who labors diligently in doctrine, is it he's worthy of great honor He's worthy of great honor. Okay? Um that doesn't mean somebody who isn't busy and as focused on doctrinal matters but is in making sure the church doesn't fall apart at the scenes that all the bolts are tightened up and the gears are lubed up and everything's moving forward isn't worthy of honor. But the greater honor is to him who is focused on the Word of God. There's a greater honor for that. But I don't believe it calls for that office. So what's the upshot? The upshot is a Presbyterian ruling elder ought to be able to preach and should be preaching and should be teaching and should have an active role in that. And there should not be a third office The other points is that the I have on the handout is that the office of the elder, no surprise, is modeled after Jesus Christ. He is that ultimate elder. He's even called an elder in He's not called an elder. He's the uh ultimately he is. He's called the Ancient of Days, the Shepherd and Bishop of Your Souls. So I guess he is called the Elder there. uh and certainly he uh looks like one in revelation. And last point is that elders are not infallible. They're not infallible. There's no Catholic Roman Catholic ideas here of infallibility for the elders. Just because a man is one. Elders can screw up and they can screw up big, but that doesn't necessarily uh throw them out of office. For some people it does I've gone too long. It's a very important topic, one that is near and dear to my heart, but I trust you find this helpful. Um Anton, if the pinky in your hand isn't too much of a distraction, would you mind closing this with Mark? Thanks. Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for preserving your word for us, Lord, that we could uh study it, Lord, and and learn and uh be able to uh discern between that which is holy and right and profane. We pray even with this topic of uh elders and the leaders in the church, Lord you grant us right discernment. Pray you would continue to teach us, help us uh to grow in these things, to grow in grace and knowledge of Christ and how he rules his church, oh Lord. Please help us to be faithful in these things. Pray you would uh be with us in the service, Lord, of coming and that you would be glorified. We pray this all in Christ's name. Same, in a hunker resonance, F