Book Summary of Christian Doctrine. We have covered the sections concerning Christ and who he is, and this particular section has to do with the church. the authority of the church, the nature of the church, what it does. Today we're going to look at something that has a bit of a controversial title to it, but it's called Means of Grace. Means of grace. So we're going to look at that. And the focus and the emphasis today is going to be on the Word of God. And then subsequently in the next two studies we'll look at baptism on Christmas and the Lord's Supper on January 1st, which happens to be when we're going to partake of our next Lord's Supper. So means of grace. So what I'd like you to do is to hear the following and to let me know if you agree with this statement. What do you think about this statement? This is a definition from Mr. Burkhoff And his systematic theology, as he deals with this chapter, he goes into a little bit more length of describing what this is. And he says here the following Fallen man receives all the blessings of salvation out of the eternal fountain of the grace of God In virtue of the merits of Jesus Christ and through the operation of the Holy Spirit. While the Spirit can and does, in some respects, operate immediately on the soul of the sinner. He has seen fit to bind himself largely to the use of certain means, strictly speaking, only the Word and the Sacraments. As a means of grace, that is, as objective channels which Christ has instituted in his church and to which he ordinarily communicates his grace All right, long statement. Burkhoff is known for trying to be precise, and I do appreciate his level of precision. Now, do you agree with that statement? Why or why not? What are your thoughts No, you're all gonna read it after I read it. So Victoria, you have a scrumpled look on your brow. Oh my, I'm getting called out here. Yeah, you're getting called out. The first one to give expressive emotive response is going to get s called upon here. Um I I don't know, I haven't fully processed yet. That's okay, you don't have to formulate a full question. Maybe if there's certain words that you want to point to to say, yeah, don't know about that, don't know how this ties in I'm always a bit uncomfortable when the sacraments are put forward as means of grace. I understand that they can point men to Christ, but uh if you go to Romanism, the sacraments are the way of salvation as opposed to simply being a roadmap that points us to Christ. Right, right. Yeah, absolutely. So uh certainly we uh don't want to fall into Roman Catholicism uh where we have some sort of um uh something other than the preached word of god being the means of salvation. Now um Well said, Joe. Well said. Now what if we removed everything but the first sentence? So just focus on the first sentence. And what if you remove the underlying phrase? There is a phrase underlined, isn't there? Oh, well I forgot to underline that. You're supposed to read my mind. Remove the phrase of salvation. And uh uh and try it uh and try it from there. Just remove the phrase of salvation. Fallen man receives all the blessings out of the eternal fountain of the grace of God in virtue of the merits of Jesus Christ. Just stop right there. What about that sentence? If you remove salvation then it's we know that he makes Okay. Um so fallen man does receive the blessings of God, although he doesn't thank him for it. Exactly, yes. So we would certainly not quibble that any good thing that happens to a person uh ultimately comes from the providential hand of God. He cares for all of his creature. He makes his rain to shine on the just and the unjust, or to fall on the just and the unjust. His Son shines on both equally as well. And in fact, their lack of response, their lack of thankfulness, their lack of gratitude for that, their lack of giving God the credit and the glory for that will be used as a testimony against them as well. So uh uh yeah the the point of confusion in this introductory definition seems to be as to how the sacraments save anybody. Pastor Mayhem wouldn't even use the word sacrament He said they mean a saving grace or a saving ceremony. We don't mean them that way. We simply mean they are sacred things, they are holy things, they're not common. David when he was fleeing and came into the presence of a priest, said, Let me have some of that bread. The priest says, Nope, it's holy, you can't have it. And David's point was, yeah, but it was common bread before it hit that tray, and I'm hungry right now It's the temple that sanctifies the gold, not the other way around. And so these are common elements that God uses in the Lord's Supper, common elements he uses in baptism. And so we don't claim that they save anybody, and yet there is something distinctly different about them, that they are not to be profane. We don't want to treat them that way as well. So this is some of what we're going to kind of touch upon today, and let's kind of walk our way through this here. The first is that we do agree, I believe, that Christ is that ultimate dispenser of the grace of eternal life. He is that ultimate dispenser of the grace of eternal life. You see this in his prayer in John 17 as he's speaking to the Father John 17 2, as thou hast given him power, and that's our word exusia, that means authority, thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him That verse alone has been the cause of the death of a number of martyrs who would preach and declare that Jesus Christ has authority over all flesh, to include the Emperor of Japan. To include the Roman Caesar that every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess, and of course you come across as an insurrectionist If you speak that kind of language, there is a king greater than you, and that would be my invisible God. And they of course hold you up as a threat, as a as a nutcase, throw you in prison, and so forth. So that passage alone is a very bold statement and in time past would certainly trigger the authorities to have them knock on my door and haul me off shortly That is a statement from Scripture, and it's something that we agree with, that he does have power over all flesh. And in that authority that Christ has, he is then in turn Gone to his church and said, I am now giving you likewise similar authority. So let's talk about how Christ authorizes his church. You see in Matthew 28, turn there, if you will, in your Bible, because I want to make a point of several words. If you care to take notes in your scriptures, you can. I always encourage you to write in your Bible in pencil. In case you find something later that just wasn't quite right, you can erase it and put the right thing in. Matthew 28, 18, the Great Commission. Today it ought to be called the Great Omission. It seems to be forgotten in a number of congregations, but it's the Great Commission. Jesus came and spake unto them his disciples, saying All power, all authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. That's the introductory statement. Anytime you read a directive from the Pentagon. I'm used to working with military structure. The preamble up front is what authoritative body is issuing this directive. And that means everybody below has to salute the flag. This is what Christ is doing. All power and authority is given unto me, Christ says, in heaven and earth. So you can't wiggle out of that. uh earth is compared with heaven, you would take that to be pretty comprehensive. And what does he do? He says this. Notice what comes across in our Bible as verbs, go ye therefore, ye plural. And therefore, meaning because of this authority given to me, go ye therefore, not go me, we don't Jesus is not leaving it to himself, go ye therefore, and teach all nations. By the way, that's the only verb in the passage. The first word go is actually a participle. Going, therefore. The assumption is you'll be going. Teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. names plural, name singular. It's one God, three persons. So the Trinity is a doctrine that's inherently important in missions. That ought to be one of the first things you make sure your missionary understands and has correctly, or else He's baptizing them into some other God. Maybe he's syncretizing it with the gods of the nation. Who knows? So there's an authority given to Christ, and he gives us the authority to teach. We have the authority to teach. Isn't that an accusation our Lord had slammed against him? By what authority do you say and do these things? And so He makes it clear that God the Father was his source of authority. We have authority to teach, we have authority to baptize. It's not limited to the apostles. This would be something that is commanded of all his people collectively, known as the church. You see an instance of this, and you can turn back to your handout now. Mark 13, 34. The Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey who left his house and did what? Gave authority to His servants. It's his servants and his servants alone who have that authority. Somewhat like the man who came as the apostle Paul was teaching, and somebody else, one of the seven sons of Skeva, decided to dare take upon himself similar power and authority. that the apostles had. And the demon, in whom a a man was possessed of, of a demon, the demon cried back, he says, Paul I know and Jesus I know, but who are you? What an awesome testimony and rebuke back from a demon. It says, the demonic world seems to understand Who has authority and who does not? They seem to understand not only that Jesus who has power to torment before the time, as one demoniac cried out, but they also know to whom God has given his authority, it's to his servants. And so if somebody claims to be a servant of God, doesn't come with the doctrine of God, doesn't walk in the doctrine of God, Doesn't quack like a duck, doesn't walk like a duck, doesn't fly like a duck, it ain't a duck. And so you can declare authoritatively that person is not authorized by God. The demons witnessed the fall. They witnessed the fall. They were and they know who he is and they know with whom they have to do and they behold him on a regular basis. Unless they're held in chains under darkness. Alright. 2 Timothy 11. 2 Timothy 2, verse 11. There's a long section. Gabriel perhaps can bring it up on the screen. Titus, I'll get it right. Let's try it again. Titus 2 to verse 11. Titus 2. 11 says this. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation. So here's that word grace again. We're talking about means of grace. The grace of God that bringeth the salvation hath appeared to all men. What does it do? Teaching, you see, grace teaches. Well what does grace teach? You're free from the law, you can do whatsoever you will. No, it doesn't say that. Teaching us That denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we are to deny these things, verbally, physically, mentally, visually, we deny these things, that we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world, right here in the midst of a very dark people. There's a distinction. Looking for that blessed hope And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. You see, that's an example of what it means to walk by faith. You're looking for the promises of God to be fulfilled. You're familiar with them, you know them, and you're looking for these things. Who gave himself for us? Purpose. Why did God give himself for us? That he might redeem us. Unto all iniquity? No, from all iniquity. and purify unto himself a peculiar people. Part of his program is purification. Part program purification. That's not bad. Nice little bit of alliteration there. in the uh flames of a fiery furnace. Zealous of good works. These things speak and exhort and rebuke with what? with all authority. Here the Apostle Paul speaking to Titus, a uh a minister of the word, one who would be one of the early church bishops. Pastors, elders, if you will, he is to speak these things with authority. He is to exhort them with authority, and he is to rebuke with authority. Let no man despise thee. All of those actions Speaking, exhorting, rebuking, that's the ministry of the word. That's the word coming forth. The word of God applied. And of course in the Lord's Supper you find an element of this. And we see here in 1 Corinthians 11, I have received 1 Corinthians 11, 23, the apostle says that. this. For I have received the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. You know this passage, you've heard it many a time. Skip down to verse 26, the last sentence, for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Now the point I want to make here is that word show is literally the word preach. Well, isn't that interesting? The Lord's Supper is a form of preaching. And you go, hmm, how's that? Well, we'll explore that more on a couple of Sundays because we're going to be taking these kind of one at a time. This week is uh the the means of grace in general and then we're going to look at baptism next uh Sunday and then uh Lord's Supper on the first when we will actually have Lord's Supper though. So again, the section is God has authorized two primary activities, preaching and the sacraments. Preaching and the sacraments. have been authorized. Those are authorized activities. That is what the Church of God is to do. Well let's look now at the role of the preached word in salvation. The role of the preached word in salvation. My audience for the most part is fairly familiar with this, but I would like you to turn to 1 Peter 1. 1 Peter 1, and we're going to look at verse 23. 1 Peter 1. 23. You need to be familiar with this in your Bible. This needs to be a section of Scripture that is very familiar to you. It's rich. Peter really In a simplistic way, he hits the nail on the head. He hits many nails in the head with his hammer. 1 Peter 1. 23, we read this. Speaking of believers, he says being born again, not of corruptible seed. There's a new birth, and that new birth did not come from corruptible seed, meaning the new birth has nothing to do with mom and dad. Mom and dad send forth corruptible seed. How do we know it's corruptible? Because that which comes forth from mom and dad eventually dies. It's corruptible. It's subject to corruption and decay. But of incorruptible, well what's that? By the word of God. So there's a birth that produces something different. It's incorruptible seed. It's seeds whose fruit doesn't perish, lives forever And that seed is the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. That seed lives forever, and that seed abides forever. Abides where? In heaven only? No, it's here on earth If it's been brought here on earth, it's not been brought to be eradicated. It's been brought to spread, it's been brought to multiply. It abides forever For all flesh is as grass, and the glory of man is the flower of the grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away. But the word of the Lord endureth forever And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. It's interesting because it doesn't say, and this is the word which is preached unto you. We still talk about the spoken word, but preaching is more than being a parrot. If evangelism is something as simple as having a bird memorize sections of scripture and sending them loose. We might as well do that. Costs a lot less. We would certainly be a big multiplier. Can you imagine a forest filled with birds, minor birds, parrots just echoing scriptures? God has not ordained those means. God has not authorized those birds to be going forth with that. I would submit that there is zero benefit from that. They're not authorized for that. I'm not trying to minimize the word of God. I'm trying to deal with who's authorized and who has that authorized message. Because there are legions who will read scriptures and nothing happens. There is an authority given to the people of God. Angels could preach even better. God hasn't authorized them. They're not permitted. They're not permitted. And so where it's not permitted, I believe God simply tells his word, nope, it's not going to be effective there. That living word says, not effective here. Wrong messenger. The means don't justify the ends in God's program. He has specific means and he has a specific end. He has an authorized agent and he's got an authorized word. The two have to match. You had an authorized priest with an authorized Sacrifice to an authorized location, an authorized temple. If those four conditions weren't met, it wasn't accepted to God. And so you understand that the authority of God given is important. It's not incidental, it's not accidental. It's an important part of the message. So you could take this further. I believe only the true Church of God is the evangelical agent in this world. Only. Only the believer is the authorized evangelical agent in this world. Because if not, then why shouldn't we support Roman Catholic missions work, LDS missions work Mormons, they use the King James Bible. Mormons do. Why not authorize that if it's just the word alone? So we have to be careful when we say sola scriptura. We need to understand the context of which that is. It's sola scriptura, not without the authorized agent, which is the elect child of God. There's a connection there, and I hope you appreciate that. Maybe you can argue with me about later if you don't believe me and whether you don't agree with me and you can think about that, but that's something to consider. That's right, and then and that's okay. We have in Romans 10. 17, you know these passages, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Obviously, it's not the church running amok telling nice stories. uh Vince Kluth telling some interesting stories about his career as an engineer, about his experiences in life, that has no salvific force. It may be used to adorn the gospel of grace, but if there's no thus saith the Lord in it There's no power in it. James 1. 18, of his own will begat he us how? With the word of truth. It has to be the word of truth. Well, we would say, why doesn't James just say, begat he is with the Word? Because the Word is true. Well, the implication is that preaching has to be true. It's preaching the Word of God. But it's true preaching and it's the word of truth. So there's an interesting play there. So that's the role of the preached word of God in salvation. It has a role. The Church of God has a role. The Word of God has an important role. All right. Now let me ask a question. Can a uh uh can a minister um evangelize strictly with The law of God. By the law of God I mean the old covenant. Just he limits himself to Genesis to Malachi. It's the word of God. Okay, so I see a couple of headshaking. No. So Penny, no. She had her head. Joe, answering for questions. It was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. Okay. So that's sufficient for evangelism. We're to preach the whole council, yet any piece of scripture has the potential. to bring about conversion. Okay. So you hit the keyword whole council. So is the law of God the whole council of God, meaning old covenant? Is the old covenant the whole council of God? It was sufficient for the salvation of the Old Testament saints, let's put it that way. Okay. So I I know where you're going, I don't mean to pray. Right, right, right. Right. So there's no ability to show fulfillment. Okay. Other observations? Somebody else? I thought somebody else had anything. Go ahead. We need to use all the tools God's put in our present day toolbox. Yes. Yes. Neither is there salvation in any other. Jesus Christ is the way that the truth and the life, or if we're going to evangelize, we better be pointing men to Christ. Could you do that with the Old Testament only? You could point them, but Like see you can't have the fulfillment. You can't tell them that this is the one who fulfilled it, that Jesus is God come in the flesh, who died for your sins. Yeah. And that your faith has to be in him. You can't if you don't go that far then you end up pointing them to the works of the law and the sacrifices and the things that they had to do to demonstrate their faith rather than what Christ Yeah. I like the fact that we're struggling with this a little bit because, by the way, this has been a struggle point for the early church as well. The Bible, in fact, does present a distinction, a difference, and I phrased the question the way I did Because the Bible presents a distinction between law and gospel. It does present a difference. Listen, for the law came by Moses. But Grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. That's interesting. It implies grace and truth were not in the law that came by Moses. Because frankly There wasn't a lot of grace in Moses' law. I mean the soul that sins, it will surely die. There was no the mercy that was shown in the Ten Commandments in showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep me my commandments was a merited mercy. You had to do something, but that mercy implies that you hadn't violated those commandments. It was a merited mercy and that's what Jesus Christ had and be part of his imputation is he imputes to us that obedience. Jesus says in John 5. 45, Do not think that I will accuse you. There is one that accuseth you, even Moses in whom ye trust. Moses is a big accuser. Joe pointed out earlier that the law is our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. The schoolmaster is not a beater Uh uh I read an interesting piece about an exegesis of that word, the the schoolmaster, the head of the school is one who would kind of grab the individual by the arm and bring them. They were responsible. It had a shepherding focus to it But they were to shepherd and bring the individual to a certain direction. See, John the Baptist brought his disciples and pointed out, behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. And from that time forward his disciples walk no more with John So John was a good evangelist. Don't follow me. Follow me to a point, but I'm bringing you to Christ. How can you do that with the old covenant only? I'm bringing you to You can't take that next step. You can't deliver the payload. You can't bring them to the ultimate destination. Jesus says, Come unto me, how can you preach that and bring that forward? Progress where faithful meets Moses and Moses just starts beating on him and beating on him and beating on him. You're guilty, you've done this wrong. He's gotta climb all the way up Mount Sinai. And he's going to this is actually a slightly different scene. That was told him this is a faithful leader. And he's just be he's gonna kill He is showing no mercy because the full weight of the law is falling on him. And at that moment Christ shows up. Yes. And he simply shows his hands. Yes. And says, I paid for his sin enough. Right. And the law has to stop and grace and truth is found in Christ. Correct. Right. To Joe's point, the main point of the law is to bring conviction. Conviction of sin, but it doesn't bring hope. Grace and truth came together. And the promise of Genesis 3 is that he shall bruise the serpent's head. Yes. No, it's not. Yeah, yeah. So the Bible does show this distinction. The apostle is very bold in Romans 10, 5 through 6. Moses describes the righteousness which is of the law. That the man which doeth those things shall live by them. He's got to live by them, he's got to live in them, through them, with them, for them. And then he says, But the righteousness which is on faith speaketh on this wise. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt Be saved. We see a salvation plan there. What's the purpose of the law then? So I think I've piqued your interest in trying to go out with uh an anti-Gideon approach. The Gideons tend to go out with New Testaments. I'm saying, what if you went out with just the Old Testament? And of course I'm not discounting the Old Testament as something that is to be cut out But there is a distinction in how it is to be used, what's the purpose of it? It shows promises, it shows uh uh prophecies, all of which point to Christ We see in Romans 3. 20 some of the purposes of the law of God, and this is a very big topic. It's one I really love, but I just want to touch on it lightly here. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall how much flesh be justified in this sight? Who's going to be justified in this sight by the deeds of the law? None. That's a pretty harsh statement. That's a sharp distinction. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Think about it. In the old covenant Imagine you're a Hebrew. You're living like a Bedouin. The wandering shepherds who live in fairly sturdy tents that can be packed up on a camel and moved. There was a camp of people. Animals are always there A sin occurs, you have to go out and pick the finest of your flock and bring it to God's ordained priest, who will take it. He himself has to be cleansed, take it to God's ordained location, make an offering. And you're accepted in the camp of the saints again. Another sin. Another bloody offering. There's this continual, continual, continual reminder that sin is expensive, sin is painful. Skin is bloody. It's just a constant reminder. What can ever stop this perpetual loss of my herd? What can stop it? I mean it says in some point, and if he be too poor, he can bring a turtle dove, you know, then he has to go catch a dove. Just this constant non-stop by the law is the knowledge of sin. They were held accountable for consistently bringing about this offering. They had to do that, and yet they were never justified by it. Romans 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid, he says, this is not sin. I had not known sin, but by the law I had not known lust, except the law had said, thou shalt not covet. And as Wherefore? The law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ. That here's a purpose. We might be justified by faith. We look to one who imputes it to us. We trust that all of his Atoning work was efficient, sufficient, and all that I need in Christ we find are all in all. We have to find it in Him. You can't find any place else. That's God's only solution. You know that, Samuel? What is God's only solution for sin? He has one solution. Do you know the answer? What's his name? Death. What is God's solution for sin? Hint, it starts with a J. That's right. I'll tell a humorous story. A little boy was in Sunday school class, and the pastor looks to him and says, Samuel, what's gray? and jumps around in the forest. Samuel scratches his head. He says, come on, Samuel, I know what you know. What's gray and fuzzy and eats nuts? And climbs trees. Mmm. And the pastor says, Come on, Samuel, I know you know the answer to this. He says, Well, Pastor Well, it sure sounds like a squirrel to me, but I know the answer is Jesus. Every time a pastor asks a young person a question, the answer is always Jesus, so that's my point. What's the purpose of the gospel? What is the purpose of the law? To bring men to Christ. What's the purpose of the gospel? Romans 1 16. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Yeah, it came first for the Jews, but seeing they've rejected it and put themselves far away from eternal life, we turn to the Gentiles And I'm speaking to a room full of Gentiles. Lo and behold, it actually is coming to pass. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolessness. But unto us which are saved, it's the power of God. 1 Corinthians 1. 18. I have another question for you. So given that this is the authorized activity of the Church of God, Go ye therefore into all nations, teaching them, baptizing them. Given that that's the rule. What do we find today in terms of how men abuse that rule? How does The church, and I'm going to use it in the broadest evangelical sense, any organization that hangs a shingle out front and puts church on it, they may not even put church, they may put community center or something like that. What are ways that men take liberty with this? I was just asking you to repeat the question a bit about how does the the church is authorized to go forth and preach the word of God They're to bring the word. How does the larger church take liberty with that? What kind of unjust liberty by liberty I mean the going beyond it Are you referencing things like using the world's means to spread the gospel? Like certainly one way of entertainment and the world That's certainly one way they do that, yep. They make it an entertainment. They believe that entertainment is what's going to bring it in. Pastor Key speaks about a church that was started about the same time as his and after about three or four years the other fellow's church went from three people to thirty people to three hundred people astronomic growth Pastor Byrd was at three people, then four people, then six people. It was uh additive growth in the lower percentiles. And asked him, Pastor asked this other fellow what he did. He said, Oh, I went down to the local jazz bar and hired some of their musicians to come and play in the church. Right? Worldly entertainment. What are other ways? Not preaching the whole gospel in any Ah, yeah, I'll preach the word, everything that sounds good and nice and loving and God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life, and I'll never talk about the bad news. There's no conviction Don't want to come here and be convicted of anything like in Joe's messages. You kind of squirm sometimes. That's not very nice. I thought this was the happy house. They want to have a happy message Oh, yeah. Alright, what are other ways that men take liberty with it? That's a deceptive one too, isn't it? Because they have the scriptures, but it's not the old council. What are other ways men take liberties with it? Bypassing repentance. Yeah, you bypass repentance, sure. Come as you are. Boy that sounds nice, doesn't it? Homosexual, sure. We love you. Yes, a man can I don't care who he is coming in, but he's gonna hear about his sin. What are other ways men take liberty with it? in the services. Will of people. The will of the people? What do you mean there? I mean that is the who can be saved after Jesus died. Jesus saves you, but you can be You can do it. Yeah. So they'll twist up the message. Maybe they'll give a lot of thus, saith the Lord, but they they twist up how salvation itself comes to pass. I'm going to give one mom that you can dare bear a record to. I think it was the time that dad went to a local church in Quinlan. Y'all had recently moved out to the country, and I was beginning, God was beginning to work on me And I was sharing some uh Bible tapes and dad was interested in going to church and y'all wound up at some little church there in Quinlan, Texas, population, I don't know, six hundred? How many lived in Quinlan? Six hundred? It was less than two thousand for sure. And on Easter Sunday, pastor closed the book, pulled out Reader's Digest, and gave them a message from Reader's Digest. And dad said that was the last he was going to go there. Oh, he brought a word, but was it the word? No, it wasn't. It was a lowercase word. It was even worse as a secular word of man. There's a many ways that churches will mess things up because they're free. That's why I love what the apostle says in Romans 1. 16, I am not ashamed. If there's something in this book that brings shame to you, you don't belong up here. You don't belong here. Shut your mouth, go read the book, and let it do its work of conviction so that you become convicted. I'm not That's the purpose of it, and that's different ways. Alright, now let's go to this back to our handout here. On the back side, we're now going to look at the role of the sacraments in salvation. And the key word. Sorry, I have to adjust this carpet here. The keyword is the role. Here's my question. Alright, do you agree with this statement? We're going to discuss it after I read it. Alright, so follow along here. Here's the following statement. A sacrament is a holy ordinance instituted by Christ. In which, by sensible signs, the grace of God in Christ is represented, sealed, and applied to believers, and they in turn express their faith and obedience to God. Alright, it's one statement. It's defining a sacrament, and it's trying to illustrate its point. Alright, so what are your thoughts about that statement? Points of contention, points of agreement, points of discussion. What do you think? I always am cautious about that word applied. Again, because of the Romanist issue. Yep. Yep. Alright. So I mean with with the Romanus, if you're taking communion, then you're saying Sure. Or I should say mass. Yeah, they would say if you're partaking mass, you're saved. In fact, they uh it's an interesting salvation they have because it's a temporary one Right. Because if you mess it up, uh then you gotta come back to mass or you know, there's some other there's a fallback to that. Just just hope there's Yeah, I hope there's a priest here and a and a and a uh con a offering basket uh too because you gotta pay for the services there. That's very important. That's the reason they have you keep coming back. Yeah, yeah, right, right. Yeah, so if there's anything I would have a heartburn with in some of uh Burk's Burkhoff and what I would call classic reform teaching. This is an area that could use some clarification because it smells an awful lot like Romanism, right? But if I were to look upon it charitably and say, okay, well what are they trying to get at? Because he's uh this is a time when they're trying to get away from Romanism and they're dealing with authority. Because that is the issue here is authority. The Roman Catholic Church says, oh no, we gave you the Bible Therefore, we are the authorities over it. We will interpret it. You must listen to us the authority. And the reformers split that and said, no, you exist because the Bible exists. It predates you and you have your authority from it. And if you're misreading and misapplying it in the original manuscripts, because that's going to be closest to the truest sense, then you're missing the boat. So that's kind of what they're getting at, and they're trying to clarify what it is or is not So, what are they dealing with here? I believe what they're trying to get at is that the only sign that God authorizes to portray salvation are the sacraments, which are a form of preaching. I think that's what they're trying to get at The only sign, the only sensible sign, remember the Roman Catholics have all kinds of theater, all kinds of um Uh imagery, right? No shortage of imagery. This statue, that statue, all kinds of depictions. Because after all, stained glass windows were there because you had illiterate people. Literacy was not common They wouldn't teach young fellows like Samuel or Moses to read. They wouldn't teach them. And so the learned ones would know to read. And so, and of course. Books were not common print. They were very expensive to come by. So how is an illiterate person supposed to get the gospel? Well, let's paint a picture of it And they'll paint a picture of it on a stained glass window and they'll give the they'll portray the gospel that way. Is that wrong? How do you one thing they didn't want you to have a Bible? And they didn't want you to have a Bible. They wanted the children very young, so that's what Yep, because they can in control doctrine. They can enforce doctrine that way. So how do you teach an illiterate person? He can't he can't read. Would portraying it on a wall do? you could speak and preach it to them. Um a lot of people even memorize just by hearing something recited to them over and over. Sure. Which is, you know, maybe a bit more difficult without being able to replay a tape, but rather having someone repeat it to you. Absolutely. But it's still preaching the word. Now you're preaching the whole council of God, so you're not going to hit on the same thing again and again and again. And so what God does is he gives two sensible signs. I like that phrase in there. You can sense it. You can touch it, and they are signs. So underscore that word signs in the definition. He makes it clear. In which by sensible signs. A sacrament is a sign. So they're not saying it's salvation. They are saying it's a sign. So they're okay. They're okay. Because they're talking about a sign. What is the sign? What is the statue? What is the painting? Well, the one that God authorizes is baptism. The one that God authorizes is the Lord's Supper. And there's your repetition. As oft as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show, proclaim, preach the Lord's death till he comes. And it gives you the concept of these Old Testament signs For instance, in the Old Testament, there were two sacraments. What were the two in the Old? What were the two Old Testament sacraments? Circumcision and Passover. Circumcision, yep, and the Passover. Both were bloody. They were bloody signs. In the New Testament, there's only two, baptism and the Lord's Supper. Neither one is bloody, because the blood's already been shed, no need to shed it again And just as in the Old Testament, Passover was instituted, and God specifically said, And in time to come thy son will ask thee, saying, What meanest thou by these things? And you will, I'll let it, say to him, the role of the Word of God, from the parents, the Father, no less, they shall say unto them, we were bondmans in the in in in Egypt and the Lord delivered us by a mighty hand, out of the hand of Egypt. God is our deliverer. They will say, they will speak. Same thing with the Lord's Supper. Why do we eat this? Why this kind of bread? Why not this? It's a sensible sign. There's a repetition. The Lord's death. The Lord's body. I have to live on this. I need to be in it. It's a repetition. repetition it's a step it's that little baby step it's just a baby step but it's a repetition to get you there that's what God's authorized Oh, but that's not fun enough. There's not enough bling to it. We need more dazzling lights. We need some scantily clad individuals with long hair and tattoos and bass guitar and all the we need something more exciting. God says, no, the foolishness of preaching is how God will save them that believe It's very base. It's very simple. God, can God do bling? Yeah, go look at the stars. If you want bling. You want stunning arrays? Yeah, let's he's got that. Well, I have some other points here I will uh cover in extensively next week. I just want to touch on them here briefly. The next two weeks we'll cover this. The Old Testament sacrifices ever pointed to an inward spiritual significance They always pointed to that. They never pointed to the sacrament itself. You weren't saved because you were circumcised. The Jews to this day believe they've got a separate plan of salvation. We're the elect. We're circumcised. We're special. You folks out there, you're on your own program. I don't know what you got going for you. Jesus came along and said, I am the living bread which came down from heaven, John 6. 51. If any man eat of This bread he shall live forever, and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. He says in Romans 4. 11, the Apostle Paul says, Speaking of Abram, he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had. So here, circumcision, that old covenant sacrament, is called a seal It is a seal not in the sense of God the Holy Spirit sealing a believer. It doesn't mean you've been sealed up and secured. Think of it as a seal on your stamp or your marriage certificate or your birth certificate. In other words, this is an authorized sign of God. It simply is that authoritative stamp. That's all it says. Don't over-read into it what it has. I bristled for a long time against that word seal because I was thinking that Ephesians 4 and that Romans use of the word seal. You know, you're sealed by the Holy Spirit. You're uh and you use the illustration of a canning jar. You know, some of you ladies do canning and you put that hot set of brine in with the pickles and you put the little lid on the ball lid and screw it down tight and you're waiting for that pup. That pop to here, because now it's sealed. Nothing can get in. More importantly, nothing can get out or in. It's sealed. That's not the sense of the word seal here. It's like a wax seal. You drip some wax on it, you put your thing in there. This is an authoritative mark. That's all it means Of the faith which he had. It doesn't say the seal is the faith. It doesn't say the righteousness of the seal. It's the righteousness of the faith he had. yet being uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all them that believe. So it came after the fact. 1 Corinthians 5. 7, purge out Therefore the old leaven that you may be a new lump as you are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover is sacrificed for us for us. Eating that Passover didn't make you saved, but it pointed you to a future reality, that there would be one who would come His blood will be on the door. The death angel passes by. But you partake of that. It gives you life. His blood, safety, his flesh, life. Beautiful picture. Very efficient Good for the family. There wasn't any waste in it. It was very eloquent, excellent. The lamb itself, very gentle, meek. I mean, just all of it was wonderful. The bridge verse that's commonly referred to as Colossians 2, in whom also ye're circumcised, with the circumcision, made without hands, and putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. Notice what he continues on with. buried with him in baptism, wherein also you are risen with him, through the faith of the operation of God and raised him from the dead. There's a connection. in the apostles' mind between circumcision and baptism, he shows that those two sacraments all point to the efficacious work, the cutting off of Christ and his resurrection There's a bridge. There's a connection to the old sacraments and the new. The only way you can connect those is by joining that to Jesus Christ and his ministry. Up to leading up to his death and burial, and then New Testament after death and burial. So there is a connection there The New Testament sacraments, my final point, I'm going to try to cover this in 60 seconds and be done. They also pointed to an inward spiritual significance. Same thing. No difference. John did baptize in the wilderness and he preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, he that believeth not shall be damned. Romans 6, the Baptist's favorite verse about being baptized into his death And then the verse I want us to close with is in 1 Peter 3 and verse 20. And if you want to turn to it, you can, given the press of time, you can just look at it on your paper and trust you're familiar with it. Which sometime were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing Wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. It's interesting. In the days of Noah, God says, eight souls were saved, that's pretty strong language, by water. Was it eternal salvation? No. The water floated the boat, the boat protected them, and they were lifted up away from the flood. And it says here in verse 21, the like figure. Notice it's a figure whereunto even baptism does now also save us. And he goes on to clarify that. Peter uses the phrase that baptism saves us. Wow, he sounds like a Romanist. No, he makes it clear, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God. In other words, there's one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and the baptism that has that God has in view that saves you. The baptism of your heart, the answer of a good conscience toward God. That is a spiritual baptism that you have to have. That baptism saves you, not the washing of the flesh How does God depict that? Water baptism. Alright, well, we'll cover baptism next week, Lord's Supper the following week. So that's all for now, and I have to close out here. Let me pray just briefly. Father God in heaven, Lord, we thank you for these things. Lord, I thank you that uh the hearts of thy people are exercised to know and discern good and evil. I pray that this would uh only but hone and sharpen and refine. in measure. Bless our worship services today in Jesus' name. Amen.