Looking at the authorized activities of the Christian church. And we talked about the ministry of the word. That's the primary authorized activity that God has for his people. But then we also get to baptism and the Lord's Supper. Now baptism I've got this broken into two studies, we're gonna Do one today and next week we'll touch on the Lord's Supper and then we'll round out the second one on baptism after that because we will be celebrating the Lord's Supper next Sunday and I thought it would be fitting to touch on it I trust I don't have to review the idea or the concept or the fact that baptism indeed is something that is commanded in the New Testament. It's part of the Great Commission. Go ye therefore and teach all nations baptizing them. in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. But what comes to mind immediately, it seems, and has plagued the church, oh, I would imagine starting a few hundred years after the disciples was just how much water do we drag to this baptismal event? Do we bring an Olympic swimming pool or do we bring a thimble? What is the mode of baptism? And there was some there have been found some ancient documents, one of which is called the Didiche. which talked about the volumes of water that can be used and they were not hard and fast on any one particular uh mode. The Baptists uh that are more more common in our day, let's bring it up to the current uh century that we live in. established their view of immersion from an ancient recipe found by Nikander. It was his pickle recipe. Uh there was an ancient Greek document found that called out how you were to make a pickle out of a cucumber. And uh this is what uh uh Boyce says in a Bible study magazine from May of 1989. He writes this, the clearest example that shows the meaning of baptizo is a text from the Greek poet and physician Nikander, who lived about 200 BC. It is a recipe for making pickles, and it's helpful because it uses both words. Nyikander says that in order to make a pickle, the vegetable should first be dipped or bapto into boiling water and then baptized baptizo in the vinegar solution. Both verbs concern the immersing of vegetables in a solution. The first is temporary. The second, the act of baptizing the vegetable, produces a permanent change So this is the statement that is given. And I would not call that immersion, I'd call that drowning. Because the last time I purchased a thing of pickles, the pickles were still in the solution. They stayed there And in fact, in other Greek documents, when they would refer to ancient ships that had collided at sea and sank, they said that ship was baptized. It was submerged. So if you're going to stick hard and fast with the Nikander recipe, uh the Baptists are going to have a lot of people at the bottom of the baptismal. Because that would be classic drowning or submersion. That's exactly what that pickle recipe illustrates. However, uh we don't look to recipe books for how we to come up with our definition of baptism. We look at the scripture recipe. And uh I have an excellent quote from Charles Hodge in his book on Systematic Theology, where he writes this. The words bapto, baptizo, and all of their cognates are used with such a latitude of meaning That to assert the command to baptize is a command to immerse is utterly unauthorized and unreasonable. The entire discussion of extra-biblical usage of the term confidently may be laid aside, and the limits of the study confined to the scriptures themselves. Here alone you discover the true meaning and mode of Christian baptism. What's my point? We don't compare Scripture with Greek culture, we compare Scripture with Scripture, as 1 Corinthians 2 says Welcome back. Alright. So what is the traditional Baptist view in this? We're talking about baptism and the mode, and then we'll get on to other elements of it The traditional view, I think, is best reflected in this statement, a retrieve from something called the Old Paths Archive. So Path is site. Baptism, they say, is a burial in water to symbolize Christ's burial. As Christ arose, so we arise to a new life. Our old man of sin has died as we repent of and turn from sin, and then we are buried with Christ. Therefore it is not baptism at all. Notice that statement. It's not baptism at all, they assert, when water is sprinkled or poured on a person There's only one problem with that. Our Lord Jesus wasn't buried in dirt. He was laid in a tomb. That was a different. uh difference than d being totally covered with dirt. I've heard uh Pastor Fortner use the illustration that says to sprinkle a person would be like to bury someone by taking a few scoops of dirt and tossing it on the person. Well, not one ounce of dirt touched the Lord Jesus when he was buried also. So that burial uh doesn't work. Then we'll go to Romans 6, 3, and you might want to go there. Romans chapter 6, verse 3. I don't have handouts today. Where we read this, Romans 6. 3, classic passage, know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death Therefore, we're buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. If we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him that the body of sin might be destroyed, and that henceforth we should not serve sin. Colossians 2 says similar thing to talking about buried with him in baptism. So, yes, baptism from these two passages is illustrated and used as a typification of burial. There is a death that doesn't imply a mode. I would submit it doesn't imply a mode because of how our Lord was buried in a tomb. He wasn't uh No dirt touched him. And frankly, sometimes immersion, using that word bapto, baptizo, and all that, simply cannot be in view in scriptures. It really can't. So, for instance, turn to let's go to Mark 7, because Luke 11 says the same thing. Mark chapter 7 and verse 4 uses Several different flavors of the different cognates of the word fapto. Baptizo and baptismus are used. And in Mark 7, verse 4, we read this. When they, speaking of the Pharisees, when they come from the market, except they wash, they eat not. That's the word baptizo. We'll think about that in a moment. And many other things there be which they have received to hold, as the washing of cups and pots, and brazen vessels, and of tables. Again, both words wash there are the word baptizo or baptismus. Now let's stop and think about this for a moment. Jesus is going to deal with these Pharisees, and they are marveling. Luke 11 says when the Pharisees saw it, he marveled that he, Jesus, had not first washed before dinner. He hadn't baptized before dinner. Let's just stop and think about this for a moment. It is true that in the Jewish synagogues and in the vicinity of Jerusalem and anywhere that you would find a holy place among the Jews, that you would find uh mikvas. They were called uh ritual uh pools. They were small, they had steps leading down to them where you could get neck deep in it, waist deep, and then you come up out of it. Now, the Pharisee, and those were limited, not any old average Joe, could just walk into this thing. The Pharisees are marveling that he had not first baptized before dinner. Are we talking about he has to leave as, and they would not hold him to be a priest or a Pharisee, that he would have to go, that every described that the normal expectation for everyone coming into a home is that they go visit the mikveh and then go down into it and come back. No, that he had not washed. There was some water applied to the hand, not to Everything. That wouldn't make any sense. Furthermore, it says in Mark 7, it says the washing of cups, pots, brazen vessels, and of tables is literally the word couches. They Old, the Oriental style of dining wasn't like our English style with a chair. It was more of a reclining posture on the floor. You had a low-lying mat on the floor which held the pots of food, and you basically laid on your side, and what you were laying against was a type of a couch. It was a comfortable mat. Can you imagine having to soak that in water before you eat? That just doesn't make any sense. Why would you soak your mat, your couch in water before you eat? I mean, how is this thing going to dry out before dinner time? I mean you would basically never have a meal, I think, if you're eating two or three or four times a day. The thing is always wet And then you get mold and other rest. So sometimes it just can't even be in view. It just doesn't even wash. No pun intended. So a better symbol for baptism Although it mentions burial, and by the way, in the Romans 6 passage, water is nowhere in view. That is talking about a spiritual baptism. Because if water's in view, then there's nothing wrong with baptismal regeneration. There's an awful lot of power in that H2O if if that is what is in view in Romans 6. It's a picture. It's talking about Christ's work Go to John chapter 3 and verse 25, and truly I am indebted to Mr. Burkhoff for pointing this passage out because it's an excellent passage that shows that the better symbol, the better way to understand baptism, uh in if you're trying to d discern what kind of mode to use would be understanding the concept of purification. Now pay close attention to this in John 3. John 3. 25. We read this. There arose a question between some of John's disciples, now John was known as the Baptist, the baptizer, right? And the Jews about purifying. There's a question about purification. This is the topic. This is the subject. Alright? And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. Interesting. So he's asking a question about purification, but the topic is purification, but the thrust of this question is about baptism. So baptism has something to do with purification. And in fact, that is a pretty consistent concept you find throughout the New Testament, this idea of purification, to purify Acts twenty two, sixteen, uh now why tarriest thou, arise, be baptized, that's our word baptizo, and wash away thy sins calling on the name of the Lord. Wash away, that's the word luo. That frequently relates to cleansing or purification. this washing away. Um and indeed when you go to the sink and to wash your hands you've got some a flow of water coming down. It's you know I'm not putting my entire person under the sink. That's that's not in view. Uh you've got first Peter three twenty-one, and we'll look at that again. Turn to first Peter three twenty-one. We touched on this last week and it's helpful to look at it again. Speaking about the days of Noah being in a flood. And it says, the like figure whereunto even baptism doth now also save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God. Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. So whatever quantity of water is required to put away the filth of the flesh is a suitable symbol. I don't have a problem with pouring. But to insist that it's only immersion is absolutely wrong. And in fact, if Peter is referring to the days of Noah, which he is in verse 20, which sometime were disobedient, The long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. Eight were saved by water. Well, how many people got wet inside of the ark? How much water surrounded them? I would be hard pressed to say not one drop touched them. I'm sure some little bit got in there. It was an incredible deluge if you've ever been in an ocean vessel Even one that's covered up head to toe in a super heavy storm, there's going to be a little bit that there was a window in the yard. But they were not drowned. They were not neck deep. I mean that can't be. So you don't find that the souls that were saved were absolutely in fact they were floating on top of it If you want to put them in a position. So purification, I think, is a better symbol. And furthermore, baptism is not a New Testament concept It's not a New Testament concept. It's an Old Testament concept. And what you look for in trying to prove that or bridge verses. Find a New Testament passage. that talks about something in the Old Testament and refers to it as a baptism. And we have such a passage. It's in 1 Corinthians. So turn to 1 Corinthians 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and the first four verses. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 We're going to see one of the largest mass baptisms on record. It says in verse 1, moreover, brethren. The Apostle Paul writing here, eh? I would not, I desire not that ye should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud. Who is he talking about? Presence of God. Who are all the fathers? The Israelites? All the Israelites. All the Israelites were what? Under the cloud. Under God's presence. All pass through the sea. What sea is he talking about? Red Sea. Did they swim through? Did they put on their scuba gear and snorkel through or dive through it. No, it says, and they were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Alright, he calls that a baptism That wall of water on their left and a wall of water on their right, not one drop touched them. In fact, it even says that they went over on dry ground. Even their feet didn't get wet. Now I can imagine with this wall of water being held back because God's, the scripture says God sent a mighty east wind, you got wind blowing. It's pushing the water back. I can imagine it's a little humid in there. I can imagine a few drops coming through in there. It doesn't say that, but I can imagine it. It certainly says that they were on dry ground. They weren't sinking in the mud and the mire. Their animals could come across with their small hooves. And God calls that a baptism. Alright? So I don't see that they were absolutely soaked in it. They were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud. They did eat the same spiritual meat, the same spiritual drink. They drank the spiritual rock that fallen that rock was clouded. Christ. So God had used the passing through of the Red Sea as a grand picture of baptism. Isn't that interesting? He also says, and see Hebrews chapter 6 Hebrews chapter 6, and we'll spend a little time in Hebrews, and this will be the last bit of book flipping I'll have you go through. Hebrews chapter 6, we find something Very helpful. Hebrews 6 and the first two verses, we read this, therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on into perfection, not laying again the foundation And so here's some six foundational doctrines. You want to know some foundational doctrines that you gotta have? Mighty good list to start with. Why would you want to ignore this passage? You're going to find somebody to be a leader in the church, to understand the Word of God. This is a really good place to start these are foundational doctrines. The foundation of repentance from dead works, right out the gate. If there's no repentance, I don't care what the man says, is there repentance in his life? Does he believe that there has to be repentance in the life of a Christian? Of faith towards God Of the doctrine of baptisms, did you notice the plural form there? Isn't that interesting? Baptisms, plural. There's multiple concepts, there's multiple, may I even say modes, multiple ideas, several things presented here, purification, burial, as Romans talks about. I don't think you can limit and restrict it to one mode. The scriptures doesn't allow that. You can't do that. Plural, baptism's plural. Laying on of hands and of the resurrection. One resurrection. Of the dead and of eternal judgment. This we will do if God permit. So you see that the scripture says there's baptisms, plural. You've seen a couple of places where the word baptism was used, where immersion simply cannot be in view. And you've also seen some examples where it ties you to the Old Testament where again complete immersion absolutely can't be in view. Noah and Moses and the crossing to the Red Sea. You can't insist on that. It's not tenable. It's not tenable. Turn ahead to Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews chapter 9 The concept of baptism is not a New Testament idea. Hebrews does a marvelous job of bringing forward the old and giving some kind of an explanation. It does a fantastic job of that. And our word baptism shows up in the book of Hebrews. It's in this passage. Hebrews 9, beginning in verse 8. I'm going to take us through verse 14. We read this. The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest while the first tabernacle was yet standing. As long as that first tabernacle was around The clear declaration of Christ and His ministry, His way of Atonement, His means of redemption, His blood-bought salvation for His people, that would not be clearly revealed. That would be veiled. Which was a figure, that Old Testament temple, that old tabernacle, all of the service, which was a figure, shadow, picture, terrible type, for the time then present. in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him, that did the service perfect, pertaining to the conscience, couldn't clean your conscience, couldn't be convicted on conscience. Moses couldn't haul somebody out. Heard your thoughts last night. You were lusting after your neighbor's wife in your tent. No, Moses could only convict on the act, not the conscience. It reached to a certain point, not further than that. In terms of what he could execute, what he could do, and it couldn't perfect you. Verse 10, which stood those things, those shadows, those figures, which stood only in meats and drinks and diverse washings, baptisms. That's our word baptismus. Diverse. Notice they were diverse. They were different. There were different modes, if you will, of baptisms And carnal ordinances, fleshly ordinances, which were imposed on them until the time of the Reformation. What was that time of Reformation? It wasn't Martin Luther. What was the time of Reformation? Any ideas? Bringing in of the gospel and the New Testament. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's you're you're heading in the right direction. When was all of that reformed? When did the Old Testament get reformed to use the language of a text? The resurrection. Right, yes, when Christ was resurrected, uh the basically Christ and his ministry. He's he says, I came not to destroy the law, but to Fulfill it, and so by fulfilling it, what further need have we the signs? We have some couples here who have been relatively recently married within the past few years. They're still not sending out wedding invitations. Thank the Lord. They're not. Why? Because it's fulfilled. The deed has occurred. The act, the covenantal promises, the commitments, all of that has been sealed up. You don't need to keep doing it again. And say, and it continues uh until the time of Reformation. I think that's as far as I'm want to go on that one. Where am I at? Oh, we're going to keep going. I'm sorry. Yes, we have to keep going because I said I'm going to go to 14. I'll get you in a second. But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come. Alright, so the ministry of Christ, you said the New Testament, you said the resurrect. Christ being come. By a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, not of this creation, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us, even in wants. Now here is our concepts. If the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, Sanctifies to the purifying of the flesh. Remember, baptism had something to do with purifying. But here there is a sprinkling that purifies the flesh It was figurative. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? So, you see, there is a sprinkling that's related to purification. Baptism relates to purification, and so a suitable symbol for baptism is altogether sprinkling. That could absolutely uh and and and should be uh used as a simple yeah. I thought you were gonna move out of Hebrews without pointing out the sprinkling. Oh okay. Because it occurs again in um nineteen, it occurs in twenty-one. Sprinkling is like four three or four times in that chapter. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. Nineteen. Let's look at nineteen there. When Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law He took the blood of calves and goats with water, nose with water, scarlet woolen hyssop, this would be like a sponge that you would use. He dipped that sponge with the blood and the water and sprinkled both the book and all the people. What did he do? He took the hystap, perhaps on the stick, maybe by his hand, and he dips it in here, and he's sprinkling the people. You take a wet mop in a bucket and you start slinging it around, you're gonna get some people wet, but you're not gonna submerge them in water That doesn't happen. But they're gonna get sprinkled, and that was the ceremony. That's why hyssoph David said wash me, make me whiter than snow, purge me with hyssop. Yes, Victoria. So I guess I'm just trying to understand better. Um, are you saying that by the so all the sprinkling of blood that occurred in the Old Testament that was a grand picture of baptism? Mm-hmm. Um Mm-hmm. It's a symbol of purification. And baptism is a New Testament form of purification. Alright? We go on. There are suitable forms of the symbol of baptism. I want to talk about some suitable forms of it. And don't have a handout, but I'm a little bit ahead of time, so this is good. Grab uh your Bible. Go let's take a walk first through well we'll say here in Hebrews since you're here in Hebrews. Look at Hebrews 9. We just looked at uh 19. Uh let's look at uh 20 verse Hebrews 9. 20, and then we'll look at all the way through 22. Hebrews 9. 20, saying, This is the blood of the testament which God has enjoined unto you. Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood, without the shedding of bloods no remission. And so it was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be what? Purified with these. Again, purification. You would say, Brother Vince. I I I agree with you on sprinkling with blood. We Baptists don't submerge people in blood. We're not going to have a pool of blood and put people down in. That's talking about blood. That's not talking about water I suppose an argument for that could be made, but look at how the Old Testament used purification in its rituals, and water in its rituals. Let's go to Leviticus 14. Leviticus fourteen. Leviticus fourteen and verse seven. This is the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing, and from what we know in Scriptures, there was only one leper who ever availed himself of this particular law. It's amazing to me that there's an entire chapter written, which from what we know only one individual was able to do. And it was for a testimony to the priests. In the day of his cleansing is to be brought to the priest. That was verse 2. Verse 3, the priest is going to check him out. Verse 4, the priest is going to gather all the components needed to clean him. And verse 5, the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water. As for the living bird, he shall take it. cedar wood and the scarlet and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water, and he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times That shall pronounce him clean and let the letting bird loose into the open field. So, in the law of the leper, the individual who was healed of his leprosy Uh had he'd come to the priest, the priest would check him out, make sure all is good, he's good, take these birds, can conduct the service, he would dip this hyssop in it, and he's sprinkling the leper seven times So that was an Old Testament symbol, meaning you're purified. Seven times, that's an interesting picture as well, meaning you're completely, you're thoroughly indicated as being clean. Wash me. Purge me thoroughly with hyssop, David said. Now look at Numbers 8. Numbers chapter 8, so go after Leviticus. Numbers is jumping around in my Bible this morning. Numbers chapter 8 and verse 7. So this is the law, the the the context begins in verse five if you want to scan it. But this is how the Levites were to be taken from among the children of Israel and to be cleansed. This is how they were to be ceremonially pronounced clean. This wasn't an instruction for how they were to bathe in the river away from their tent or something like that. This was how they were to be ceremonially cleansed prior to coming in for service. We read in verse 7, and thus shalt thou do unto them to cleanse them. Sprinkle water of purifying upon them. Let them shave all their flesh, let them wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean. But you were to sprinkle water of purification upon them. That was a cleansing ritual. That was a purification ritual. Vince, you're jumping around all these different ones. Why is that? Because Hebrews says that there are diverse baptisms. Diverse. I'm taking you through these diverse, these different types of baptisms. For the leper, for cleansing the priest. And that's why I would say diverse baptisms. Some were sprinkled like this, some on the occasion of the cleansing of leprosy, others for the administration of the priest offering. It was diverse. And it was called in the New Testament a baptism. Alright? Ezekiel 36 picks up on this imagery And we read in the book of Ezekiel The classic passage, you get to Isaiah, Jeremiah, then you get to Ezekiel. It's a mighty thick portion of scripture. Larger prophets are a little easier to find. Ezekiel 36. And here the prophet under inspiration is telling us what God will do. And he says to this nation, he says in verse 24, God speaking, I will take you from among the heathen. and gather you out of all the countries and will bring you into your own land, then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean. From all your filthiness and from all your idols will I cleanse you. Notice this is how God says He's going to cleanse them completely, entirely, and thoroughly from all their iniquities. That's a mighty heavy-duty scrubbing You would think he would say, I'm going to immerse you, I'm going to bury you. No, he uses the word sprinkle. Sprinkle you. Why? It's because that ties to the ceremonial pictures that he had given before. Which tied to a complete complete purification. Someone utterly healed from leprosy. He was sprinkled. God's saying, you're going to be healed from your leprosy because I do this to you. Somebody who's fit to be a Levite, a priest in the house of God. The universal priests were the believers. They were sprinkled. I'm going to sprinkle clean water upon you. It ties both directions. All the signs are connecting. They're not incidental or accidental. Then there's the classic Ethiopian eunuch. But what about the Ethiopian eunuch who is in his chariot coming up? He was a great one from Candace. And he's riding up in his chariot. And he's reading from the book of Isaiah. And Philip is wisdom the spirit alongside the chariot. I don't know how that worked. I mean he must have been one of the fastest linebackers available. Obviously spirit-filled. I'm just teasing. And he says, do you understand what you read? He says, how can I understand except some man guide me? It says in beginning at that same scripture, he preached Jesus unto him. Well Let's stop and think about that text of Scripture for a moment. Let's go to Isaiah 53, because this is what The Ethiopian eunuch who was baptized right then and there after Philip preached Christ unto him. You know the account. Isaiah 53 is where Philip began to preach to him. Now this man had been riding his chariot. The chariot ride was a long way because he's coming from Ethiopia. And that you've got to go through the Nile, past the Nile Delta, come up around the Gaza Strip. I mean, it's a long ride. He had some reading time on his hands. In Isaiah 53 He's reading about Christ. He says, who is the Ethiopian eunuch? Who is the man speaking of? Verse 3. He's despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows acquainted with grief. We hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he's borne our griefs, carried our sorrows, and so on and so on. A grand picture, all of this language of Jesus Christ The Jews to this day don't like Isaiah. They like Ezekiel. They won't hear about Ezekiel, the temple. They won't hear about Isaiah. And their efforts to try to place the fulfillment of this passage of scripture on some other man than Jesus Christ comes up ridiculously short. Christ fits this so much to a T that you could almost call the book of Isaiah the fifth gospel. It's so plain So where was this eunuch reading? He was reading Isaiah. He wasn't skipping around. Well, back up to Isaiah 52. Look at Isaiah 52 and the very last verse. He says, well let's look at 14 because that continues the idea that this is related to Christ. As many as were astonished at thee, his visage was so marred more than any man in his form more than the sons of man. All the beating that Christ went through was unbelievable. So, in this fashion, shall he sprinkle many nations. The kings shall shut their mouths at him for that which he had not been, for that which had not been told of they shall see. So he's kind of got sprinkling in mind. And it says sprinkle many nations in mind, and he's from a different nation. He's not a Jew. He doesn't look like a Jew. But he's going up as a God fearing worshiper to go up and worship a Jerusalem. Of whom is this man speaking? And as Philip preaches Christ to him, the lights go on, he says, what doth hinder me to be sprinkled? to be baptized. You know, it's interesting because those who are familiar with the desert say you would never go wallowing in a desert pool of water. You would stir it up. It would be very shallow. And to mess that whole pool of water up would be to foul the water for all the other visitors that come to it. It's a gentle spring. There's plenty of dust in the desert, and the last thing we need is somebody in there messing up the pool. It's also interesting to note that uh when the Apostle Paul uh baptized uh Lydia and there was that river in Acts 16, uh you can still go see that river. And today indeed many shrines have been made. by the river where Lydia and some women were praying in the Book of Acts 16, where the Apostle Paul made some of his first converts in Europe. And the Baptists have made their presence there as well. But they had to do a little sight modification first. Because the river is too shallow. So to the side of the river they dug a very deep, deep, deep trench and a deep ditch, a little pit, so that they could do their baptisms where Lydia was. But that's not how the river originally was. It's too shallow to to baptize. there. In fact, Pastor Byrd recounts a time when he wanted when one of his congregants wanted to be baptized in the river, she slipped and fell and nearly got washed away. That's not good. Can you imagine the gospel going into all nations where you have to be submerged completely, and that gospel goes to Siberia and you tell some Siberian, well, we'll baptize you when the, I guess When is the water thawed out in Siberia? I think that's where the concept of permafrost comes in, right? Where it's got multiple years of ice laid upon it How are these people to have that done? But see, sprinkling is a much more suitable form. Sprinkling. Um thus will I uh cleanse you. Numbers 8 also talks about sprinkling waters of purification. I think we read that. Hebrews uh uh uh I think we looked at Hebrews 1022, our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, our bodies washed with pure water. So anyway, I've just given you some passages to consider and think about when we consider this business of baptism um that you cannot enforce and insist that one particular mode is the right mode. A very strong case can be made for sprinkling. In fact uh the Baptist uh uh uh mode was primarily brought about uh during the Reformation. The church had been using sprinkling for an enormously long time. There was nothing new there. They weren't confused. You see it, you repeat it, there's nothing new there. But it was the Baptist who came along and said, oh no, we have to uh immerse. And in fact in the Westminster Confession, uh that was deemed a uh nigh into heretical position if you held strictly to that view. Other comments or questions about it? Because I'm just touching on, I'm breaking the subject into two parts so we're a little running a little shorter today. Yes, but Paul and Talvian. Yes, that's another good example. Yes, Paul and Philippian Jell is another excellent example. Let's go to that. That's Acts uh sixteen. Yep. Let's look at Acts sixteen. So you know the account. He's been beaten. He and Silas are in the prison. They're in chains. They're singing. An earthquake rends the place open. They're released, and the prisoner, the keeper of the prison, awaking out of his sleep, I'm in verse 27 of Acts 16 The keeper of the prison, waking out of the sleep, seeing the prison doors open, now that's uh going to put a note of panic in him, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing the prisoners had fled. Does anybody know why that says that? Why does this man want to kill himself? He would have been executed for failing his duty. Right. In the Roman uh economy of things, a prison keeper was held to a very high standard. If a prisoner gets out, uh it's real simple. You die. So here the prison door is open. He's the prisoner, he's the prison keeper. If one prisoner gets out, he's toast. So this guy's in no small amount of panic. He's in a great panic And 28, but Paul, Paul's going to save this man, cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. That explains why he would answer that. Paul is concerned about this man's life. Now if Paul were really interested in rescuing himself according to the flesh, he would have Shhh! Shut up guys, he thinks we're gone. Let him kill himself. Who? He didn't say that. He could have rescued himself according to the flesh. He didn't. He said, don't hurt yourself. The child of God is interested in salvation, redemption, even of a Roman prison guard. He called for a light, verse 29, sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas and brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? They said, Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. They spake unto him the words of the Lord and to all that were in his house. This is a great proof text that says if you don't have children, you don't have a house. You have to have children to have a house. Otherwise it's just, you know, Zecharias and Elizabeth, man and woman. Not the house of Zechariah. There's no children there you have to have. Children to be a house. He took them the same hour of the night. Notice the same hour of the night, and he made a lengthy journey to a river and washed them of their stripes and was baptizing in all these. Now remember, an earthquake has just wrecked your prisons Jail. Your job site's kind of in shambles. You're going to Paul and Silas. You like them. They've just converted you. Why would you assume that the other prisoners are going to stay put? There's no honor system. Honor system, right? Hang here, fellas, I'm just gonna be gone for a little while. Don't leave. I mean he's still got his job, right? Immigration system. Don't go there. So it says he baptized them. Well, Roman prison cells were not known for having mikmas. They didn't have large washing pools. Well, he went to the horse's trough. No, that wouldn't do it either. He baptized them according to the diverse baptisms that he would have known about, that John the Baptist would have used, that the Lord Jesus would have followed would have been sprinkled. He would have been sprinkled. There was no time. And later the Apostle Paul says, and we we were all we were all there. Do you remember that? passage where he confirms that he sort of never left there. He says we were all he he testifies these men stayed there. And so Paul would have been made a liar. So yes, that's another excellent illustration. And in fact, if you go to holdingfast. net and look up the topic of baptism. I've got several papers on this topic because it seems to be a perennial source of argumentation. And though scripture is not explicit, I believe that most of that jail was safe, not everyone in jail. Yeah. There's certainly a good hope for them. And there was a vibrant truth that was had in Philippi. And maybe in process of time. Yes. It it can be argued weekly. that um the jailer's house included everyone under his authority. Hmm. Interesting. Interesting everyone interesting. Hmm. Interesting. Interesting. So The main point, however, is this. What you believe baptism to represent, a change of the inward man, a newness of life in Christ. a purifying of the soul by God, what you believe that to mean is far more important than how much water a person is brought to. Am I saying immersion is not baptism? No, I'm not saying that Not saying that at all. You just did a heavy duty job of sprinkling. Sprinkling with a whole lot. Well overboard. Yes. I was just gonna say also I recall when um reading about baptism, uh the the point was brought up about uh Nebuchadnezzar when he had his phase of uh you know when the Lord humbled him He was as an animal and uh he was out in the grass and in the Septuagint, which is the Greek of the Old Testament. It said he was baptized as a do. Well, do is never a whole pool. What wouldn't be do? Right. It was, you know It was all around him. Interesting. Interesting. Yeah. Okay, well very good. And uh next week we'll oh yes, please. One of the primary pieces of furniture in the tabernacle was the labor. And the priests were to wash in the labor, labor, which is a baptism, but it was not something that they got into, but rather they did for Yeah, that's my that's quite a large. Yes. Yeah, that would be very difficult for all of them to get into that. The scarcity of water in some places of the world just makes complete immersion. And you know, do I want to do do any of you want to get immersed after me? Look like a subsink and kind of fold the oil in the sand. Um in Jamaica all of our baptisms were by immersion just because that's what people were familiar with and was a very visible testimony. Yeah. Um by the sea You're not hiding from anybody. If we're in the river, a street river, you know, there's ta there's taxis and buses going past everybody's very public as opposed to a Confined. Right. Yeah, my issue is confining it only to immersion and saying that and that alone is baptism. And worse yet, breaking off fellowship with others Because they use a slightly less amount of water. Although I would submit that the Reform and Presbyterian camp and Mission Bible camp baptizes more than the Baptist camp. Because we also baptize our children Alright, well, two weeks from now we'll round out the study of baptism. I had to break this one in half because I thought it would be too much. Next week would be the Lord's Supper And then we'll return to this subject briefly before moving on. Anton, would you close this and pray? Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for this time to consider your scriptures, to consider Lord, even this method of baptism, we pray indeed that you would help us uh give us spiritual understanding to understand even these signs and in the deeper implications. the the the cleansing of the soul and regeneration because of Christ and his um purging us from our sins because of his death on the cross. Help us to continue to look unto him with grace. You help us to continue to grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. We pray you'd bless the service that's coming up. Pray you'd be with us. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.