Look at a at a series of questions and doctrines that are sitting squarely on top of all this excellent foundation That we've been laying. And it actually gets into a section of doctrine and teaching that people ask and wonder about as they enter into a church. They'll ask questions about leadership. They'll ask questions about leaders. Questions about how your church is run. Don't ask questions about, well, our church believes this or that, or are these people really in the church? Are they saved or not? What about church members and membership? and how does all that work and all of these different kinds of questions. I would submit to you that those are a little bit difficult to answer until you have the framework in place. Let me illustrate this. If you have ever had the pleasure of seeing somebody build their own home, or maybe they're purchasing a new house and and they're having a contractor build it. You go out and you look and all you see at first is, oh I want to see your house. And they see a mud pit. I don't want to live there. And then they see concrete. still with water in it. And then eventually they see the blocks and the and the and the boards and the beams rise up and pretty soon a roof structure. But it still doesn't look like a place you'd want to live in yet. But The house has pretty much defined what it's going to look like by the time the foundation is laid. After the foundation is laid, it's going to be very difficult to modify some very significant colours. components. You can't wait until you move into the your room. You know, I just wish it were five inches more this way. You know, it's just a little too cramped for me. I just wish this was a little taller. Too late. Too late. So questions arise when you walk into a house as to why it is the way it is. It has nothing to do with the drywall or the paint or the Ceiling fans and all that, it has to do with the framework, the whole structure of the house. That's what defines and determines the shape and the utility of it, your ability to use it in an effective and efficient manner. All of that's decided And I would submit the first twenty some odd chapters that we have covered in the summary of Christian doctrine is the framework. It's about who Jesus Christ is, it's about what he has done, what he has accomplished, his nature. are things consonant with God's nature. I can declare a great many churches in this area uncategorically as heretical because of their views as to who Jesus Christ is. or God's nature. They just simply have it dead wrong. So they're worshiping a different God. It's not the God of the Bible. It would be like somebody come up to me and say, I saw in your life the story Oh yeah, yeah, her name's Angela. Yeah, that's my wife's name. Yeah. Boy, she's gained a lot of weight lately and she seems to have shrunk. She stooped over. Her hair is gray. We're talking about two different people. They got the same name, but we're talking about two different people. If we don't have the nature of God right, the doctrine of God right, we have just simply got two different programs. And so today we're going to talk about this bride of Christ known as the church. That's what we're talking about. So knowing what we do about the nature of God, knowing what we do about how God has gone about to save sinners, knowing what we know about how His plan of redemption is carried out. His program of election, his business of the ministry of the word, how that affects people and changes them. Now we're in a position to begin to understand the church On your handout, I'm going to give you some Bible terms for that word church. The Bible terms for the word church. There is, and the reason I do this is because we're going to ask a question leading up to this. So try to In the New Testament, the most common word for church is the word ekklesia, and Greek is kind of like German where you bolt on words together. Ek out of ecclesia, calling. It's a called out group. To call out. Ek caleo. Ecclesia is the word. And in your handout, I've highlighted that in green. So all throughout this Handout you have. If you see the word church in green, it's either the New Testament word for ecclesia or the Old Testament word, kaha, meaning to call. This is the same idea, to call. It's a called out one. How did Jesus call his disciples? Well, he called them. He said to Peter and John and James. and and the disciples. Come follow me. It was a call. It was that simple. Come, come, come, follow me. They became the followers. Why did they follow? Because they were called The other word is synagogue, sun agage, from sun and ago, meaning to come or to bring together. It's an assemblage. That's what the Old Testament synagogues were. It were people that were come together. They came together and they came together for a purpose. Now that word uh is uh fairly common. There were people that come together and they come together. It has nothing to do with worship. They just come together. Maybe they decide to have a riot in the city. They came together. They synagogued in the city to have a riot uh they they had an assembly to do this. Acts 11, 26, their first reference. When he found him he brought him to Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled, synagogued themselves with the church, the ecclesia, the called-out ones, and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first. So there you have a very nice succinct verse which ties together all of these concepts. They had come together, they assembled, they were the called-out ones, the church. And they were called Christians. They were disciples. So you've got four words all just tied together very nicely right there. That's a very nice join point for some doctrinal thinking, some doctrinal Precepts to under to help undergird our thinking as we deal with this subject of the church. And then Acts a little later has the same idea. When the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and religious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas. who speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God. In the Old Testament, Cahal, we've covered that one. Caal kind of sounds like call, Cahal, Cahal. I'm not sure I'm pronouncing that correctly. And the other is Iha, to meet or come together at an appointed place. Again, the same concept. It's being called out and you're coming to meet. We have at Mission Bible Church, one of the very first things we have in our bulletin is a call to worship. It is a call. We mimic our worship and service layout sequence of events that are weekly meetings uh in a biblical fashion. God calls us. That's where we have a call to worship. He calls us Now I ask the question. And here's the loaded question. I didn't give you I I did good. I didn't tip off the answer up front as I am want to do. I get ahead of myself and I give you the answer and then I ask the question. I go, oh, I shouldn't have Said all that stuff. Here's the question. Did the church start in the New Testament? What do you think? You're shaking your head? Victoria's shaking her head. Mom's shaking her head. What do you think, Mrs. Ross? You're the minority view today. Go give it to you. Uh I don't know. Don't know. That's a fair that's a fair fair fair response. Uh you're shaking your head no, Joe. Why is that So the the church ultimately is the God's called out people through all generations. Mm-hmm. God called out Abraham. Okay. God called out Abraham, right? So if you look at the roots of the word for church You'll find that, yeah, you see those concepts in the Old Testament. Someone would come back and say, but the word church never appears in the Old Testament. Never shows up in the Old Testament. How would you handle that? Because that would be a fair and an accurate observation. The word church doesn't show up in the Old Testament. I think the concept is still there. Maybe they don't use the word church, but you still have the idea of the called out ones that was namely Israel. Yeah. The uh the uh the concept is there which is consistent with what we're saying. There actually is a verse that points to the church in the Old Testament Look at your handouts, Acts 7. 38. This is Stephen. He's being he's in the process of being martyred. He's facing a rather angry mob of religious Jews who are not particularly keen on his message of Salvation in Christ as the promised Messiah. And he's giving a marvelous history, I mean from memory, of the Old Testament. And he points this one factoid out in Acts 7. 38. This is he, speaking of the Lord Jesus, that was in the church in the wilderness. with the angel which spake to him in Mount Sinai and with our fathers who received the lively oracles to give unto us. Now there's enough in that verse that I don't need to add more the context of Acts 7 to fill you in, he's clearly talking about a wilderness assembly of people. He's clearly talking about receiving living oracles, living words of God Sort of sounds like Moses to me, sort of sounds like the giving of the Ten Commandments at Mount Sinai. In fact, he says it, which spake to him at Mount Sinai, so there's a clear reference to Exodus 19 and 20. And he says God was with the church in the wilderness. So he basically called those Jews who came out of Egypt. I am the Lord thy God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me, and so forth. They were called out of Egypt. I have called my son out of Egypt. This is what God did, and he calls them the church. And Stephen is speaking in a divine inspiration. You see in Exodus 19, uh where uh Stephen is alluding to, and in Exodus 19, 7, you read back in that account, Moses came and did what? Called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded them. Then you go to verse 17. And Moses brought the f brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God. That's the purpose of this meeting. It's to meet with God. They didn't do what, or they were not supposed to do, which is what Aaron had them do. Let's Have a party. Hey, we're all here. Take off the gold, let's make a calf, let's have some dancing and music. No, that's not the purpose for which we're meeting. We're here to meet with God And so because we're meeting with God, that structures and determines a whole lot of other things in terms of how we meet with God, because Israel always got into trouble when they messed up, worship. And worship is there to meet with God, to honor him, to sing praises and songs to his name And so forth. So, no, we can't say the church per se started in the New Testament, but Jesus hadn't gone to the cross yet. Someone explained it to me this way. It was very helpful. They all, old and new, were saved by grace through faith. The Old Testament people of God looked forward to the promise of the coming Messiah. The New Testament people of God look back to the fulfilled promise of the Messiah who came and died for our sins. We don't see him walking around here. We know it by faith, even as they knew it by faith. And so it's always been a faith proposition, and it's always been one based on the promises of God that did fulfill and come to pass at a particular point in space-time history. So that's some biblical terms and some concepts for this idea of church. Now, having said that We're going to look at the various senses and meanings that we find of this word church in the New Testament. It is used in a bit of a broad way because again, it's a common phrase, kind of like the word deacon in in Greek means servant. And we've taken a very common phrase, servant, and made it into a title. The elders is a very common phrase. We've taken that and made it into a title. So it is with this word church, the called out, the called-out assembly. It's a very generic common phrase that has come to have a specific The truest essence of the church, and this is your second fill-in-the-blank on your handout, is that it is the invisible body of believers. We're talking about the true saints of God. We're talking about the elect of God, those for whom Christ died. He paid for their sins. The Holy Spirit will in due season dwell in their hearts by faith through the preaching of the gospel. etc. etc. All that foundation has been laid. This is the invisible body of believers. You see here in Ephesians some excellent language about all this and I excerpt it from here because Paul is kind of on a roll here when it concerns the teaching. of this concept of church. In Ephesians 1. 10, he says, In the dispensation of the fullness of the times, he that is God might gather together in one all things in Christ. So these are people who are in Christ. If you're in Christ, that's a really good place to be. Both which are in heaven and which are on earth, in other words, Some saints who have already gone before, saints that are still down here, and some ain't that aren't yet saints. There's a process that has to occur. May not even be born yet that he might gather together all things in heaven and earth, even in him, verse 22, and he has put all things under his feet and gave him to be the head over all things to the church. So he is that head of the church. And you've heard these terms before. We're the body, he's the head. You've heard that. Ephesians 3. 21, that to him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages. So again, back to Joe's point as well as Gloria's earlier, this concept of a church is a Catholic bride of Christ. I'm not talking Roman Catholic, I mean universal throughout all time. Across the globe At all points in time, God has had his people. It was narrowly restricted, where the gospel was present and widely available to the Jews of the Old Testament. To a high degree the exclusion of the Gentile nations around them. Oh, every now and then God would send a prophet, willingly or unwillingly, as the prophet might view it, to another nation. Jonah preached to the Assyrian capital of Nineveh. 120,000 souls saved. We know that because Jesus says they're going to rise in judgment against the generation he was speaking to. condemn it because one greater than Jonah was there. Amazing. A hundred and twenty thousand and he was a grumpy prophet. He had a message that just wouldn't fly by today's standards. Forty days you're destroyed. Forty days you're destroyed. The message on all the church signs Out here is all are welcome. God loves everybody, everything's wonderful. And that wasn't Jonah's message. And it was the most productive message that you've ever seen It was a massive conversion and the ripple effects of it uh echoed through the Assyrians' history books, and you can see evidence of it because they quit going to war for a season. Truly was amazing. So it was throughout all ages. Ephesians 5. 23, the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the head. the head of the church. He is the savior of the body. So again we're talking about this invisible body of believers. I can't look around and see the word elect on somebody's forehead. I have no idea who they are. I've given up trying to answer the question. Question. I frankly have. Over the years I said you know, boy man, if that if that gal ain't saved, I don't know who is. Lo and behold, she would abandon the faith, kill her child. an abortion, have an adulterous relationship outside of her marriage, and join up to some other false gospel. Just shocked, just shocked. People I've seen and looked at them like, that old fellow can't possibly be saved. Why is he even in this building and stand up at important meetings and give an eloquent defense as I've as I've never heard before of a gospel minister. I'm like, wow Wow. This guy just got big shoes and ten foot legs and just went up big in my estimation. He just would didn't talk much. So I I've just given up. And uh and and and as we continue on, I hope you'll see why that's uh wise approach to take. The other meaning of this word church is that it is a visible group of Christians who meet in a location in a city. A visible group of Christians. They're not so invisible that we can't be as one fellow told me in Hawaii, well I just worship God on the beach with all my brothers and sisters. Okay, well, um, yeah, God doesn't specify a location, but I'm not sure they're all gathered there to worship God. I don't believe that's your stated purpose I'm not asking you to drag a piano down on the beach, but I am wondering if you're really worshiping God, you're just hanging out in the sun and join a bunch of half-naked people running around surfing on the waves No, there are a visible group of Christians. They get together, they meet. They like to meet. They very much like to meet. The the the community of of the people of God is very much a fellowshiping group of people. They may meet by a down by a river, as the apostles. Came across some women as he was preaching, and Lydia was one of them who heard. Acts 11, 26, and when he had Found him, he brought him into Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people. Notice there's an assembling of themselves with the church They're gathered together. Those who can teach, there's a ministry of each other's gifts, and that cannot be done, I would assert, outside of the body of believers. If you have a gift of exhortation, you're not going to be like St. Francis of Assisi down the road who went out preaching to the deer and the squirrels and the rabbits. As much as some of us like to feed them, we don't go and preach to them because we don't believe they're going to be saved. And he took literally that passage says, preach the gospel to every creature under heaven. Well, to him that included animals. I'm sorry, we know earlier that animals' souls descend to the earth. They don't have a soul that answers to God. They don't have a sin issue to deal with. What animals do, they do as brute beasts. They're not refined humans. They're not made in the image of God. So it's a visible group of Christians, and they typically meet in a conveniently located spot in their city, in their town. Third meaning of this word church, it can also refer to the unassembled group of Christians in a city. They can be unassembled. For instance, Acts 5. This is the account when Um as uh Peter is beginning to become a bold speaker and the time of Pentecost has just recently passed, they're greatly emboldened by the Holy Spirit, and people are coming around saying We're giving all of our money to the church, and they're selling houses, selling lands, they're depositing so much right there at the footstep of the apostles, and someone comes, it says, uh, and They only laid part of the money down claiming, yep, we've sold it all. In other words, they lied about their love offering. That's not wrong to give a partial love offering. Hey, you know at this time we can only But they tried to lie about it to make themselves look like, yeah, we're part of this group that really had sacrificed all. Peter said unto her, How is it that you've agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door and shall carry thee out. Then she fell down straightway at his feet, yielded up the ghost, she took the uh uh the ground temperature challenge. And the young men came in and found her dead and carrying her forth buried her by her husband. And notice it says, and great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things. This word got out. It assembled, it spread. But it spread to the what? The church. They were not assembled necessarily at that time They were in that city and word came to them and fear fell upon them. You do this. Someone calls up. Could you have the church pray for my relative, niece, some such Well, I'm not going to wait till they get together. We have means of communicating with the believers who gather, and we can call them the church, even though they're not at that time. Well, it can be a group of Christians that meet in a house. Yes, our concept is in the Bible. Wonderful. 1 Corinthians 16, some of the last passages of all the Pauline epistles have a reference to a house church. I just give a couple. The churches of Asia salute you, Aquila and Priscilla, salute you much in the Lord with the church that is in their house. And Priscilla and Aquila were a very powerful, powerful first century force for establishing, strengthening, and propagating the gospel. Romans, Paul mentions the church that is It was Priscilla and Aquila who taught uh one um uh early uh teacher, uh saying I was thinking Barnabas, but it's not Barnabas. That name escapes me. Uh much more uh oh uh uh Apollos, who was bold in the Lord, taught him much more plainly because he only knew the baptism of John Together, husband and wife team. If a husband has a theologically sound wife, that's a fantastic help meet. Don't shy that away, don't shut it down, embrace it, use it, and uh and it can be to the furtherance. Colossians four fifteen, salute salute the brethren. This is on the back side of your handout. Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea and Nympha and the church which is in House. So this is how things started. There are some brethren who simply happen to have the real estate and the space to be able to hold a few people in their house. Praise God if you have the opportunity to buy a house. You might want to think ministry Oh, we'd like to have this big sweeping foyer with the grand chandelier and it's an extra ten or fifteen thousand dollars. Oh, wouldn't that bring glory to my name? Or we could get this house that's a little plainer but it's got a twenty by fifty great room in it. where the church of God can meet. Rubber hits the road right there, folks. Where's your mindset at? Well I can't teach. Well could you invite somebody in who could? Why don't I play piano? Could you invite somebody in who could? You know, think I tell you there's been great blessings upon the Cluth House because we have been minded, Angela and I, from the very earliest time w what we want is what we we want to have ministry. In some way, shape, form, or fashion, we want to be in a position to enable ministry. We at Angela and I always thought, yep, church at meeting the basement didn't turn out to work out that way, but But we knew someday we might have to meet in the house. Lo and behold, here we are. Lo and behold. I didn't think it would come that soon, Jim. I really didn't. I really didn't. But God had other plans. Let me ask a question. We've looked at these house churches, we've looked at these unassembled churches, we've looked at these other things, and so I have another question for you. Do you think any children were in those house churches? Okay. Do children belong to a church even if they don't believe? Because they're quote unquote too young to mentally ascertain what's going on? You say no? You say yes? Alright, let's talk about it. Why no? Why? No. Why why uh uh do children belong to a church even if they don't believe? Well because that they're hearing it, they're still he hearing it. And at some point God can use what they've heard and enhance it that they would start growing up in that understanding. I mean this is like with with with people who deal in like drugs or anything else. wife to family to mother and father and the family. They'll probably go on that eventually. They'll take drugs too. But before they make a decision, would you say they are members of a church? Do they belong to the church? Well in that sense, I don't think that you could take it that far. Okay. I don't think you can take it that far, but you got a stepping stone even though You don't take it all the way to salvation. The idea of inheritance is the key to do what I'm talking about. children of believers. Okay, good observation. Absolutely. Correct. Right. They're they're they're still part of that covenant community. I was gonna find that kind of like how the church, the New Testament picture of Israel. Israel had people in it who were Jews but they weren't necessarily saved. Mm-hmm. Likewise the church has people in it who aren't necessarily saved, but they've either been brought up In by parents or friends or whatever. Right. So providentially we happen to be on this topic today because we have a baptism today. And well I'm gonna we're gonna keep explaining that as we go on. Uh to expand on uh Gloria's point. Th there were children who were spared by the blood on the doorpost uh coming out of Egypt. But they didn't put that blood there. Their parents did. But they were still under that covenant, under that protection. Yeah, what was the main promise of the covenant? Does anybody remember that? I should be a god to thee and to thy seed after thee. That's the main covenantal promise God has promised to save a people for himself, and he primarily works through Christian families. He primarily works through that, not exclusively, not exclusively. Praise God, not exclusively, right, Mom? Praise God But he primarily works that way. Well, we're gonna keep going. Uh and uh uh First Corinthians seven fourteen is an instance to Consider 1 Corinthians 7. 14 about this business of children in the church and their relationship to it. 1 Corinthians 7. 14 says The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. The point is the wife is a believer. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else, in other words, if this were not true, if sanctification were not enforced Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. Now what's interesting about the apostles' assertion there, it doesn't say they're saved. It says they're holy. They're holy because of what? They have a covenantal relationship. They're part of that covenant community. Ultimately, the church, that invisible body, consists only of believers. But the visible church that you and I see I can't tell. I cannot tell. At the end of the day, but I can still call them church. And that's what we're going to explore in the second half here, on that phrase church. There is a church that is universal. They're throughout the world. We'll get to that. I'm going to cover two more points here about the universality of the church and what it ultimately represents in its fullest sense. The church is universal. There's a couple of passages in Acts I want to point out. So just pause the children question in your mind for a moment because I'm trans transitioning quickly to another point which doesn't necessarily tie in with it, but just hold that thought. We're going to get to it in the in a minute. In Acts 8, it says at that time there was a great persecution against the church, which which was at Jerusalem, they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. Now that's interesting, it says except the apostles. So here you have the preachers and the pew. The leaders and the laity. Big difference. It says the church was scattered abroad except the apostles. Well, that's a reference to the people sitting down and listening to these men. They were called the church that was scattered. And what happened? Verse eight, chapter eight, verse four, a few verses later, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word They heard it enough that they said, you know what? I think I can boil this down and I can share it with somebody else. Let me tell you what, it's really not hard to be a witness Some people find it difficult to be a witness, I would submit for one and only one reason. They don't have a message. Correct. Exactly. They don't have a message of God's conversion in their life. They can't tell you a time when once I was blind, now I can see. Look at John 9, the blind man. He had no difficulty declaring to the Pharisees. He couldn't answer their questions. Is this man a sinner or not? Give God the glory. Whether he's a sinner or not, I don't know. This one thing I do know. I got a hold of one truth that got a hold of me. Once I was blind, now I see he had a message. He was a brand spanking bravy new Christian. He he had just as it were like a Uh uh popped right out of the egg a little chirping chip. Uh chirp uh chirping chick said three times But he had a shirt that was the message of God, and God recorded it at length, because it was a good message. So that's why most people can't be a witness because they don't have a message to give. Yes, Freddy? You can't help but you you're right. It just comes out. You're very interested in it. I was ready to go witness the crack houses and all kinds of stuff when God saved me. I mean I was I was like, Oh there's a debt of iniquity. They need the gospel. I was ready to just plow right in. God the Holy Spirit pull me the hold up, son. You may not come out of there today. Let's just give that some time. So uh we read about the scattering abroad in Acts eleven. Um First Corinthians twelve, you know, uh is another point I want to make about the church. Corinthians 12, 12, for as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, bond or free, all have been made to drink into one spirit. I do not believe it is at the end of the day correct to have black church. African Church, Ethiopian, uh Assyrian Church of uh of Donetsk. I mean uh it could be a specific region, but dividing it up, Arabic Baptist Church, I've been there before. Preached there for a year and a half. Because what happened, there's a number of problems with it. How do you preach from this passage? It says there's neither Jew nor Gentile, bond nor free. How do you preach that? When you look around and you go, we're all looking pretty Arabic here. I understand if your native language is Arabic and you're coming here from a different country And grandpa and mom and dad don't really know English for it. I I do get that. And I I will make a pass for that reason But the leadership mindset has to be we are not here just for the Arabs. We will have an Arab-speaking service, but we're going to be quick to find somebody who does know the native language so that not only others around us can hear the gospel, but our youth growing up will hear it as well, because they're not going to keep up with Arabic. Oh, they may, but they are going to know English and they're going to know pretty well. And this is what happens when you divide churches according to national identities, they lose their youth. Because then they stick with their traditions and their old ways and and then the youth are scattered to whatever happens to be available. Mike and then uh Joe. So we have a Korean church or I believe a Korean church down the road. Yep. Oh yeah, plenty of them. And the interesting thing is from what you're saying is people don't learn. They don't change. They don't do what the Spirit would be leading them to do. This is the interesting thing to me. Yep. That happens a lot, yes. And go along with that. Most churches that that identify themselves that w that way. They don't want to hear something they've never heard before. See that's what learning is. You gotta hear some things you never heard before. But as long as you go research it like a berin, but most people do not want to hear any message that they have not already been hurt Right. Because you've never heard of it, that means one doesn't mean it's true or not. Most of those churches quickly become more cultural Right. And you lose sight of the gospel mission. Satan will tempt you with that which is good rather than allowing you to proceed with that which is best. is h however a good place to start, but it's not the end. Right. Right. You know, um I find it amazing that I have been to different countries and been in situations Christians where I've met people who were Christians and we automatically connect them. Yes. But yes, it really is true. Yep, yep. Mm Mike and then I'll move to the next one. They don't learn. They don't search the scriptures. You know, there there is a top-level meaning, but there is a deeper meaning, and Peter talks about that concerning Paul's teachings And this is this is the tragedy of church history. Yeah. Yeah, it can be very comfortable to stick with tradition because it's comfortable, familiar, but what if tradition happens to be wrong? And again, you and I have talked about Verdine's book, uh the Reformers and Their Stepchildren. Yep, it's been an interesting read. through the back door in the Reformation. More on that in a bit. So uh I want to get to I'm going to skip over a point here and I want to talk about the visible church So we saw church as the invisible body believers. These are the elect of God, those who are truly saved. And they're visible. They meet in a place But my final point in the handout, and you fill in blanks, is the visible church consists of both the saved and the unsaved, yet it's still called a church. The visible church consists of both the saved and the unsaved, and yet in the New Testament, it's still called church. Okay, so there's a broad range of meanings. Sometimes he narrowly focuses on that ultimate church. And you know from the Old Testament, the Apostle Paul says not all Israel is Israel. He's got two different meanings of that word in that one verse. You could replace that and say, not all the church is the church. So let's look at this. We looked at the parable of uh the uh one of the parables Last week, and I'll repeat it again here, Matthew 13, 29, but he said, Nay, lest while you gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let them grow together until the harvest. And in time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. The parable is about a man. He had a fee. He was planting his field. He owned the field. It was his. He cared for it. He paid taxes on it. He fenced it. All that he needed to do was his. Rightful ownership. Somebody else came and dumped a bunch of tears in it. He still cared for it. He still defended it. He still did what he had to do, and yet he says, at the time of harvest, then I'll do the separation. But it was his field. God's talking about his church. And this isn't new to you. You've seen this. You've up Observe this. What if you found, here's my next question. And again, I'm being like Paul here. I'm trying to ask a shocking question to push your thinking far, but I'm not trying to go over the edge here, all right? What if you found a local gathering of nominal professing Christians? Fornicators and drunks are known to be in attendance, not secretly known to be in attendance. But they were preaching the gospel at that place. What would you call such a gathering? Well, you use it term of church they were called out by God to be there. Okay. That's what a church is. Yeah, right. Okay. Good. I was one of those ones. You were one of those ones. Right. Hope hope we don't throw Freddie under the bus today. We're not going to throw you under the bus today, Freddie. I would call that place the church at Corinth. You've read Corinthians. They wrote him a question about divorce, marriage, and remarriage, which he didn't begin to address until the seventh chapter. He says, I've got a few things to deal with you first. He says, You have a man in your midst, guilty of fornication, not so much as is named among the Gentiles, that a man should have his father as his father's father Wife. Put therefore that uh evil man away from you. Excommunicate him, that's what he said. He also talked about the Lord's Supper. What? Kind of hard to be drunk on grape. But that's another story. So that was called the church at Corinth. Well, Vince, are you saying this is how we ought to be? No, no. I'm not going down that direction, folks. I'm just pointing out to you, I'm trying to underscore the point. That the church has always consisted of the saved and the unsaved. The church that was in the wilderness that Stephen references in Acts 7. 38. Folks, I can count two that were saved in that group. Caleb and Joshua and Moses, but he didn't make it to the promised land because all the rest of that generation died. I mean, wow, it can get mighty thin. You know, does the adversary really s Joe, does the adversary really sow a lot of tears in the midst? I wish Pastor Keith were sitting here. He wants to write a book, My Life is a Goat Herder. I think it's great. He says in 1 Corinthians 1, listen to Paul's introduction. Now he knows what he's about to write to this church. He knows what he's got to take them to task on But listen to how he writes to them. And I don't think he's just blowing smoke at them either, to make them feel good. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ, the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother, unto the church, same word we've been looking at. of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, call to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus. Christ, our Lord, both theirs and ours, grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. He wishes them grace and peace. He says, I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ. And he looks for things he can point at that are correct. He's not going to throw the baby out of the bathwater. He says, you're enriched by him in all utterance and all knowledge. They their speech was good Their understanding was good. He didn't fault them for that. They had a good mental grasp of doctrine. They were good in that. They were bankrupt in other areas, but in that much they were good Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, so that you come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. They were looking for Christ's coming. They had that right. Who shall also confirm you to the end that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ? God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. So there are some saints in there that he's writing, I think, with that fullest of blessing, and yet he's also about to really take others to serious tasks. And he called that the truth. church. Ready? Um no, I wasn't raising my hand, but I was I will say that the doing those signs when I was going, I kept on. And I kept But I knew I was different from the people that were there. Right. And it was heavy, heavy conviction. Absolutely. in my inwardly that I was there's something's different. There's something different about these people than me. Yeah. But I kept going 'cause I was so tired of being the way that I was. And I kept going and I kept going. One day old things passed away and old things became new. Amen. Go ahead, Jim. Go ahead. came to say who center. That's gotta be the bottom line. How long it takes him to convert you may be different for some. Mm-hmm. Now in my case, I mine was fairly consuming. I started hearing that word I was in separate and that I don't want no more of it. I gotta be watching this stuff. You know. But others don't feel that it takes them longer because maybe they're like because the people there around including family keeps them from getting in a deeper understanding of who God is and what He can came to do Well the difference between a a saved uh saint who is sinning, the prodigal say, and the goat or the uh pair as you would say, is that The saving saint, the prodigal, doesn't remain in the pig pen. He goes to his father, goes out of the pig pen, he goes back to the father and says Receive me as sinned against you. The pig uh the the goat or whatever remains a sinning uh false convert Artificial saint you would say. Rises again, but the wicked fall. And when they like it, they keep going into it. Right. And when we s yeah, eventually we learn. But we sin and then it's a heartbreak to us. And we know repentant prayer, repentant prayer the Lord forgive us. And we have to be washed. He has to wash our feet. He has to wash us uh as as Okay. Jim, could you close us in prayer? Could I ask you to do that? Oh it's easy. That would be crazy one that we had about ten to do that. another yet another opportunity to gather together as your people. Lord, as we explore your word and the close and understand this word, we pray that your Holy Spirit guide us to just give us But it's like some kind of maze of information that has to be applied in a certain way. We don't always have the correct way to understand that. But we know by your spirit you can that you have made alive in us that we may walk boldly and understand and get and get more and more uh closer to you to learn more and more from the Holy Spirit. You've given us. So we thank you for praise. We thank you for this time each Sunday that we can gather together and ponder your word in your way. And rely on you. To bring us to a fullness of my mistake. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.