We are looking today at a topic which I thought I had down handily as I began looking at the study. and found out that this one short paragraph in Burkhoff's chapter about the exalted state of Christ, uh his resurrection, uh, would be rather straightforward. And as I began to look at it and more questions were asked to me of it, I began to appreciate a little bit more the complexities that are involved. So uh my prayer today is that I'd labor to be clear and uh try to be uh uh uh good and gracious about it. The title of the study is Exalted in the Resurrection. We're studying the doctrine of the person of Christ. We've looked at the prophecies concerning him, who this one was that should come, and then we're now looking at the one who actually came and the states he was in. And last week was such a, I think, powerful one about his humiliation. Never was there a man ever subjected to such humiliation as our Savior was, and it is truly something that is is worth remembering and reflecting upon. And in fact, this week is called the the Passion Week and next Sunday is the resurrection. So this study is just almost synchronized perfectly, but that's okay. It doesn't hurt to talk about uh the state of the resurrection uh a little early. What do we mean about the exaltation of Christ, to be exalted? Well, that's a theological term, and it's uh again, Mr. Burkoff is attempting to cover doctrines that the church has held. uh throughout the ages, at least among the faithful. And we're talking about the um uh uh this this part that's now past him where Christ has been under the law as a covenant obligation. He's completed that. He's already paid for the penalty of sin and death. Now what? Well now what we have is that we have him being crowned with honor and glory. And there's a process to get to that. And there's four steps to that. The four stages of exaltation are the resurrection. He actually came out of the grave. That is a phenomenal statement in and of itself, which is why this is kind of a difficult topic because resurrections just don't commonly happen. We just haven't seen that in our day. And for most of humanity, with the exception of five hundred brethren who saw Christ, um None have seen a resurrection. Then here's his ascension, that he ascended back into heaven. We also talk about his session, meaning he was seated at the right hand of the Father, and of course the last step of his exaltation that has not yet occurred is his return, his coming. He'll be glorified in his saints when he returns. And we eagerly look forward to that day. So let's talk about the resurrection for a moment. What are your thoughts on the resurrection? What is it? Describe it to somebody who's perhaps never heard of a resurrection. comes alive again. Okay, in the simplest form, one who's dead comes alive again. Alright? Now let's poke into that a little further. Okay, somebody's been dead, they come alive again. Are they gonna die again? It is a new birth. Okay, it's like a new birth. Yeah. Yeah, we we celebrate it springtime. We plant seeds and these little tiny things pop up out of the ground. Okay. Um Well, there's more questions I could poke into about the nature of it because there's a lot that comes with that. There's a lot of baggage in that. Christ's resurrection is what we're going to focus on today. We're not going to focus on our resurrection so much as is Christ's resurrection, and that's where the difficulty of the study lies. There's a lot written about our eventual resurrection, and we do read extensively about that in 1 Corinthians 15. Thank God for 1 Corinthians 15 because it answers a lot of questions for us that drive me to the position where I'm at currently. But Christ's resurrection wasn't just simply a mere reunion of his body and his soul. It wasn't just a mere reunion. There was something different that happened because let's face it, the body he came in was destined to die. Our bodies that you and I have are under the curse, and they are destined to die. But especially in Christ's human nature, his body and soul were restored to original strength and beauty, and even beyond that, raised to a higher level, he was in fact raised with a spiritual body. And this is where honest God-fearing Christians can look at this sometime and scratch their head. What do you mean by that? Is that really the case? We studied angels, for instance, earlier that are spirit beings. Was Christ a spirit? Raised up? What are we talking about? And this whole topic of the body of Christ and his resurrection is It's hard. It really is kind of hard to understand, and we're given a very short period of time. He was only here on earth for a scant forty days before he returned to heaven. There was a little bit of writing about it. They were more fascinated with the fact that, wow, he rose up from the dead. Here's one who came back. The grave really is empty, and there's big ramifications just for that alone We're we're kind of not focused on the main lobe, the main radar lobe of the teaching of the resurrection. We're kind of focused on a side lobe here. It says, okay, well what what body did he have? What is that? That's kind of a little bit of what we're talking about here I would assert that he came with a spiritual body. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 15, we have that question asked, and I can understand why the believers at the Church of Corinth asked about the question of the resurrection. In verse 20, 1 Corinthians 15, you don't have to turn there, I'll just mention it to you. There was a question that says some say that there isn't even a resurrection. The Sadducees, for instance, claim there's no resurrection. They didn't believe in angels or spirits either. You die, that's it, you're done. And so the apostle answers that. No, there really is such a thing as a So he's nailed down the fact that, yea, verily there is a resurrection. And now he's going to turn his question to a different audience. And he says in verse 35, some man will say, How? Are the dead raised up and with what body do they come? He spends more time answering the second question, thank God, than he does the first, because my study is actually more on the second question With what body do they come? Verse 42, so also is the resurrection of the dead. It's sown in corruption, meaning our body goes to the grave, right? It's not moving, it's not breathing. After four days, rigor mortis sets in, it really begins to decay pretty heavily. It is raised in corruption. That's astounding. Verse 44 is a very helpful verse. It says, it is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. Alright, now Those are two very interesting, and then it says there is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. So verse 44 is very helpful. It continues, verse 53, for this corruptible must put on incorruption, this mortal must put on immortality. So there's different points that the apostle is poking at in this business of a resurrection. Step one, we have, what are the synonyms we have? We have dead, we have corruption, we have natural body. And then mortal on the other side of the grave, when you come out of it, we have this language. We have Incorruption, we have resurrection. We have spiritual body, we have spiritual body twice. We have incorruption, we have immortality. That's what we have on that side. And the most helpful verse to me really was verse 44, and it was helpful from a prior study we had done concerning body and soul and spirit. That phrase there, it is sown a natural body. There's a footnote there, and you can look at the bottom. That word natural is the word soul. It's suki. When Jesus says you'll suffer body and soul in hell, that's the word suke. When God breathed into Adam And he became a living soul. He became a suke, right? God breathed into the elements, the suke. We have a soul body. That's what we currently possess. It's a soul body. Now, it's rendered natural body because we don't say soul body. I mean, you know, some may talk about their soul mate, but that's not what we're talking about here. It's a soul body. It's a body that houses a soul, but it's a body And that word body is the same in both natural body and spiritual body. It's a soma, it's a suke soma, it's a soul body. But it's raised a numa body. A pneuma body, that word pneuma is the word spirit. It's also used for the word Holy Spirit, but it's a pneuma body. And that's why he says there is a natural body. There is a spiritual body. It actually is a body. Okay? It possesses something. It has something. And I would point out that our resurrected state is not as a pure spirit being. There are spirits that are immaterial. They do not have bodies. You remember the demoniac. He was filled with 5,000 demons. Those were 5,000 bad angels, or some of his henchmen, but they were spirits that couldn't go in this fellow Uh you couldn't see them. The spirit left and went into the swine. So as a pure spirit, they could interchange bodies. You're not raised that way. You're not raised as a pure spirit being. Jesus taught the Sadducees, who declared that there's no such thing as angels. He says in I think in Matthew 22. 30 he says that we are as the angels. There's a similarity to angels, but we are not angels. We're men. We die as a man, we raise are raised up as men. So this issue of the resurrection uh is interesting because it does mean that there is a change. I mean, first of all, let's agree on that. When there's a resurrection, the old boy was down in the grave. And then there's a resurrection, he's up out of the grave. But it's the same occupant. of that casket that is now out. But there's obviously some kind of a change. We can't say that there was anything native in there before that Was reused to effect that. Something experimental had to come, something had to change and had to bring it up and out Okay? And I believe that is reference in the in the in the scriptures to a spiritual body. There has now been a life force given to it that is different than the life that was in it before. This is a force of life. That can overcome death, grave, the hell, you name it, it overcomes it. It is the first Adam goes down, but the second Adam, the first Adam was a living spirit The second Adam is a life-quickening spirit, a life-giving spirit. It's one that can give life even to dead things so much that they can come out It's a radical change. So the difficulty of this study is trying to strike this balance between what is a radically different thing versus what is the same, what is similar. Okay. Turn with me to Job 19 for a moment. Job 19. And Job declares this in verse 25, one of the earliest. boldest statements of faith. Job, of course, we all know was tried very hard. Was tested under some grievous trials. uh both physically, uh mentally, emotionally, on all aspects and components you can imagine, Job was struck down. And yet he had this bold declaration of faith in the midst of his pathetic state, his pitiable state He says in Job 19, 25, For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroyed this body, yet In my flesh shall I see God. That's a bold statement. What is he basically saying? He believes in the The resurrection. He says, this body, worms can destroy it, but in my flesh shall I see God. He's going to be resurrected. He in fact is going to see God. whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold. He takes possession. He says, these eyes will see God. And not another, though my reins be consumed within me. He says, even though everything is rotted away, the worms have had a feast. I'm nothing but a pile of bones in the ground. He says, I'm going to have eyeballs, and they're going to be my eyeballs. And I'm going to have flesh, and it's going to be my flesh. And I in fact am going to see God. And what he's testifying is that he believes in a resurrection That death will not have the ultimate victory over him. Well, I believe statements like that in the book of Job As well as statements of the Lord Jesus when he uh appeared and to doubting Thomas, says Here, put your hand in the print and thrust your hand at my side, and be not unbelieving, but believing. For a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have He declared himself, I'm in flesh and bones, because spirit doesn't have this. Okay So then I can see why some people would ask, well, with what body then does someone who's resurrected come in? Is it the natural body, a body of flesh? Is it the same body Jesus went in the grave with? Or is it a spiritual body? And that's not actually an easy question to answer. Because Jesus says, look, touch! It's me. And you would say, okay, it's the same body. So he came up with his natural body. But Job says, No, in my flesh I'm going to see God in my eyes, not another. Okay, that sounds like Joke says my natural body is going to be up in what you see. How do we reconcile? Do you understand the tension here? Because Corinthians says that there's a natural body, and it says there's a spiritual body. When I mention spiritual body, perhaps what comes to your mind? What do you imagine a spiritual body being like? Well, from the language of Like a ghost. Um, you know, we have the language of 1 Corinthians 15 that's pretty undeniable that says You don't so I'm reading here in 1 Corinthians 15. You might want to turn to that now and look at 1 Corinthians 15, 37. He says, That which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain. May chance be of wheat, some other grain. God gives it a body, as it has pleased him, to every seed his own body And then he goes and talks about the different bodies and their different glory. He says, the glory of the sun, the glory of the moon, the glory of the stars of verse 41. Verse 42, so also is the resurrection of the dead. Verse 43, sown in dishonor, raised in glory. And so you have all this language of it being glorious and immortal, and he says it's like stars, and so you kind of get the idea. uh that you're coming out of the grave, shining, bright, just radiant, just overpowering in your light and Did Jesus appear like that? Was he radiating? He wasn't. But there were some differences. So you can see why there's a question, perhaps. What about this body of Jesus Christ when he came out of the grave? So, where I've kind of settled is the language that as you go through this language in 1 Corinthians 15, that in fact we have Jesus, I believe. You can disagree with me, that's all right. But I believe that Jesus came out of the grave, kind of in a transition state, but for the most part It's a spiritual body. And you would say, well, wait a minute. He he ate with them and so yes, but he had a body. But it was fundamentally different. It's one that could never die again. It had not yet been glorified. The radiance, the shining, that hadn't occurred yet. He's in a transition. When he ascends to heaven, see, that's where his glory comes. When he returns, the brightness of his coming. So let's look at some language why I believe that's the case. So we see here in Luke 24 As they thus faith, this is the disciples standing around in the room. Again, the doubting Thomas scene in your handout. Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and said of them, Peace be unto you, but they were terrified and affrightened And suppose they had seen the spirit. And he said unto them, Why are you troubled? Why do thoughts arise in your heart? Behold my hand and my feet handle it, that's I myself. Alright, so first of all We confess and believe that Jesus Christ, in fact, rose from the dead. No questionnaire. He absolutely came out. Number two, he just appeared in the middle of the room, poof. He sort of hasn't done that before. Now it's true he hid himself in different times. There was people that came, wanted to make him the king, but he passing through the midst of them hid himself. You kind of get the sense that he hid in a crowd. He slithered away. He just got away quickly. But poof, whatever he did at that time, in the body that he had, raised from the dead, He could just appear. He seems to have passed right through a wall. There doesn't seem to have been anything different. And yet he said, here, handle. So there's something different. It was him. They recognized him. He didn't come back in a Different body, but he did come back in a different body, because it was all of a sudden able to pass through walls, appear, disappear Okay. We have in John 20 and verse 13, Woman, why weepest thou? She said unto him, Because they've taken away my Lord, and I know not where they've laid him. It says she, supposing him to be the gardener, she didn't recognize him. Maybe her eyes were withholden, like those on the road to Emmaus, but she didn't recognize him. So there was something about him that she couldn't recognize. We see in John 20 and verse 19, the same day, first day of the week when the doors were shut, when the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst of them and said, Peace be unto you. Again, he's just passing through the walls. Two accounts declare that He just shows up. I would assert that that's different. That's not something you and I can do, and this is something the resurrected Lord did. Now, I can understand why some might teach that Jesus rose from the grave with his exact same body, that he came back in the natural body, not the spiritual body. I do believe that there is some problems with that. Now they would say, okay, they would agree now he's in heaven in a spiritual body. There's no question about that. We would agree there. He's in heaven in a spiritual body. So when did it change? When did he go from the natural body that came out of the grave, was given life, and then but in heaven now he's got the spiritual body? And the answer they would give, and which would be reasonable, would be to say, well it changed in the clouds But when he was up in the clouds, he he changed there, and then that's where he is now in heaven. That change occurred there. And I say that's reasonable because I'm asserting that the change from natural to spiritual body occurred in the grave. Again, a hidden place. We can see it. There's been a change there, and then he came forth and went to heaven. I would say there's problems with the idea of saying his body changed in the clouds, because number one, the scriptures don't speak about that. There's no lengthy explanation given. 1 Corinthians 15, 45 says in the resurrection, it's raised a spiritual body. It's not given an alternate choice. As you're raised that way, it's a different body. And there's another major point I make here, and this gets to another verse we're going to look at, and that's in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 20. And that is, Jesus would be no different from others who were raised from the dead before him. You know, he really wasn't the quote-unquote first to be resurrected. Elijah raised people from the dead. Elisha did as well. There were some who were raised in the Old Testament. In fact, Jesus raised up himself, Lazarus, from the dead. So then why then would Scripture say in verse 20, but now is Christ I'm in 1 Corinthians 15, 20, but now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept? Now in the Greek it's the singular first fruit, but it's okay to render it first fruits, because that's a connection to Leviticus 23 and the feast of first fruit, which, oh by the way, came Right after Passover. And what was Passover about? The killing of the lamb, the shedding of blood, the remembrance of the Lord passing over their houses in Egypt and thus delivering them by a mighty hand out of bondage. A picture of what Christ would do on the cross. And shortly after that came the Feast of the First Fruits. I'm supposing that's not an accident. I'm supposing that Christ's resurrection matches up with that because then fifty days later after Passover would be the feast of Pentecost, the pouring out of God the Holy Spirit, and that's what you read about. In the book of Acts. Christ ascended to heaven first. He had to come up out of the grave first. That lines up very nicely with the Feast of First Fruits. Now, let's talk about firstfruits for a moment, because we're still talking about the resurrection, okay? The Bible says we're raised in the resurrection, we're raised a spiritual body. And there's no question, I think, about believers being raised a spiritual body. Our subject, however, happens to be about the resurrection of Christ. But he's called the first fruits. Let's think about that for a moment. What is a first fruit? Just literally after the you know manner of men. What's the first fruit? Those of you who grow things in gardens. Yeah. The very first thing that comes off how many of you have ever grown a tomato plant? That's the easiest thing to grow. It really is. You stick them in a little bit of dirt, put a little bit of manure around it if you really want a good tomato. And uh give it a place with plenty of sunshine and stake it up if you want. You don't even really have to stake it if you want, but it's easier. And you see that flower come out. And then you see that little bud, and then you see the tomato growing. He's green, he's greener, he's getting less yellow, he's starting to get red. And pretty soon he's getting real red. And you just can't wait to take that big, red, luscious first tomato and pluck it off and stick it in your salad bowl. I like to eat it just like that with some sliced up onion, put a little olive oil and vinegar on it or a little bit of I'm getting hungry every day I got stocked Alright. It's the first fruit. It's really good. Is it the last fruit? No. It's the first. What the what is the implication? There's gonna be others like it. It's a mighty good appetizer. It's a sampling of things to come, you see. So Christ is the first fruit in two senses. Number one. I would assert that Lazarus, that the saints that Elijah and Elisha raised They died. It wasn't a great deal for Lazarus. He was raised from the dead, visited, and guess what? He died again later on. He did die. Lazarus didn't continue on in that state. He came back in a natural body that again became subject to death, decay, and he passed on. So that first state, I'm going to use the word state of Lazarus. I'm going to pick on him because I don't recall the names of the older testament ones. I think the widow's son of Nahan and so forth raised up. But Lazarus is our good case point here. He came back with that natural body, again, subject to death, decay, and destruction. He was not a first fruit Because he again fell back. Christ is the first fruit because he came up never, ever, never, never to die again. It would not happen It's the first of many. And if it's a body that can never die again, I'm driven to the conclusion that's got to be a spiritual body. It's got to be. Now, Christ came back with a body. He was the first fruit of the dead. And so that imagery ties us to that. And so the other saints who were raised and they died again, they're not that first fruit. They can't map to that They won't equate that. They can't be said to be a firstfruit. And this language of firstfruit is used not only in Corinthians, Colossians. speaks about this as well. It's on the back side of your handout. He is the head of the body of the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead Eric uses a different term, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. And what's interesting about that phrase firstborn, you know what that word is because some of the Greek words have come over into the English language He is the prototype. You know what a prototype is, right? When when General Motors or Ford, or these days Tesla. uh come up with a brand new vehicle they want to sell, they first want off the lots called the prototype. It's fully functional and everything they expect it to be. And it's a preview of things to come. Now, General Motors and others will do it just to kind of, because their engineers are not perfect. They'll flush out any further problems. You know, once you've built it and you actually run it and drive it, there's just some problems you can't flush out until you actually put your hands on. Take it a run through the course. Not so in scriptures. Christ that prototype, he's the perfect prototype. He's the perfect one out of the gate. Revelation 115 says Christ who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of the dead and the prince of the kings of the earth. Again, he's that first begotten of the dead, raised up never to die again. So I would assert that what Christ came out of the grave with was a spiritual body. Now here's the difficulty in saying that. Maybe you had the thought that we would come back as spirits. No, you're going to have a body. I don't know if you recall earlier when we were teaching about the nature of man, the depravity of man, how man is totally depraved, and I was making a point that this right here, this this physical thing called my body In and of itself inherently is not evil. It says, they that do mind the things of the flesh Right? They're earthly, they're carnal, they're sensual. It's not talking about, oh, if you care for your body, I'm never going to give myself medicine because to care for the things of the matter inherently in and of itself is not evil Whatever the flesh is, it has a mind. The mind of the flesh. That's where the problem is. It's in the heart of man. It's that soul body. We have a sinful nature to us. That is what's got to change. So, what are you saying, Brother Vince? That somebody in a wheelchair Somebody who's stricken with a withered hand, somebody who has epistema, they're going to come out of the grave and they're just they're going to still have those effects. Oh no. Oh no, no, no, no, no. In a soul body, those effects overcome, take you, drag you down. A spirit body, a life-giving body. There's a repair, there's a recovery, there's restoration, there's an ongoing improvement in a sense. I don't know about ongoing. It's perfected. Never to die again. How long did Adam live? Anybody remember? 900 years. 930 years. Methuselah was the oldest at 969. I know some of you are are bucking to beat Methuselah. You'd be a youngster of Methuselah. God doesn't want me. We'll keep her down here for a little longer. Isn't that astounding? You know another thought about this physical body, because Job says, In my flesh I'll see God. Because I don't want somebody in a state of chronic illness to be discouraged. Are you saying that just this old body? I'm stuck with I'm always going to be four foot ten. I'm always gonna be I'm always gonna have a hurt limp and Oh, there's a recovery, there's a tremendous restoration, there's a radical improvement. And it is such a radical improvement. But Brother Vince, doesn't Corinthians say flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God? I say it. That's a term. That's a technical term. Because, do you remember Enoch, who was not? What happened? He was translated. Enoch's in heaven What about Elijah in a chariot of fire and taken up to heaven? What about Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration? He talks to who? Moses and Elijah, they're there. And the devil was disputing about the body of Moses. What's he doing up there before Christ is on the cross? I believe that's what the argument was about. There is a man in heaven, the God man, Jesus Christ. There is a man in heaven, and he has a body. But it's a spiritual body, not a spirit. He's not a spirit. God the Father is a spirit. God the Son, the God man. That's that whole doctrine of the Trinity. Do you see why this is a complex topic and kind of hard to understand? So I think there are some significance to the fact that there is a resurrection. It's a resurrection to a body, but it's a real body. It actually is a body. We don't know how much fitness we have lost since the days of Adam. We just don't know how much we've lost. I'm getting to the point now where I walk into a room and I go, now why am I here? I came in this room for something. But here I am look around for a clue. Was I looking for my phone? Was I You know, and I'm like, man, this is too early for this to be happening. 57, this is too early. No, no Lord, I'm not drinking sodas out of soda can. I'm not trying to stay away from aluminum. I don't want a buildup of it in my brain. Not happening. The fitness that he had The this body we have, folks, is made in the image of God. Have you thought about that? The death penalty is tied to that if somebody sheds man's blood. Why? Because God made man in the image of God. You're made in the image of God. Body and soul. You're in that image. Okay? Inherently, there's nothing wrong with this. In another, just the flesh. It's the sin. It's under the corruption. It's under the curse of the law. You're uniquely you. Isn't it amazing? Doctors can work on human patients, and they're to a very high degree alike. To a high degree, a lot of their procedures can be followed, and yet there's no to you out there. You and you alone have your exceptional gifts, your exceptional balance of talents and skills. No one of you possesses all the skills and talents everybody else has. That's Jesus Christ. But you and you alone have that unique set of talents and gifts which this world may not appreciate. Which others may denigrate. There's uh something as popular in social media these days called fat shaming or body shaming or something like that where people shame others for the shape of their body and It's horrible on Instagram for young girls because they're driven to suicide because they're told they don't measure up But God made you very, very unique. You just right now happen to be under the curse of sin, and you live in a sinful place And you're subject to death, and you're a Suke Soma. You're a natural body. You're going to be raised a spiritual body Nobody's seen that, ultimately. The Christ's body, when he ascended to heaven, he's got another stage, and that's his glorification. I think the glorification occurred when he's in the clouds. That's when the radiancy comes. Why would I say that's where that change came? Well, do you remember the Mount of Transfiguration? Matthew 20? He went up into a high mount, took three of his disciples with him. And what? They were overshadowed with the what? With a cloud. And from that cloud came a voice, this is my beloved son, hear him, in whom I'm well pleased. Even his garments were glowing and radiating. His radiancy and his glowing is seen in a cloud environment. When he returns, he returns, he cometh with clouds And it says in Thessalonians of the Antichrist that Christ will destroy him with the brightness of his coming. The brightness of his coming. Isaiah asks, who can dwell with everlasting burnings? I think when Christ came out of that grave with that spiritual body, there was one piece repressed, suppressed, the brightness, the Shekinah glory, that glowing, that radiancy. I think that was, again, kept under wraths. Maybe you could say Christ's body's in the resurrection state. But all of 1 Corinthians 15 is talking about the resurrection As we have borne the image of the earthy, so shall we burn the image of the heavenly. The first, Adam was made a living soul. The last, Adam was made a life, quickening spirit. So there's no in-between. There's no alternatives. It's not the first Adam and then the second, now the the last. He's the last Adam. He's that life-giving spirit. We're going to be conformed to him. And the scripture talks about his resurrection and what we have. As he is raised from the grave, so will we. There's a change, there's an improvement. What about the marks in his hand? Is he forever going to have that in heaven? Oh, he's been cut short. Does that mean I'm always going to have a limp? I don't know. But I'll know this. It'll make it easier sure make it easier for me in heaven to uh uh if if Christ and again I don't know exactly how all heaven looks. He'll be the one on the throne, there's no question, but If like Adam he walked with Christ in the cool of the garden of the day, that's him. That's him. I think it's a permanent mark and a badge of honor for eternity. I redeemed you. This is the price I paid and I redeemed you. I don't know. I don't know. We're speaking of things we you know can only dream about What are the significance of the resurrection? Let's get to the significance of the resurrection and get off the topic of what the body was, because that's a harder one. There's three significance. The first is this, Jesus met all the requirements of the law. He met all the requirements of the law. Acts says concerning, Acts 13, 34, concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption. He said, On this wise, I give you the sure mercies of David. Wherefore he saith in another psalm, Thou wilt not suffer thy holy one to see corruption. No more corruption. Corruption is a result of the curse. If there's no corruption, there's no grave, there's no curse, he's paid it. The end of 1 Corinthians, oh death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. The strength of sin is the law. He's not under the law. He's paid it. God's satisfied. All the requirements have been met because the wages of sin is death. That's demanded by the law of God. And he's paid it all. He's the only one who could Because the law demands an eternal consequence. It's called eternal damnation. And he's paid it as an eternal being. It's fully paid for. He actually swallowed up death, hell, and victory in the grave and was spit out on the other side and said it's finished, it's fully accomplished, nothing left to pay. When you understand that Christ has fully met all the requirements of the law, all of the requirements of the law, everything that was required to restore man to fellowship with God, it makes the Arminian position a little weak, doesn't it? Because it says Christ has done everything he could do, but you still have one thing left to do. You've got to believe. And they put the action of faith entirely on you. You've got to muster up something. You've got to intellectually agree. They they they wait for that. But that would be unfair to go up to a dead person, spiritually dead, and say, you've got to muster that up. That's asking them for a self-resurrection when they have no power so to do Christ has given all the payments. And how many times do you read in the scriptures how even the old I'll get to you in a second old patron saints like Abram, great periods of faith Astounding. And then the very next minute he's hiding in the skirts of Sarai. Tell him you're my sister. You know, he's afraid. He shows great unbelief. Or Peter They'll all deny you, yet I will not deny you. And the little maid girl says, you are one of them, aren't you? I don't know him. With a cursing with an oath, no, I don't know him There's great periods of unbelief at times, saints, in the life of his believers. If we believe not, the apostle wrote to Timothy, yet he abides faithful. He cannot deny himself. Even in our periods of unbelief, God abides faithful. He cannot deny himself. Does that mean I can walk in a life of unbelief? Does that believe mean I can walk in a life of of Ignorant, willful, walking in the ways of the world? No. What fruit had you in those things whereof you are now ashamed? If you're a new creature of which the resurrection of the soul There's the first instance. There's a difference. There's a hunger. Do you think Lazarus wanted to hang around the tomb? Lazarus, come forth. Yeah, wait a minute. Got something else to do. What? What? What do you got to do in there? That's death. And so God calls to you, wherever you're at, oh businessman, oh businesswoman, oh housewife, oh whoever you might be, what are you doing in your area of death When God calls you, come, come. What have you got to do? It's a right now gospel. Go ahead, Pastor Jill. Two things real quick. The second one came up while you're talking. The righteous fall is seven times. And rises again. But the wicked falls into mischief. He loves it. But the the other thing, you talk about uh uh the Armenian idea. And the current thing I have on my Facebook is if you were saved by your own free will, be sure that you did a good job of it. Yes. Yes. Because if you're will yourself right out of it. Exactly. If it was my free will that saved me, then I may better make sure I did a good job. Did you do it right? And that's what I always ask as a young man. How do I know I've done it right? Did I walk the aisle correctly? Was I dressed correctly Did I believe enough? Did I believe enough? And I had a youth minister erroneously tell me back in the day when I asked that question. He says, well I believe God will just weigh it out. You know the old way out the balances thing. And I thought, great, I've got enough in this camp I can go do what I want to. Punch bud ticket for the gospel frame. That's right. Oh, I hadn't heard that one. Probably would have used that as an unsafe person, I know. Well, if Jesus Christ isn't in the balance over here, it doesn't matter what you put on your side because it's you can't outweigh him. He's the one that tips the scales. He met all the requirements of the law. It's clear that Jesus, when his body saw no corruption It's clear that God accepted his atoning work. Second thing of the resurrection, it symbolizes the believers' justification, regeneration, and resurrection. It justifies all of those things. It symbolizes them actually. By now Christ is raised from the dead, become the first fruits of them that slept. I'm in 1 Corinthians 1520. For since by man came death. By man, notice that, came also the resurrection of the dead. Again that language, by man, not by a spirit, by man came Resurrection of the dead, for as an Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. If you're in Christ, you'll be made alive. If you're in Adam, you're gonna die. And that's what a good example of that word all means. When you see that word all in scriptures, all does it depends on the context. In Adam, all die. In Christ, all are made alive. Is everybody made alive because of Christ? If they're not in Christ, they're not. You gotta be in Christ to be made alive. First Corinthians six, God has both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. He will raise us up. It's it's you that's being raised. You know, it's not much of a resurrection if you come back and you get a different body. If you get a different body, that's called a reincarnation. Yet it is a different body. It's of a very different nature. It's not a natural body, it's a spiritual body. But it is a body, as Job says, whom I will see with mine own eyes Romans 6, therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death. That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so also we should walk in the newness of life. If we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. As he died, he descended into the grave. As he rose, we rise also. He's that first born, that first fruit, that prototype, who's the first one. We can look at that and say, yep. I'm going to follow my Lord that way. I'm going to follow him in a resurrection. Lastly, it's the the resurrection is the cause. For the believer's justification, regeneration, resurrection. It's the cause for it. It's why we're, it, it, it drives our justification home. It makes it real. So much hinges on the resurrection of Christ, we can't underscore this. And again, the purpose of today's study is to focus on Christ and his person and his states. And we're looking at him in the state of the resurrection. But oh, it's hard not to talk about the ramifications of it and all that it brings with it. It's really hard. It says in Romans 4. 25, speaking of Jesus, he was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. It's one thing to say, yep, I'll pay for your sins. He goes to the grave, he dies, and never see him again. And you might begin to wonder, well, did it work? Did God accept it? How do I know? Doubts would arise. But if he actually came out of the grave, You would begin to think, well that means death couldn't hold him. That means he paid for something, but he lives again. Maybe that means I'm actually justified. Maybe that means I'm actually gonna be regenerated. Maybe that means I'm actually gonna be resurrected just like him. It is a huge impact. Uh it says in uh uh Uh Philippians three I like this, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. The power of his resurrection, resurrection power. You know that now if God Almighty has come and spoken to your heart and raised a dead heart to life that hears, that has ears to hear, eyes to see. That's the first step, it's that resurrection of soul. That's got to occur first. That's the one you need to hope to have to happen first All right, well we'll close out there. There's um if you'd like to see commentaries from others on this topic, I I have an extensive selection of them. You can get it from the online version of the study of Holding Fast and click on that Joe, could you close us in prayer this morning? Oh Gracious Father, uh indeed in these we groan. waiting for the resurrection of the body. And Lord, we thank you that Christ, our second Adam, has conquered death on our behalf. And that which was Lost, destroyed, removed from us in the sin of Adam is restored to us in the righteousness of Christ Father, bless us this day. Bless us in your word. Lord, I thank you for those that have walked in this morning, that have not walked through these doors to our worship for many months. Lord, you are good and gracious to your people. Bless us this day through your word. Father, O God, open thy truth to our hearts. Show us glorious things out of thy law. And cause us your people to rejoice in our salvation, to despise the sin that still plagues us, and Lord, to love our Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Finland,