Working our way through this covenant of grace. Covenant of redemption that's strictly in the Godhead. You and I don't have anything to do with that. And the covenant of grace is between God Almighty, the divine Godhead, and man, how he conveys those blessings to us. And there's gonna be some overlap in terms of things we've heard before, but that's okay. This is not a subject that we hear a lot, and so I think it's helpful. to repeat things. As the apostles say, it's uh needful uh for you to hear the same things again, as I'm paraphrasing it, I'm NIVing it. Well, the main promise. Can anybody remember what was the main promise of the covenant of grace? There's one fundamental main promise. If you had to boil it down, it was one particular phrase. It starts with I will be your God. I will be a god unto thee and to thy seed after thee. That's right, Victoria. I will be a god to thee and to thy seed after thee. That might sound melodramatic, it might sound underwhelming at first, but as you begin to unpack that in scriptures, the weightiest term in there is I will be thy God. That's the weightiest term. Is that we have the true and living God on our side, on our team. He is for us, not against us, and there's a tremendous amount that comes with that, more than meets the idea. And that's what I hope to unpack today. So we're going to review this main pronus. And I want you to see this in your Bible now. You do have a handout, and it's printed in your handout But just so that your eyes get familiar with it in your Bible, turn to Jeremiah 31, 31. This is one of those passages that's kind of easy to remember. Jeremiah 31, 31. Again, it's on your handout, but if you I prefer if you were able to look at it in your own Bible. I think this is kind of exciting stuff when you see things in the Old Testament and you realize, you know, God had me in mind when he wrote that. That's kind of exciting to see that God thought about us a woooooo long time ago. Jeremiah 31, 31 says this. It says, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord. that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. And I really want you to underscore that phrase. If you like to write in your Bible, boy, this is a good place to write, where it says, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers. Can anybody venture a guess why that's important? That God's going to make a covenant, but it's not according to Moses' covenant. Why might that be significant? What's important about that? Any thoughts on why that's why I'm so excited about that particular phrase? Based on what you said earlier, because Covenant was directed to the Jews. It was certainly broader implication. Alright, so there's certain broader implications. Um because the covenant with Moses depended on man's keeping the law, which he could not Yes, Moses' covenant was highly had requirements, and God was under no obligation to fulfill those requirements on their behalf. In fact God tells us about it in here. We continue reading. He says, Which my covenant they break, although I was a husband unto them, saith the Lord. So there was no fault with God's covenant. The fault was with them. They broke it. In fact, they broke it before Moses even set foot too far down from the top of the mountain. They were already making golden calves. You know, and I often wondered about that. Of all those ten commandments to break, they did they did they really have to try to break number one and go right off the bat and go right for an idol? The Lord continues through Jeremiah, Jeremiah 31. But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my law in their inward parts. Write it in their hearts. And will be their God and they shall be my people. So there's that promise. This is how it's going to be different. I will be their God, they shall be my people. You don't find any requirement on the part of the individual to do something to make it effectual, to make it secure, to make it sure. It's a promise, I will be their God, and they shall They shall be my people. They're going to be his people. He's going to bring them in. The implication is that he's going to make them his people. You go another chapter, just maybe a page over to Jeremiah 32 and 38. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. And I will give, notice all the I wills here for the moment, Jeremiah 32, 38. I will give them one heart and one way. It sounds familiar. That they may fear me forever for the good of them. By the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. For the good of them and of their children after them. God still has a focus on families. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them that I will not turn away from them to do them good. But I will put my fear in their hearts, and they shall not depart from me. So all of this covenantal language which can We start to get a hint here as to how they will be his people. He's going to put his Spirit in them. He's going to give them a new heart. He's going to put his fear in them. You know, and isn't that a driver to repentance when God first comes to us? The fear of the Lord works that in people. They realize as their eyes are opened that the path they've been taking, that the direction of life that they're going, that their moral compass is broken, and the end of those things is death, and they're highly concerned about it Like Noah, moved with fear, built an ark to the saving of this house. Even so, the child of God is moved with fear to the saving of this house. He changes directions If you wish to turn, you can go to the next section of Scripture that's in the book of Ezekiel, and we'll look at Ezekiel 34. Ezekiel was a contemporary of Jeremiah. Jeremiah, I believe, was a bit younger. And in Ezekiel 34 and in the 23rd verse, again, this is on your handout if you don't want to turn there, but it's I think helpful if you see it in your Bible, something about that word. It helps you remember where to find things. Ezekiel 34, 23, God promises this, and I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them. Hmm, whose and you suppose that shepherd might be? I'd hope that you don't really have to struggle to answer that. That would be The Lord Jesus who came in John ten saying he's the good shepherd. God says, I'll set up one shepherd over them. He shall not might, not could, not will try. He shall feed them. Even my servant David, there's a greater David in view He shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd, and I, the Lord, will be their God. There's that main promise. And my servant David, a prince among them, I the Lord have spoken it. And I will make with them a covenant of peace. So there's a connection to this covenant, this everlasting covenant. Here he calls it a covenant of peace. Theologians refer to it. as a covenant of grace, because it's a gracious covenant. I suppose if you want to be biblical about it, you call it a covenant of peace. But saying grace connects us with other New Testament languages. It's a covenant of peace. God is going to make his peace with us and give us his peace. And will cause the evil beasts to cease cease out of the land. They shall dwell safely in the wilderness, sleep in the woods, and time would fail me too To explain how that is a reference to people. That's a reference to people. The Apostle Paul wrestled with the beasts at Ephesus. He wasn't struggling with tigers and lions. He was dealing with false prophets, men who were Like the Cretans are always slow bellies, evil beasts, the scripture says. That's just an example to indicate God's talking about people here. Turn uh or skip down a few verses to Ezekiel 34 and verse 30. Good morning, Phil. How are you? Ezekiel thirty four thirty. Thus shall they know that, and here's that covenant of promise, I, the Lord their God, am with them. Don't you love the fact that He's with you, even when you're sliding backwards off your treadmill, even when you're scooting sideways down the road, even when your neck can't bend up straight, even when the back is scooped over. When your husband's in the hospital and you can't figure out how to get him out, I, the Lord thy God, am with you, and that they, even the house of Israel, are my people. I tell you, that's a big part that we are his people. He makes us his people. He, as it were, drags us into the kingdom. He dresses us up, cleans us up. sets us up, puts us in a sound mind, and has great appreciation for what the Lord our God does. He continues. He says, and ye my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men. Here God tells you that he's not talking about physical sheep. You're the flock of my pasture. Pastor, your men, and I am your God, saith the Lord God. So drawing in the analogy of a shepherd and his sheep, and of course you from I'm sure heard the story about the shepherds in the old days would set out their flocks in a common communal field, and they might have a dog to shepherd to to corral the flock. But the shepherd at night would bring them into a pen, a fold, and he would call them, and the sheep just so happened to know his voice and then the sheep come into that corral and the shepherd lay at the door of the sheep pen as a protection No sheep are getting out because I am blocking the way. No wolves are getting in, I'm blocking the way. Christ is, I am the door. He is that Shepherd of that flock. Again, just bringing in more richness and fullness of how God brings us out to pasture, brings us into safety. Kind of this in-and-out routine. They shall go in and out and find pasture, it says in Judah. And then lastly in Ezekiel 36, again, these are all so close to each other. That's why I have you look in your scriptures. In verse 28, he says, Ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, ye shall be my people, I will be your God. That's the main covenantal promise when it comes to this business of the covenant of Greece. Now, some astute theologian in the audience might say, Well, I hear you then. That's very encouraging. I like those words, but unfortunately that wasn't really written to us. You know, that's the Old Testament. That kind of doesn't apply to us. God's really just talking about national Israel, and then maybe some prophetic ending comes that that something glorious is going to happen to Israel and maybe Gentiles are part of it or not. In other words, there's an attempt to say, well, that's really not relevant to us. Except there's one problem, one really big problem with that conclusion, and that is God through the author to the writer of the book of Hebrews under inspiration, connects these passages we just read and says, that applies to you. This applies to New Testament saints whom God has called out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. And you read about that in Hebrews chapter 8. Again, I'll have you turn there to Hebrews chapter 8. As we get into some other portions, I'll refer back to the handout, but again, I want you to see this. In Hebrews 8, most of the book of Hebrews is an explanation of the Old Testament. You know, if you ever get an opportunity to be a witness to a Jew, you've got some easy material to use. Don't come and ask me for a track. You don't need a track. say, have you ever read the book of Hebrews? And you can just walk them through the book of Hebrews because now you have a professional. Who will walk you through that and explain what all of that old covenant business was and make the application to Christ and by extension to us and all who believe in him, Jew and Gentile. Hebrews 8 begins, this verse 1, now of the things which we have spoken, this is the psalm, we have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of majesty in heaven. heavens and so forth. It starts off right out the gate. We have a high priest. It's not some earthly guy that's going to die and every seven years we get a new one. Hope he's good. Now we have one set in the heavens. His name is Jesus Christ. And he goes through this chapter to show how he is that high priest for us. And he talks in verse 5 that They served the example and shadow of heavenly things that all of that old covenant was signs, shadows, and pictures. Yeah, I I thought of illustration of a sign or shadow. Imagine a father taking their children to a vacation. They're gonna park at th they're gonna go camp at, I'm just gonna make something up, the Idaho State Campgrounds. I don't even know if such a place Exists, but you can imagine you're driving along, and here you see this big brown and white road sign, Idaho State Campground. It's got a picture of a camp on it. Now I imagine the father slamming on the brakes, pulling over the side of the road, taking the sign off, laying it on the ground, and said, We're here, we're at the camp, and he pitches a tent right on top of it. You'd say, man, what on earth are you doing parking on the site? Well it says very literally that this is the Idaho State Campground And you would say, no, it's a sign that gives an indication, it's indicating that the campground is a little bit more glorious than this piece of rusted sheet metal that you decided to put yourself Well, so it is with those who turn to the weak and beggarly elements of the old covenant, who want to camp on that, and the book of Hebrews is all about, no, no, no, but this man But this man, a more better way, a more sure way, an endless life, after the order of Melchizedek, but this man, it's all about the fulfillment that Christ has brought and how it's much greater than that shadowy. Reflection of the old covenant. Well, he continues in Hebrews 8. He gets to the passage that he says as he's connecting in verse 6. about Jesus Christ, now hath he that is Christ obtained a more excellent ministry. By how much more is he the mediator of a better covenant? You remember Jeremiah says he's going to make a new covenant. Which was established upon better promises. Indeed, I will be a God to thee, and I see it after thee as a better promise. That wasn't promised in the first For if that first covenant had been faultless, should no place have been sought for the second for finding fault with them, he saith. And then he goes to quote everything we've just been reading in verse 8. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant of May with their fathers. All that same language we just read. Verse 10, for this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind. Write them in their hearts. I will be to them a God. They shall be to me a people. They shall not teach every man his neighbor, every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me from the least to the greatest, for I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins, and their iniquities, will I remember no more He's just tied together a great many promises from Jeremiah and from Ezekiel and summarized them right here and says, oh by the way, that applies to us. That's part of the ministry of Jesus Christ. He's the mediator of that covenant. And if you believe in Christ you are entered into that covenant. So that's an astounding connection if you understand the book of Hebrews as it relates to the old. Because those old covenant promises of a new covenant coming, fully realized right now in Jesus Christ, and apply to you It means you're a recipient of that. You're a partaker of that. You were one of his sheep that he had in mind when he made that statement And we see that God had a greater house of Israel in view. Does anybody know what passages you could go to to prove that the house of Israel is greater than just those who are physical bloodline descendants? What passages might you use to show that to someone? I think that the when Jesus says the words of my father are true, that does it. I think that's a quote. Yes. Yeah. that he has in mind somebody other than a bloodline descendant. I don't know. He's talking to everybody, isn't he? Uh it's certainly broader than just Israel. You're correct there. Okay. Other sheep have I which are not of this fold, them also I must bring. They should be onefold and one shepherd. Other other John ten, other sheep I have of this fold, them I must bring. There will be one shepherd, onefold. Now some might argue, well I was talking about other Jews Or something that really makes it clear that Israel isn't just physical descendants. Romans 9. 6. Okay, uh we'll get to you uh uh just a moment. Uh yeah, go ahead and read Romans 9. 6, Yvonne. Not as though the word of God has taken none effect, for they are not all Israel, which are of Israel. Okay, so Romans nine six says they are not all Israel Which are Israel. Yes. Uh you were going to say that. You're going to go to that one? Okay. Well, the one that really I think shuts men's mouths, all of these are correct. Uh The one I think that's very powerful is at the end of Romans chapter 2. We go to Romans 2, 28 and 29. This is the one that came to my mind. to try to underscore that when God speaks in Old Covenant language, excuse me, he speaks New Testament language in the Old Covenant, in the Old Testament. He starts talking about promises to Israel. or to Jews or to Judah that he has a much broader scope in mind is the end of Romans 2. The last two verses. Listen to this. For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew which is one inwardly And circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. That was one of the things the Apostle Paul boasted about, is that he was circumcised. eighth day. He was just a little better than the other Jews. He came from a little bit better stock. His parents walked in the snow uphill both ways to get him circumcised on the eighth day. He was just a little better. No, he is a Jew who is one inwardly. God says, I will be, they will be my people. He's going to make them his people. He's going to circumcise their heart, meaning they're going to get a deep, heartfelt conviction. Circumcision is painful. It hurts. So is conversion. It's painful. It hurts. There's the all of a sudden the recognition. My brother, my mentor, many years, Brother Bernie, who was saved later in life, said, you know, the difficulty of being saved later in life. Is that you have to repudiate everything up to that point? All the claims and the credits, all of your identity, your identity can get wrapped up in who you are professionally. And your job, your reputation among men, all of a sudden what things were gained to me, those you have to count loss for Christ. That's why it's better in many ways to come to Christ early in your life. You don't have that baggage to deal with and to unload. Well, that's the main promise of the covenant of grace. I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. Because it's a covenant, it also comes with requirements. It has terms and conditions. But it also says it's not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the old days. So it has some requirements to it. Well, bless my soul. Those requirements God also provides. All that God requires, He also gives. He requires faith, but guess what? Faith is a gift of God. He requires repentance. He grants. you repentance. He requires a knowledge and understanding of him. He gives you that. You see how that's different than the old covenant? You know it's um It's it's really, I think, a very different covenant. God has obligated himself to be his sav your savior. I was just thinking about the the Lord gives repentance. Um One of David's prayer was, Turn thou me and I will be turned. So you knew it was the Lord that had to do it ultimately. Yes. He desired it. He knew he needed it. And he knew that he himself does not have power over his own wicked, by nature evil human heart that has been changed, that's filled with the Spirit of God, but he sees this is a problem bigger than I can deal with, Lord turn There were many children in Jamaica that we loved very much and cared for and provided for, but not one of them could make them I could choose to adopt them and make them my son, but they could not make themselves my son. And it's the same with salvation. Yes. That God makes I will be their God. He declares that and they will be my people, my son. Yeah, there's no if and or buts in that. It's just a declaration of what God's gonna do, period. But only he could do it I could not bring myself into that circle. Only you could do that. You're a pure beneficiary. We like being beneficiaries. Beneficiaries are good things. So these, I'm jumping ahead of myself a little bit as I look at my notes because I really want to get to that part, because that's a really wonderful part. But let's begin to unpack some of these promises. I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. There's other blessings that come with that. God is often a master of understatement. He will say things like, for instance, Woe unto thee. I'm thinking of the Pharisees and some of the woes he pronounces upon them. The depth of their woes will be felt forever. Some of the statements the Lord makes, and I give unto them everlasting life, and they shall be I have not seen nor ear heard nor entered in the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. We we don't really have a good clue. We were discussing the other night. Well, is there a a separate new heaven and a separate new earth? They kind of merge together. They seem to be kind of merged together for the believer. I don't know. It'd kind of be nice to have angel wings and pop back and forth between the two. Why not? Right? Who knows what things God has done? Who knows? The main promises include all these other promised blessings. Now you can refer to your handout now and looking at Job nineteen. There's a retention of your identity. Your name won't be forgotten. You won't be forgotten. Isn't that something the rich men seek? They want to have a name for themselves They build great towers. They emblaze their names at the top of the towers or on the base, and they want to be remembered. And then there's a collapse, there's a fall of their kingdom, of their dynasty, their heirs are drunks, and they dispend and make poor business decisions, and the and it's lost. It's lost. But not so for the believer. His identity is retained. Job says this, I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another Though my reins, my kidneys, my inward part, my inner being in its entirety is consumed within me. Job says, I know my Redeemer lives. I will see Jesus Christ in this flesh. That's an encouraging thought. That's also an ominous thought. Who can stand before everlasting burnings? Well, if you're pure light, you can If you've been washed spotless in the blood of a lamb, you can. If you're one of his sons, you can. He'll stand there and smile at you. It'll be a big smile. Welcome home! The glorious day that'll be. So you have a retention of identity. You have eternal life. The believer does not really need to fear death Yes, there will be pain undoubtedly up leading up to that point. Or it may not, you may fall asleep and you know never wake up. What a wonderful we'd all like to go that way Not all of us are granted to go that way. Some it's a very slow, painful exit. But you have eternal life. There will be no cessation of consciousness The next moment after the big owl, that really hurt, was you wake up in glory. And you're still you. Still you. That identity is there. There's nothing wrong with you per se and your identity and who you are. You're uniquely made with unique traits. characteristics and beauties, we each have an individual beauty. And we get depressed when we don't like our beauty, we suppress it, and we want to have somebody else's beauty which we're not given. That leads to depression. Need to consider what your own beauties and strengths are, and be content with what God's given you. We have a resurrection to eternal life that comes in the book of Daniel. He says in chapter 12 and verse 2, Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life. The saints who have gone on before, loved ones and relatives, some of whom you may be. You may celebrate annually the death, the passing of a loved one, and you think, oh, it's been so-and-so many years since my beloved fill-in-the-blank passed, and it's a hard thing. And yet you can know and rest assured that if they died in Christ and they were found in Him, not having their own righteousness, then in fact they will awake to everlasting life God will bring that body out of the grave, whether cremated, donated to science, doesn't matter, small thing for God to account for all your particles and reassemble them and put them back together You may try to scatter yourself, hide in the rocks, calling out for the caves and the dens to fall upon you, hide you from the face of the wrath of the Lamb. God says, Ha! Not a problem. I assembled you out of nothing to begin with I can easily track all of that and put it all back together again and bring you back into existence. That's right. Yeah. That's a ship. Before I formed thee in the belly. I knew thee before Yep. Yet that body he'll bring back together. Your body doesn't form your identity, but it's clearly part of you. It'll be a far better one. Yep. It continues not bad, but no ask you what, but it continues in Daniel twelve And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament. And they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever. Boy, one day I had the great opportunity as a homeschooling dad, we were studying astronomy, and we happened to be on the subject of the blinking red star Betelgeuse. I think that's how it's pronounced. And we went outside in a cold February night, and lo and behold, standing right out here looking past our magnolia tree, straight up, there it was! Glory me, I actually found the bloomin' thing. I had this little app on the phone where it kind of has virtual reality where you You can scan the skies and it orients you with its little compass and it paints a picture of it. And it says, yep, that's betel juice. Nice and it was a beautiful. And you could see that it was blinking. Red. It was really funny. You get a uh go get just a cheap pair of binoculars and you can look at it. You can see it a little bit better. I'm too cheap to buy a telescope. I'd look once it's sit in the basement, I'd knock it around, it'd be uh you know somebody uses it as a baseball bat. I'm not gonna get a telescope, not gonna go down that. God says that in the resurrection to everlasting life, the saints will be like stars. And every star has its own glory. It's shiny. It's powerful. It's big. It's gorgeous and beautiful. It says we're like stars. It doesn't mean you're a burning pile of ash out there suffering. It means you're radiant. You're glory. God's glorified you. You're in a glorified body. It's coming. It's coming. There's eternal joy and pleasure. Psalm 16, 11 is one that I particularly enjoy, where the psalmist writes, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. You know, as an unsaved person, I used to think heaven would be so boring. I'm going to flap around and just sing the same old song and play a harp and I'm like, whoopee-doo, I want something a little more exciting than that. Now, I had a pretty poor estimation of what that was like God changes our desires, our want-os, and when we are one of his children, in the fullness of glory, in a perfected body, everything we do Will not only be exactly what God desires, but it will be our chief joy in the process. It will be the endless summer vacation you've always wanted It won't be cold, Gloria. It'll be warm there. God pays his heating bills. It's plenty warm there, Mom. Don't have to worry. You don't have to shovel snow, brother. Not gonna be there. You might see the treasuries of Hail and Snow. You might crack open the deep freeze and take a look at it, but I don't know how that works out. We're glorified. Psalm 73. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee? There's none upon earth I desire. Decide thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the portion of my strength. This is my strength of my heart and my portion forever. Your portion forever. Lastly, sins are forgotten. Sins are forgotten. Now we may not think that's a big deal because we've forgotten our sins. I don't remember things I've done in the past too terribly well. I kind of like to forget about that and find all kinds of excuses as to why it was the other guy's fault to begin with. But to have forgiveness of sins, for God promises not to remember them, he will not bring them up, nor shall Shall it come to mind? He says in Isaiah, I even, I am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake and will not remember. He's blotting them out for his sake because he says, I will be their God. They shall be my people. They can't be his people if they're laden with sins. He has to, is the covenant of grace, pay for that, and that was dealt with in the covenant of the Come to redemption. Had to deal with that first. That was the barrier. That was the Grand Canyon. That was the Marianas Trench, for those of you who know your ocean's depths. That was the big gulf that lay between you and God. That had to be dealt with first before anything else could flow. More promises that God gives. On the backside, knowledge. He says, I will put my laws in their inward parts. They shall all know me from the least of them into the greatest of them. Isn't that wonderful that God doesn't just call the intellectuals? You know, there were many in Colossae that were told and instructed, and in Ephesus. To be wise, to be understanding, in malice be children, but not to be babes in the knowledge of Christ They were exhorted that. They couldn't read. Many couldn't write, but they were exhorted to be full of the knowledge of the Lord. And they can. They can. They can attend to the hearing of the Word of God. And God puts His Spirit in them and they can meditate. They can memorize. Those means are available. God did give you a few extra memory brain cells, which perchance if we actually use them from time to time might prove to be helpful. And God takes it upon himself to educate his children. He teaches them We're not left in the dark. You know, that's the worst nightmare assignment you can get on a new job as the boss shows you to your desk. And says, okay, have a good day, and leaves. And you're stuck sitting there feeling like a mushroom in the corner. Now what do I do? What am I supposed to do? What do you want me to do now? And you get no instruction. Like nobody tells me how to do anything around here. I don't know what I'm doing here. Am I succeeding or not? Are you about to fire me or what? That's a nightmare job where you get no feedback, no instruction. Now I can tell you in today's workforce the younger generation wants feedback every five minutes. It's like, no, go away, do your job for a while, I'll talk to you tomorrow. Can you give me eight hours, please? But to have zero feedback And has zero instruction is miserable. God doesn't do that. How does he overcome that? Well, one way is he gives them a desire, he gives them a hunger. It says, as newborn babes desire what? The sincere milk of the Word, that you may what? Grow thereby. God gives them a desire. And you see that really in little infants, those of you who had children. That infant lets you know when he's hungry. He's got a very effective means of letting mom know I'm hungry and I'm hungry right now. And he even moves his arm in very stiff fashions and he just just and that little lip is just quivering away and he's just really pitching a fit like you've never seen. And then when he's fed, oh Life's happy again. They're bouncy and smiling. They can be in a filthy diaper and they're just, woohoo, life is great. They're happy. And give them two hours later. He's hungry again. That's how it is for a new believer. They're hungry for the Word of God. They're not satisfied until they feed richly in the scriptures. And as they feed, they grow and they progress. And so God gives them an interest, gives them a desire. And so you ought to question, if there's no interest or desire, you claim to be a new convert, and there's no interest or desire in the things of God, there's no interest in the Bible. You know, what's the difference between my new infant and this plastic baby doll we bought for them to play with? Is there a difference? The plastic baby doll always looks good, but gee, it's never hungry I shouldn't say G. It's just never hungry. Why is that? It's dead. It's dead. It doesn't have any life in it. Are there plastic Christians you've seen? They're dead. They're not hungry? They look good all the time. Can look the same. Pull the string and they say the right thing. Yeah. God says He's going to give a new spirit and a new heart. We've read that in Ezekiel. Pastor Joe talked about being adopted children, adopted sons. Galatians says this, when the fullness of time was come, God redeemed them that were under the law that we might receive the adoption. And because your sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts. Crying, Abba, Father. Adopted into the house. You know, that's interesting. I I don't know much about adoption. I know a little bit about the process, but perhaps like you, you can imagine what that experience might be like. Very catastrophic for the child at first if he's been in a foster home or in some kind of a uh a Uh uh what's that? Abusive. In an abusive home, or just maybe given up for adoption at birth and has been raised in a facility that takes care of orphan an orphanage. Thank you. That's the word I'm looking for. To not have a parent, to just simply have institutional overseers who, I'm sure, give, do, do the best they can, but under limited circumstances, and it's really trying to get them out into their forever homes. And then finally to get out of that into a new home where they actually love you and care about you. to raise you and though you look different and it's very evident you may not fit in, yet they love you and they bring you into that. That whole process and that experience that must be very interesting. Very interesting to come out of that old background into a new one. The younger it is, the better. That's why I tell you, it's a blessing of God to be saved earlier in life than later. Because later in life that's really hard. There's a whole lot of Brother Bernie said, you guys are in the arena racing. He says, I'm not even in the stadium yet. I'm not even in the stadium yet. I appreciate that. Heirs, if you're a son, then guess what? Galatians continue, wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son Then an heir, an heir of God through Christ. Titus says, being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Hebrews says By faith, Noah, warned of God of things not seen, moved with fear, prepared an arch to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. An heir, Old Testament, New Testament, same plan of salvation for both. You see how these promises unfold? They shall be my people. Alright, well what does that mean? Does God just have a nice relationship between No. My people means my people, my family. You're going to bring in the family. Oh, and then the family. Okay, then a son. What does that mean? Well you're adopted. What does that mean? Well then you're an heir. You see how this keeps unfolding and unpacking and just getting better? We're also heirs of his kingdom because he's a king. You're not just coming into any old family. You happen to be coming into the family of the king of kings. Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? See, they're heirs of his kingdom. You're not only getting your God, but you're getting all that your God owns. Somebody tell, let's start with the short list. Tell me something God doesn't own. He says he owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He says if I were hungry, it wouldn't tell you. He says, all is mine. Heaven and earth, all authority in heaven and earth have been given unto me. All things are yours, whether things present or things to come. All are yours, Scripture says. You basically win by default I don't care what the gays and the homosexuals think their agenda is. I don't care what bankrupt direction the public speaking system is going. I don't care how defunct and dysfunctional the government of this world is. Ultimately, I don't care. Yes, in a way I do because it affects me and my children. But ultimately I don't care because they will lose by default. They are but men. Breath is in their nostrils. Their carcass is going to hit the grave And the next conscious moment they have will be stark terror. Hide us from the face of the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who can stand Who can abide at his coming? Who can stand in his presence? Just stark raving mad terror. In fact, the next conscious moment that their soul will have will be that of the rich man Lazarus, where they'll lift up their eyes in hell being in torments And there will not be one in hell that thinks he's innocent. No. That's amazing, isn't it? They repented not of their deeds. They continue to blaspheme God. They still uh declaring themselves to be every bit as wicked as God said. The uh promises here are rich and full. And as I mentioned earlier, I wanted to get to this last part, but I'm kind of tearing because the promises are wonderful. But there is a response, and you could even call it a requirement to this covenant of grace. There is a man and wife relationship. You know, it kind of goes without saying that That when you both say I do at the altar, that you're kind of gonna take each other as husband and wife. There will be some conjugal affairs, you will love each other, there will be a dwelling. And God makes that relationship with us as well. It says in Ephesians 5 that for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, shall be cleaved to his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery I speak concerning Christ and the church. You're one flesh with Christ. He has taken you into his family in an even closer way, even refers to it as a marriage That's hard for us to get our head around. I can understand sons, right? Dad got lots of kids. He's redeemed. I can get that. But God the Father and the Church of God as the bride. That's hard for me to get my melon around. And yet that's the relation. He's trying to point out the oneness that we have with him. We are exceptionally close to him. Don't understand how that fully works out, but we're part of that. We're partakers of even the divine Godhead. I don't know how that works out, but that's the language of scriptures. I'll greatly rejoice in the Lord, Isaiah 61:10. My soul shall be joyful in my God. He's clothed me with the garments of salvation, he's covered me with the robe of righteousness. This glorious coverings we have. We have to have a righteousness to enter into heaven. Bless my soul, God's given it to me. It's a gift. We are commanded to be joyful. Indeed, He's given us plenty of reasons to be joyful. In 2 Corinthians, he says, You're the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, I will be their God, they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing, I'll receive you, and I'll be a father unto you, you'll be my sons and daughters. A reiteration of that covenant promise as a requirement. Come out from among them Why are you partakers of the ungodly in the world? Those who don't want to give God the glory? Those who want to blaspheme his name You know, there's a sporting event that will take place today of which I have little interest. I don't care to watch it because of the abuse of the commercials and the assaulting of my eyes and senses of all that's vile and evil, and the promoting of that which is ungodly I'm not going to sacrifice myself for what may boil down to be 13 minutes of interesting sports. I'll watch the 13 minutes of interesting sports, but I'm not going to endure the hideousness of all the other junk that they promulgate with it. It's not worth it come out from among them. Don't be part of that Do you really have to tell the adopted child, hey, do you want to leave the orphanage or do you want to go to the rich man's house? Do you really is that a long period of convincing? I hope not. Otherwise you might think it's that plastic doll that's stuck behind that wants to stay there. Maybe it just doesn't have life. The other one that's big is I will belong to thy people. You see, you're not saved in the vacuum, folks You're saved with other saints. And there's an expectation that the saints will get along with the saints. Now, I'm not asking you to get along with the ain't, as Pastor Keith refers to them as the saints and the ain't. But there is a love among the brethren. In progress, sanctification underway. at different stages of maturity, coming from different cultural backgrounds, that's okay, but there is a love for the people of God. I love the statement that Ruth Amol by Tess made. Because this is the heartfelt conviction of every true believer who finds a more seasoned saint in the Lord, someone who knows the way of the Lord well. Insofar as they're concerned, this is Jesus Christ in the flesh right here for me. Because they know so much about the Lord, and they talk to me endlessly about him, that I want to hang on to this people. Ruth said, entreat me not to leave them or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go. Whither thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people And thy God, my God. See, she's echoing that covenant promise. She's taking that up in her mouth as well. Where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me and more often Oh, one of the most tearful, emotional, truly glorious statements ever of a commitment and a connection to the people of the Of God as you'll ever find in Scriptures. And God blessed that richly because she was in the lineage of King David and the Lord Jesus Christ. She's the only Moabite of any repute in the Scriptures. John says this, he that loves his brother abides in the light. 1 John 3, that was 1 John 2. 10. 1 John 3. 14. We know we've passed from death and life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abides in death. 1 John 4. 20. If a man say, I love God and hates his brother, he's a liar, for he that loves not his brother whom he's seen, how can he love God whom he's not seen? 1 John 5. 1. Whosoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is, not will be, is, born of God. Everyone that loveth him that begat, loveth him also that's begotten. You know, there's no problem in God's house among all of his adopted children. They love each other and they love him. It's a really, truly big, loving family. And isn't that a joy? Some of you come from big families And the family gatherings are wonderful. It happens to be a year of peace and there's no warfare between the different members. It's just a great time of peace and it's it's a fun and enjoyable event. Heaven will be that on steroids. And so I close with that for your consideration. There's more there and you can read it, but my time is up. Anton, could you close us in prayer, please? Father in heaven, um Lord what a blessing it is to learn of this covenant that you made with your sheep, one that we're unworthy of and yet it was uh instructed, instituted, and carried out by you. By faith take hold on these promises, Lord. We ask you to help us to trust in them and uh help us Lord to uh walk by faith. Trusting that these things are true and not being discouraged, but uh yeah, continuing on this um in this in this walk and in this fight uh pilgrims in this world. Lord, we thank you for this time and we uh Ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.