We are continuing and we're going to wrap up the 11th chapter of the summary of Christian Doctrine. And the actual title of the chapter was The Doctrine of Man in Relation to God. We've kind of been covering anthropology, biblical anthropology, what the Bible declares man is, who he is, how he's constituted, his component makeup. And today we're going to introduce a topic that you might think, huh, why does it even fit in this chapter at all? And we're going to have a lot more interaction today, so I hope you are ready to interact. We're going to talk about man and the covenant of works. Well, this is a doctrine that for the most part uh has fallen out of favor somewhat, but has been Hugely influential in the very country in which you live. It has deep roots to the Reformation, where it was more fully developed and it came forward The early church fathers didn't talk much about this covenant relationship that God established between himself and Adam. That was n not well developed, they kind of talked about the fact that, well, there was a probationary command, there was a freedom of choice, possibility of sin and death, that those were the terms and conditions that God put man in But as the Church continued under the Roman Catholic Church and its pollution of the leadership and the hierarchy when Luther burst out into the scene and drug us out and began to emphasize returning to the scriptures in their original tongue, and there was this big scholastic effort to go study the original Word of God And meaning the original languages of the Word of God. There was a renewed interest in this. And there were some very capable people. Augustine spoke about it in his book, The City of God. He talked about Adam's relation to God as a covenant. He used the word testament. He used the word pact, a pact kind of a relationship uh the scholastics and the reformers developed this further. They began to introduce the term of a federal representation. We live in a federal uh government system. We are a constitutional federal republic. That is our form of leadership here. If you look in the United States documents The Founding Fathers Nowhere used one word, and I would love to put this out there as a meme on social media What word does not belong or is not found in our founding documents? And I would list out four words, democracy, republic, uh, federal, or uh constitution. Which of those words is not found? It's the word democracy. Our founding fathers did not use the word democracy because a democracy is one step away from mob rule. And that is why they didn't intentionally did not use that term. That's what they were coming out of. That's what they wanted to get away from. was a mob rule was a dictatorial uh relationship and those two are actually closely related more than you realize but not to get into politics for the moment It wasn't until the uh uh a fellow by it was a a preacher in the court of the uh of Heidelberg who wrote the Heidelberg Catechism. It's a very short, this is actually three confessions in one. And if you're interested in the early Reformed confessions, I strongly recommend uh what the Reformed Church calls the three forms of unity, the Heidelberg Catechism, the Belgian Confessions, and the Canons of Dort. The Heidelberg Cate Catechism was written by uh a fellow uh named Ursenus I'm not pronouncing it correctly. Those Dutch words are just always beyond me. And Olavinus. Olevanus, Caspar Olevanus was the court preacher. And it was a core preacher who also wrote the Belgic Confession. So who says preachers can't write good confessions? And the uh uh The Heidelberg Catechism was written by Caspar Olevanis, and he is the one that really developed this concept of covenant theology, also known as federal theology. He is the one that developed it. And it was so well written, it made its way into confessions, most notably the Westminster Confession of Faith. that it had a huge impact on the Puritans who took it out of the ethereal realm of theory and brought it to practical realm. What basically in a nutshell common theology is is that there are long-term moral binding obligations on the human race. And it impacts all men. All men are bound and obligated to the law of God, the moral law of God, captured succinctly in the Ten Commandments. All men are bound to that. And they inherently know in their heart they're bound to it because they're created in this image, and God is a law-giving, law-loving God. And because they are bound to it, the Puritans understood that there was an expectation of a moral obligation to society. And it imp it tremendously impacted not only congregations, it impacted their politics. It impacted philosophers. One of the most famous philosophers is a fellow named John Locke. who was read extensively by uh one of our uh founding fathers, if you want to categorize him as such, uh Thomas Jefferson. And so it's had a huge impact, reformed teaching, and covenant theology in particular, on the Western world over the past 500 years. You and I benefit from many aspects of this, and we use terms in our everyday vernacular that we don't even realize where it's rooted in. And I'll give you some examples of that. today. Well the word we're going to be looking at today is the Hebrew word berit, berit, which means covenant. I have a little definition from vines. It's in a lot of Bible Uh tools that are out there that tells us number 1285, God bless Brother Strong uh years ago who broke the Greek language down into numbers. I get numbers, uh Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic not so much So it's number 1285 in Strong's Concordance. And it's a basically means a covenant, alliance, or pledge. It can be a treaty or an alliance. For instance, Solomon made a alliance, a covenant, a league between him and Hiram. to bring down a whole bunch of lumber and to build a temple. It could be a constitution or an ordinance from the monarchs to the subjects of the land. It would be used as rulers It could be an agreement or a pledge between men. When Abimelech and Abraham's their men strove over some wells, excuse me, they made an agreement, a pledge between them to just Let things go by and they set terms and conditions and they agreed by it. It can be between God and man, and we're going to look at some of those covenants between God and Noah. and later between God and Abraham. And we'll use that to unpack how a covenant is structured. Well, um You've probably heard the word covenant used. It has a synonym. It's the word testament. Where might you have heard the word testament in a non-religious setting? Yeah, your last will and testament, meaning it's an official document. Uh your heirs upon your demise could not go into it and change, you know, sister to brother and redirect things. Because it's a binding document. You can't add to it, you can't take away. Of course, in religious circles, we talk about the Old Testament and the New Testament. You might as well say Old Covenant and New Covenant. That's the same concept. You may move into certain housing uh uh uh uh uh areas. Uh what am I looking for? Um Urban settings, you know, where they build a de a development, uh a certain housing development area, and in your development you may have a homeowners association. And you may have to pay dues and fees to them. And there will be covenants in that that says you can't put a purple trash can in front of your lawn or you can't build an awning that's fifty feet tall. I mean they may have some restrictions there. Those are called covenants And we have those today. And so we're going to that we use that, those terms, but they're very watered down in terms of how God makes covenants. So we're going to look at that. So we're going to look first of all at what is in a biblical covenant. And so on the inside of your little handout, we're going to look at it. And I have found six things. The summary of Christian doctrine I think breaks it out into uh maybe four or five, but I've identified six. Just I think it's clearer and easier to look that way. Some may say there's overlap, but I think it's easier to understand in terms of And I've kind of relabeled it a little bit here because the six-cylinder, twelve-cylinder words they used to describe it just didn't float it for me. I try to kiss this presentation. Keep it simple, stupid. That's what I try to do. Bible covenants have all or most of the following. They have the parties, that is, the parties with whom the covenant is made. It's between party A and Party B. It may have a beneficiary, somebody who gets something from it. The goodness of the covenant flows to a named beneficiary. It will have a reason. Sometimes the reason is given, sometimes it's not. You know, if it's God making the covenant, does he always tell us why he's doing something? No. Is he obligated to tell us why we're doing something? No. No. And if you think, gee, that's not fair, for those of you who are parents, are you obligated to tell your children why you're doing something every single time? No. the child's favorite question to the parent is why, because you they can keep asking that question and keep endlessly going and they can functionally never stop. And so they love to ask the why question because they say one word and they get their parents all spun up so parents don't get caught in that trap. Why? Because I said so and you ask again, I'm giving you more work. What's your next question? And you can lean in. Look forward eagerly to the response. to have your carpet vacuum. Uh there can be a promise in it. There will be articles of the promise, the matter to be established or performed. There can be a promise. There can be a sign or a pledge, and this is something that is unique, I think, to biblical covenants. Now it was very common in the Old World. You read of this a lot in the Old Testament. some pledge or some token would be given to reinforce the uh uh the seriousness of it. Uh even in marriage today we do that. There's a there's the wedding ring that's given as a pledge and a token of abiding love and constant faith I think. is the terms used. And then there's terms and conditions. Covenants can have terms and conditions, meaning there's a benefit or repercussion if one party violates or if you do really well, here's the benefit that comes from it. from it. Also it can have a period of effectivity. How long does this thing last? Is this for a short period of time? Is this for a long period of time? So those are the six things we find in biblical covenants. Alright? There. I've given you all the material in 10 minutes. You're now covenant experts. And I'm going to hit you with the first quiz because we're going to look at an example of a covenant and turn in your Bible to Genesis chapter 9. So we're going to kind of walk our way through Genesis 9. And it's a lengthy section here, Genesis 9, and it's 8 through 17. Genesis 9, 8 to 17. If you need a Bible and want to follow along, we can, Carol can reach over to her. write and pull out a Bible and offer it to somebody who has need. Otherwise you can follow in your phone Bible or Gabriel's got it on the screen if you're watching online. Genesis 9 chapter 8 we begin. I'm going to read it And as I go along, I'm going to ask questions about who made the covenant, what's the promise, what's the token, what's the term. Alright? We're going to try to pick these things out. Okay? And I'm going with Genesis 9. Rather than Another place because I think this is the easiest place to draw it out. Alright? So let's go. This is God and Noah, and Noah is disembarking from the Ark. Disembarking. Disembarking? Okay, I guess we would say disembarking because it was an arc, but we said barking. I introduced all kinds of new words here, don't I, Penny? God spake unto Noah and to his sons with him, saying, and I, behold, I establish my covenant with you. and with your seed after you, and with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you, from all that go out of the yard to every beast of the earth And I will establish my covenant with you. Neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of a flood. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, this is the token. The sign of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for perpetual generations. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. And it shall come to pass that when I bring a cloud over the earth That the bow shall be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And the water shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. And the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look upon it that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. All right. Boy, what a nice word from God coming off the ark. He must have endured a horrific ride over that 150 days that he was in the ark. uh the ark being buffeted by strong waves and winds and yet very stable in its design. All the animals they had to care for, the exhaustion from building the ark Boy, you talk about a building project. I was exhausted after four months. Noah went for 120 years on a building project. Uh I'm often struck by the fact that that ark was sailing in a boat. Not sailing, but you know uh floating in the ocean with a keel made from lumber that was probably fifty to sixty years old. Uh that and and no nails. Uh at least to my knowledge, I don't know. He would have had other techniques for binding it together Uh just an incredible effort. And that's just my intro on that. But you had your hand up. He didn't have to fight with electricians and plumbers. He didn't have to fight with he didn't have to fight with a permitting office. That's what he didn't have to fight with He didn't have to worry with permitting, that was good of plumbers either. Yes, he just had to worry about about the woke crowd outside his front door every day, you know, hurling insults. No room, and there's no interest. The door was closed. Plenty of room, there's just no interest. Well, back to our concept of a covenant, all right? So again, the covenant has one or more of the following. It has the parties with whom the covenant is made. It'll have a beneficiary. It'll have the reason, sometimes it's given, sometimes it's not. It'll have a promise, a sign, or a pledge, or a token, and terms and conditions. So let's walk our way through those. First of all, Who made the covenant? Looking at verses 8 through 10. Who made the covenant? Genesis 9, 8 through 10. Who made the covenant? God Okay, God, yep Anybody else make it? So there was no negotiation here. He didn't come up to know and say, well, let's let's let's let's make a deal here. What do you think about this? And kind of Go to the bargaining table and you know make it, what do you think about this? And notice, no, I don't like that. Let's change it to this. No, God shows up and says, Son, here's what we're doing. And he just lays it on him So this is not unusual for our God. He lays it out. He lays out the terms and conditions. He's the one who initiates it. Noah didn't show up and say, you know, Lord, this was really tough. Can you promise that we're not going to do this again? He he Noah didn't think of this first. God is the one that took the initiative from the very moment that Noah steps off the ark and he initiates and gives him this covenant. So God makes it. And who is it between? God makes it it's between God and who? Man. Go, God and man, is that all? Noah's seed. Noah's seed meaning All of Noah's descendants. Who who would that be? Who would that include? Believers. Believers? Who else? Everybody. The whole human race. Noah, see. Shem, Ham, and Japheth, he had three sons. Did all of them remain believers throughout their life? No. Ham was the father of Canaan from the Canaanites, and they were as far from God as they would possibly be. They were the seed of Noah. The whole world came from the loins of Mr. and Mrs. Noah and his three sons and their wives So it's a covenant between God and the human race, you could say, because at that point he was the only human family on earth. All right, who else was it between? Yeah, every living creature. God made this covenant to include the animals. God can make a covenant with animals. Would the animals have a vote in this? No. Could the animals influence it? No. Alright. Now who benefits? Who are the beneficiaries of this covenant? Who gets something good out of this? We do, we absolutely do. Yeah. And who else? Every living creature. Every living creature. Let's face it folks, did the animals do anything wrong at the fall? What did the lions do wrong? What did the giraffes do wrong? The fish. Man is the only creature that rebelled. Man's the only one that stuck his fist in God's face and said, I think I got a better way. The animals didn't. The rocks didn't rebel. The trees didn't. They didn't say, you know, I'm tired of this leaf business. I'm just going to not produce leaves. No. So they faced severe, harsh judgments from God on our behalf as well. And so God cares for them as well. Remember the doctrine of providence where God not only creates all things, but he preserves all things and cares for them and provides for their needs. If God takes care for sparrows Are you not of much more value than many sparrows? You see? And so this covenant promise is with the animals too. But they're not insignificant in his sight. I find that very interesting. Alright, verse 11. What is the promise of the covenant? All flesh shall no more be cut off from the earth by a flood. All flesh shall no more be cut off from the earth by a flood. Okay? And they will not And there will never be a flood. So that's very interesting. So number one, for the nominal Christians who seem to think that the flood of Noah's Day was a local flood that just you know, kind of overwhelmed the uh particular area. They had fourteen inches of rain in a couple of days and whew, it just, you know, really was too much. God would have broken his promise because we see floods like that all the time. There was one recently in China. There's hurricanes and tsunamis that come through that inundate entire cities, wiping them off the the their their coastal map. So no, it wasn't a local flood that Noah endured. It was a worldwide global catastrophic flood. And what would you expect to find in a global worldwide catastrophic flood? If you start digging in the earth, you'd expect to find billions of dead things buried by water all over the earth. And when geologists, and I was a budding geologist at college, go digging in the earth, what do you find? Billions of dead things buried by water all over the earth. They go up to the mountaintop. Wow, there's all these marine fossils up here. This must have been thrust up. Let's see. Moving a rock up. Hmm. Water floating higher? More likely. Yes. Yeah. Lots of water. What o water. There's some layers that are laid down that are clearly sedimentary layers that uh if you were to make a model of the earth where the where the earth is the size of a, you know, ten foot diameter basketball. There's a layer, a sedimentary layer that's as thin as a piece of paper that goes that can be traced all over the planet at just about the same level. Now it's broken up because of canyons and the like. How did that thin, paper thin, flat layer become globally present if not by water? There's so much evidence for a globally present presentation. Man just intentionally puts his blinders on and insists, nope, it was everything but that. We can't have God in the picture. No, no, no. And they're just straining as hard as they can at the door to keep him out. They'll let in every other kooky idea. Well I think life came in on the backs of crystals. An alien did it. Really? I thought this was science, not science fiction. This is ridiculous, the ideas they come up with There is a ton of evidence for a global flood. And God promises not to destroy the earth by a flood. Is God going to destroy this earth again? And by what means shall he do that? Does that violate this promise? No. No, it doesn't. God's a pretty good lawyer. He knows what he's saying. I'm not going to destroy the earth again by water. He didn't say I'm not going to destroy the earth again, period. He said I'm not going to destroy the earth again. And he won't. And he hasn't. He's kept his promise. That's verse 11. 12 through 17. What is the token of the covenant? I think you all know this without even looking. A rainbow. We get the most gorgeous rainbows out in my backyard. For whatever reason, the wind pattern, the sun pattern, the angle of everything right out here is perfect. We've had double rainbows out here sometimes They just collect very nicely and we see these rainbows. And it's truly, truly a new thing in Noah's day as well. Well as uh Adam never saw a rainbow, you know that? Because it never rained in his day. There wasn't moisture in the air. A mist went up from the ground. He didn't have air moisture. to cause a rainbow to come, not enough to have that happen. This was a new thing in Noah's day, and God says that is a sign. Now unfortunately the rainbow has been hijacked by the gay and lesbian community and used to advance their wicked causes And it's no surprise that the wicked will always steal from the righteous that which is good. Halloween is another example of a day that has been stolen. uh by the uh the wicked that we used to be called all hallows eve. It was a day to uh honor the martyred saints uh and to r r remember them uh that suffer persecution, remember them that are bound. And of course the wicked took that and said, Oh, they're celebrating dead people. And so it took on a deadly ghoulish theme and haunts and ghosts and then it just went downhill from there and and and it was lost. The idea was lost. So it's not the first time the church has had a token or an event stolen from them. I have a note here in my Bible. If you notice what verse thirteen says, it says, I do set my bow. God claims it. Yes. It belongs to him. Absolutely. Yeah, it's my belief. It doesn't belong to man at all. Correct. Yep. And it's no surprise that man is a thief and would steal. What is thou to do to take my words in thy mouth Verses eleven and twelve now, what is the term or the duration of the covenant? Forever. Yeah. Yeah. It goes on until as it were the end of time. It continues, it propagates. It says it's a perpetual generations, meaning as long as there are generations of people that continue to propagate and live on this earth, it will continue. So God has made it very clear that this global catastrophic flood was a one-time deal for judgment and punishment of sin. If you're interested more about how that flood occurred, uh look up Dr. Walt Brown. Walter Brown. He has an online book called In the Beginning and a short video where he does a very credible uh uh gives a very credible scientific uh approach for uh the flood of Noah's day. Fundamentally the earth had very large caverns of water underneath. The earth was ripped open along the mid-Atlantic ridge and all that water came out. Whew, squished it right out like a kid stepping on a a slide with all the uh water squirting out from underneath it. Now let me ask some other questions now that we've got the basics down. Why do you think God spent so much time on the token in the articles. I mean really 12 through 17 he spent a lot of time talking about those things. Why would he spend so much time talking about those? Why didn't he just say, I set my bow in the cloud for a token and move on? Any thoughts? If you were Shem, Hammer, Japheth, or Mrs. Shem, Mrs. Ham, or Mrs. Japheth coming off the ark, what would that have said to you, perhaps We're not gonna go through this again. Sure. You can hear the pillow talk at night with the Mrs. and the Mr. Are we gonna have this happen again? Are are are you gonna you're not gonna hear any more voices from God again, are you? Because the last time we did that, whew, that was that was a doozy. We're not gonna No? God said. How do we know? Right? Some people are very visual people. Very emotional people. Look, hun, you see that? It's a rainbow. God cares. Remember his promise. He's not going to do this again. Folks, this was a catastrophe beyond imagination. If they've had any associates, any friends, any business colleagues, anything Gone. The entire world as they knew it, the surface of the earth was utterly, completely and entirely reshaped They could not go back home. Home was gone. Everything was gone. We can't fathom how catastrophic that was. And so God underscores this token. Look, this is a viable token. I mean this. I'm not going to do this again. It's a bow. Well, and I love this the token. itself has been perpetuated. I know when I look at a rainbow, I'm reminded of God's faithfulness and his promises that endure forever and just bring such joy And such peace and such glory to God Himself. Absolutely. And can you imagine the first few raindrops that start to fall one more time? Because now all of a sudden rain is a reality on earth. It's here again. We're not ready. Quick. Fix the ark. Go patch it up. I told you you should have put some more insulation on it again. We don't need it. I told you you should have put some more insulation on it No, God promised. And even though it would be severe, even though it'd be strong, it's not going to be global and not going to be catastrophic. What reason does God give for this covenant that he made? For sin? Where do you see that? The covenant? Yeah, in this covenant, he gives a covenant. What reason does he give for this covenant? Well to show relationship with man, with human. And that was where? That was what verse? That was my Right. He says that he will remember his covenant. That's something he will do. Right. Okay. Okay. I don't find any reason given for this covenant. God doesn't give us a reason why he's going to give us a rainbow. He doesn't give us a reason why he's not going to destroy the earth again By a flood with water by a flood. He doesn't tell us why. He's not going to do it. He just says I'm not going to do it. He could have gone on to say, and I am going to destroy it later by fire, but you don't have to worry about that right now He actually doesn't give a reason here. He doesn't say because b you don't see the because I or the you know the because word I don't find in here. I don't find a reason. Maybe you maybe you can surmise one and it's okay to to bring in other passages to to try to backfill why God might do that. I would think that, you know, he's not done with the human race Right? I mean there's a lot of elect that have to be born. There's a lot of children of God who've got to come into existence. I had to come into existence. You had to come into existence in order that we might have salvation. And his children will be brought in. So it's for perpetuation of all of the body of Christ to come forward. I think we can certainly see that as a but does he say that here? He doesn't say that here. He doesn't fill us in. Remember, God doesn't always tell us why he's doing what he's doing. Alright. What conditions does God place on this covenant? What terms and conditions are there? What are the terms and conditions of this covenant? You know what I mean by T's and C's, right? If you make a contract with a Plumber, you look at his thing, it says, yep, payment is due net 30, meaning as soon as I give you a bill, you gotta give it to give me the balance in 30 days. That's a term and condition. What terms and conditions has God given this covenant here He tells them how to build it. How to build what? The ark. Oh yes, well that was the ark, but he's off the ark now. And so this is this covenant that he's given him. He said telling them they don't have to worry. He's not going to destroy everything again. Yeah, there are no terms and conditions. It doesn't say if you're rebellious, man, I'm yanking this out again. If you guys do this wrong I'm do you know, if animals start eating animals, well enough of that. I've had that too There's no terms and conditions here. In other words, this is a big promise of God. And he obligates himself to carry it out, irrespective of what man does. Your effort, your work. The earth is still spinning because I'm here. Pharaoh in Egypt used to think, well, I gotta get to my job and hold up the planet. I gotta hold up the universe. You go to those big towers of um uh at Luxor and and some of the Egyptian ruins They would have pictures of Pharaoh there in a large boat in the Nile River with his hands up, depicting Pharaoh who was there to hold up the universe. That was his job. And if you didn't pay your tithes to Pharaoh, well, you know, the sun might collapse, it may not rain. I mean, this is what the people believed. No, God doesn't need you to hold up the sun. He doesn't need Pharaoh's help. He just says, I promise, I'm not going to do it. Good enough. Now does it have to say covenant to be a covenant? This is kind of a trick question here. I don't think so. Okay. Well, I think maybe it has to be spoken. have to be something to to to be verb yeah verbalized for something both parties understand what's going on. Well it certainly has to be made known to us. Alright does God have to use the word covenant actual word Yes, does he actually have to use that word? Well I'm sure without the words he could have used. Sure, promise. So I'm sure I'm gonna I'm gonna sound like a fence straddler, yes and no. The immediate context May or may not include the word covenant, but you may find that explained elsewhere in the scriptures where it describes what God said or did was a covenant. You may find the larger context of Scripture casting light on another portion of Scripture that says this was a covenant And it may illuminate our minds to these things. The Old Testament has a lot of shadowy things in it. A lot of shadowy signs and figures. A lot of shadowy things And then in the New Testament, you get a lot of clarity, you get a lot of commentary that goes back and looks at it, illuminates and says, yep, that was a covenant. That was a covenant. And isn't that how the Bible is? It starts off very shadowy. And then as you progress further and further along and you get into the New Testament, the clarity comes, and you begin to get greater insights. Well let's go to our next example of a covenant in Genesis chapter 15. This is a covenant between God and Abram. Genesis chapter 15. And I'm going to read. a good portion of the chapter. And uh I'll um probably have to cut it off there. I had hoped to go a little further today, but I don't want to rush because I think this is helpful to us to kind of get an exercise in understanding the book of covenants. Genesis 15. Verse 1. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me? Seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus, he probably would have picked up Eliezer on a trip through Egypt. He came out with a lot of servants. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in mine house is mine heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This, this, this Eliezer, this shall not be thine heir. But he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven, and tell me the star and tell the stars if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed thee. And he believed in the Lord and he candid it to him for righteousness. He being God counted it to him Abraham for righteousness And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it. And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? He wants to know. What's the token? What's the proof? And he said unto him, Take me a heifer of three years old, a she-goat of three years old, a ram of three years old, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he took unto him all these and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds he divided not. Divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away. And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep, Fell upon Abram, and lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. They shall serve them. And they shall afflict them four hundred years. Also, that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterward shall they come out with great substance Thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, and thou shalt be buried in a good old age. But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. It came to pass when the sun went down and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces. In the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates. The Kenites and the Kenites, and the Cadmonites and the Hittites, and the Perizzites and the Rephaims, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Gergeshites and the Jebu size Thus ends Genesis 15. Alright, let's find our covenant elements. Who are the parties in the covenant? Hint, verse 1 and 5. Who are the parties of the covenant? Abram. Abram? Yep. Who else? Abram Abram's seed and God. God's part of this covenant deal too. He's a named party in here. Alright, who's the beneficiaries of this covenant? Who gets the goodness from it? Abram and his seed. Yep, that was verse four and verse eighteen. Abram is a beneficiary and his seed. Who are well we'll ask who are Abram's seed later, because that's a deep theological question. Just a God just said seed. He said seed. Very interesting use of the word seed. It's a word that's both singular and plural. He doesn't say descendants. If you have a Bible that translates that descendants, you get rid of that Bible because it's messing you up. You're not going to be able to connect with Galatians 3. 16 later in the New Testament. He says seed. It's kind of like sheep. I have a sheep. I have many sheep, right? Singular plural. What's the reason? This one has a reason. What's the reason for this covenant that you heard read? Hint, verse one. God is Abel's shield and exceeding great reward. Yeah. Because I am your shield and your exceeding great reward. Here's this covenant. Well the word because doesn't show up in there, but it clearly fits in the context. And that's why God introduces it. I am your shield. I am your exceeding great reward. You know we have to stop making application. Do you view the Lord your God as your shield? Do you view the Lord your God as your exceeding great reward? Not a good reward. Exceeding Exceeding great reward. Is your trust in wealth, intellect, physical strength, prowess, abilities Or is the Lord your God your shield, your ultimate form of protection? Is the Lord your God your exceeding great reward? Oh, just that I may eat the crumbs that fall from his table. Because with the Lord is exceeding great fill in the plank. He's exceeding great in more ways than we can imagine. And significant when the land was divided, the Levites' inheritance was the Lord. Alright, well that's the reason. Furthermore, in verse 7 He also gives another reason. He says, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it. So God's cluing Abram in. Look, I I'm bringing you, I brought you out of Ur for a reason, because this is the land you're going to inherit. And it's interesting because God is speaking to Abram and his descendants, whom we learned in an earlier study propagate from him and are viewed by God as in him. He is seeing the whole nation of Israel and ultimately the elect of God in Abram. He sees them there. And so he says, I'm giving you, I'm giving you this land. What was the promise? And in fact, there's several. So start to pull out the promises of this. There are four, there are five, there are thirteen, fourteen, sixteen, eighteen. What are all the promises listed in this covenant that God gives to Abraham? Number one, you're gonna have a child who will be what? His heir. His heir. Yeah, child could have been female. Heir was the males. He's gonna have a child? Child's gonna be his heir. What else? Inherit land. He would inherit land? Yep. Yep, that's a reason. Yep. What are the promises? What else does God promise he's going to do? In a way you're right, Freddie, he does promise that he's going to be his shield protector. What else does he promise him as a result of this covenant? Seeds like the sand. Yes, an innumerable seed. Can can you count the sand? Can you count the stars? That's a lot of seed, you know Anton got a wedding wish for, you know, a twelve to sixteen. I'm not sure Marissa was on board with that, but uh Lord willing, maybe she will be. But uh can you imagine a promise of look at the stars, huh? That's how many kids I want He's like, well they're gonna be at my pace funny We're not gonna be It's innumerable seed, obviously talking about a numerous progeny and descendants. What else is in here? There's quite a few folks. God would judge his enemies. God would judge Abram's enemies? Okay. What else? There's a whole bunch of stuff in here. Verse 13. Yeah. Part of the promise is you know what, your seed is gonna take a little trip. They're gonna be stranger in a land that's not theirs. Now what was that a reference to Yeah, the captivity in Egypt. You know the bondage, the period of bondage in Egypt. Alright, what else? He said he was the Lord Yep. He was going to give them the land? Yep. Yep. And what else? Look at verse fourteen. Yes. Although they would go into bondage, God's also promising, they will come out of it with great substance. Isn't it amazing? You see, God, when he makes promises like, oh yep, I'm going to fix your air conditioner and tomorrow you're going to have cool air again, right? God looks at multiple generations. He's giving Abram a promise that his descendants are going to have to remember for some good until the time they become numerous and then another 400 years in Egypt, folks, this could be easily 800, 1,000 years later before they realize this covenant promise that God kept. That's astounding to me. I'm not even sure Egypt was a was uh any kind of a significant superpower nation at the time. They were kind of a col a tribal clan collection. They really didn't centralize power until uh Joseph comes along. Um what else was the promise in verse fifteen for Abram? Abram personally. He gonna live a long time. Anybody remember how old Abram was when he died? I think he was a hundred and either hundred and thirty or hundred and fifty. I think hundred and thirty. Hundred and thirty or hundred and fifty. He actually did see he for a for a brief period of time he actually did uh see not only Isaac but uh uh uh uh Jacob as well. And um I'm not sure if he saw the uh uh more beyond that. Um what was the other promise in verse sixteen? There's something else that would happen The seed would come into bondage again. Iniquity hemorrhages is not yet full. In other words, there's going to be this cycle of bondage deliverance, bondage deliverance. Is that what we see in Israel's history? Bondage deliverance. Bondage deliverance. Why would God bother delivering them? They were so wicked. Because of what God promised in Genesis 15. Our God is a faithful, covenant-keeping God. Have you ever made a promise to somebody that about a few months later you kind of want to forget? Now just hope they don't remember. Just let that thing slide. We're talking many years, God remembers this. And the other promise is that Abram's seed would receive specific land currently occupied by people. You see that in verses at the end of the chapter. He lists all these ice, Kenites, the Kenazites, the Cadmonites, and so forth, Jebusites. Jebus would be the land where Jerusalem was. Alright. We'll wrap it up here with the identification of these things. What was the sign? The rainbow. Well that was for Noah. What sign did God give Abram here? lamp that moved along the right. This was a very strange sign. He told Abram to take all these animals, to slay them, divide them, and there was a lamp that would go in between them. What is interesting about this is it's an animal sacrifice and the burning lamp passes between them. Now, uh it turns out that a little bit of ancient uh Hebrew tradition um helps uh give a little bit of insight here. And also the word Berit itself gives some insights. The um covenants of old that that men would make would have terms and conditions. Uh I I'm gonna uh My sheep are going to graze and land and there's one well there that Yvonne and I share. And so we're going to make an agreement that, you know On odd days he can water his sheep and on even days I can water mine. Or something like that. And and how do we seal that deal? Well, if he violates it and he just kicks my servants out and he waters his sheep all the time, well there's gotta be some penalty, there's gotta be some stink, there's gotta be some teeth in his contract. so I can deal with it. And you put some, you list some badness that will occur. Now, what's the sign or the evidence that badness will happen? Well Sometimes it would be somebody's going to die. If I find them there, I'm going to kill your sheep and I'm blameless. Well the way that that would be illustrated is you would illustrate the penalty with the sacrificial animal, in this case, death And you sever it and you cut the animal in half. And then the two parties would walk between the two halves, saying, So be it to me if I don't keep up this end of the deal. That this will be cut in half. Now the word barit itself comes from a root word in Hebrew, which means to to uh divide asunder Or uh it's it's varah, which was used in Genesis one for creation. And we looked at creation. How did God create? He divided. He divided the light from the day, divided the dry land from the wet, and so forth Division. So there's this concept of cutting a covenant. We use the term today. We cut a deal. Where did that phrase come from? Why would you talk about cutting a deal? I want to make the deal. I want to cut it. You know, cut it up. But that's where it came from, because the covenant concept was one of cutting. You're going to cut something and you walk between these pieces, meaning so be it to me if I don't keep up with the terms and conditions. So there's faint remnants of this concept that have still made its way into our common understanding and vernacular. So what's happening here is Abram cuts these pieces up, but Abram doesn't walk between them. This smoking furnace and this burning lamp pass between. What do you think that smoking furnace and that burning lamp is a picture of? God Himself. Meaning I am obligating myself. to keep these terms and conditions. It's not based on you, Abram. He is the one that is going to Keep this deal, regardless of what you do. It will surely come to pass. What a powerful sign. What a very powerful sign the Lord God gives. Briefly then to close it up here because I'm out of time, the terms and conditions were that there be a bondage period for 400 years. Afterward they'd come out. In the fourth generation, Abram's seed returns to bondage. The region would be inherited and the current inhabits are specified. Basically, Abraham doesn't have to do anything to merit this covenant. That's a good deal, folks. That's called a good deal. But it doesn't say covenant until verse 18. Does that mean it doesn't start until verse 18? No, we know the whole chapter is a covenant. Because in Exodus 2, when you read that God remembers his covenant that he made with Abram when it's time to deliver them out of Egypt in Exodus 2, 23 to 25. He calls that whole thing a covenant. This whole chapter of the covenant. The covenant that God made with them And I'll close right there. I have a powerful question, and maybe you can ponder it. We'll look at it next week. So your homework assignment is this. Don't answer me now. Don't blurt out some unadvised answer. Resist the temptation. Is this covenant of Genesis 15 still in effect? So you get to ponder that. And as a homework assignment, you can read Joshua 21, 43 to 45. That's Joshua 21, 43 to 45, and Nehemiah 9, 7 to 8. Nehemiah 9, 7 to 8. And I think it may in fact even be on your handout. I don't remember if I put it there. Is it on the handout? Okay, it's there on the handout. It's on the back. Thank you, Louis. All right. Well, we'll wrap it up there. Um and um Joe, if you could close us in prayer. We'll get off the stage. Gracious Father, we thank you that you are indeed the covenant-keeping God. Him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast. out. Well we thank you for the promises that you have made. We thank you, Lord, that uh your word is yea and amen, that it all coordinates, it is without contradiction. Father, I thank you for the way that you, in your sovereign wisdom, ordain the teaching of your people, Lord, for edification and instruction. Instruction. Father, indeed, instruct us this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.