Then uh I now want to get into a topic uh concerning uh salvation at different times across the human race. Spoiler alert, salvation has always been by grace. It has never actually changed, it's always been by grace. Now, there actually are different competing views on this, and so that's why I want to dip our toe into this water here. And I also want to try to finish a little earlier today and not drag it on too long, but I trust it'll be helpful regardless. Mr. Burkhoff says that there are different dispensations of the covenant, and this is a point I would have of disagreement with him. It's a very rare exception that I would disagree with a statement Mr. Burkhoff. makes. He normally is fairly well anchored in scripture, but I would take exception to that language. You can actually talk about two covenants, not two dispensations. Now why do I say you can talk about two covenants, not two dispensations? Dispensations. Well, because the Bible talks about two covenants, not two dispensations. And the premier proof text is in Galatians 3. So if you have your Bible, you can turn to that. Otherwise I'll read it for you. Galatians 3 and beginning in verse 15. And what I want to point out is a very significant, there's a couple of really good points in this passage of Galatians 3. 15. where the apostles spending a lot of time talking about the law, which in context is referring to that first covenant, the old covenant. He says in Galatians 3. 15, this, brethren, I speak after the manner of men. In other words, I'm going to talk to you like we're we're just men to men here. Though it be but a man's covenant, even if a man makes a covenant Yet it be confirmed, it's signed, sealed, it's executed. No man disannuleth or adds to it. You can't take away from the covenant, you can't add to it. And that of course makes sense You sign your mortgage agreement, it's a covenantal agreement between you and the mortgage company. You can't you're not at liberty to add and subtract terms and conditions. You do that before you sign it, not after. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made, he saith, not into seeds as of many, but as of one, and to thy seed, which is Christ. So now he's going to reach back with this With his arm to go back to Abrahamic's covenant, the promise to the seed. And then he says, This I say that the covenant that was confirmed before of God in Christ The law, meaning the old covenant, which was four hundred and thirty years after, meaning after um uh uh uh the the from the time that um God declared it to the time they came out of bondage in Egypt when the Ten Commandments were given, four hundred and thirty year period. The law cannot disannul cannot disannul the what? The promise of God. That it should make the promise of none effect. Now, there's a lot going on here. Let me try to break this down. He's pointing out that you can't add and subtract to a covenant, number one. Number two, he says, God declared to Abraham That his seed, that he and his seed would have God Almighty as his God. Remember the main covenant promise: I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. Okay, that was the main promise. And that's the same one we're under, and it's a gracious covenant. He says that came to Abraham first. The law, Moses' covenant, came 430 years later, but it doesn't disannul this covenant. It doesn't make it null and void. And the crude way I put it is God is not going to be so stupid as to write something so many years later that messes up something he said earlier. He's just not going to do that. And that's fundamentally what the Apostle Paul is pointing out. That there are two things. If the inheritance be of law, it's no more of promise, God gave it to Abraham. by promise. It's it's two covenants. Alright? Now there are two competing views about this business of when salvation by grace began. There's two competing competing views. And Uh uh and I'm gonna show that there's two wrong views. And there's one group, the first group I'm gonna talk to because it's the easiest and shortest, but I would call the hard-lined reformers, the hard-lined reform guide. And they would say the law of Moses and the covenant of grace, they're all one covenant. It's all one deal. It's not two separate things, it's it's one separate covenant. And they would emphasize the unity of the covenant. See, it's always been by grace. And I would agree with them there, but they will never talk about the differences between the two. And there are some distinct differences between the two. They don't really discuss that And so I would say that is a problem. The other more common one, that's kind of a rare niche group of people that you'll find, uh, but you'll see it in the CRC, some in the PCA, some in the OPC churches, a lot of Presbyterian reforms, some Angular Perhaps that's where you'll find that. The widest problem is dispensationalism. That's very common and very popular. So let's talk about that for just a moment. What is dispensationalism? Dispensationalism. Well, it was popularized by notes in C. I. Schofield's book, The Schofield Reference Bible, published in 1909. And without getting into all of the components of dispensationalism, because It's not systematic like Reform theology is, it's really more of an approach to how to look at the Bible, and that approach is based on 2 Timothy. Timothy 2. 15 with the phrase rightly dividing the word of truth. And so they make a big emphasis on that word dividing. So they would say you've got to to divide the Bible into sections. Dispensationalists today, those who teach it, will disagree on how many dispensations there are. Schofield originally had seven. I think we're down to five now as they try to figure out where the lines are between the dispensations. Um the the the accusation has been alleged against the dispensationalist that uh that Schofield taught different plans of salvation at different times. And that was based on a footnote in his good morning. Uh footnote in his reference Bible in John 117. Now let me read his footnote, John 117, just for information. says, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. And so he's commenting on that verse. Now here's what he wrote. He said this As a dispensation, grace begins with the death and resurrection of Christ. The point of testing is no longer legal obedience as the condition of salvation So that was his footnote in John 1. 17. Sounds pretty much to me like he's saying grace wasn't there in the old Covenant and that even wasn't the test for salvation, meaning the Old Covenant people, the Old Testament people were under a different plan of salvation. different approach. They were saved by keeping the law, and but now we're under grace. And that didn't begin until the death of Christ. That's what people would take, and I think if you're adding a clarifying comment to a Bible passage, that that is the context. Some the the current dispensationalists say, oh, you're taking Mr. Schofield out of context He made a clarifying note in there. I'm not taking him out of context, that's what he said. And they would go to other places where he would seemingly teach differently. And this is the problem I always had with dispensationalism. in which I grew up is that you hear a sermon one day and it seems to be aimed this way, and you hear a sermon the next day and it seems to be aimed that way and they don't connect. There's this strange disconnectedness to it And it gets very bizarre. They would teach, and I've even heard Pastor Carroll say this now at Central Baptist, that the good man, I like Pastor Carroll. I I I really did heard many a good sermon from him. beat him up too bad. But I have heard him say this because he's echoing some of the dispensationalist thinking that the Sermon on the Mound is not for our dispensation. That's for the the millennia. That's for later. In other words, Sermon on the Mound doesn't apply to us now Which is bizarre. That's really a bizarre statement to make. Now the New Schofield Reference Bible in 1967 did clarify that footnote on John 1 To remove that because the dispensationalists were getting bloodied about the head for this different plan of salvation. And today they would say no, it's always been by Grace. They would say that today because they've discovered, well, we really can't declare that. But uh Lorraine Bettner did make a comment that summarized the lingering issues. Yeah, um the the fundamental flaw that he begins with is the condition of salvation. Yes. Yes. And they would they would That's the whole point of how they identify the different dispensations. Now, uh in your handout I do have uh some excerpts both from those who would defend dispensationalism and those who uh would dismantle it. Uh they're in the bottom of the footnotes. And I have found an excellent refutation of it point by point. One of the excellent points was when does each of these dispensations end end. According to who does it end? If I'm supposed to uh if my point of obedience is to do what God is commanded, well who says that ends? Does the Bible say that point ends? If it's faith in God, and so forth. Well, when does faith in God end? How does that ever stop? So there's a lot of problems. Lorian Butner sum uh Bettner summarizes these lingering issues. Let me read this statement here He says, quote, these dispensations, meaning the five or seven, however you want to look at them, are regarded are regarded not as stages in one single organic development, but as distinct and mutually exclusive or even as opposed to each other. The practice of dividing the Bible into parts, or setting one part against the other, means, for instance, That in the dispensation of law there's no grace, and in the dispensation of grace there's no law. That would be a strong implication of it. You would have to to The plan of salvation set forth in the Bible as one organic whole reveals a marvelous and profound unity. It cannot be split into contradictory parts, much less into seven mutually exclusive dispensations. And so Lorraine Butner, I keep mispronouncing his name, Butner is doing a fine job of raising up the points. So now we're getting into the big question, just so how do we handle this? What is this? God gave Moses something called the Ten Commandments. There was a lot of direction given. There was a lot of statements about what should be done. It's called a law. It's called the law. It's called a covenant. It's called the old covenant. And how do we handle that with the covenant Grace How do these two relate? Are they one and the same? Are they mutually exclusive? How do we handle these two? How do we deal with it? And to be honest, this is a point of wrestling in my early years of conversion for a great long while. This business of the law. You know, if you look in the New Testament What was the chief argument between the Apostle Paul and his scholarly peers of Judaism? Was it not arguments over the law? what when they brought him before Felix and they were making accusations, I believe it was Felix, and he would say these are matters concerning your law, you see to it. I I don't care for any I think it might have been Galley Now you see to it. There was all this debate in the early church about the law. What then is the role of Moses' covenant? And the covenant of grace. How do we handle that? And that really is the point here. And again, spoiler alert, salvation's always been by grace. That has never changed. That has always been the case So does that then mean that the covenant of grace that I've heard the Moses covenant referred to? Yes, that's just an early form of the covenant of grace. Can we really say that those are one and two and the same? What I have found is that there are similarities and there are differences. And we have to appreciate the differences first, I believe, to Help us appreciate the similarities. So with that, we're going to look at these key differences. Alright? First of all, the Bible does give a distinction that there are two covenants It's very clear. That is the contrast made. You know, for instance, all throughout Revelation, I mean Revelation, the book of Proverbs you find in The way of the wicked is darkness, they know not at what they stumble, but the path of the just is a shining light. It always compares, you know, good versus bad, A versus B this versus the other. There's always a two-fold bifurcated comparison. That's just so common. As the Apostle Paul Paul is reasoning through the book of Romans. He will argue this point, and then he'll say, but then you'll say to me, and he goes to this point. He's never dealing with three or four different things. It's this versus that, right? When you're teaching little children, you can touch this, you can't touch this. You can eat what's on the table, you can't eat what's on the floor. You know, there's a very simple division. The Bible does the same So if you're there in Galatians, turn to Galatians 4. 21. Good morning, nice new snazzy haircut. Hairdo? Not a haircut. Galatians 4. 21 says this. Now what I'm showing right now are the distinctions. That there are distinctions. You can't link them together at first. Just listen to the distinctions. Galatians 4 21. Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law? It is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bond maid, the other by a free woman Now let me pause for a moment there. Let me go back to that first statement. Ye that desire to be under the law, don't you remember the issue in the book of Galatians? There were some that came saying you have to be circumcised and keep the law of no In order to be saved. That was their statement. They were saying, no, we don't throw away Moses. We hang on to it. We, yeah, we believe in Christ, but we hang on to Moses too. That was this argument. That was the argument, the problem that was coming into the early church. So Paul says, you people that want to be under the law, don't you hear it? There's two sons, and this was speaking of Isaac and Ishmael. One was by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman, but he who was of the bondwoman, meaning Ishmael, born of Hagar, was born after the flesh. In other words, Abraham and Sarah looked this way and that way and said, I have no idea how you're going to get pregnant, so maybe this promise is going to come through. Hagar. They thought this thing up. They were going to carry out God's promise by their efforts. But he is the free woman, meaning Isaac, born of Sarah. Sarah came about by promise, because God promised Sarah would have a son. It was impossible in man's eyes, but God promised the impossible Possible. Which things are an allegory. God himself says, I'm painting you a historical parable. It really happened, but it was a picture. For these are the two covenants. God said they're two covenants two covenants. I didn't write that. God did. He said there are two covenants. So you can't say it's one. No, there are two. There are two covenants. The covenant of redemption in the Godhead where all the work is done, the covenant of grace, how it's applied. Yes, that's in the known to the mind of God one ultimate covenant, but that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about Moses' covenant versus New Testament. Covenant of grace, salvation. How how does that occur? He says there are two covenants. The one from Mount Sinai, which genders the bondage that would be where the law came, which is Hagar, for this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. So he's depicting Hagar, the handmaid, to Abraham. As Mount Sinai. Mount Sinai, the place where the Mosaic covenant was given. What was Hagar to Sarah? What was her role? Maiden. He was a handmaiden. She did her bidding. Isn't that interesting? That's a parable. What God's saying is the law was a handmaiden. To grace. It served grace. It was not grace. It was a servant to. It was in the house of Abraham. But the point wasn't Hagar. The point was H Sarah. The point was the promise. It was a servant too. It served it. It was rowing the boat in the same direction. It served it for its purposes. Okay? It says, the apostle continues, this agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem, which now is. It answers to. It serves the master. Jerusalem, which is above, meaning that's the where the new Jerusalem is. That's where the city for the people of God is. That's our lawgiver. Jerusalem, which is above, which is free, which is the mother of the Son. And there's a lot to preach and talk about there, but suffice to say the key phrase, there are two covenants. And he points out that one serves the other. Alright? That's Proof text number one showing the distinction. Proof text number two is in Hebrews chapter eight. And again, I would have you to turn there. I'm only going to have you turn to three passages today. One in Galatians, this one in Hebrews. The next will be second. Corinthians. Hebrews chapter 8, verse 6. If you ever meet a Jew and you want to evangelize them, kind of introduce them to the gospel, Come over to my house, we'll do a little Bible reading, introduce you to some things, and read through the book of Hebrews. You don't need to develop a track, it's already for you in the Bible. Somebody has already put down how to Explain to the Jews what their Judaism really meant and how it finds its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. We get to the middle of the book, and it says in verse six of chapter eight, speaking of Christ, but now hath he that is Jesus obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant. Now notice that Christ is called a mediator of a better covenant. Well if it's a better covenant, it implies that it is different than the former covenant, the one that Moses gave. It was a better covenant, he continues, which was established upon better promises. Better promises, promises that, as we've already looked at, don't hinge upon my My ability, it's a promise of God to me in spite of my ability. That's a better promise. He continues, for if the first covenant, that implies Ah, God says there's a covenant, the first covenant, Moses' covenant. It's clearly a reference to Moses' covenant. He says that's the first covenant. So So that must mean it has a pretty broad reach. Malachi, back to Genesis, first covenant, there it is. So that's food for thought. He says that the first covenant had been faultless. Aha. God made a mistake. He made a mistake at the Ten Commandments. It was not faultless. It had problems, didn't it? No, that's not what he says. The next verse he says, for finding fault with them. The fault was with the people, not with the covenant of God. The fault was with the people, finding fault with them. He saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah. Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers. Well, I don't know how you get any plainer language. He calls Moses the first covenant and what Christ did. He was the mediator of a better covenant with better promises. The first was faultless. This one has better conditions. And he says that it's going to be a different covenant. It's not according to the one I made with their fathers. Old Testament, New Testament. I mean, even the Bible itself has those fundamental basic covenants. divisions to it. He continues, he says, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they, again the fault was with the Jews Jews continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days. He goes to the bottom. He says, In that he saith, A new covenant he's made the first, old, now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away. Alright, we get some indication here that there's a very big distinction here. Furthermore, this thing called the old covenant is ready to vanish away. What do you think he means by that? Van that old covenant is going to vanish away? Any thoughts on that? No, I don't understand it's because the Bible says the words of my father are still true. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, you have the Ten Commandments, and they're baked in the Bible, and we still have them, and certainly we're not going to lose that. You're absolutely correct The Old Testament was fulfilled by the new, right? It's fulfilled by the new. Okay, so in what sense then is the old going to vanish away? What is it that vanishes So maybe it's hidden in the new, you're saying? Something when when when something vanishes, it means it's It's gone. But Mrs. Ross is right to point out that we're not saying take the Ten Commandments and run for the shredder. We're not going to do that. Thoughts? Yeah. Yesterday, Saturday Has vanished away, though it still exists, it was there. But it was necessary to bring us to Sunday. And so the law was like the setting sun it completed what it was to accomplish. It still exists historically, but it was preparatory for Sunday for where we are today. And so the law did its job and it still exists historically But it is not that under which we dwell today because it's Sunday, not Saturday. Okay, so you're pointing out the distinctions in the Sabbath day. All right. I'm going to pick on our resident theologian back here, Mr. Anton. John, what do you think are some of the d what is it that's banishing away? um a new covenant that's develop or that's um coming about the the old one, the what was promised and all that is is being passed by Okay. I like your phrase terms and conditions, so let's talk about some of the terms and conditions of the old covenant. Oh, Freddie. The only thing that comes to my mind is um banished was um the sacrifices and all those things that should be done. Yes. They can only be done by Christ. Right. Those are the things that vanished. 'Cause we don't go out and sacrifice bulls and dogs. There you go. All right. Exactly, exactly. So between what you said and what he said, we're gonna pull that together, all right? The old covenant had basically three fundamental functions. Theologians have identified it as the moral law, the moral code. Thou shalt not kill, not steal. Why can't Really? Where did I get Keel from? Sound like Ahmed the terrorist. Get it Uh the uh uh it's horrible. Uh thou shalt not kill uh kill, murder, steal. I think steal is what we're gonna get to. Well, certainly those are still valid and legitimate today, and in fact they're echoed and repeated in the New Testament. So there are the moral code, that's one of three elements of the Old Covenant, is still in force God is not so stupid as to write something that's going to invalidate the moral code. The moral code is still in force in the New Covenant. There were the uh uh the judicial laws. Israel was a theocracy, folks. It wasn't a federal republic, it wasn't a constitution, it was a theocracy, meaning their theology and their government were tied together. Same is true with the Muslims. Their theology and their government is tied together together. The Muslims do not have a concept of separation of mosque and state. That's non-existence, non-existent. So The rules and conditions by which Israel as a nation was to be governed by the priests of a specific lineage that could be traced to Levi. We're not under that. That's not applicable to us. The ceremonial laws that you were pointing out, bringing the sacrifices of bulls and lambs and goats, you had to meet in Jerusalem three times a year. I'm not going to book plane flights back to Jerusalem to go watch them roast some poor lamb over an altar. Not going to happen. I'm not required to do that. Alright? So that's the component that is ready to vanish away. And I believe the writer to the Hebrews, under inspiration and moved by God, at that time Jerusalem still stood, sacrifices were still occurring, those things were still going on. But when were they really terminated? When were they really stopped? Sacrifices? Off Offerings, priesthood, lineage. When did all that really get squashed? in Matthew 24 and overtook them and not one stone was left upon another. That old system was destroyed. They could no longer keep every term and condition of the covenant because they no longer had a holy place. The Gentiles sat on top of it and they haven't relinquished that space since and we can't get any offerings according to that covenant in place. That's why the Orthodox Jews are desperate to get back to carry that out. But it's been shut off because Christ has come. And the evidence of that is that the Gentiles were not required to come under circumcision. Yep. All those signs, all of those signs that have now been fulfilled by Christ, that's the part that's ready to banish away. We're not going to go take the Ten Commandments. And you'll shred it, that's the error of the antinomium. They say you're not under the law, you're not under any of it. Well Partially true as a covenant, correct, and we already read in Galatians 3, you don't add to it, you don't take away. But you see, God borrows that same language. I can point to you that nine of the ten commandments Come right over into the New Testament and are repeated. Let him who stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands the thing which is Well, you don't steal, you go beyond that. The law pointed this far, the New Testament takes you even further. It's about giving up a right, not about, well, the guy looks a little hurt and injured, but if I touch him I'm unclean, so I'm not su No, the Samaritan goes and cares for him. See, that's the difference. You're probably wondering, nine of the ten commandments, which one didn't come over? The Sabbath. The Sabbath. The Sabbath. Because Christ is our Sabbath. I do keep the Sabbath. I am resting on the Sabbath day. I'm resting in Christ for my salvation. I am not looking anywhere else for it. I'm resting in Him. I have no other need One man counts one day above another, another man esteems every day alike, let him each man be persuaded in his own mind. If brothers want to worship on a Saturday, because that's their best best option they've got where they want to get together and worship on a Wednesday, I'm fine with that. But the bulk of believers that I know want to get together with other believers and that happens to be on Sunday. And that's the example and the pattern you see in the New Testament. Paul was preaching long And so that's that one commandment which we would arm wrestle with our Seventh-day Adventist uh uh colleagues and uh neighbors with. Wouldn't exactly call them uh faithful brethren. Our last passage is in 2 Corinthians 3. 2 Corinthians 3. Now when I say I wouldn't have a problem, somebody wants to worship on Saturday, it depends on what how big of a point they make it. Does it become a point of division or not? If it's a point of division, I have a problem with it. 2 Corinthians 3, 5. 2 Corinthians 3. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, our sufficiency is of God. Who also hath made us, now he's talking about believers, God has made us believers, able ministers of the what? The New Testament. Same word for covenant. You and I, as believers in Christ, are ministers. Hint, you're not a Levite. You can also be a female. Women have a role as ministers, not in the pulpit, not in the speaking capacity to men. They can certainly teach other women and they're encouraged to do so. And they can certainly um uh there's a lot of different roles women can have. They can serve the Lord in that capacity that God has given them. Not of the letter, but of the Spirit. The letter killeth, the Spirit giveth life. Now he's going to make an interesting contrast. Between Moses' covenant and the new. He says, but if the ministration of death, oh my, he just called Moses' covenant a ministry of death, written and engraved in stones, was glorious, it was a glorious covenant. So that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance, which glory was to be done away, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit, the ministry of the Spirit, Spirit, New Testament, Covenant of Grace, be rather glorious. It's also glorious, it's even more glorious. If the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more does the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. What's he telling you not. Old covenant. He calls it a ministration of death. It worked death. We read earlier in Galatians that it was a servant to grace. The law was a servant of grace. And the apostles Paul helps explain that very clearly, doesn't he, in the opening chapters of Roman, when he speaks about that the law is that which condemns men, it points out sin, it finds out sin, and therefore As it is written, there's none righteous, no not one. There's none that understand, there's none that seeketh after God. There's none righteous, no one. They're all guilty. And therefore Whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to the whole world that every mouth may be stopped and all become guilty before God. It serves God that way by condemning all men for sin. sin it prepares them for the way of grace. It points out you're a desperate, wicked sinner in need of a Savior, and it's not coming from you. That was the point of the law. It was to condemn sin and the condemn sin in the flesh. How does it how does this next part, how do we understand this next part of 2 Corinthians 3? It says, For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelled For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious. Alright, there's this business. Something's going away, and something is remaining. Their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. These old covenant signs, shadows, and figures, not required. Why? Because there's been one offering who has forever perfected them that are sanctified in Christ That's the part that's done away, and it's glorious. That's one of Pastor's favorite terms in the pulpit. Isn't this glorious? Indeed, there is so much glorious things to be found in this new column. And that is the fundamental difference. So, contrasts. I don't go to Jerusalem, I don't go to a Levitical priest, I don't bring a lamb. Can you imagine trying in the New Testament era, a bunch of Gentiles? How would the airlines transport somebody and all their sheep and goats back to Jerusalem to give an offering? How's that going to work, Pretel? I'm really going to lug a lamb on board A plane? Probably not. Gotta go buy one. Can you imagine how many billions of lambs are gonna have to be made available over there for all these thronging worshippers to show up? That's just impractical. It's not going to happen. And God fully understood that. Right? So he cracked it open and said, nope, no more. One offering forever, Jesus Christ, justified by faith. That's the differences, the similarities. It's always been trusting in the promises of God. The law never invalidated the promises of God. were always there. They look to the promise of a Messiah to come. So do we. We look to the promise that the Messiah has come and will come again. There's fundamentally no difference. in the trust and the faith required for salvation. So that's the similarities. There's similarities, there's differences. So that's how I believe the scriptures present. One plan of salvation, and I'll hit five points here wrapping it up. Anyone any comment? No? Okay. The gospel was not the only Hold that thought. Hold that thought actually. That's an interesting thought. Um and uh uh oh, Tweak your wording a little bit. I'll tweak the wording a little bit, right? First of all, one plan of salvation. God has always changed men's hearts by the preaching of the gospel. Look at Galatians 3. 8 under Abraham, how God dealt with Abraham. I've got them listed Adam, Noah, and Abraham. Because of your comment, I'm going to jump to Abraham's on the top right on the backhand side. Which says this, and the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel to Abraham. Saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. In other words, Abraham had the gospel preached to him. God preached it to him in this promise. In thee shall all nations be blessed. Wow. That was preached in the Old Testament. And that was a New Testament promise, but it was preached in this former, very earliest book of the Bible. Bible. I always found that to be an interesting statement that we can't say, well the gospel started in the New Testament, and I know you didn't mean that. The the distinction I should have made simplistically is Christ was saying the disciples go into all the world. You were talking about bringing lambs to all the world and preach the gospel, take it all across Your emphasis was on the universal spread as opposed to Israel. Yes, yes. The gospel was also to Adam Uh preaching of the gospel is there. Genesis 3. 15, God speaking to the servant, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. And you remember what Adam did for What God did for Adam and Eve and to Adam also and his wife. Did the Lord God make coats of skins and clothe them? Now where do you get a coat of skin from? Gabriel, where's Gabriel? Where do you get a coat of skin from? From an animal. From an animal. I'm venturing that you killed the animal first before you took the skin, the coat of skin off of the animal. And if I was betting what kind of animal God used to clothe Adam and Eve, I'm gonna put my money on a lamb. I'm gonna put it on a lamb skin. I'm betting that's what it was. Coats, plural of skins. Plural. Alright, what about Noah? Genesis 6. 8. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. There's you have grace right there, long before Moses and Mount Sinai. Again, God's salvation has always been by his promises. His promises. And that's where We find the gospel of grace. Peter tells us that God spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. Maybe Noah was the first preacher in the world. Who else would hear it? He couldn't go everywhere, but if they wanted to hear truth, they would hear it from Noah. And he preached it and none listened except his own household. Isn't that interesting? His own house. I was the only one that was entered into the ark. We've already covered Abraham. The wandering Jews in the wilderness. They heard the word of God We're reading Hebrews 3. While it is said, Today if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation. For some when they had heard, they did provoke, but not all that came out of Egypt By Moses. With whom was he grieved? With whom was God grieved for forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness? Whew, I tell you, I would not have liked to have had Moses' job What an incredibly I'm amazed that man never lost his strength. You know, ministry has its rough parts to it This man had a nation of around a million plus grumbling Jews to deal with for 40 years. This is a nightmare of a job. Furthermore, because they were wandering for forty years and because all of them of that grumbling generation died, that meant every day there was some, I don't know, fifteen thousand funerals I mean if you do the math, six hundred some thousand Jews plus women and that were over the age of twenty, uh divided by forty years. I mean, I think I did it one time, and that pretty much meant every day you had a lot of barriers Every day was a funeral. What a horrific ministry this man has. It was a grievous ministry. And it says in Hebrews 4:2, about them, for unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them. They had the gospel preached to them in the wilderness, through these signs, through these shadowy figures, through The rock being smitten, through Moses preaching to them. They had the gospel preached. But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. They didn't believe. Hebrews 4, 6. It remaineth that some must enter in therein. It remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief. Again, faith and the promises of God, that's always the formula. That's the connection. Faith and the promises of God, and that's how belief Question, which of the following is true? Believers in the New Testament walk by law, or believers in the New Testament walk by faith? That's great. Walk by faith. That's right. Our walk is a walk of faith. Ah, you're saying you can violate Moses' covenant. No, what we're saying is I don't follow the old covenant covenant in its entirety. If you're going to cling to Moses' covenant, you understand you have to grab the whole enchilada, right? You can't pick and choose But in the New Testament, God has already picked and choose for you, right? All of that nine out of the ten commandments that have immediate application, that fourth commandment of the Sabbath day wrapped up in Christ. Christ, you rest in Him for your salvation, that's how you walk. Oh, there's still a walk, there's still conformity, and you could even say it's a law to you. But that phrase the law many a time in the Bible refers to the law the Old Covenant. Yes. That's all right. I find it amazing that um the Jews of the Old Testament that uh well even today that still only read the first file the pendant. Yep. The whaling wall. Yes, the whaling wall. Yeah they hang outside of there. And y Yet the word was preached to Abraham. Yes. They had all of this information. But still they go to the wailing wall. What are they wailing for? That's what I want to know. For the Messiah, uh the Messiah that they don't believe has come. Right. They have a different God in their mind. The Messiah came, they rejected him. God has given them a spirit of blindness that they shall not see, and they blindly continue. Jesus said, Leave them alone. They're blind leaders of the blind. If the blind follow the blind, they'll both fall in a ditch. And there they are. uh the the word. That is a scary thing. Pastor Mayhan illustrated it this way one time. Outside his window is a bird sitting on that telephone wire. He's sitting over his position is supported by that wire. He's resting on that wire. And as long as he sits on that wire, he's held up in a high position. But that bird is plum ignorant as to what the message is going through that wire. Even so, you've got religious people that are resting on that Bible, whether it's the old part or even the new part today. And they take their position on that, but they're plum ignorant of the message running through it Which is Christ crucified. What is it about Christ crucified and the new birth that men don't get? It's blindness of heart is all I can see. Last comment? Excellent point. Um excellent point. And I believe when David said, if I forget the old Jerusalem, let my right hand I believe that's foreshadowing the church to which we are accomplished uh connected to which we are part, which is the new Jerusalem. What you're saying is you say they're wailing for a city coming of their Messiah. No, they're w they are wailing for the destruction of Jerusalem For the for Jerusalem City at the last piece of their old city, they're still looking backwards rather than forward. So they are they are at the last piece of the old temple. They're seeking political ascendancy here in this life and now. But if Abraham had thought of this world, he would not have sought for a city. And and they see the restoration of the temple as being the rest of this building that now we have this little piece. Not build up. Alright, very good. Pastor Richard closes in prayer. Gracious Father, we do thank you. As always, for the unity of thy word. How it is And every little intricate piece fits in, just like a the vast picture of a jigsaw puzzle that when we see one piece it it It is out of place. But when your word is viewed as a whole, it it is a unit. And it uh there there are not two means of salvation and yet various pieces that have worked in To it at various various times. Lord, we thank you for your word. Pray, Lord, that you would apply it deep into our hearts, Father. Now bless us as we prepare for the worship this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.