We're going to take a big shift and change in gears. We're at the third section of Mr. Burkoff's Summary of Christian Doctrine. And I so trust and hope you have enjoyed that section on the covenant. I was especially blessed having gone through it now a few times. both in preparation as well as presenting it to others. But every time I go through I just pick up a little bit more to just get a little clearer. And frankly, it might have been a climb for some of you because we don't have much teaching often about the covenants of God and how they operate. And so it may not be something that comes normally into your ears We're now in the third section of Mr. Burkhoff's book. He has six, and then there's chapters within each. We're in the third section that's now going to talk about the doctrine of the person and the work of Christ Himself. You know, the whole covenant basically is anchored around and centered around this individual called the Christ the second member of the Godhead the Trinity. And now we're going to narrowly focus in on this critical part of the covenant, this this linchpin, this cornerstone, this key framing member that secures your salvation. Just who is this person You might say, well, we've already covered that. Well we did. We covered the doctrine of God. We looked at the Trinity. We looked at the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and in comparing and contrasting those, we touched upon him, but I don't think you can drill too deeply on the person of Christ Himself. And so that's what we're going to turn our attention to, and there's an entire section of Mr. Burkhoth's book strictly devoted to that So today we start with a relatively easy topic, and I say relatively easy because it's a little more familiar territory. It's about the names of Christ Himself, the names of Jesus. In your handout, it is organized by the different names, and we will look at them according to Old and New Testament instances and occurrences. And though it may be but familiar territory, I do want to spend some time to think about it some and maybe ask a few critical questions. The first is the very name of the Savior given to him by the angel Gabriel, which is Jesus. That is a corollary to an Old Testament name, and that Old Testament name was the name of Joshua. Joshua, just like Jesus, you can kind of detect the two parts of that name, the je part and the sus or the shua part at the end. It literally means just a savior. It literally means Jehovah saves, or Jehovah saved past tense. Jeff, Jehovah, Yahweh, Shua, Savior. Jehovah is the Savior. And this is the principal name of our Lord Jesus, God, Savior, Jesus is Savior. I find it interesting that the name was not left up to Joseph and Mary. Even as Zecharias and Elizabeth were not allowed to name John the Baptist. In fact, they complained a bit because I wasn't sure if it was them or some others Because of the name John, they said, Well none of your relatives are named John's Us. John is as common as grass these days. Everybody has the name John. It seems there's a lot of Johns out there. Middle name or first name, but in the day in which it was first surfaced, John was unusual. And Jesus likewise, Joshua, wasn't entirely that common, though it was in use. You see it in Matthew 1. 21, the angel saying, you'll call his name Jesus. He shall save his people from their sins. That's why you call him Jesus. And the emphasis there by the angels that he will save, but by that very name Jesus, that two-part, which likewise in the Greek carries through those two parts, Jehovah Savior. Well, if he's going to save his people, the implication is he is Jehovah. So even in that name and by that statement from the angel Gabriel, you have a title. You know Parents have the privilege to name their children. In our rebellious day, children refuse their name and decide to pick something else. But it doesn't matter. Your parents get first shot at it, and for a long season, you get called what they tell you you are. In some cultures they actually wait a while. Uh so the child is there living in the house and as they observe the characteristics of the child, whether they're studious or whether they're happy or laughy and you know whatever, they may begin to name the child with a little bit more information concerning the nature and the attribute of the child. They may wait a while. Every year certain publications put out the most popular name of a child in that generation. Interestingly enough, and I'm on an aside here and I must close quickly, but one of the proofs that the New Testament is in fact legitimate for the time period that it writes, is some people have actually done an analysis of the names that are used. religious and irreligious alike, the people listed in the accounts, and tried to do an assessment, a histogram, are these names represented in that time era? And they found it matches perfectly. It fits right in the uh histographical and statistical mean that those would have in fact been names that would have been commonly found. Judas, for instance, you see a lot of Judas the Judas Iscariot, uh Judas the Zealot, and so forth, you all these different But common instances, that was a fairly common name at that time. And so it would not be unusual that the biblical script would have Judas listed several times Only one Jesus is listed in this book. In the Old Testament, you had Joshua. Joshua was the servant of Moses. There was a Joshua listed who was a high priest in the book of Zechariah many years later. And in Hagai he was known as Joshua the son of Josedek. The other name for uh uh Jesus is Christ. Does anybody know what that refers to? What's the Old Testament corollary? It is a title. That's correct. It's mostly a title. And it refers to Messiah. Now messiah is just the transliteration of the Hebrew term messiach. Which means the anointed one. The anointed one. In fact, the word Messiah is all over the Old Testament. You just don't recognize it because it shows up as anointed You're anointing somebody. He was the anointed one. And it doesn't in and of itself take on a grand stature unless it has a definite article. The anointed. The ultimate anointed. And the time where it's rendered Messiah only occurs twice. It's in the book of Daniel. And there's another name of Jesus that occurs twice in the book of Daniel as well. And we'll see why that's significant in a bit. So it's the word Messiah, means anointed one. And in the Old Testament, there were three classes of people who were anointed. Three classes of people. And guess who they were? The priests were anointed, prophets were anointed, and kings were anointed. Jesus Christ is the only one who fulfilled the role of priest. And prophet and king. Abraham was a priest, he was a prophet, but he wasn't a king. David was a king. The prophet wasn't priest, and many were just prophets, which is no slam on the likes of Elijah or Elisha, but indeed they were notable individuals. Only Jesus Christ fulfills all three offices. And thus we can call him the capital A anointed one. He wasn't just the anointed priest. He wasn't just the anointed king. He wasn't just the anointed prophet, although all three are significant. He was the ultimate messiah. And that's what Philip says, come, we have found him who is the Messiah. So that's what Messiah means. You see the prophets were anointed in 1 Kings in your handout here, Elijah heard it. In verse sixteen of first Kings nineteen, you shall anoint Jehu the son of Nimshe as king over Israel. And Elisha you shall anoint as prophet in your place. So here we see Elijah doing some anointing, both of the king as well as the prophet. That Concept carries its way down into the New Testament when we ordain elders. They are, as it were, anointed They are uh hands are laid upon them indicating, I am in a figure transferring to you this official role, this office. In Exodus 29, we see how the priests were anointed. In Exodus 29, 1. This is the thing thou shalt do to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest's office. They take some animals for offerings. Verse 7, you shall take the anointing oil and pour it upon his head and anoint him. And that's a rich study with the anointing oil coming down on the head, even to Aaron's beard, that oil picture of God the Holy Spirit. And this anointing. See, you too are anointed of God as a child of God. You have God's anointing upon you. You are my child. Even as the Lord Jesus is the Son of God. You are, we reign with Him as kings and priests, and so in many ways we are conformed to the image of His Son, even in His anointing. Christ, of course, the big capital A anointed. Now I'm not saying your little messiahs either. And then a king. Kings were anointed. Samuel did this in 1 Samuel 16. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. Again, notice a nice clear connection between the anointing with oil and God the Holy Spirit. So we see that the prophets were anointed, priests were anointed, that was a routine and probably more common occurrence throughout the life of national Israel. And of course kings were. And notice who was the king anointer? It was the prophets. And you can say they were truly great individuals. um the the prophets were were notable notable ones. So uh we have Jesus, Jehovah is Savior, we have Christ meaning the anointed one. So when you say Jesus Christ, it's like saying um um uh Name of a leader and his title. For instance, Abimelech in the Old Testament is a title Pharaoh is a title, not a name. There would be a Pharaoh who Thutmos, the Pharaoh. Thutmos would be his name, and Pharaoh would be his title. Abimelech likewise is just a title. It would be the name of like the king. Yes. It's significant when Christ said, But whom say ye that I am? The answer is thou art the Christ. Yes, yeah. The Christ, the one to come, the anointed one. Absolutely. Yep. They knew that there was something unique and different about this man. Alright. The next title is one that Jesus Himself used. I find it interesting, and perhaps you can start to do this. When you read through the New Testament and you read the words of Jesus, if you have a red letter Bible, that's the red letters, notice how he refers to himself. I'm struck by his humility. He doesn't vaunt himself. He doesn't draw hardly any attention to himself, really. He lets the scriptures speak to him in an indirect way. I don't want to say hoping, but hoping that they would connect the dots to see that they were referring to him. But the most favorite title, does anybody know what the most favorite title Jesus used in reference to himself? When he would refer to himself. Son of man. Son of man. Yeah. He could have said son of God. You would have been spot on dead accurate. He was both son of man and son of God, which is the more humble title. Son of man. In other words, he It behooved him to be likened to his brethren. He was okay being listed as the Son of Man. But Jesus, don't you want to call out who you are? Well, he was Because he would use Son of Man in reference to himself, and the Pharisees got it. The common people might have heard him speak in a humble tone, but the Pharisees got it. Because it's in the book of Daniel that that phrase Son of Man connects his deity. It connects his deity with ancient prophecy of Jesus' coming. It's in Daniel 7. 13, where Daniel says he's he wrote, I saw in the night visions, and behold one like the Son of Man came. with the clouds of heaven, and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. Jesus himself would speak of the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then shall he, he the Son of Man, shall reward every man according to his works. That's a pretty bold statement. That's a statement of being the judge, being that ultimate one of whom Daniel spoke of, the one who would come with great glory in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and believe not the gospel, obey not the gospel. And as I mentioned, the Pharisees got this. Because in Matthew 26, Jesus states this in answer to the high priest who put him under oath to testify who he was. Art thou the Christ? Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said. Nevertheless, it's interesting. He didn't say it, yes, you're right. He said, Yeah, you said it. I'm not saying this of myself. You have said that. Notice the humility there. Thou hast said, nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter Shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven? Well, if that isn't a statement of deity, I don't know what is. That's a clear connection to Daniel. And they got it Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? You have heard his blasphemy. What's blasphemy? If somebody's accusing you of blasphemy, what are they saying? You're preparing yourself to God. Yeah, you're comparing yourself to God, and they would say you've even gone a step further. You're making yourself out to be God. Uh blasphemy is also a form of taking God's name in vain to drag God's name and profane it Or, and in a way that's profaning the name of God when you elevate yourself to God, because you're obviously not, you were physically born to a father and a mother, and you will die as the rest. In Luke, Jesus said, they shall see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. He often refers to himself as Son of Man. It's one of his most favorite titles. You will search in vain. I don't know that I can say that because I didn't do that search. I would be surprised to find reference where Jesus speaks to himself as Son of God. Maybe he does. He indirectly does. We'll get to that in a moment. Others refer to him that way. Now I want to ask a question about this name, Son of Man. Is that title exclusive to Jesus alone? Okay, you say no? Because Ezekiel, I think, was called that. Yes, Ezekiel was called the son of man. There's actually quite a lot of references to other humans as son of man. Job says what is man uh uh that or in the Psalms, Psalms says what is man if they were mindful of him with the son of man that thou does it. We'll look at that in a moment. But the most common use of the term son of man is like referring to you and I. And we see that the majority of the Old Testament uses of that term are in reference to that. Now, what would we expect Jesus to have said instead of Son of Man? What might be another term we would have expected him to say? Human. Human? Okay. If he's trying to point out his deity. Okay. What I needed to clarify that question. Son of God. Son of God is what you might expect him to say. Son of God. Might as well just he wouldn't be lying if he said that. That would not have been a lie. He could have said that What I find interesting, and this is where I'm hoping to take the study beyond perhaps some of the things you've commonly heard or thought about concerning the names and titles of Jesus, is what to do with this. Now you can do the analysis on your Bible app on your phone. And you can see, oh, Son of Man a few times, reference to Jesus, most of the time, to men. Jesus uses it to himself. What can we do with that? Well, I want you to now take your Bible and turn to Psalm chapter 8. And I want you to see what a stunning, shocking statement this is when Jesus makes the claim that he is the Son of Man. Let's look at some And one in particular, Old Testament reference where that term is used in the book of the Psalms. It's in Psalm chapter 8. And let's just go verses 3 through 8 briefly here. Psalm 8 and verse 3. It says, the psalmist writes, When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained. What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels It has crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet All sheep and oxen, yea, the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. What is the psalmist marveling at? What's he marveling at? Let's call it the first audience. Hmm. So wow. No, I don't think so. Victoria? That's uh what even consider human flesh. Yeah. How is it that human flesh that human clay Can have dominion over this creation. For the most part, wild animals, from the tiniest one to the largest ones, for the most part are fearful of human beings. In fact, they rarely will attack unless they're provoked, unless they're cornered. Great white sharks, you can find YouTube videos of some guy going down there without a cage. with flesh to eat, hanging around the bottom of the ocean floor waiting for sharks to come around. They're really not interested in him because he's too bony and doesn't have enough meat You find uh I found a silly video of a guy who raised a lion cub from the earliest days, nursed it. He can hold it in his hands, and this monstrous beast comes up to him and gives him A huge hug. Beasts, for the most part, somewhat are respective of humans What is man if they are mindful of him? We can go across this creation, and all kinds of things are there. We can mine brass out of the hills and ore from the earth and make steel. We have, as it were, domain. He says, When I consider the works of thy hands. God made all these things, and lo and behold, we're the apex, the alpha creature. We can do a lot with that. And he marvels says, what is man that you're mindful of him? Man, man's the only one that's rebelled. The rocks didn't rebel, the fish didn't rebel, the lions didn't rebel. They were perfectly obedient. And yet they too are under the curse, and the whole creation groans and travails, waiting the expectation of the revelation of the sons of God, and yet man, that cursed one Who broke God's commandment now is in charge. What is man that thou art mindful of him? That's what the psalmist is marveling at. He says, when I consider these things, and I see that man is over it. He's obviously lower than angels. We're not above the angels. And then lo and behold, when you get to the book of Hebrews and turn now to Hebrews chapter 2, We jump forward to the New Testament, and under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, this very passage is quoted. In Hebrews 2, beginning in verse 5, as the point is being made that Christ is greater than angels, He says, For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come whereof we speak, but one in a certain place testified. We just read that certain place, saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? Thou madeest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. Now he picks up on that and he continues For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him, but we see Jesus Who is made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. Isn't that interesting? Here we see that under inspiration, all of a sudden that phrase Son of Man and being put in and putting things under subjection All of a sudden he says, ah, I find a fulfillment that ultimately is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. I see that he is the one reference to that. And all of a sudden, you can now go back into the Old Testament, and when you see that phrase Son of Man, you can attempt a replacement. Replace that phrase with the word Jesus and think about it. and see if you can decipher some new things. It may not just be talking about plain old human flesh. There may be a messianic pointer to it. And we can do that based on this comparison with Psalm 8 and Hebrews 2. Alright, well the other term that God uses in reference, the Lord Jesus has as a title is, of course, Son of God. That does appear, but it's indirect. It appears as the second person of the Trinity, and back to your handout on the back side, in Matthew 11, 27, all things are delivered unto me of my Father. No man knoweth the Son but the Father, neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whosoever the Son will reveal him. It's a glorious truth concerning how salvation comes. It comes to those to whom the Son reveals the Father. He's making a reference, a distinction between son and father. What's the implication? Son of the father, son of God. The father he's referring to is God the Father And the Jews understood that when Jesus would make these kinds of statements, because you see in John 5. 18, the Jews therefore sought the more to kill him. Because he'd not only broken the Sabbath, but said also that God was with, excuse me, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God. The Jews weren't angry just because he did miracles. They were, the Jewish leaders were angry because he declared himself to be the Son of God. Had he only been a man, they would have been right to have killed him. He would have been guilty of blasphemy. Had he not been God. However, if they had known the Lord of Glory, they would not have crucified him. They didn't know him. That's the problem. As the Son of God, he's referenced as the Holy One, as the appointed one, excuse me, in Hebrews 1. 2. God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things. Again, Hebrews making reference to him as the Son of God. And when the angel came to announce Jesus to Mary, the angel answers her in Luke 1. 35, saying, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. And the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called thee, Son of God. So there, the angel Gabriel clearly makes it plain to Mary, he's going to be called the Son of God. You're going to call his name Jesus. Two other titles for uh uh uh the the Lord and uh we we should be able to to close a little early today is the phrase the Lord. This is the Greek term kurios, which means one who is supreme in authority. one who is the controller. However, it can also have a lesser meaning when we refer to someone politely. We refer to them as Mr or Mrs. Uh Mr. is a contracted form of the term master, which is uh another uh uh correct rendering of that term lord. Sometimes the word Cordios is also rendered master. But we'll look at Cordios, the Lord, the supreme one in authority. He is that Lord of Lords. He's the Lord and ruler of the church. The opening verses of Romans, Paul writes this: that Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated into the gospel of God, which he promised afore by his prophets in the scriptures, concerning his son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. And of course we understand that term. We refer to him all the time as the Lord this or the Lord that. Let's move to the Lord in prayer. We obviously use that term quite a lot I want to do a little bit more digging on that phrase the Lord for just a moment, for those of you who are married, contemplating marriage, or have just a theological, technical interest in it. In 1 Corinthians 7. 34, there is an interesting usage of Lord going on here. In 1 Corinthians 7. 34 we read this. There is difference also, in 1 Corinthians 7. 34, between a wife and and a virgin, the unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord. Alright, so she is submitting herself voluntarily. As a child, as a daughter of of the king, she's cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit But she that is married cares for the things of the world how she may please her husband. Now what I find interesting is there is a distinction here. There is a contrast, I should say. The woman, as it were, has two husbands. She's either married to the Lord or she's married to her husband, serving the Lord through him. Notice also that the husband's name is called husband, not Lord, so he does not to Lord over her. He is not to force her to obey. She is commanded in Scriptures to submit. It is a voluntary thing. She is to desire to do that. That is her commandment. Children are told to obey. And when the master-servant relationship, servants are told to obey, but God does not use that term for the women. He tells them to submit. And that is a willing thing that they are to do. And oh ladies, you know that that is every bit as hard as it is for the man to submit to the Lord, to obey the Lord By nature, we hate authority, period. But there's a contrast here, and there's a nice distinction in use. God does not use capital Lord, Lord for Jesus, and lowercase Lord, Lord for husband, though he could have said that. You know, he says it also of men, and another place where the disciples were arguing. You remember that about who should be the greatest. And Jesus answered and said, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise authority over others, and they that are great upon them, but it shall not be so among you. Whoso will be your uh the servant, uh be your lord, let him be your servant, and he will be chief, let him be your slave, your let him be uh There's to be a servant leader mindset, and that leads us to the next term, which is that word master. The master In school, we used to call the principal the headmaster or the schoolmaster. They were the top dog in the teaching chain of authority They were the uh in in today's uh school system, you can get a bachelor's degree, which means you have um secured enough training to have a fundamental, solid, broad understanding of a topic, but then you may go another couple of years to get a master's degree, meaning you've mastered this topic. In Matthew 10, 25, here Master, let's go to Matthew 10, let's go to the second one first, because that's really the sense in which we're looking at here first. The master is the guide, the chief teacher. You could call him the real Pope of the Church. Matthew 23, 10, neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ. The King James does a fine job of capitalizing master there. We don't run around calling each other master. There's only ultimately one master. Now that doesn't mean it's inappropriate and unbiblical for me to simply refer to someone as Mr. So-and-so or you can do that because I'm giving them a a title of courtesy. I'm not giving them an honorific uh as if though they are the uh the the head the the the ultimate teacher The Pope, if you will. Jesus said in John 13, Ye call me master and Lord, and you say well, for so I am. Here he acknowledges that If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. So here it has to do with the fact that he is that supreme teacher. He's that ultimate teacher. That's his title. That's who he is He's also a servant leader, and this is the last point I want to get to today. In Matthew 10, 25, it's enough for the disciple that he be as his master and the servant as his Lord. If they've called the master of the house Belzebub, notice he's referring to himself as the master of the house. And what do men call him? Baelzebub, Lord of the Flies. That's what Baelzebub means. He's the devil, basically. If they're going to call that glorious Messiah, the anointed one, the Son of God, the Son of Man to come to fulfill prophecy, they call the most purest form of good the darkest form of evil. If they so radically flip upside down that we really shouldn't be surprised that it comes to us and others who are even remotely close to the light, he says, how much more shall they call them of his own household? And so we need not wonder why the world calls evil good and good evil, because Jesus right here says they're going to call him the purest form of light that there is. There's no darkness in him at all, 1 John tells us. We shouldn't be surprised when mere men who have a a glimmer of the light of Christ That they are dismissed as evil is because there's a wicked one who hates darkness. Jesus says, he has nothing in me. There is not a glimmer of any Christ-like substance in him. There really is a spiritual warfare going on, even as Jesus said there would be, and you see it and behold it now. Colossians 4 giving instructions. To earthly leaders, he says, Masters, give unto your servants that which is which is just and equal, knowing that ye also have a master in Heaven. Again, his title as a servant leader, as that ultimate master. Let me ask a few closing questions and then we'll wrap it up. Which of these titles uh impresses you in the sense that maybe you hadn't considered a certain portion of that before. Or what is it about all these different names of Christ that strike you about the Savior? He doesn't call himself the Son of God because he wants men to acknowledge that. Salvation is Coming to the realization that this is the Son of God. That's right. In Matthew sixteen, Peter's confession, but who do you say that I am? Right. Even before Pilate, thou say us Yes, yep, even before Pilate. Other observations about the names of Christ, how do they strike you? What comfort do you receive from these names or perhaps challenge in the names? I I think that it's um pretty helpful to know that uh the Lord's role is so intertwined with his name. Even you know, Jesus itself, Jehovah is salvation, Jehovah is Savior, that you know, this is what he's called to do, and it's just wrapped up in his name in itself. So I don't know about that. That's a very good point. You know, uh uh getting back to an earlier illustration, if I can maybe milk it a little further. When um Uh parents uh have a uh a child and they give it a name. What what do you think goes through moms and dads' minds when they seek to name the child? What what are some of the criteria they're looking for? What do you think? I I think with believers we hope to live up to their name. Okay. You know, that we name them, give them a biblical name, hopefully that they will follow that name. For the Gentiles, for the unsaved in the world, let's look at let's explore that angle for a moment. What do you think goes through the unsaved of the world when they name their child? I think they name their child something that they like, something that they admire, um, whether it's after some famous person. in the world or whatever it might be, or a relative of some sort, they like that person or whatever qualities they have, so they mean uh They're gonna certainly give the child a name that they personally like. Right? No one names a child a name that they utterly detest. They want to be they personally want to be pleased with the name. Do you think parents sometimes might try to live vicariously through their children? Where, you know, they fail to achieve certain things, but I'm gonna give this child a great name because they're gonna live up to it, and when they reach that great status, I can sit back in my rocking chair and chest and dump my chest and say, look at what I've done. Even though it was, you know, neither the child nor the parent there's the Lord that did it. There's a vicarious living through it, right What about those who have a very good reputation in the world, say royalty in Britain, when they name the child? I would think that they want the name to embody that office. Yeah. King or queen or princess. You would want yes, if you're giving birth to the future prince or princess of the kingdom, you would want them to have a most worthy and admirable name, one that maybe brings in some history and tradition, uh one that um is very reputable sounding Uh you're not gonna call him Bubba. I don't think I've ever heard of a king being named Bubba, uh or Jim Bob Ed Buck Um, you know, I I I just haven't yet heard that wouldn't surprise me the way things are going these days. So the point is that um There are names to either you're looking to that child to stand up and live up to a notable reputation or to carry on a tradition and to have honor. I believe it was a pastor I heard many years ago, the name escapes me which one I heard, who said, Remember who you are and whose you are. You know, there's the honor of the family name. You don't want to shame the honor of the family name. Now, let me connect that Strange series of questions and try to bring it home. You, Christian, have taken on an honorable name. Christian, Christian. Do you hear it in the name? Christian? Don't blaspheme. That worthy name. By the which you're called. You're in his kingdom. You're falling under his name. You represent Him in your neck of the woods, no matter how small or no matter how large, it is his name that you're carrying And that name, in fact, is so powerful that it will carry you straight into heaven. I think when it says and the books were opened for the wicked, And then when the sheep on the right hand are brought before him and the book was read, and whosoever was not found written in the Lamb's book of life was cast into hell. I think they're looking for one name. Christian? Check yes or no. Christian? Christian? Does he bear the name? He doesn't need a lot of books, the record of the evils of this nation and those who have walked in the path of Ishmael and Esau and have done shame and dishonor to a name that was already shameful and dishonorable. So just remember that as you study the worthy name by which you are called, we are to live to that. That is a standard for us. So I close with those thoughts. You had a comment. I just say men want their own name to endure as well. Yes, they do. God's name that will end door. Yeah, men do want their name. They think their name shall endure forever, I think it says in the place. That's what they want. They have great big statues. So Anton, could you close us in prayer? Thank you. Father in heaven, um Lord how we do praise you for sending uh to us uh a child uh giving us this king, Lord, uh Jesus the Christ, the anointed one Oh Lord, that would be the perfect uh master over us, the perfect Savior. We pray you would help us to continue to grow in the grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. What his title, what his name means, what it bears with it, uh help us to know uh more and more all of the implications of his role and of his work, oh Lord. We praise you that through him we might have redemption and indeed pardon of our sins. Pray you would help us. To likewise be conform to the image of Christ. Lord, we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.