Continuing to walk our way through the Olivet Discourse. It's very difficult to speak about end-time teaching without covering this because invariably people are going to ask questions. about Matthew 24 and Luke 21. So open your Bibles again to Luke 21, and we're going to cover the second half of it today. We're in the 21st chapter of the book of Luke. And just briefly, last week we've already covered verses 5 to 24. And that is the part where Jesus is asked several questions by the disciples concerning the temple. And as we walked our way through it. And we asked certain questions of each and every critical word in that text. We discovered that it's very, very difficult to spiritualize it as a first level meaning. It's very difficult to see anything other than the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem and the crucifixion of upward of a million Jews that would have been called the days of vengeance And that occurred under the Roman general Titus in A. D. 70. Very difficult to find anything else other than that. However, as we continue reading in Luke 21 The Lord Jesus appears to be answering the next question that is covered in Matthew 24, what shall be the sign of thy coming into the end of the world? He appears to now be piv pivoting and answering that question So let's take a look at it, and we're going to see some difficulties with this whole passage, which causes a lot of people some consternation. So you have a handout, but first we're going to just look at the text of Luke 21, and we're going to begin in verse 25. In fact, I'm going to back up to verse 24 where we read this, Luke 21, 24. And Gabriel can bring it up on the screen. We'll cover it all the way through down to twenty thirty-three. And they shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down to the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. That's a very important phrase. last part of Luke 2124 until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. There shall be signs in the sun, the moon, and the stars. Upon the earth distress of nations with perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring, men's hearts failing them for fear. And for looking after those things which are coming on the earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads, excuse me, for your redemption draweth nigh. And he spake to them a parable. Behold the fig tree and all the trees, when they now shoot forth, you see, and know of yourselves, know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh unto hand. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled Heaven and earth shall not pass away, but my words shall not pass away. So I have an opening question. Do you see any difficulties here? with what we have just read and with what we covered last week. Yes, Penny. Who is this generation? Ah, yeah, so this generation shall not pass away until all be fulfilled. Yeah, that does make you scratch your head. Okay, that certainly is a big one. We will talk about that. So I think I think we did a reasonable job last week showing The first section of Luke 21, all the way up to 24, 5 to 24, could be understood physically, and I think that'd be a very safe understanding of it. I don't think To try to spiritualize it, you really start to stretch out on some mighty thin branches, and it's hard to support such a position. But 25 to 28 Back up at that section that we just read pretty clearly relates to Christ's second coming as the apparent physical reading lends itself. I mean it talks about the sign of the Son of Man. They're going to see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. If it didn't say cloud, you might say, well, somehow Son of Man coming in great power and glory, maybe we could spiritualize that, but it's very hard when you attach the cloud to it. He comes with clouds. Why is clouds important? Because he ascended to heaven. And we expect him to come from that direction, back down from heaven, down to earth. He cometh with clouds. Scripture is pretty clear about that. So, furthermore, there is another difficulty with this passage, and we find that in the book of Matthew, Matthew 24, 29. And this is in your handout. You don't have to turn there because I kind of want to keep you in a loop. Where in Matthew 24, 29, Jesus tucks in this phrase. He says, Immediately after the tribulation of those days, there shall be signs in the sun, the moon, the stars, and so forth. So Jesus makes it even a little more interesting because he then tacks on that word immediately, meaning immediately after the preceding passages, which pretty clearly seem to point to 8070. So there's a couple of difficulties there. Let's look at these one at a time, and we'll start with this phrase generation. Verse 32, verily I say unto you, this generation shall be not pass away until all be fulfilled. So when Jesus says generation, we have to ask ourselves, is he talking physically or is this a metaphorical generation? Well, he appears to be speaking physically. He appears to be, because in the earlier chapters of Matthew, Matthew 1. 17 is Matthew is giving his recounting of the number of generations that have occurred Prior to the birth of the Lord Jesus, he says the generations from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are 14. He lists all these different generations. And so it appears in Matthew's genealogy, and he ties it to the Jews' captivity in Babylon. That a period in Babylon is noted as a generation. Now how long were the children of Israel in captivity in Babylon? Well, we read in 2 Chronicles 36. Again, this is on your handout It said to fulfill the words of the prophet Jeremiah, the land kept Sabbath to fulfill 3 score and 10, meaning 70 years. So by connecting Matthew's reference to generation, referring back to the Babylonian captivity, that appears to be, a generation appears to be about 70 years long. That's about the time frame. Some could argue 40. I think 70 is safe because of this connection. Now here's the problem. Do you see the problem, of course? Because if his second coming is fulfilled before the generation of his immediate audience would die, meaning within seventy years. Then somehow we've either missed Christ's second coming, probably not the case, or it's already come and gone. Which seems to be nonsense. So either way we're stuck with a hmm moment. And this is a place where, as Pastor Joe mentioned, a very helpful rubric for knowing when to look at scriptures perhaps a different way, if the plains if the plain sense If the plain sense makes sense. Makes sense. Seeks no further sense. Right. Well here the plain sense is sort of starting to not make sense. It's starting to sound a little unusual here, right? Now, some would believe that this would be a physical generation, and so they're going to view verses 25 through 28. this signs in the sun, moon, and the stars, this the Son of Man coming, they'll view that metaphorically. Alright? They'll say, okay, well, in a spiritual way Christ came back. And they'll try to twist that. Now These views, of course, have their passages that they will use to support their ideas. They will point out that 25 through 28 don't mention judgment day and only talks about the gathering of God's elect. They'll try to point out that Christ spoke of his coming, not his final coming. I'm not sure we can argue that. We've already seen so much overlap in the language of scriptures of the things that occur when Christ comes a second time. There's this whole matrix. And I handed you a handout of this big matrix of all these things that occur that connect. And it's hard to break those apart. You run afoul of other portions of Scripture Some would say in Matthew 16 at the um just prior to the Mount of Transfiguration, Jesus said, There are some standing here which will not taste of death till they see the Son of Man coming. uh in his power and his kingdom. Right? They'll look at that and they'll say, okay, well, uh it was Jesus, it wasn't his final return then. Well but chapter 17 was the Mount of Transfiguration. They did see him transfigured. they did see the change, so even that's not metaphorical. They'll point out perhaps that Pentecost appeared to fulfill some of these things. Uh Acts 2 says, I will show wonders in heaven above and signs in the earth beneath. Perhaps. But I'm a little uncomfortable trying to spiritualize it away. There's just too many elements that tie together that show that this is referring to the second coming of Christ, his coming in the clouds. with the power, with glory, with the angels. I mean that's pretty, that's hard to get around. That's really hard to get around to say it's anything other than Christ's second return. So that is uh that that's that's one struggle, and so I'm just introducing it here, and we're going to try to resolve it in just a moment. And then the second difficulty is in the parallel passage of Matthew 24 in verse 29 where he says, immediately after the tribulation of those days. That's the other section that offers us a measure of difficulty. And here, again, the destruction of the temple, the previous verse occurs, and then immediately after you've got Christ's second return and the end of the world. So we ask, well, did that actually happen after AD 70? Did we somehow miss this coming? Again, the same questions come up and similar difficulties attend with it A little bit of history here. Some will spiritualize the destruction of the temple. They'll try to show that A. D. 70 that was a spiritual destruction. And we've already looked at that to say, man, that's really hard to go down that path. You really have to twist too much. You have to fend too much to make that fit. They say AD 70's not in view, the destruction of the church they'll say, the body of believers is in view. That would be very difficult. That's the error, by the way, of the Jehovah's Witnesses. they will take that view. The Millerites, this would be the Seventh-day Adventists, they'll take that view. The course Mr. Camping also took that view. So he began to go down a similar path that the Seventh-day Adventist went down. The Millerites, it's interesting, they rationalized by saying Christ did not come on earth, but he came into a heavenly sanctuary. Now where'd he get that from? Well their founder, Ellen White, had a vision in 1844, and that was her conclusion, is that Christ came into the heavenly sanctuary and camping and had a similar idea that You know, he's he did come, he left, and so no one can be saved. It's time to come out. Well, I just spoke with a widow uh yesterday in Tucson, Arizona a lovely lady named Shirley Jukic, and um uh she uh and I met during that time period when camping was going down that path. Her husband was unsaved at that time She continued to pray for her husband. Years later, God did save her husband. During a time when some were saying, nope, there is no salvation at this time. Well, nonsense. God was still saving. God saving up until the very end. Just kind of like Noah's Ark, folks, when the last animals get in the ark, then the flood of the waters is upon the earth. That's the grand picture of God's day of salvation. He as long as this his sun is still rising And there's still breath of life in an elective God yet to be saved on this earth. He's not going to come yet. He will wait until all of his come in. Now there's an alternative view some have taken from this passage. They say these verses do insist on the destruction of Jerusalem. They'll say that earlier section does talk about that. But AD 70 somehow didn't quite fulfill it. They'll say, yep, it talks to, but it wasn't fulfilled, and they'll point out, well, Jesus said every stone has to be cast down, but the whaling wall is still standing. They'll say not all the stones of the whaling wall are down, so all of Jesus' words couldn't have possibly been fulfilled because the whaling wall is still there. Well, no, the whaling wall actually wasn't But they'll point out that that has to be done. And they'll look to the Jewish temple to be rebuilt, therefore. And so, because the whaling wall stands, they'll say, well, it's going to be rebuilt, and then later it'll be destroyed, and that's when it ushers in judgment day and so they say that AD 70 was a partial fulfillment the temple's got to get rebuilt so it can be redestroyed and then we've got a solution for immediately after it That's how others handle that. That's typically the view of the premillennials. A lot of Southern Baptist churches will take that. We'll take that approach as well. Alright. My point is that in either case you have to do some real stretching. I think there's a lot of stretching to try to get to that conclusion However, I believe there exists a reasonable alternative which does justice to all the passages without requiring twisting to get them to fit. I do believe there is a very reasonable solution. And it does lie in verse 24. You've heard me mention it a lot because it was a huge eureka moment for me when I read this section. In 24, Jesus tucks in a very important phrase. They shall be led away captive into all nations. Jerusalem shall be trodden down to the Gentiles. until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. It's that last phrase, folks, that is so wonderfully important It is so vital to helping us understand what is going on here. Jesus has tucked in a chunk of time. He has tucked in a reference that Jerusalem is going to be trodden down and indeed today what sits right on top of the Temple Mount? Anybody know? What sits on top of the Temple Mount in Jerusalem today? Muslim A Muslim mosque. Yep. Who's got control of that Temple Mountain? The Muslims. Are they about to give it up anytime soon? Hardly. Hardly. It literally is being trampled underfoot by the Gentiles. The Muslims have got it. They're not getting rid of it. There's nary a chance that they're going to let that go. And so it's been that way for quite some time. In fact, when the Romans came, the Romans had it, and it's always changed hands And it's ultimately always ended up under Gentile oppression, and it's securely in the hands of the Muslims today. So what are these times of the Gentiles? Anyone want to venture a guess? What is that phrase pointing to, Victoria? Well I'm looking at your handout and trying to make sense of where you I think you might be going with this. I suspect you're referring to um the New Testament period of the church now. Mm-hmm. The times of the Gentiles is the times that we're in currently. I I put fill in the blank on your notes, but I didn't make a copy on my notes what your answers are supposed to be. Um It is the times when the Gentiles are being saved. That is, it's our times. It's the entire New Testament period. Why do you suppose the Bible might call the time from Christ's departure, destruction of Jerusalem, all the way until his return? Why do you might suppose he'd call that era the times of the Gentiles? Why would he call that the time of the Gentiles? Yeah. One other time in Bible history has been a massive outpouring of evangelism and salvation that's been occurring among the Gentiles, which is basically everybody but the Jews. It was restricted to a very tiny spot on the map. You know, when you look at a map of the Middle East, Israel is a tiny sliver. It's a really tiny sliver of land against the Mediterranean Sea. Compared to the mass of the land where the rest of the world lives, it's insignificant. And so the gospel is spreading throughout all the world. And what an appropriate title for it. It's the time of the Gentiles, the time of Gentile salvation. It's a time that you and I can gather in a Gentile living room, hearing from a Gentile, speak about the glories of Christ, of his death, burial, and resurrection, his fulfillment of all things. That's what you're hearing about. And that is a season of time. And while we're speaking now, are there sacrifices going on in Jerusalem? No. Is there a high priest over there offering up a lamb for a burnt offering or sacrifice? No. Those are shut down because those pointers, those signs are of none effect. The blood of bulls and goats and calves cannot take away sins. Hebrews is very clear about that But the proclamation of Jesus Christ and his shed blood and atonement, yes, that does take away sins through faith in him, absolutely So this phrase, the times of the Gentiles, is tucked in right here, and it also appears in Romans chapter 11, another interesting location. And this is where I normally would go into a rather lengthy study of Romans chapter 9, 10, and 11, but I'm just going to give you the executive summary. So go right now to Romans 11. 25. Romans 11. 25. The Apostle Paul in the first eight chapters of Romans is going to be leading up to His denumont, which is the glories of Christ, that glorious eighth chapter, who shall separate us from the love of God and the wonders that we have and the promises of Christ? He just leads up to that In the ninth chapter, he begins to turn his attention to, well, what about the Jews? What does the gospel then have and hold and in store for the Jews? And so he's trying to answer those questions. He says that he is also an Israelite in verse 1. I'm sorry I'm back it up to give some context. He says verse uh five of Romans 11 at this present time there's a remnant according to the election of grace. There's still a few Jews that God intends to save, but he calls them a remnant. Not many, just a remnant And then he gets down to 25, and he says, I would not, brethren, that you should not be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits. that blindness in part is happened to the Gentiles until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. Fullness of the Gentiles, times of the Gentiles, same kind of concept here. Alright? So this uh this idea uh Again, began in Romans 9, where the Apostle Paul is essentially going to teach that the entire Israel of God, not after the flesh, but after the Spirit, the spiritual Israel of God, the elect of God, to include Jews and Gentiles Also known as God's elect, they're going to be saved. But uh they're going to be saved, during which time the old Israel, the Israel after the flesh, remains blinded to the gospel, and they're blind to the gospel because David pronounced a curse upon them. And he pulled that out and he mentioned that, the apostle does, in verses 9 and 10. David saith, Let their table be made a snare, a trap, a stumbling block, and a recompense unto them. Let their eyes be darkened that they may not see, and bow down their back always. And so David, who was both a king as well as a prophet, he was not a priest, David under inspiration is prophesying that there would be a time when there would be blindness. Of course, Isaiah talks about the blindness. There's a lot of things that talk about blindness of national. Israel. And they are, for the most part, going to remain blind to the gospel. Have you ever seen interviews? Ray Comfort does these from time to time, of Jews, Hasidic Jews. He goes over and talks to them in Israel. How vehemently anti-Christ they are. I mean, they are not indifferent. They are incensed that you would dare suggest That Jesus is the Messiah. The strongest anti-Christ feelings you will ever find manifested comes from the Jews And it shows that animosity of the heart, and you can only account for that from severe blindness To them came the oracles of God. They had all the signs, shadows, types, and figures. All the pointers to the different aspects of exactly what Christ would do occurred right there in their backyard. And yet they stiff-armidly refuse it to this day. Those who are the most, most difficult people to evangelize consistently are the Jews. Even to this day, I've spoken with people, Carol, you probably know some people, who have visited the Middle East, have toured back there as a Christian, Christian Arabs. To this day, it is very difficult for Christian Arabs to be able to extend and receive and have fellowship with Jewish Christians. These are Jews who become Christians and yet still They won't associate with Gentile Christians. There's still a a distancing. There's still a separation. They still don't get together really. And it's not because of geopolitical reasons where they might get stoned or whatever. No, they claim to be Christians. They but they retain they still hang on to that mantle of Jewishness. They will not let go of Moses and the customs. They will not let go of of those things. To this day, it's very very amazing. There's a Jewish community in Baltimore. I visited one Saturday. Jewish Christian community. Okay. Um out of curiosity. They were not rude, but I was not welcomed either. Right. Right. Because at the end of the day, you're definitely a Gentile. Right. Yeah. So, we know from Romans 2, the Israel of God is spiritual. God says he is not a Jew outwardly, but he is a Jew which is one inwardly. And then Romans 9, they're not all Israel which are of Israel, but the children of the promise are counted for the seed. That's pretty consistent. We understand that there is a spiritual Israel that God has in view. That's you and I. If you're an elective God who's saved, you're part of that spiritual Israel. Alright. And then in Romans 11. 25, I'll tie all this together for a moment, folks. I know I'm on a little bit of a detour, but just hang tight and bear with me. Romans 11, 25, then the apostle says, and so all Israel shall be saved. Now that word so does not mean then, as in a reference to time. So is the word that means in this manner. And in this manner is the manner he's just been describing, which is God saving his elect. His elect elect Gentiles and elect Jews. That's how all Israel, quote unquote Israel, is going to be saved. He's talking about the people of God. We are the Israel of God. Alright? So that's why I then view Based on this short conclusion of Romans 12 and 21, when he says, all Israel will be saved, times of the Gentiles being fulfilled, that's referring to the elect Gentiles as well as the few remaining elect Jews. All of them coming to salvation, that is the times of the Gentiles. That's the same as the fullness of the Gentiles be coming in So when he talks about the fullness of the Gentiles, that doesn't mean every Gentile out there is going to be saved. He's talking about every elect Gentile. That's the fullness that that's the full cup God's looking for, his elect people. Still with me? Not sure I know that's kind of a meandering course there. If there's any questions, I'll I'll give a minute. To help clarify some things. Alright. So I believe that's a very important phrase that Luke tucks in. So let's go back then to Luke 21. And he says that all of these things, Jerusalem is going to be trodden underfoot until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. It all makes perfectly good sense. What further need do we have of sacrifices of the temple, of all those services? We have Christ. He fulfilled it. His life, death, resurrection, uh all of that. I mean uh birth, life, death, burial, resurrection, all of it was the fulfillment of all that had been spoken of. What further need do we have of the Right? It's purpose has come and gone. It served a glorious purpose. It's gone. So it fits. It kind of makes sense. I'm good with it so far. But how does this help us, Vince, with these generation problems we've got? How does it help us with After the tribulation of those days. How do we deal with that? Well, I think this helps because when Matthew says, and he talks about in Matthew 24, 29, the tribulation of those days. I believe that Jesus is including not only the tribulation, which includes the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70, but the saints, you and I are in tribulation now as well. I think AD 70 started it. That was the kickoff session, if you will, for the saints, because the warning was to benefit the saints. The warning was to get the saints to flee their hometown. Because the gospel began in Jerusalem. Jesus said, You shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem. Right there, square one And Judea, expanding, square two. And Samaria, boom, square three, going north into the dispersed tribes. And to the uttermost parts of the earth. So square one was Jerusalem. Jesus said evangelism has to start there. Well, it would be very natural and comfortable to want to stick around your hometown. Let's just evangelize right here. But Jesus says, okay, there's a time coming, you're going to have to leave. And so it was a benefit for the Christians. And so for Christians, our tribulation sort of began right then. They had to jump up and leave. And so the tribulation of those days, I think Would also possibly include, and I'm suggesting that it does include, the New Testament period, while every elect is being saved. Can it really be said that Gentiles in the New Testament period suffer tribulation? Well, yeah, I think it does. In the world you shall have what? Tribulation, but be of good chair of overcome. We must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. We do go through that. That no man should be moved by these afflictions. Same word. Revelation 7, these are they which came out of great tribulation and have washed their robes. So I think spiritually speaking, and even physically, the Church of God does suffer tribulation. So when Jesus says after the tribulation of those days, I think those days could include Not only AD 70, but also that whole New Testament period. So I I'm okay tucking that in there based on comparing the two passages. I'm okay with that. I don't think that's too far of a stretch. I have some New Testament support for that concept So that does fit. So let's recap the first part of Luke 8 through 24, talking about the physical destruction of the temple. Tribulation begins at the temple destruction, continues as long as Jerusalem is trodden underfoot until the times of the Gentiles is fulfilled, right up until Christ's second coming and the end of the world. And then Christ returns in the clouds of glory immediately after those days of tribulation. In other words, that whole New Testament period is over. Christ returns in clouds of glory. That's kind of how I see that fitting together. So I believe there's a reasonable answer to that business tribulation of those days. I believe that's reasonable. Now, what about Luke 21, 32? This generation shall not pass away until all be fulfilled. All right What I think is interesting is look again back at Luke 21 and look at verse 29. Jesus, here we have recorded as saying the following. And he spake to them a parable. We're now being told that Jesus is introducing a parable into this account. I find that very interesting. All along, we haven't been told he's speaking in a parable, but now towards the end, he says he spake a parable unto them. Okay, that's interesting. Parables, by their very definition, have some symbolic language to it. You don't take a parable at face value, you have to try to find what it refers to and map it out. Then, lo and behold, he says in verse 29, B, the second part, behold the fig tree and all the trees. Now Matthew 24 just says, behold the fig tree when it is in leaf. Now, the fig tree, throughout scriptures, very commonly points to national Israel Hosea makes reference to it. Isaiah makes reference to the fig tree as being a picture of national Israel. It's a pretty common picture. But Luke adds an interesting phrase. Big tree. All the trees. He's opening it up to not just national Israel. So if your end-time teaching really focuses on Matthew 24, then of course you're going to focus on one tree, the fig tree, which would be national Israel, and your attention will be there. But Jesus says the fig tree. All the trees. So he's looking not just at one nation. He's looking at all. He's talking about all of them. So you can't isolate it to national Israel. There was a tremendous amount of eschatological fervor in right after World War Two when Israel was given some territory back and the Jews could come back in. There's a tremendous amount of religious fervor. Ferro that came in at that time. Alright, so that makes me wonder When we see fig tree and all the trees in leaf, he says when they shoot forth you see and know of yourselves that summer is now nigh at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh into hand. Verily, I say unto you, this generation shall not pass away. All right I'm surmising, and again, this is one of the most difficult aspects to answer and address in here, but let me give you a toehold and a line. Fig tree in leaf, I think, is what happened to Jerusalem at that time. A lot of fervor, a lot of zeal. They're trying to bust out from Roman uh rule. They don't like to be uh oppressed by the Romans and the city was swollen, absolutely swollen with a bunch of Jews. They're there, they're celebrating, there for the Passover. They look very populous. They look very successful. They look very right and righteous. Was there any fruit? Was there any spiritual fruit there? It really wasn't. There really wasn't So, fig tree in leaf, to me, it sounds a bit like Jerusalem surrounded by armies. That would be the destruction of the temple in AD 70. He says, when you see that, know the destruction is nigh at hand. So he's casting what he's just said into a parable. Alright, well, if that is that destruction of 80-70, well then what about all the trees? That would be the world. Seemingly successful, seemingly going along, everything is fine. They are marrying, giving in marriage. Buying and selling, an area of concern, when all of a sudden the world is surrounded by angels in the clouds and all the trees. That could be the destruction of the world. That could be the end of time Alright, again, this is an apparable. It's intentionally shadowy. It's intentionally murky by the virtue of a of a parable. Now, since this is a parable, and you can differ with me on your interpretation of the trees and all uh fig trees and all the trees, but it is a parable. Jesus isn't talking about gardens. Then I think because it's in that section, generation could also symbolize a special kind of people, a generation that exists longer than 70 years, and one that appears to be the case in these verses. Physically, yes, there would be a generation that would see the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70. They certainly did see that. It certainly did occur within their lifetime. I think there's also a spiritual element to it as well. Jesus speaks about in Luke 16, 8, the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. Same word. And this phrase generation occurs right after Jesus is giving a parable. He's already launched into some parabolic language. Furthermore, in Matthew 25, he goes into a long series of parables, the ten virgins, five wise, five foolish. He goes into a number of other parables Psalm 12, 7, Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. And so here we seem to have something that extends beyond a mere biological time period. Could it be that when Jesus says, this generation shall not pass, that he has both a physical and a spiritual generation that are in view. There's a physical generation that would in fact see the destruction of AD 70. His second return, coming on the clouds of glory, There's a generation of evil. And that generation of evil will continue. And it'll continue to trample down Jerusalem underfoot. It'll continue to be a plague in the sight of the believers. It'll continue to be a group of people that are just evildoers, ne'er do gooders, we might call them, subjects for evangelism. We continue to bring forth the word that way. Yeah, that will continue. That would argue against the post-millennial view, which says the Christians are going to present a Christianized world to Jesus Christ when he returns. I don't see that happening. I will find support for that. That took a lot of popularity. At the at the uh in the seventeen hundreds in this nation, in America. That that was a very popular view because America was supposed to be the light on a hill, supposed to be a very Christian nation. Alright, so recap. In this parable, the generation that won't pass away, I'm submitting, has two meanings. The 70-year biological period which would be sufficient to include the destruction of Jerusalem, and a generation of unbelievers to include Jews who continue as a race until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled So that's kind of how I try to resolve that. Is it as crisp and tight and clean as I'd like to see it? You know what? That's kind of the nature of prophecy. It's very, very difficult to put a crisp, dotted line down the center of prophecy. For instance, think about this passage in Hosea that I mentioned, I think, last week. I have called my son out of Egypt. Put yourself in a Jew's shoes in 500-600 BC. I always get the time, whether it's old. Hosea's talking about history. He says, I've called my son out of Egypt. He's talking about when Jacob and the patriarchs were taken out of Egypt. Through the Red Sea, wandering in the wilderness into the promised land. And yet, in the New Testament When the slaughter of the innocents occurred under King Herod and his parents fled for Egypt, and then after the death of Egypt, the Lord Jesus comes back. to Nazareth, and the scriptures adds that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, I have called my son out of Egypt. What? Where'd you get that from? How how would that and it says it fulfilled it? I didn't even know it was a prophecy. It looked like a historical statement to me. So there are times I think in scriptures where you have some language that you look at the first blush and you go How would I have gotten that? And thus the Apostle Paul says, we see through a glass, darkness That literally means in a riddle. It's got the word enigma to it. It's a riddle. It's an interesting parable. You look at it, you marble, and you go, hmm, could this be? And so, yes, I think that's a way to get through this passage to talk about generation, to see that, yeah, there is a generation of evil Proverbs talks, there's a generation that was lofty. Oh, how their eyes are are are lofty and haughty. That is not limited to just 70 years. Oh, there were real evildoers back then, but now we got all kinds of good people. No I think that's referring to a whole generation, multiple generations of people, God speaking in a spiritual sense, beyond just a mere seventy-year period. So I hope that helps. That's kind of how I handle this section of scriptures. Because I think the language elsewhere is clear. When Jesus returns, no one's missing it. Lots of trumpets going Men's hearts failing them for fear? If Jesus mysteriously enters into some other temple, how is a man's heart failing for fear for an event he never saw? waves roaring as the dissolution of the universe is occurring. It's just too hard. It's too hard to to bend anything else. So I find a solution this way I hope it helps. Next week we'll uh transition soon off. We'll have one last study on this, wrapping it up. We'll be out of the Olivet Discourse, and then we'll wrap up Burke Koff in another three or four studies. studies. Parting questions, comments, other than I thoroughly confused you? No. Brother Jim. Yes. We get to call them Christians. My my question is, do they claim to have the Holy Spirit It's a fair question. I don't know that anybody I've spoken to who has gone over there has mentioned that. Yeah, but see, I don't think, at least in my understanding. You can't be a Christian unless you unless you have the Holy Spirit within you. So it may be they call themselves Christians, like many people in this country call themselves Christians. Christian but they don't know anything about the Holy Spirit. Mm-hmm. So that's to me that's a defining how you talk about a Christian that they they declared that they know the Holy Spirit or been born again. The language has forgiven. Yeah. I think they um so I I personally don't know. Uh I believe uh that uh you're what you're really asking at are are these people truly born again. Yeah, exactly. Right. Now if you ask do they know about the Holy Spirit, the most evangelical, if I can use that word in the broadest sense, the most evangelical flavor of Christianity going abroad is the charismatic gospel. So there's probably plenty of charismatic Jews I wouldn't be surprised a bit because the Jews are very the Jews seek a sign, Greeks seek wisdom. They're into the exotic and so they probably say, Yeah, we know all about the Holy Spirit, you know, come listen to us speak in tongues. So um I think the heart of your question gets right at the point, which is are these people really born again? Right. Right Because there's got to be a middle wall of partition that's broken down. There is no division between Jews or Greeks, barbarians, Scythians, free, bond or slave. They're all in Christ. And the believer knows that. Yeah, my my experience with them and which is not vast by any means. My experience is is that typically they these are people that uh They are believers. And it's not as much a religious separation as is a racial separation. Yeah. But um I was recognized as a believer, they were recognized as a believers, but they didn't really care if I visited another Saturday or not. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And it you know, it's and I wasn't offended by it, it was just not the reception that I had anticipated. Yeah. You know, and there's national tensions between, you know, Americans and Arabs, and yet recently I had opportunity to speak with Johnny Curly as I'm talking about. He's a uh young fellow uh Christian who's into the reform faith We had a great phone conversation. At the end he called me a BB. And she you she can explain what that means. So on the same you know, same spiritual page. And and to defend the congregation I was talking about in Baltimore, I've had less cordial responses at independent Baptist churches than I had at that time. We won't go down the bank of the presbytery. Solomon. I'm sorry? Solomon. What about Solomon? I I don't know. What what's your question about Law and Solomon? Mm-hmm. What about him? Oh he's Jewish. Yeah. Well he obviously has no problems. He's ministering to a whole congregation of Gentiles. Led fifty or sixty two that God went with him, went to with them. Right, right. Of true Christianity. Right. All of a sudden, you know what Mahan introduced a sermon where he said, His old friends, I like you before you were saved. I liked you better before you were saved. Don't like you so much now. Joe, you close this Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have given us your word and your Spirit makes your word clear. And yet if everything was uh was just very uh plain and simple, our searching would be curtailed. Uh but Lord you've made your your word to be a deep mind that's that um there are diamonds there but we have to dig for them. We have to be diligent in our own study of the Word of God. And Lord we thank you that in your divine wisdom you've divined it that uh designed it that way. Father we thank you for the the teaching that Brother Bence has been bringing forth and or the uh the clarity of of much of what he is presenting to us. Father, it is indeed edifying. We thank you for it. Lord, bless us now as we prepare our hearts for worship. And O Lord, ultimately may you prepare our hearts to worship the great King of heaven. And pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.