And I'm going to uh uh do a little bit of repeat from last week, but we're going to focus today on three specific terms Three terms that are in the Greek that the Lord Jesus Himself, the Apostle Paul uses, Peter, etc. , the New Testament writers use in description of Christ's return. So I think if we pay attention to those and see the context, and there will be some questions that we can start to draw out from your observations as to what is there in the text. then I think that will be most instructive. So this is just kind of laying the groundwork down for when we later start to stitch these things together and make some more substantial conclusions so we can address Some of the more burning questions that people have, like, okay then so when when is he really coming? Or uh well this earthquake in Turkey, surely that's a sign, right? And uh these things that people look at and wonder about. Or there's this incredible revival going on, or or I saw a vision of Jesus in my taco the other day. That's gotta be a sign of Jesus coming. I mean there's things like that that are out there. People always get excited about this. In fact, if you go and look on the on the YouTube channel where they have an Alexander Scorby reading, my daughter listens to Alexander Scorby from YouTube You can see how many views each of the different books have, how many views they listen to. The least listened to is 3 John. It's got like 4,000 views. The Psalms have quite a few thousand. You know what book is off the charts? The highest number of views? Take a wild guess. Revelation. The book of Revelation has the highest number of views. And anytime I've taught on end-time teaching, it always ratchets up to the to the the peak. People are genuinely interested in it and there's a lot of information out there. And so I don't want to come in with my set of rose glasses and force you to look at the Bible through my lens. I'm just going to let the Bible talk to you you first. Three terms we're going to look at today. They're all Bible words. The first is Apocalypsis. You've heard of the phrase apocalypse. And that simply means to unveil. And it really means that it's pointing to the removal of that which now obstructs our vision of Christ. An apocalypse, an unveiling. The other word is epiphania, and you've heard of this phrase. I've had an epiphany, people will say, that something puff appeared to them, puff came into their mind. But In scripture it refers to appearance and it refers to his coming out of hiding, somewhat like a gender reveal, or when the baby's finally born and the first time you get to see it. That's the epiphany This coming out of hiding. And the third term that is used is parousia. That's one that we probably don't hear much in English. That word hasn't sort of made its way over. And it's the word presence. It's often rendered coming, but it points to the coming that precedes his presence or results in his presence. So those are the three we're going to look at. We're going to look at some scriptures that use those, and then I've got questions for each one. And the question for the first is, what are your observations on each of these passages? Alright, so we looked extensively, we've actually looked at it quite a lot recently, 2 Thessalonians 1. One of my favorite passages, it is so comprehensive. If you had to go to one passage of Scripture and say, um, what is the coming of the Lord going to be like? 2 Thessalonians is a is a great passage to go to 2 Thessalonians 1 and verse 7 through 10. You can look at it in your Bible, or Gabriel can maybe pull it up for those watching. It says to you who were troubled, rest with us when when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed, that's a word Apocalypsis, from heaven, with his mighty angels. in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction. From the presence, the word presence means face. It's literally the word face of the Lord, and from the glory of his power, when he shall come, and that's our other word parousia when he shall come, to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe, because our testimony among you was believed in that day Alright, so this is the apocalypsis. So what are some basic observations from this? I know we covered this last week, but I just kind of want to get our spiritual thinking going. What are your observations about this passage? Victoria. It is an incredible thing to think about that he's coming to be glorified in us. That's one of his purposes in in coming. It's not uh Say high five on the way down as we go up and you know he uh we're going to be separated. His purpose is to be glorified in his saints. What else do you observe from this 2 Thessalonians 1, 7 to 10 passage The punishment. Okay, a punishment. Yeah, talk about a punishment. What does it say? What kind of punishment? It says uh who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from Yeah. Punished with everlasting destruction. You know, this isn't a oh you were so bad, I'm gonna uh spank you and then there's gonna be a a burst of fire and poof you're gone It's an everlasting destruction. So something gets ushered in when he appears. It's something called an everlasting destruction. All right, what else do we have? There's another factor that shows up in here. How about that inflaming fire taking vengeance? It's a vengeance. God's taking vengeance. You know, when we talk about revenge, you may hear in these other countries that they're revenge killings. What do people mean when they hear that term? A revenge killing. What is that? Payback for something. Payback for something. I like that choice of words. Payback. Absolutely. The wages of sin, the reward of sin, the paycheck of sin is death, and the death God has in view is eternal damnation. That's the payback, yes. It's interesting to look at the verse before. Which isn't in your sheet. Verse 6 says, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation. Well then to trouble you. It's God's recompense of tribulation, God judging them for what they're doing. So part of God's coming back is to repay all the evils that have been done to you. That's quite profound when you think about it. Alright, we continue on. And uh there are other instances where this term is used is in 1 Corinthians 1. 1 Corinthians 1, 7 and 8 says, so that ye be come behind in no gift waiting for the coming, the apocalypsis, of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall also confirm you to the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. What do you observe about that passage that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ? What verse was that mean? That's 1 Corinthians 1, 7 through 8. Did I not put it in your handouts? Oh, sorry. Yeah, I added some stuff to the teacher's notes and I tried to make sure I got it in the handout, but that didn't happen. I'll read it to you again. First Corinthians 1, 7 and 8. So that you come behind in no gift waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall confirm you to the end, and this is the phrase I want you to kind of catch, that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. What does that imply that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ? He wants something to happen so that you'll be blameless when he returns. What does that imply? Forgiveness. In forgiveness? Alright, what else? What does it imply about his coming? Why would you even need to be found blameless when he comes? What's gonna happen when he comes? He's coming to judge. He's coming to judge. Yeah, if you show up before a judge, you want to show up in the court, hey, I got this traffic ticket, I passed by a school bus, the bus was not parked It did have the little camera on the side, but it took a picture of me and I obviously wasn't doing anything wrong. You're in the right. You're showing up. You know you're blameless and you're hoping that the judge is going to look at that and judge rightly and say, yeah, you know you're right. And so this is part of his coming. You want to be found blameless when he comes. So we find that that arrangement of the meeting between the believers in Christ, you want to be blameless because he's coming to make some kind of assessment, a judgment call, you will. I hope this one is in your uh passage here. 1 Peter 1 7. I'm hoping that that's in your handout. It is. Okay, good. It says that the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing epiphany, excuse me, Apocalypse of Jesus Christ Then later in verse 13, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation apocalypse of Jesus Christ. And that is actually the same word used. for the title of the book of Revelation. Alright, what do you find in this passage? What stands out to you there? He wants us to be sober. Okay. He wants us to be sober minded, all right. So that be ready. To be ready? Alright, that's a good word. To be ready, all right. Trial of faith. There's a trial of faith, okay. Yeah. How does that tie into his appearance? How does the trial of my faith today today, what does that have to do with him coming back? In this passage, right? It will ultimately be to his praise and his honor and his glory and his grace. It wasn't just something we went through, it wasn't vain and empty. It had a purpose under his control for all eternity. Okay. Uh I'm going to say something that's probably going to sound a little heretical, but you made a good observation because you used Bible words. Might be found into praise and honor and glory. Whose praise and honor and glory is that The believers? But in the context, who's it referring to? Believers. Believers. Is that referring to that glory The glorify he's coming to be glorified in you. You see, that's the encouragement. Is that there will be praise to you. There will be honor to you. There will be glory to you. Oh, that's heretical. All praise, honor, and glory goes to Jesus Christ. Yeah! You're his bride? Is he going to have a filthy bride next to him? Hardly. If he gets praise, honor, and glory, guess what? So do you. You're joined with him. Isn't that an amazing thought? You see, doesn't that make going through that trial just a little bit easier? That all of a sudden, okay, you're correct, Penny. You'll see the purpose of it. You know, you think about Joseph. What a marvelous story that was in the Old Testament. Sold into slavery as a young man. All of these unfair things that happened to him very early in life. Fellow wound up in a prison with zero hope. And yet God had not abandoned him. God's purpose for him was, son. This is the path to being second in charge. You don't need the Pharaoh's training program. That's useless. I'm not going to send you to school for that knowledge. That's useless. Your path to the throne is through a prison. And you go, what purpose is that? It was a tremendous purpose. To the saving of much life. And when he got that promotion, it came quick. And that's how it'll be for you. It's an amazing thought, isn't it? It's coming soon, and when it does, it's a day of great glory for the saints, isn't it? Is that what he's referring to in Romans? And that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Yes. Absolutely. Good time. Good time Okay. We continue to read in 1 Peter 4. I like Peter, he's got some excellent stuff in here. 1 Peter 4, 13. But rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings. that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. Alright, what is that telling us? What is it telling us? What is that day like for the believers? Joyus. Joyous. In fact, it's called Exceeding Joy. Try to think in your life when you were the happiest you've ever been. I saw a mighty big smile on Anton's face when his bride came down the aisle, yeah. I saw a big smile on Yvonne's face when uh He's coming down the aisle with a new bride on his elbow. Sure, that's those are mighty big swimming. I know you were grinning ear to ear, Joe Yeah, exceeding joy. But that joy soon ends, doesn't it? And it's not a comment on marriage, it's a comment on life. stuff of life and reality and hardships begins to set in and the joy dissipates. The joy disappears. For some that day of wedding becomes a day of really great sad memory, something you don't care to remember. But that's one wedding event you've got coming up in which your joy no man shall take away. It says exceeding great joy. You see, and um we continue on Romans 2. 5, here it speaks, after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasures up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath. and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Here the apostle is speaking to unbelievers. He's laying out a case, an argument against the unbelieving world, that what they're doing is treasuring up wrath. So all of the evil things that people are doing now that we see with our eyes, the constant mirage that shows up on the news, and bear in mind the news organizations have realized a long time ago The only way they make any sales is when people read the news. And the only chief reason people will read the news is when there's bad news. People tend to not read the news when there's good news I don't know why that is. People would rather read bad news than good news. And Freddie, you probably know this as well, having worked in a corporation, that bad news will circulate through the workforce ten times faster than good news will. It just does And lo and behold, all this bad news that you and I hear, we need not worry. All you need to do is hear the sound of the kaching. Kaching. Kaching, they're depositing coins in a treasury in heaven. It's the treasury of God's wrath. They're just heaping it up. That's what he says. You treasure up to themselves wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. He's going to judge righteously. Can't buy him off It's not gonna work. Can't vote him out of office. Not gonna work. Can't twist his law book or pervert his it's not gonna work. It's gonna be a righteous judgment, and it's gonna be a penetrating judgment And so that's something else that's referred to as the apocalypsis. It's the the unveiling not only of Jesus Christ, but it's the unveiling of God's righteous standard of judgment. I don't know about you, but that kind of sends a little shiver down the back of your neck. When you think about the standards that God has, you know, in the Old Testament, people were stoned on the Sabbath day for picking up sticks because they violated a picture of his wonderful Sabbath rest, that rest we have in Jesus Christ because of the gospel. I don't work on the Sabbath day because I'm resting in Jesus Christ for my salvation. That's what the Sabbath is pointing to If you're going to claim to be a Seventh-day Adventist and go, oh, I had a vision from uh a my founder and said that I'm not supposed to work on Saturday because God's commandment is a holy day, I'm sorry. That fourth commandment is loaded throughout the Old Testament with references to the fact that it's a sign. All over God calls it a sign. Anyway, I'm off on a tangent there, but um a righteous revelation of his judgment. Okay, uh Romans 8. 19, Penny was uh uh poking into this section of scripture for the earnest expectation of the creature Romans 8. 19 waiteth for the manifestation, the apocalypsis, the unveiling, the revealing of the sons of God. Something else that's going to be revealed is what? The sons of God. The sons of God. It doesn't say the sons singular of God. It says the sons plural of God, and who, pray tell, might that be? Absolutely. Whether male or female, they're all called you f you know, uh sons of God. That's just a general term. But you too are hidden. You are just as much veiled from the earth as Jesus Christ is currently. Have you thought about that? We really don't know. What Jim Lloyd really looks like. You see this shell on the outside, it's a dapper looking shell. He got all the right. But see, that's not, that hadn't been revealed yet. There's an unveiling that will occur for the sons of God. Isn't that interesting? Ever thought about that? The world don't know what you look like just yet. They don't know who they're messing with. They really don't know. Okay, it keeps going. It says we ourselves grown uh within ourselves waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of our body See, we have a redeemed soul that's hidden. That's hidden from view. World can't understand what's going on inside of us. We have life, they have death. I can't explain to a rock how much more wonderful it is to be able to ambulate and walk and live on this planet. The rock is incapable of understanding. It's dead. So it is with hard, stony-hearted people who don't have Christ and do not know God and thus do not obey the gospel because they're dead in sins and trespasses. How do you explain life to a dead thing? We have a living soul, but what has not been changed yet is we don't have the redemption of the body. That hasn't occurred yet. And that too will be revealed when he comes. Isn't that interesting? Alright. Now that's just the word apocalypsis. We go on to some other terms. And that's the word Epiphany. That's the next one in your handout. If you don't have a handout, by the way, we do have others scattered right here. Did you need one camera? Epiphany Alright. In this, as we read each passage, I want you to tell me what events are occurring. Tell me what events are occurring in each one. Alright? 2 Timothy 4. 1, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Alright, what three events are happening here? Judge. Okay. Something to do with judging. Yep. Appearance. His appearance. Okay. And something to do with his kingdom. Alright. This is an epiphany, an appearance. His judgment appears, as it were, wow, here's a judgment throne and here's the one seated on the throne. I'm in a courtroom, a divine courtroom. That is above the Supreme Court and all the other courts of the world that ever have been or presently are. And then you've got his appearing. Here he is. He's back And you also have something else show up. What is that? His kingdom. His kingdom also appeared. Alright, that's interesting. We go a few verses later in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 8, where he says, henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. And not to me only, but unto all them that also love his epiphany, his appearing. What is going on there? What events are happening in this passage? Reward. Okay, reward. Now you say reward, what's the reward? The crown. The crowning of the saints. Who wears the crown? Queen. Somebody said Queen. I love it. They're the bride of Christ, so you go meet a queen, you got it. Yep. I love it. Proud of you. Yes, absolutely. The crowning of the saints. What else appear uh happens? His appearing. It wasn't a trick question. It's the same stuff. His appearing and the crowning of the saints. Interesting. Alright. Who gets a crown? Kings do. Kings have crowns. It says we shall reign with him. For a while? I don't think so. We keep going. Our next term is the word parousia. This has to do with the word presence. The presence of the Lord. You know, it says where two or more are gathered together, there I am in the midst. This is a much more Full edition of his presence, if you will. It can point to the coming that precedes his presence or that results in his presence. I've got a slightly different question here. How many of you have heard of the term the rapture? Almost like if you haven't heard the term raise your hand. Everybody's heard the term the rapture. What do people think is meant by that term rapture? What do people think that means? believers are gonna be gathered up together uh you know secretly and taken off uh uh sort of a secret whisking away. Okay. Yeah, that's kind of the idea. Well, as you read each of these passages, because this relates to his coming, his parousia, how does this impact your thinking about the rapture? Okay? We're just gonna take that thought that Lisa eloquently boiled down. I appreciate that. Kind of like Gloria. You can just nail things down. Postage stamp. You nailed it. It's great. Alright, 1 Thessalonians 2. 19, it says, what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? The apostle talks about a joy and a hope he's got. How does that tie in with our understanding of the rapture? What's the apostle looking forward to here? To be in the presence of the Lord, yeah. Okay. who's coming. With Christ that is coming, okay. Uh and uh who Victoria? He's gonna be rejoicing in the fact that the people that God has put in his path to minister to are glorified at Christ's second coming. his labors. Yeah, yeah exactly. Yeah. He gets to see the fruit of his labors. You know, the apostle kind of dotted around parts north of Jerusalem. and Judah into Macedonia and over into some of the island areas and a little bit into Europe, uh where Philippi was. That was a European, that's a Macedonian uh uh your European entity under Roman rule at the time. And he just planted a lot of churches all the way to Thessalonica and Corinth. You know, he kinda dotted the the Aegean Sea to the north of the Mediterranean that fits the Aegean Sea But he wasn't there ministering all the time, he wasn't a pastor. He was just kind of there for a while. I think the longest he was maybe two or three years preaching at some places, but he moved on. You know, this would be done with Joe. He'd be moving on to the next place, right? Kind of never never mind. You've seen that before, we don't want to go there. So I'm six months. Anyway. Right foot of Philip But no, Apostle Paul dotted places and he said, what is his hope and joy are not even ye the people that he ministered to. Isn't that wonderful? Don't you want to be able to see people you've ministered to, whether it's children, grandchildren, or damage, ah, when Jesus returns. Yes. Maybe a departed spouse. Yes. Wouldn't it also be the fulfillment of his great salvation? That he gave us absolutely. Crescendo, this is it. Yeah. Yes, this is the the the payment in full, the final delivery. of the promise. Yeah? And so his rejoicing is to see, he's looking forward to seeing saints that he knows at the same time with Jesus. Alright, that's kind of pretty basic Now in 1 Thessalonians, the next chapter, incidentally, the book of 1 Thessalonians, every single chapter talks about the return of Jesus. And it talks about it at the end of the chapter. I didn't cover chapter 1 because it uses some different terms I'm dealing with here, slightly different, but it's absolutely referring to his return. So we looked at chapter 2. Let's look at chapter 3, verse 13. He says, to the end, he that is God may establish your hearts unblamable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Alright now, how does that impact our understanding of the rapture? What's going on? He's coming down. Oh yeah, I'll go Alright. Sounds like he's coming down. Okay. He's coming down with the saints. Alright, all right with the saints. With which saints? The ones that he knows? The dead ones. Ah. All the saints, including the ones that have passed before. Are any saints missing from this gathering? He says all the saints. That's interesting. So he not only rejoices that he'd see the people that he ministered to But he's going to see the whole company of blood-bought saints, every last elect. Interesting. Alright, now we look at 1 Thessalonians 4. And this has got a much longer section to it, so if you want to turn on your Bible, you can. We can bring it up on screen. 1 Thessalonians 4, 15 to 17, it says this. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming, the parousia, of the Lord shall not prevent, shall not go before them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout with the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God. And the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Alright, so what does this tell us about a secret rapture? This is a rapture, you better believe it. Is it secret? No. Does it sound secret to you? Why doesn't it sound secretive? uh dead rising. You got a bunch of dead people coming up out the ground. That's gonna be true. Okay. It's kinda hard to hide. What else do we have? And then us believers who are still living are also going to be taken up. I think every eye is going to see all that. Okay. Doesn't say every eye will see it, but but uh that's another passage. I'm just dealing with this one right here So how how you're you're on a good roll, I don't want to shoot down what you're what you're going with. Why is why does this not sound too secretive to you People fly in the air? Yeah, well what that's true, that's kinda hard to that's that's not normal. Is that a crow or a Chinese balloon or something? You know, what is that in the air? What else is going on here? Okay, there we go. Trumpets. Making an announcement. Yeah. What else you got? Shout. A shout! Who's shouting? The voice of an archangel. Who do you think? Yeah, voice of an archangel. Okay. I'm you know, I haven't personally heard an angel before. I'm kind of betting they're not too terribly quiet. Okay? I'm betting they'll even drown out Joe. Okay. I'm kind of betting he ain't gonna miss this event. You got trumpets blaring. You got a shout. Why do you blow trumpets to begin with? To get some attention. It's it's a herald. What do you what happens before the king shows up in a city? He would send the herald out. And the heralds are there. What are they doing? Blowing the trumpets Stop what you're doing. Someone important is coming. Bow the knee. Right? Now, we are supposedly a land which doesn't have a king, but we're getting to that point where they want to have people bow the knee when somebody shows up. Alright, so what about that very last phrase Somebody talk to me about that very last phrase. First Thessalonians four seventeen. We're meet the Lord in the air, and it says, What? So shall we ever be with the Lord temporarily be with the Lord? Ever be with the Lord. And with how many people? All the saints. Alright. So an idea that there is a secret rapture of a handful of believers present on this earth at this time. Ascending up. Jesus given them a high five. They go up, he comes down. They're not with him. They're in heaven. He's down here, separated And evangelizing nations to make new saints that somehow get rejoined later on? No. It's fiction, according to what Thessalonians says. It's with all the saints. They're ever with the Lord. That's right. Absent from the body, he was present. So his kingdom is appearing. I'm having a real hard time seeing some of these wild-eyed ideas about eschatology fitting in the plain language. I haven't even really gotten into Tying us together. This is just laying the groundwork. We're just laying the groundwork, just as it were, what does the text of the law say? That's what we're dealing with. Alright, we go on. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23 In light of all these things, he then writes this. And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. What's the apostle doing here? What's he encouraging you with here? Stay blameless. To stay blameless. To be encouraged. I like that phrase stay blameless. Do you understand and realize that in God's sight you're blameless? That's a hard statement to make. You're blameless in God's sight. Why can I say, Lisa, that you are blameless before God? Why can I say that? I think Jesus has a whole lot to do with that. I think the blood of Jesus Christ has a lot to do with that. In God's opinion, you're blameless. He rejoices. His delight is in the sons of men, Solomon says. Because he delights in his bride. Alright. The other place we get the word parousia then shows up in Matthew 24, and we will talk about the Olivet Discourse. And the Mount of Olives. And here's what we read in this passage here, Matthew 24:3. As he that is Jesus sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us When shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? So they ask him point blank a question about his return. Okay, that's a pretty instructive passage. I'm just dealing with the terms, and we're just going to at least touch on them as they do come into Matthew 24. And then in Matthew 24, verse 7, for as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Now I'm trying to be careful not to open up a can of worms here, because the Alda Discourse is a popular place where many people go. and will derive their entire end time teaching strictly from Matthew 24. It is relevant to Jesus' teachings on the end times, to be sure. No question. It's also very difficult by itself. You must bring in the book of Luke. You must look at the parallel passage that records the same thing because Luke adds some additional information. in very critical places, which helps all of it line up. By way of a thumbnail sketch, in Matthew 24, let's go ahead and turn there and look at that briefly, Matthew 24. I'm going to take a little Off script tour Matthew twenty-four. The opening Verses, he shows them the buildings and the temple. His disciples came to show them the buildings of the temple. Verse 1. Jesus said unto them, see ye not all things, all these things? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. He's talking about throwing down all of the stones of the buildings that they're looking at. And as he sat, and we just read, they asked the question, what shall these things be? He then goes on to answer it from verse 4 all the way through to chapter 25 and verse 46. He spends basically two chapters of Matthew giving an answer. It's very extensive. That's a lot of scripture. That's a lot of teaching. Now, I believe what we can see from this as we get into it later. Well, no, I don't want to go down that path right now. I want to stick with the terms. I want to keep it in first gear. But just suffice to say, you have to take everything he says together. Try not to pick and choose. And also take it from the book of Luke, because Luke also adds some commentary to this. For the purpose of today's studies. We've looked at that word apocalypsis, his apocalypse. We've looked at his epiphany, his appearing, and we've looked at his parousia, his coming. They all relate to the same thing, his second coming. There's not three comings, there's not four, there's a second coming And so all of these other passages that we've looked at can't be forgotten as you come into Matthew 24. They can't be forgotten when you go into Luke 21. They can't be forgotten when you look at Isaiah or Ezekiel or these Jeremiah, other people. They all bear, they all have weight on this whole topic. So I just want to encourage you that you can't let Matthew 24 be the main chapter in the Bible to determine your eschatological view. You can't isolate that. You can't and it's a favorite passage for people to isolate. There's things in there that relate to AD 70. There's things in there, which is the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians, excuse me, by the Romans. uh Roman uh ruler Titus, Emperor Titus. And uh he wasn't an emperor, he was uh he later became an emperor, but he was at the time a Roman general. Um There are things in there that tie into his final coming. I found some conclusions that people make out of Matthew 24 that Jesus gives a parable later in Matthew 25 that completely obliterates their thinking. Because one big thing that is for certain is you do not know the day or the hour. He makes that very plain with all of the subsequent parables. That doesn't mean you're not ignorant of the times, because he does give some indicators. But that does mean that you can't just isolate 24 and hold that one thing up. Alright, well I've whet your appetite for future studies. I've I've danced around it because I'm not really I don't want to get into it because it it's it's a deeper uh a bowl to dive into for now. Parting questions, comments, observations. I'm trying to break this up into manageable chunks. Question? Yes, Victoria. What is the reference for the list Luke twenty-one. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, you'll want to tie Luke 21, and you might want to start to read that. Uh Luke 21. Uh and um in addition, um There's an earlier chapter. I'm not a newer Bible. My older one has all the notes. What I'm looking for is on the right hand side. Where he stands over Jerusalem weeping. Where is that in Luke? Yeah. And also Luke 19. Uh 41 to the end. So Luke 19, 41 to the end, and Luke 21. Yes. When you approach in things with a blank slate. Scripture makes all kinds of sense. When you approach it with all these theories and try to prove them or even disprove them, you run into all kinds of confusion. Yes Yeah, but but when you just take scripture for what it says as it says it. The different and and that's a good observation and I think it's a good closing one to make a comment on. That's the difference between isegesis and exegesis. Exegesis is exit. You've seen an exit sign of it. That means you're pulling it out of the text. What is it literally saying to me? Versus eisegesis, which is I have a grand idea. I'm gonna try to shoehorn this idea into the Bible somehow. We're gonna make it fit in here somehow. And it never works. Is that what happened back in the eighties when they were uh about being uh going everybody being said. Rapture. Rapture here. And that's an old that that's basically what they did. They added what they you took out what they didn't want to be added. And the thing they were trying to shove in is that which uh became a fascination in nineteen forty seven When when uh uh the United Nations reacting to the horrors of Hitler's decimation of the Jewish race, where the United Nations said, no, let's give Israel their own territory that really reinvigorated a lot of interest and people were saying surely this is pointing to an end-time event. So they took that and they said, well let's let's we gotta find out how this fits into the Bible. A lot of people were urging my dad to have a prophecy conference. That was the big thing. Prophecy conference. Well people, you will fill up on auditorium in a heartbeat with that. Yeah, you never did it. Yeah. Yeah, thank God he didn't. Yeah. All right, well let's close out. Uh Brother Jim, would you mind closing us with prayer? Thank you. So we thank you, praise you this morning, Lord, that you allowed us to gather together around your word. Amen. That we may walk in the newness of life that you so graciously bestowed upon us sinners such as ours. That we may know the truth of the word and that which uh you presented to the world really. But only if you take advantage of you've made us part of that that few I think. teach is teaching that which the Bible says, not what we're adding to it or taking away from it. So we pray that we take that information and walk in it boldly, that we would know that we are the children of the Most high God. We thank you. We praise you today. We pray for a message coming forth a little later. And that we just uh stop up the realities of what the word your word says that we may Walk in. Exactly and we pray, Jesus. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.