All right, there's a handout for the Sunday school near you somewhere. And uh I think there's a table right behind you. And Victoria should have one. Gloria, I put a pile next to you, I think, so everybody should have. Okay, we're going to talk today about some more of the attributes, the characteristics of God, and today we're going to talk about two that are seemingly diametrically opposed, his righteousness and his love. So let's first talk about the righteousness of God. This is probably one of the most commonly used words and phrases in all of theology to talk about the righteousness of God. Mr. Burkhoff defines it as the righteousness of God is that perfection by which he maintains himself. as the Holy One over against every violation of His holiness. And we're going to see how that plays out because He is perfectly holy. He's holy because He's righteous. The basic idea of righteousness is a strict adherence to the law of God. A strict adherence, not a casual one, not a passing one, not a that'll work on a scale, but it's a strict adherence to the law of God. Now we look at this in two ways. There's an absolute righteousness where God is infinitely righteous in himself. He's absolutely righteous. He in himself and his innate character is righteous. You see in Psalm 145, 17, turning now to your handout, the Lord is righteous in all his ways. Everything that God does is righteous. God is righteous. When God delivers the people of Israel from Pharaoh and slams Pharaoh and raises up the children of Israel, God is righteous When Jesus Christ hung on the cross, God is righteous. He's righteous in all his ways. And he has a great many ways that over time you'll discover you didn't think he had, as he throws some real curveballs at us in life. Psalm 89, 14, justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne. This is the place that God dwells in. This is his dwelling place, his justice. and judgment and righteousness. That's where his throne sits at. That's his environment. That's his house. That's what he's comfortable with. This is what he's accustomed to. In Genesis, Abraham declares, Far be from thee, speaking to God, to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked. that the righteous should be judged as the wicked. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? I truly like that phrase. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? That's a really good one to remember when we begin to question, well, why did God do such and such, or why did he allow such and such to happen? Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And indeed he does We see in John 17 his prayer of the Lord Jesus Christ, O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee, but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. There's I think it's easy for us to get our head around the fact that God Himself is intrinsically righteous. He's absolutely righteous. Now let's Take another step into the pool here, right? We we've taken the first step on a little uh wading in. Now we're going to go a little deeper in, okay? We're going to talk about God's relative righteousness. What do I mean by that? And I'm not talking about Ethical um uh what's the phrase uh moral relativity. Thank you. I'm not talking about that What I'm talking about when we say relative righteousness is that God shows to all man that He is the Holy One, how God relates his righteousness to other people. How he relates to them. An example of this maybe nuanced point shows up in Lamentations 1. The Lord is righteous, for I have rebelled against his commandment. Notice the Lord's righteous I have rebelled, and it goes on. Here I pray you all people, behold my sorrow. In other words, because I've rebelled, because God is righteous, I am now in a state of sorrow. So God's righteousness doesn't exist in a vacuum. It has an impact on those around it. And I would ask, who do you think that is that's around him? Who's around God? The angels. Angels, who else? Saints. Saints, who else? All of us. Yeah. Is there anything that's not close to God? Is there a place where anybody can hide from God? The answer is no. And therefore, his righteousness has an impact on all around it because he's infinitely aware of it. Another verse that maybe helped clarify this, Revelation 16. I heard the angel of the waters say Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art and wast and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus. For they, speaking of the wicked, have shed the blood of the saints and the prophets And thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. You see, God is not neutral in this matter He beholds things, and in his righteous character, and in his righteous time, in his righteous way considering the most righteous way to handle that situation in his good timing will recompense to them. So that's why we speak about the absolute righteous and the relative righteousness of God. Let's talk about this relative righteousness of God. We get to now the next step in our pool that we're going to dive into because I opened the study by saying these are two contradicting ideas, seemingly, God's righteousness and God's love. And you won't understand the tension until you really understand his righteousness. So he's absolutely righteousness in and of himself. And that's not in the vacuum, it impacts other people, okay? And it impacts people in a couple of ways He has a consistent reaction that proves his absolute righteousness. God consistently reacts to things the same way. He's very consistent. He by no means will acquit the guilty, Scripture says, all right? Neither will he condemn the innocent So in righteousness, God maintains a moral government in our world, and he imposes a just law on man, and he rewards obedience. And he punishes disobedience. So we talk about two types of justice of God, because righteousness and justice relate. So when we talk about the relative righteousness of God, now we're talking about his justice How does he justly deal with others around him? And we've already seen that everybody's impacted by him. You can't escape God. I like Ray Comfort's statement that God doesn't believe in atheists. They can be like a little three-year-old child that runs around and closes his eyes and says, You don't you're not there. You're not there. Well, they're not there because you foolishly have closed your eyes and pretend like they're not out there. They really are. It doesn't matter if you close your eyes or not. And they willingly are ignorant of the fact that God exists, and so God doesn't believe in atheists. God plays out his justice two ways. The first is, this is a ten-cylinder theological word here, his remunerative justice, where he remunerates The justice of God that gives rewards. He remunerates. He repays. 2 Samuel says, the Lord rewarded me, David's speaking here, the Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me, for I have kept the ways the Lord have not wickedly departed from my God For all his judgments were before me, and as for his statutes, I did not depart from them. I was upright before him. I've kept myself from my iniquity. Therefore the Lord hath recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in his eyesight. Now This is David speaking, but there's a greater David ultimately speaking there. And yet there was a season where David, as it were, earned the title in Scripture, the Man After God's Own This individual truly loved the Lord to such an extent that he would make this, I believe, divinely inspired statement Speaking of a greater David, but we see this individual making a statement. When you walk in the ways of the Lord, don't be surprised if God blesses them. And if you walk contrary to the ways of the Lord, don't be surprised if you find it's full of thorns, rocks, unexpected pitfalls, surprises of the bad sort that will come upon you. I like this statement in Hebrews 6. 10. It says, For God is not unrighteous. Notice that phrase, boy, you can make that in bold in your Bible God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which you have showed toward his name. What a great encouragement for all those who minister in some in any capacity in the things of the Lord. Serving the Lord is not in vain. It is not in vain. That would be unrighteous of God to ignore that. That would be unrighteous of God to look down and say Boy, this this servant is is you know, maybe he said, I will not, but then he does go and serve in the vineyard. Um God says he's not unrighteous to forget your labor and that you've ministered to the saints and do minister. So our God is faithful in this matter. In Psalm 58. 10, it says, The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance. He shall wash his feet in the blood of the saint of the wicked, so that a man shall say, Verily there's a reward for the righteous. Verily he is a God that judges in the earth. The ultimate reward the child of God gets is to see vengeance over his enemies, all of God's enemies, because if he's aligned with God, God's enemies are therefore his enemies. And when God recompenses judgment upon them, they will rejoice, agree with him completely, and they'll sing glory, hallelujah. I received a most troubling email recently and it was from the Epic Times, a great news uh uh source. I heart heartily encourage you to not only subscribe but to join as a member. It's like a few dollars a month, but it's Excellent reporting. Most of the members of the Epic Times staff are from former communist countries, either China, uh the old Soviet bloc. uh different parts of the world and they're based in America and they are trumpeting a sound that says what America's doing this looks awful communistic let me tell you what We've seen this before. We've seen this play out. And they're very much an independent news source that I find to be very, very good. They sent an article out of the 108 different ways the Chinese government has to torture people of faith 108 and they actually had some graphic painting depictions of the different ways they do this and it was horrific. I had to read through it and stop and pray, Lord God, please rescue these saints. They devise all kinds of hideous, unspeakable torment to inflict upon the people of faith I believe God has a special reward for those who have endured an ultimate sacrifice, a tremendous pain. And you read about that in the book of Revelation, and this is one place in Psalm 58 we read about it. Along, O Lord. Do you not judge and avenge our blood? Yes. And that gets us to our next point. The remunerative justice was nice. He remunerates, he rewards. positively those who uh uh uh exhibit and demonstrate uh his righteousness and then there is a retributive justice retribution uh The justice of God that meets out punishment. And Romans, excuse me, is very clear about this. That There is a revelation in the day of wrath of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to every man according to his deeds, to them who by patient continuous well-doing seek for glory, honor, immortality, eternal life. In other words, this is an example. This is the fruit, not the root of salvation, this is the fruit of those who are saved. They're covered in Christ's righteousness. They seek to live a very different life. They are like salmon swimming upstream, and they're seeking for glory, honor, and immortality. And that's an indication, yes, these are sheep. Okay? But unto them that are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, what do they get? Indignation and wrath, tribulation, and anguish upon every soul of a man that doeth evil The very last phrase is great in Romans 2. 11. There is no respect of persons with God. What does it mean to be a respecter of persons? That's an old English phrase. What does that mean? Any ideas? Means you have partiality. Partiality? Okay. Favoritism's a good word, yep. Um a lot of people in certain political parties have no fear of the Department of Justice because they paid off those officials So when the officials come knocking and serving subpoenas, oh don't bother with them. We we we like these people. These are okay. Never mind the fact that there's all kinds of a trail of evidence leading up to their doorstep. We'll just turn a blind eye and move over here. God says there's no partiality. God recompensed things to um uh sons of Abraham because they did evil. I think of Ishmael, I think of uh the uh the the firstborn uh Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. Esau despised his birthright. God said, fine Yep, fine. God deals with people that way. We read in 2 Thessalonians 1 6, seeing it's a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you It is a righteous thing with God. Think about that. There are those that trouble the saints. There's many people that trouble the saints, whether from the magistrates of the land or uh of false religion, boy, they're of a huge plague uh whether of uh you name it, right? The Church of God is kinda like we're like sheep and rabbits out there. Everywhere on the bottom pole of the of the quote unquote food chain. Seems everything wants to prey on. led his sheep to the slaughter all day long. But God says it's righteous for him, it's righteous for him to repay tribulation to those that trouble you. It's a righteous thing That's part of his character. First Peter 1 says this if you call on the Father, who without respect of persons persons, judges according to every man's work, past the time of your sojourning here in fear. That's an interesting statement because it's appealing to the child of God to pay attention to this impartial righteousness of God, that though you're a child of God You can do things that displease the Lord. We read in the end of a chapter of Samuel where David had done this horrible thing with taking Bathsheba, but the part that God really fingered him for was the death of Uriah the Hittite. Here Uriah was a Hittite. And he would not so much as go to his own house. He says, why should I go to my house when the when the ark of the Lord and the cut and he was appealing to the righteous cause of the nation? How can I do this? There's a worthy cause And David and his wickedness caused a righteous man to be slain. And the scripture says the thing that David did displeased Lord. The sword never left his house, and it plagued him. God's no respecter of persons. Great sins will have great punishment. David's in heaven, but God's no respecter of persons And that's really a very good example of what we're going to get to this tension here. I have a question here, so we've covered a lot of things. remunerative justice, the justice of God that rewards the retribution of God where he must punish sin. It's consistent with his character. It's unrighteous for him not to do that. So my question is this. Look at this verse that's just below on the bottom of that one side. It's Jeremiah 12, 1. Alright? I have a question. What is the thrust of Jeremiah's complaint In this passage, what is it about God's righteousness that the prophet is wrestling with? Alright, that's the question. Now let me read the verse. Jeremiah 12, 1 Righteous art thou, O Lord, when I plead with thee, yet let me talk with thee of thy judgments. Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? Wherefore are they all happy that deal very Treacherously. What's the thrust of his complaint? Anybody? And uh the the wicked are uh prospering and happy and everything. Okay, yep. He's uh he's he's not uh he's not happy. The wicked are prospering. Victoria, we want to develop that a little further. How can God be righteous? Yes, he allows the wicked to do unrighteously and and just continue to live, you know, with fatness. Yeah, we're going to read it today in the sermon, Psalm 73, their eyes bulge with fatness. Yeah, I like that phrase. Alright, let's keep going. You're I want to pick on the word continue. Let's let's maybe unfurl that a little further. What's the thrust of his complaint? Yep. God, where are you? But what's the f keep going. What what what what else is in there? I guess just another way of rephrasing And how could you let them get away with this? Okay, I can let them get away with it, all right. Get away, continue, all right, we're we're still barking up the right tree. Um almost the same idea as the verse we mentioned from Revelation earlier. How long the lure? Yes. Right. How long? Penny? Um, even more than just get away with it. They're doing well. They're prosperous, they're happy, they're successful How can that be? Yeah. Yeah. So there's a lot going on here because Jeremiah is expecting the righteous judge of the universe to immediately punish the wicked. Why isn't this immediately happening? I want it done. Now, right now, I'm waiting for that lightning bolt to hit. And you've said you're righteous. He would never let them prosper for a moment. Why are they prospering at all? They should do wickedness and immediately get struck. Isn't that the thrust of his statement? Okay What else is he implying? Worrying too much about others. He should worry about himself. That's a application that we could draw from it after we fill in the answer. You're absolutely correct. I'm going to use the key phrase before you go by before we we perhaps get a rabbit trail. The word slow justice. Go ahead. I was going to say this may not be where you're heading, but he is presuming to advise God. Let me talk with you about this. Well, yeah, but don't we do that too? We do, absolutely. Yeah But uh Well when we look at it in a calm state of mind in a comfortable air conditioned house without any pressure on we I can't believe you do that. In a sense in a sense he won't he is almost imputing God's right He's sort of implying that slow justice is no justice, isn't he? Slow justice is no justice. justice. What is taking so long? Does God take a long time to punish the wicked? Sir seems like it I'm still I mean just in my lifetime, even as a youth growing up, just seeing pictures of the veterans return from Vietnam Oh, the wonderful treatment they received from the North Koreans. Nonsense. I saw these guys coming off the plane. They looked horrific. Horrible treatment. And I knew even at that time as a young person Jane Fonda did them wrong, very, very, very wrong. Why is this woman not hung for treason? You see, I have the same complaints that Jeremiah does in Jeremiah 12. 1. What's up with this, O God? What is up with this? So that the Bible declares God as righteous is really not in question. Jeremiah knew that, and so did Job's three friends. But what they and frankly all believers throughout time have wondered, why is God taking so long to judge these wicked people Well, that gets us to our next part because when you look at the side of the righteousness of God, there is certain things about the slowness of his justice. that you begin to question. And that's answered by another attribute of God. Because all of his attributes nicely dovetail together. And that is the love of God. This is the other side of the equation. Burkoff defines love as his he loves his creatures for his own sake. For he loves them in his self, his virtues, his work, and his gifts. He recognizes his image even in the sinner. He loves believers with a special love since he contemplates them as his spiritual children in Christ. I find it very useful to distinguish what we talk about the love of God from three different points of view. There's three distinctions in the attribute of God's love. Three different points of view. Grace of God, the mercy of God, the long-suffering of God. You can wrap all three of those up. Grace, mercy, long suffering. You can wrap all three of them up as three different points of view of the same thing, the love of God. So the first one is the grace of God. That unmerited love of God that reveals itself in pardoning sin. It's totally unmerited. There is no merit on the part of the creature for God to show favor to an individual. No merit whatsoever. When we say no merit, we get back to the people that Jeremiah is complaining about. God may be slow because he intends to save some. And it may not be that individual, but it may be the individual's descendants or great descendants, great-great-grandson, as in the case of of uh Rahab. Or in the case of actually it wasn't Rahab, I was trying to think of the uh of uh uh Ruth the Moabite Tess. The Moabites were cursed people. Ruth had to come along. Ruth had to be in the line of of David When we read of the grace of God in Ephesians 1 to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted, how? In the beloved. We're accepted by God in an individual, in the beloved. Noah was able to go above the waves because he was in an ark that conveyed him. in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. Ephesians 2, 7 and 9, that in ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace And his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus, for by grace you save through faith, and that not of yourself is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should I think every person who has a measure of understanding of the doctrines of grace has these passages memorized. Ephesians two, eight and nine is a cornerstone passage and one of the clearest Now, I have another question for you, and it has to do with Titus chapter 2, verse 11. You see it right there in your handout. It says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. So my question is, somebody explain that verse to me. The grace of God Has appeared to all men. Somebody explain that to me. Oh God. He is always around. Okay. His gra he I'll rephrase that slightly to tell correct me if I'm not repackaging. His grace is always around, sometimes we don't recognize it. Alright. Any other thoughts about the explanation of Titus 2. 11? For the grace of God has appeared to all men. I'm kind of underscoring that word all. Red and yellow, black and white, Jew and Gentile. Okay, in other words, all uh all men without distinction, as opposed to all men without exception. When we speak about the grace of God that brings salvation, does God intend to bring salvation to every single human being on the planet that's ever lived throughout all time? And we would have to answer no because he certainly didn't do it with Judas. Certainly Pharaoh wasn't a recipient of his grace. Neither was Ishmael, neither was um uh uh Esau. Uh there's a whole host of characters, Pontius Pilate, uh, Caiaphas. I mean there's a whole raft of people that you could go through In fact, the scripture speaks about a remnant that are saved. A remnant according to the election of grace, the Apostle Paul says. So, what does Paul mean when it says the grace of self the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men? Well This verse is not teaching that all men will be saved. It's not teaching that. It simply means that God's grace, demonstrated and secured by the person of Jesus Christ, wasn't done in a hidden corner somewhere. It's not afar off. He came and openly declared himself. He says, all that I've ever spoken openly, the miracles he did, a great many saw it. His fame spread abroad in the news of it It made a way, uh he made his way all the way to an appearance before before Pilate, one of the highest ruling officials of the most powerful nation on the earth at the time. It doesn't imply that all men without exception, but all men without distinction. In fact, that phrase all men could be rendered the whole human race. It's the word pos-anthropos, with the phrase pos-anthropos, pos all anthropos men, the entire human race. God will save people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. So that's a big deal for the Jewish audience, right? They kind of thought they had a corner on this business. They had a different plan. They had a they had a That God was a respecter of persons to them and they had therefore a different avenue. Of course, Scripture doesn't teach that Alright, so that's the grace of God, and I've covered that very quickly. Another attribute of the love of God is the mercy of God. Again, we're trying to contradistinct this against the righteousness of God, which we've already covered. Grace, unmerited love in pardoning sin. Mercy, the love which relieves the misery of those bearing the consequences of sin. He relieves the misery of those bearing the consequences of sin. And there's so much that shows up here. Look at the psalmist in Psalm 25, 7. Remember not the sins of my youth. Nor my transgressions according to thy mercy, remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O Lord. I was contacted recently by a former roommate and friend of mine from college. um who's lived his life, uh served many years as a police officer at Fort Worth and uh it was good to catch up with him again after some thirty years. Get punched out early. He says with all this nonsense going on he wants to continue serving. I said, can't blame you. But um, you know, he's uh doing well. He bought a house, cash on the big island of Hawaii, living there with his wife of six years. He recently married, been single most of the time, he was an officer And, you know, we kind of want to talk about old times, and I was like, I'm a different guy. Lord, remember not the sins of my youth. Well you think about, I do, think about those old days, and Lord, remember not the sins of my youth. And that's the mercy of God that we're appealing to. Jeremiah the Lord speaks to the prophet, is Ephraim, my dear son, is he a pleasant child? For since I spake against him, see there's God and his righteousness. This is a time when Israel is in a very dark period, yet he says, I do earnestly remember him still. Therefore my bowels are troubled for him. I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the Lord. So now we see why God's judgment may linger. We now see why God's Righteous wrath that ought to fall immediately does linger and tarry sometimes. There's another attribute of God. called his mercy. Luke 1, as Zacharias declares at the news of the birth of Christ, he has hoped in his servant Israel to remember of his mercy, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers, to remember his holy covenant. Through the tender mercy of our God, where the dayspring from on high hath visited us, he rejoices again and again about the mercy of God. Mercy of God. He has mercy on his name. Zecharias and Elizabeth were righteous, and it seems like practically nobody else in that congregation around them was. It was an exceptionally dark time. And Zecharias rejoices that God in his mercy has remembered. My third question for you now is this. Does God love everybody? Why or why not? If yes, how does a loving God throw people into hell? If no, how can God be loved if he hates some people? We tackle mild questions in here, Dr. Rilly. Does God love everybody? What are your thoughts? Seeing a couple of headshakes back here. Glory, you want to offer an explanation for that? Love everybody. Okay. People do go to hell. So if he loves everybody, then why would he send somebody who loves to hell? Okay. All right. Any other thoughts? He's created vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor, vessels of wrath. We all are deserving of his wrath because we all have sinned. And yet he has placed his love on his elect, and thereby God so loved the world. Yep, and that phrase the world would have to be understood as out of every tribe, kindred, tongue and nation. Right. Yeah, if we we have a we can't say that God does love every single human being that's ever lived throughout all time We would run into all kinds of contradictions. God hated Esau in the womb even before Esau was born. Jacob that I love Esau that I hated. That's the seminal point of Romans 9. At best, God has a very general love for man because he's an image-bearer. He's one who is created in God's image, and so there is a respect to that. He's not going to look at a a picture of himself on the wall to speak in human terms and say, ugh, I hate that. I mean there is a respect he has for that. And so, because of that, man would enjoy a measure of his goodness. God's particular love, his everlasting love, is reserved for his elect, those whom before the foundation of the world ordained as eternal life. He was made their surety by covenant and divine promises. He's secured by the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. The amazing thing is, frankly, not that God's love omits some people. That's not the amazing thing. The amazing thing is that God would love any individual whatsoever. Given the testimony of what the Scripture declares about the human heart Which is never positive. And given the testimony that God declares in the scripture declares about God's righteousness, I would expect it to say, Esau have I hated, and Jacob have I hated We'd expect it to say that. It's kind of a shock to us that he actually loved Jacob. Jacob is one of the least uh uh lovable Lovable characters you can find. Thank you. Perfect word. You know, you don't say to your sons, Oh, I wish you grew up like a Jacob. No, that's a problem. I don't want that. God's divinely written judgment declared repeatedly throughout the scriptures that the whole human race is altogether an unclean thing in his sight It's vile, with infinite iniquities, highly offensive to his person, loathsome, having a soul full of wounds, bruises, and putrefying sores, ungrateful, indifferent, by nature, children of wrath With every imagination of the thought of the heart only evil continually, finding none righteous, none that does good, none that seeks after God, no not one. When's the last time you hugged a corpse? Now you get the idea of God's love for us. Quite unmerited. All right, we turned to our last point. I'm actually doing pretty good on time here. I was afraid I wouldn't be within my window here. We don't put Dr. Elliott in a box. We're gonna pull the battery on the clock when he comes up to us. Long suffering. The long-suffering of God, Mr. Burkhoff defines as this, that love which bears with the sinner who does not heed the instructions and warnings of God. I put it this way, when God's righteousness is revealed simultaneously with God's love. I think that helps resolve this tension here, a long suffering. Modern translations will render that phrase patient. They really rip through the Old Testament when they render the phrase long suffering or mercy in the old script uh in the Old Testament as the the loving kindness. They say loving kindness of God. I don't like that word In the Old Testament. The mercy of God. Mercy implies, oh, mercy, mercy. In other words, you're in a pile of deep kimshi and you're really, you know, trying to get out of it. And you're begging for some laxity here, and longsuffering, those two words just fit so nicely together to match the biblical description We read it there's some interesting etymology there. I've got in your handout. I won't cover it now, but it literally means long wrath. So the violation of God's law lights a fuse, but it may burn for a very long time, but burn it will. But burn it will The Lord is long-suffering, it says in Numbers 14, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty. He's long-suffering. He suffers long You read it again in Psalm 86 as well. Romans 2, 4, despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering. Notice those two concepts. connected together. Not knowing the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. And I love this passage. 2 Peter 3 is one of my favorite chapters in the whole Bible. Absolutely favorite because it just answers so much about the world we see around us. It is the New Testament counterpart to Jeremiah's complaint, Jeremiah 12. Lord, these people are why? What's going on? The Lord is not slack concerning his promise as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward. See, he's long-suffering to his children. You see, not willing that any should perish, meaning any of his children. But that all should come to repentance, all of his children. It's waiting for them all to get into the ark. Oh, there is a wrath of evil and wickedness around, but He says in verse 15, an account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. And in the previous chapter, he says their judgment slumbereth. Excellent. You see that righteousness of God, that judgment, it's not it's not asleep. It appears to us to be sleeping. It appears to us to be delaying and tearing, but the fuse has been lit. It leads to a bomb. That will surely go off. It will surely detonate. And that fuse is mighty long Mighty long. You know, look turn in your Bible to 2 Peter 3 and just kind of glance. I don't have it all printed up for you, but look at 2 Peter 3. As I mentioned, it's one of my favorite passages. In verses 5 to 15, what reasons do we find for God's lengthy delay of his final judgment, which the scriptures indicate is destruction of the world by fire? What's the reasons for his lengthy delay? What do you find? Why? That's correct, yeah. Yeah. If his wrath comes down and annihilates the planet, but there's still an elect of God there, that's a problem. That's a problem. How can that man's blood be shed for whom Christ's blood has already been shed? It wouldn't imply Christ's blood was insufficient. It didn't quite cover the man. So yeah, that would be a big problem. What are some other reasons we find That's a very good one. To allow the wicked to do more wickedness so that his judgment is. Well, I'll tell you what, you hit on a big point there You hit on a big point there. Yep, you read that uh uh you know the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. Fill ye up then the measure of your followers. Wow God, as it were, says, go ahead. Just keep sinning. Just keep throwing in more punishments. Go ahead. Keep throwing in more violations. Sometimes I watch these interesting programs on YouTube. they call them channels, but it's active self-protection, um, about how people deal with real-life armed encounters. And police officers they have badge cameras these days, which I think is a really good idea because it shows what the cops are up against. And incredibly long suffering, giving a lot of criminals every opportunity to drop the gun, quit charging, quit threatening. Please drop the gun. Stop what you're doing. Get down. Just every opportunity before they have to put some rounds in the guy. And some of these people just they just want to keep adding iniquity into iniquity. Let's take another swing at the officer. Okay, that's another charge of a uh salt. Let's do something more. Let's just keep piling on the offenses. And God says, keep piling them on. You're not going to hurt him. You're only hurting yourself. Other reasons I find is the love of God to Noah. You see, God's love towards Noah. God loved Noah, therefore he was long-suffering. It took a while to build this thing, folks. This was not kinda like my building project. I hope it's not gonna be 120 years to put in a a granny flat on the back of the house. Oh boy God's plan allowing time to to to to uh uh to build the ark and God's purpose to use his life as an example for New Testament believers. You see how God had multiple purposes in all that. 16 hard to be understood. Hard to be understood. Yeah. Yeah. Now, what's interesting is the very moment God's plan was fulfilled The final hinge was put on the door of the ark. The last bit of food was brought inside. The last of the animals were hauled on board, comfortably settling into their new quarters. Noah and his wife take one last look out the door, and it says, The selfsame day that Noah entered the ark, God shut the door. How long did it take before the rain started falling? Immediately, the self-same day that Noah entered the Ark. The judgment of God slumbereth not God is long suffering for the purpose of his people. As I've said before, you can put a God loves you sticker on the inside of the ark. It would be foolishness to put it on as a bumper sticker on the outside of the ark. It wouldn't make any sense. So, thankfully our God remains long-suffering. 1 Peter, which sometime were disobedience when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, when the ark was preparing, where is few, that is eight, souls. We're saved from water. You see that interesting tension? That righteousness of God that is not in a vacuum that operates against everything around it. And his love and mercy and kindness. And it seems like that thread between it is his long suffering. So may we not be as despondent as Jeremiah When we see much wrong in the world, because we must account that the long-suffering of our God is salvation. Anton, would you close us in prayer, please? Father in heaven, Lord, we praise you for granting us the uh the time today to gather, consider your word and um your love and how it does involve Lord, your long suffering and your mercy and these attributes upon which your elect are so joyous in before. Lord, uh how we do praise you that you had mercy on rebellious sinners as ourselves, Lord. And we uh ask you to give us a rightful understanding of scriptures, Lord, and help us to walk accordingly. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.