It is now at the hundred and eleventh lesson of Birkhoff's book. We're actually at the end of this section, and you know, I guess we save the best for last Because this week we're doing the second half of the final state. Last week was a very difficult one. We're talking about the final state of the wicked. But today we get to speak about something that is a source of encouragement for the saints, some of the most biggest, brightest, and glorious promises for his elect, and that is the final state of the righteous. The final state of the righteous It's almost too good to be true. You know, I thought recently, as you know, some of my top favorite topics are refuting evolution And recently I wrote in a letter to the distributed audience we have that the evolutionists have really two sets of books. There's one book they read out of to the general public that says Everything is fine. We've got this theory buttoned down. We're just a few little details left in between, but fundamentally it's sound. And then there's another set of books in their academic journals where they're all going, oh, this doesn't work. Oh, we're going to have to abandon this idea. No, this is broke. This can't work. Nope, we did all this. It's not pulling together. Maybe the other sciences have an answer And so they've got two sets of books. And it dawned on me how ironic, how ironic. Because if you look for it, you'll see that God is a master at repaying man's ways upon his own head. Because in scriptures, God also has two sets of books. He has one set of books, which is the works of the wicked. All their deeds and their names. He knows who they are. He knows what they've done. Nothing's gone without notice. And he records it and they'll be judged. out of the things written in those books. But the righteous, oh, bless my soul, God has another book, singular. Kind of implies a shorter list. Because it is, it's a list of names, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life is the one that faces the state of the wicked that we read about last week. So we're going to look at the final state of the righteous this week. And the final state of the righteous, of course, is heaven. The end of Matthew 25 says, but these shall enter into life eternal. It speaks of those who enter into everlasting condemnation, and then those who enter into life everlasting. That passage in Matthew 25, where the ellipsis is, has that word everlasting in it twice. It refers to the final state of the wicked as well as the righteous. It's everlasting Two different destinations, two different places, two different states, of course, and yet it refers to it as the same word. So if you believe in everlasting life of necessity, you have to hold to an everlasting damnation, an everlasting punishment. But we're not going to talk about that today. We're going to talk about heaven. And I open with a question. What do you think Most people believe about heaven. What do you think people believe about heaven? Yeah, everybody's going to heaven. Okay. They think everybody's going there. Okay? What else do you think that most people believe about heaven? Any ideas? There's no wrong answer, it's just what you may have heard. Ah. So and so died and he's going to uh a better place. Yeah, that's a common one. We hear that a lot. Huh? A glorious place. A glorious place. Okay. Glorious in what sense? How do you think most people pain, no sour, no Do they think about that? The wicked? The unbelievers? Do they talk about that? No, that's that's also the um the wicked Yeah, okay. So when I say most people, I'm saying you pull up to somebody uh at the gas pump or you're talking to somebody standing in line at the grocery store. You and what do they think about? Everybody's going, okay. Peter's gonna be standing at the gate. Peter's standing at the gate. Oh yeah, he yeah, Peter's the gatekeeper. Yeah, okay. A restful place. A restful place, okay the gate is pearly. That's a pearly gates. Yep, the pearly gates. I've heard um from funerals of unsaved people and things. It's just gonna be a fun place where we're all hanging out and drinking beers with our friend and telling jokes and we're just having a good old time. Right. It's like a huge party, like the best party you can imagine down here on earth. a kicking band or two or twelve or five hundred and we're all drunk and we're just having a grand of righteousness or holiness or being with God. Oh yeah, we don't want to mess up the party with that. Right, right. Victoria? Sitting around singing from harps for forever. Boring, yeah. Boy, that's what I used to think. How boring. Who wants to go there? I'm just flapping my wings and playing a harp Are you kidding me? Forever and ever. Forever and ever. It sounds like torture. Yeah, at least it's not bagpipes. Well I think you've all hit the ideas I had. Have you ever had someone really harden say, Well there is no heaven? Just denial. This just doesn't even exist. Poof, you die, you're gone. Yeah, these are very common ideas that are out there, and obviously you've heard them because You've spelled out everything. And like I had three D's last week for hell, I have three D's this week for those who have these alternative ideas for heaven. That we're all going there. That's a delusion That there is no heaven, that's a denial. Or it's like the best party we find here on earth, or Peter standing at the gates, or some defiled concept of it. They defile it. They make it very profane. It's something radically different than the Bible presents. So from the scriptures, from the Word of God, the Words of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we know these are true because he rose from the dead. That kind of validates what the man says. The God man, if he can declare that he's going to rise up from the dead, and he actually does it, well I guess he knows something about what he's talking about. He says he came from heaven, he's returning there. So we have a first-hand witness as to what heaven is. Heaven is, and here's your fill-in-the-blanks, a place and a condition. It's both a place as well as a condition. And there's four passages, I believe, that very clearly spell this concept out. The first is in John 14. 2, and I like this one a lot. It's the Lord Jesus speaking to his disciples. He says, In my father's house are many mansions. That can also be rendered much room. I tend not to believe that we're in individual houses This mansion on a hill concept is, you know, it's a it's a it's an okay rendition, but it's literally much room. There's a lot of room. Boy, is there a lot of room? He says, if it were not so, I would have told you. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. And that's a phrase I've thought about a lot. How long did it take God to create this heaven and earth in the cosmos? How long did that take? Six days. Six solar days. That's it. Six. Six days. How long has he been gone? From when he made this statement. How many years? When did Jesus leave? 2000. Yeah. We date our calendar roughly zero AD would be the year of our Lord, the year of his birth, and so If he died at the age of 33 to 37, somewhere in that age frame, it's been about 2,000 years since he's left. What he's been working on for 2,000 years. If in six days He made this universe, what is it going to look like when somebody's been working on something for two thousand years and you're the God now? All I can say is it must be extraordinarily fabulous, and it'll take an eternity just to explore every facet of it. To me that is incredible. Luke 23 said to the thief at the cross, Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be, notice this, with me in paradise. He didn't say with all your drunken friends in a big party. He says, you're with me in paradise. He didn't say you'll be with me after a period of time in purgatory. Because if ever there was a purgatory candidate, it was a thief on the cross. If ever there was a candidate for, well, you know Yeah, you've you've you've uh you believe now, that's good, but boy do you have a lot of baggage to clear out. Oh, you're just gonna spend a little time in purgatory. No, he gave that man a promise Today you'll be with me in paradise. Jesus passes first. He's left to hang there. And so for the rest of his life, he's got to believe that one promise he has. By faith. And so he walks the remainder of his life by faith. Jesus said, I'll be with him in paradise. And he starts to rebuke and reprove the others. Oh yeah, that that fellow's in heaven. You better believe it right now It's called paradise. Colossians 3. 4 says this, when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. So when Christ appears, we appear with him. We're not separated from him. We don't high-fibe him as he comes down to build a temple and we slap his hands and you know This nonsense idea of the separation of Christ from his saints. His whole purpose is to get together with his people. That's what he wants to do. That's his aim. That's his goal. That's part of the new covenant promise. And it says, when he appears, we appear with him in glory. Right now, we're being likened unto the way that he walked this earth when he first came. carrying a cross. Every man has to bear his own cross, whatever that cross is. But when he appears, we will be like him. A new glorified bodies. In glory. Be a glorious thing. Let's see. I don't uh your handout may have a different verse. I don't know if I reprinted mine. Oh, yes. Do you have Matthew 25, 10 as the next verse? Okay, I'm just making sure. And while they went to buy, this is a parable, the bridegroom came, this is the Lord Jesus. He's likened as the bridegroom And they that were ready went in with him to the marriage. And the door was shut. Another concept the Bible gives us of Christ's return. He's here to take his bride. What bridegroom shows up at the wedding that says, okay, I've got some other work to do, see you? Doesn't happen. He's there to get his bride. And it says, when the bridegroom came for the marriage, then what happens? What was the very next action? The door was shut. Any ideas on what that door might be? What's that door a picture of? The door to heaven? Okay, yeah, I like that. Same thing with uh That was Exactly. Same thing like Noah's Ark, right? When all the animals had come in, when the wedding was filled with guests, when the last monkey or whatever got on that boat, the door was shut. In other words No more chance. You can't pray your loved ones in at that point. You can't spring old Uncle Ernie out of purgatory because he's not in purgatory and that ought never existed because the door is now shut. It's a shut door. And it's permanently shut. Yes. When Jesus in John says I am the door. Does that mean that here in this passage in Matthew, when he says the door is shut, the time of salvation in Christ is now ending That's a very accurate description of it. The time of salvation in Christ is ended. Christ is that way. He's that entrance way in. And if the entrance is shut off, His time as the suffering servant and his memories of him as a suffering servant is gone. That page is closed. It's behind us. Now it's the glorious king. Now it's the powerful bridegroom I'm going to have a question on Hebrews 1116, so so pay attention. This is in a reference, I'm assuming you have some familiarity with Hebrews chapter 11. It's known as the the hall of faith. It's listing many people who walk by faith. And it concludes in verse 16, it says Well, let's turn there for a moment. Let's get the full context. Go to Hebrews 11. I didn't have room on my page to add more verses, but but turn to Hebrews 11 16. And if you don't have a Bible, I'll just wrap it up. I'll just read it for you and we'll start in verse 13 We're speaking of Noah, the elders, Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, I'm going to ask a question about him, Sarah, and so forth. And he concludes after listing these people, these all died in faith, Hebrews 11, 13. These all died in faith, not having received the promises. But having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. And then here's our verse But now they desire a better country, that is a heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. He's prepared for them a city. Question, what country do you think these saints, Abraham and others, were seeking? What city are they looking for? Jerusalem. Okay, Jerusalem. Now the Bible talks about Jerusalem in a couple of different ways. That's a good answer. I want to explore it a little further if I can. The Bible talks about Jerusalem in a couple of different ways. If you ask the average person where's Jerusalem, where are they going to tell you? Israel. They would say Israel. Alright. Is that the city that Abraham was seeking? Verse 16 it calls it a heavenly country. Okay, it's a heavenly country. All right. So let's tie heavenly with her answer of Jerusalem. Is there any connection there? New Jerusalem? Ah, something called the New Jerusalem we read in Revelation that comes down from above. That's that new city. That's that new country they're looking for. They're looking for heaven. Because he says if they had desired an earthly city, an earthly country, they might have had opportunity to return back to that. If you remember, Abram was called out of Ur of the Chaldees. And likewise, when God calls his people, we are called out of the world. It doesn't matter what country, what city you're from. You're called out of it. Does that mean I'm being asked to move Well, not exactly, but your allegiance, your identity, your home, where you the place you call home. As it were, your identity. We're all into identity things these days. What is your business card that you hand out to people? What is your identity? Are you identified with your job? Are you identified with your nationality? Are you identified with some famous individual? What is your connection in your mind and in your heart when you present to other people Are you a citizen of heaven? Is that your identity? Because if you have that identity, if you embrace that, if you confess it, if you hang on to that, then that's what these people in the Hall of Faith have. They were identified with that. I am seeking my country. I am seeking my home. I want to go to where my people are at. That was the testimony of Ruth and Mole by Tess. Who said, Thy people shall be my people, thy God shall be my God. Where you live, I live, and where you die, I die. And see that is I've used this phrase before, because it was a very powerful one I served for many years as an engineer. Was I an engineer who happened to be a Christian? Or was I a Christian who happened to be an engineer? There's a big difference. There's a big difference in how you're going to go about life. And maybe you can put those shoes on and try it yourself. Yes, Abram and others were seeking a heavenly one, that new Jerusalem from above. So Jerusalem is a good answer. It's a good answer. Next point, the righteous receive, and here's your other fill-in-the-blank, a new incorruptible body. And I like that phrase, incorruptible. A new incorruptible body. If I'm learning anything, Joe just hit this age, I'm about to hit it, but you know, 60 comes and all of a sudden You're walking past the refrigerator and your elbow bumps the handle and man your elbow's killing you now. It's like, really? I just tapped the handle Or you bend over and the back goes crick and it's like, oh, that really hurt. And three days later, are you kidding me? This still hurts? You young people have no idea about that. And that's great. I'm glad you don't have any idea about that. Enjoy it while you can. Mrs. Ross will know that. Mrs. Ross knows it in spades. Well, we read in Philippians 3. 20, and this is our first verse in that section. It says, For our conversation, Old English word means conduct is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior. He's coming from heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now look what he does. Who shall change our vile body? that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body. We covered in an earlier Burkhoth study That the vile body, it's vile not because it's made of flesh, but the main thing that flesh references in the scripture is that it's full of sin. It has plenty of sin in it. For the believer, sin no longer reigns like it used to, but it does remain. It's there. So that you cannot do the things that you would. To will is present with me, the Apostle Paul said. That's a saved man writing that passage. To will, to will to do the law of God is present with me. But how to do that which is good I find God. He'll change that vile body. How extensive is that change? I think it's going to be pretty extensive because it says it's going to be fashioned like unto his glorious body. There's an interesting study, and I may cover this one of these times, the concept of light in the believers. We're called sons of light. I wondered about that for a time. It was a time. You know, in Matthew 17, we read about the Mount of Transfiguration. This is the time when the Lord Jesus had three of his disciples, James, Peter, and John, and he went up into a mount to pray, and while he was up there It says he changed. The fashion of his countenance changed. He was white and glistening. It says even his garments shined brightly. You can read about this in Matthew 17, in the opening verses. And they were very surprised. It was a very strange thing that they saw. Peter writes about it in 2 Peter 1. We were with him in the mount. We saw this. We heard this thing We're called sons of light. It says he does ride fast upon a cherub in the clouds. It says, as lightning comes from east to the west, so also is the coming of the Son of Man, like lightning You know, there's a whole lot about this world and this universe in particular that we're quite ignorant of. There's a fascination these days with aliens and UFOs and The Pentagons, they're they're hiding information, I guarantee you. Don't blame evil when stupid is available, all right? I worked at the Pentagon for a long time and I'm telling you it's uh more happens with dumb things and and so there's all kinds of fascination with UFOs and and uh Uh Gary Bates wrote a book about uh alien intrusion, and he does a very good job of biblically assessing this concept. He says, I believe people have actually seen UFOs. And I believe they've actually seen these extraterrestrial things. I believe they've seen it. He says, I don't doubt it one bit. There's too many testimonies that are legitimate. He says, but from whence do they come? He says, it can't be deep space, can't break the laws of physics, you can't travel that kind of distance in any kind of time. You can't make a spaceship that does that. He says, but they're resident with us. There's a demonic force that's out there. We know from the Bible that angels can appear and look like men. They did so to Abram. They were good angels. But guess what? There's also fallen angels, and they have similar capabilities, and they can appear, and they can deceive easily the hearts of the righteous. When the Lord Jesus, where am I going with this? When the Lord Jesus refuted the Sadducees, who thought there was no resurrection, nor marriage in heaven and so forth, they didn't believe in the resurrection, basically. And he says, you do err, not knowing the scriptures of the power of God. In heaven men neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are what? They're like unto angels. And the believers are called sons of light. Isaiah says they shall walk. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Does light ever get tired traveling through the atmosphere? Do you ever see light get to a point where it just kind of slows down like a flower just gets limp at the end of its journey Light has full strength. Sons of light. What is that glorious body that we have? What kind of boundless amounts of energy does it have? It's a totally different program, and it ought to really make us look forward. I already quoted to you Matthew 22, 30, not realizing it was my next verse. First Corinthians 1549 says this, the apostle Paul is answering questions about the resurrection, what body they come in, and so forth. He says, as we have borne the image of the earthy, Adam was earthy, of the earth, of the dirt, of the dust, we also shall bear the image of the heavenly. Now, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Whatever flesh and blood is, it's called corruption. It's called corruptible. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, meaning die, but we shall all be changed. There's a change a coming, a mighty big change a coming And it's a time when 1 John 3. 2 and that glorious time will appear. It says, beloved now, right now. You have to wait. If you're a child of God, right now, are we the sons of God? You ought to think about that. You're a child of the king. There's a recent coronation in England They struck a uh a corruptible crown on some old fellow's head. But right now you're a son of God. He'll die and perish unless he be in Christ. It says, it does not yet appear what we shall be. I love those shall statements, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. We shall see him. as he is. We will be like him when he appears. It says every eye shall see him. It says he comes with clouds. He can be in the air. We can be in the air too. Gravity holds us right now. I don't believe it will then What kind of power is that? What kind of glory is that? That's a new body. It's an incorruptible body. It's a body that's fit for the country that we're going to. It's a body fit. And you know, let me ask a question. What would happen to this body in heaven? Just as you are right now, what would happen to it? Flesh can't be in heaven. Flesh can't be in heaven. Alright, you're right. Destroyed. It would be destroyed. It couldn't handle it. Yeah. It couldn't handle it. You know, the scripture says, who can dwell with everlasting burnings? You remember Daniel's three friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? It's a shame we remember them, remember them by their Babylonian names. They're Mishael and Hazi IL I I forget the whole name. Yeah, and has Ezra. Yeah, they had good, godly names, but we only remember them by Shadrach, Meshach, and Abin. They were cast in that fiery furnace, because they would not bow the knee to Nebuchadnezzar's image of gold he erected on the plain. All great rulers, all great dictatorial autocratic rulers loved to erect monuments to themselves And they want to make sure everybody's paying homage to it, and if they don't, it's a tremendous offense. Kim Jong-un's doing out in North Korea. There's these monstrous statues of himself and his dad standing out there in these plains. And boy, if you dare look at it askance, or heaven forbid you should spit on the ground within 500 feet of it, you might lose your life and that of your family. These three wind up in the fiery furnace and absolutely nothing happens to them. Not a hair of their head ascends. The smell of smoke didn't ascend. didn't fall on their clothes. But the king said, I see one in the fire. Lo, like unto the Son of Man. There was a fourth figure that showed up in that furnace, and he was bright hot. I'm betting that's the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm betting that's the God man in a muted form. He's that everlasting burnings. He's the one that can snuff out and control the fire. He's the one that has the power to do these things. And so, yes, if you were to try to dwell in that presence in these physical bodies without any kind of change. I think those fellows were protected, clearly. Yeah, we would be destroyed. In our current present form, our bodies would burn up Next column, the righteous receive not only a new incorruptible body, not only is heaven a place in the condition, but it doesn't stop there. It's not only just a personal change. But you're going to get a whole change of venue because you get a renewed universe. Folks, you get a whole new cosmos. How's that for a birthday present? You ever try shopping for somebody who's already got everything? You know the older they get the more stuff they collect. Oh let's get them a coffee mug. No, they have 5,000 coffee mugs already. They don't want another coffee mug. Oh, let's get them a nice dress. No, they like their old worn comfortable dresses. Don't get them another dress. Another pair of shoes. Who was it? Amelda Marcus had 300 pairs of shoes or whatever and it wasn't. I forget some ridiculous thing We can never figure out what to get somebody who's already got everything. Nobody's giving you a gift like this. You get a new universe You're gonna have a new set of stars to look at. In fact you may be one of those stars for all I know. You get a whole new earth and who knows what size that is. Gravity's not gonna matter at that point. Isaiah sixty-five seventeen, the Lord says, Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former. The old Earth, the old moon, the old asteroids, the old politics, the old extinct animals The old everything, the former, shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. None of this, oh the good old days. The leeks and the garlics, you're gonna go, no, this is wonderful. You ever had a really good vacation? One time my business sent me, I made six business trips. I don't know how I scored that deal, but this is a great deal to hold up Why? All of them just magically happen over a weekend. Shame, Jeffrey, shame. That's nothing new to you. Yep, I was punching out early that Friday It was it's a beautiful place. I'd love to take all of you on a Bible vacation out there. We'll have a 10-minute Bible study on the beach and then click on Jamaica's closer. Jamaica is closer. Yeah, yeah. A beautiful place and you just don't want to think about what's back, those orange Hawaiian sunsets, unbelievable, the papaya, just incredible. The size of the flowers, the the the begonia, the everything there. Plants growing under a freeway abutment are these huge, gorgeous plants. Just amazing, an amazing place. I've heard the Philippines are similar in other island nations. Psalm 102 says this of old thou hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands. They shall Parish. Foundation and all. When we talk about foundation as a scientist, that's a very interesting word to me There are certain foundational principles that exist that kind of structure and determine how this cosmos runs on a Astronomic scale, certain principles, the way that uh light operates and its speed and gravitational attractions and all that, there's there's foundational principles that God says that foundation is destroyed. It perishes. He's going to uplift it and turn it upside down. Indeed, if he tweaks one thing, it will change very quickly. Very quickly. He says, They perish, but thou shalt endure. Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment. As a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed If you've gone to museums and looked at old Civil War uniforms or other dresses from st eras that Queens used to wear, they're very, very carefully preserved. Why? Because they're fragile. Clothes have a tendency to wear out, and they wear out quickly. And he says, like a vesture, you will change them. They're going to be changed, just like you and I would take a coat off. or road. God's going to take that old order off. Second Peter repeats that same statement. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heaven, heavens, and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness There's a new heaven and new earth. Righteousness dwells there. He doesn't say unrighteousness. There's no chance for sin there. There's not a tree of the knowledge of good and evil there. There's no chance for us to fall. Because now we have an immutable righteousness, one based on the righteousness of Jesus Christ. If there's failure there, there's failure in the part of Jesus Christ. That cornerstone, that anchor of heaven's morality of heaven's moral scheme is solidly based on the character, the person, the works of Jesus Christ Himself. It cannot fail, is the point. A new heavens and a new earth. There will be a heavens and there will be an earth. I don't know how that operates. Angels seem to have free access between heaven and earth. They don't seem to mind. the distance, the travel, they can come and go. To have that kind of power. I have a blast on my zero turn. That thing mows grass at nine miles an hour. I can't imagine going faster than that. It's fun for some kids to go down the freeway on their motorcycle at 95 miles an hour until they hit the side of a police car. But uh I can't imagine that kind of ability The last uh excuse me, the next point is the righteous inherit, and that's a big phrase, the righteous inherit the entire new creation. It's an inheritance. It's an inheritance. You know, when you think about an inheritance, what are some thoughts that come to your mind? How does that whole arrangement work? What is an inheritance? Somebody tell me. I'm not trying to get real deep here. We're going to drop it in first year. Victoria, you kind of have a furrowed look on your brow. Um lias. Alas someone dies and they leave behind lots of things. And those in the bloodline receive those things. Yeah. That's an inheritance. Someone dies, uh they leave behind lots of things, lots of bills, lots of debts, lots of things to resolve and pay for and and then the executor dispenses 38 cents to all the family. That's kind of how inheritance typically works. And the lawyer gets five or six thousand dollars. That's usually the government gets ten thousand, the lawyer gets five thousand, and you get thirty-eight cents. That's typically how it works in this life. But the righteous inherit this. It's an inheritance. So let's think about the individual from whom you are inheriting. How many debts or liabilities does Jesus Christ have? What's his tax exposure? What's his tax liability? Would you give us the official accounting number per Aronson? Zero. Zero. He has no debts. What a glorious thought Jeffrey has no debts. He has no liabilities. What is what is his net net income? Can you calculate that on the back of an envelope real quick? Everything. Everything. That's mind blowing. He has no liabilities. He, after all, is the sovereign. The sovereign has the right to print their own money. Every nation has the right to print its own coinage and paper money. And the willingness of the people to accept it is the value it has to exchange for goods and services. Uh it's not, yeah. God's Heaven is not subject to inflation. It'll never lose value. It's eternal in its value and significance. And everything God does is pretty much perfect. You're not getting a bunch of buildings like the lower parts, the nether parts of New Jersey that are crumbling and falling apart. Uh you're not getting, you know, downtown hotlanna with that All the crumbling buildings. Pick your favorite city of choice that has a million buildings that are crumpled. St. Louis, oh great day. The eastern part of St. Louis, what a wreck. Oh my goodness. I've been there more than one occasion. Glad that rental car didn't break down driving through and telling you it was a place you don't want to fall apart at. It's a new heaven, it's a new earth, it's brand new, and you are co-heirs, you're joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Is God gonna shortchange Jesus Christ in the inheritance? Is he going to hold something back? Fear not, little flock, it's my father's good pleasure. To what? Give you the kingdom. That's an amazing, wonderful statement. Psalm 37, 9, for evildoers shall be cut off. There's a time when they're not. That's right now. Are they in power now? You bet. Do we see them? Oh yeah. Are they increasing by the by the hour, by the minute? But evildoers shall be cut off. But those that wait upon the Lord, notice that phrase wait, it implies it doesn't happen right away. They shall inherit the earth. Which earth do you think he's got in mind? New Earth. You don't want to get this earth with its crumbling buildings, its corruption, its debt, its liability. Man, give me one that's debt-free. But the meek, it says in verse 11, shall inherit the earth. The Lord Jesus repeated that in Sermon on the Mount, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. Abundance of peace. It's nice when a land has a lot of peace. I remember reading a statistic from the CIA a number of years ago that at any one point in time the Earth, the planet is experiencing some 70 plus wars at a time. Only two or three of them make the news. But there are 70 plus on average, 70 plus wars at a time raging across the planet Tribes, civil war, strife of this people group or that people group. You turn to different countries' news channels, I'm sure they'll be advertising some local strife. This place is not a peaceful place. Ah, but the children of God shall divide themselves in the abundance of peace. You won't even have an issue with your neighbor. Miss Sabi used to have a horrible neighbor. This lady was nuts. She was throwing eggs at her front door. She lives right next door, and she and her boyfriend were throwing eggs right on her sidewalk We know, we caught it on camera. I mean, how ridiculous can you get? Unbelievable. Psalm 37, 22. For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth. 29, the righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein forever. Again, it's a new heaven and a new earth, and they live there forever. It's nice when you can occupy one piece of turf and your family can build in that same area and they're all nearby. You have your section, your land. Isn't that nice? I've seen a documentary, a man came back from World War Two and he had enough money when he was dismissed from the military service to buy a patch of land. He bought like fifty acres someplace in Kentucky or Tennessee, somewhere in that section of the land. And built his own house on it. And over time, as his family grew, he gave each of his children houses on his land And there's a little tribe right there. And the little grandkids can go run over to Mammy and Pappy's and go get cookies and then they go run back and they go over to Auntie's house and get lunch and they come over here and And they all want to and they have a big oak tree, and they can all go out on the table, whenever, and have a big old picnic and party. That sounds great, doesn't it? That would really be nice. And then we'll just jump to Revelation 21 for sake of time. In fact, why don't we turn in our closing here to Revelation 21? This is the last glimpse you have in Scriptures. All this Spiritual warfare language that occurs in the early chapters of Revelation, going forward, actually kind of culminating in chapters 8 through 19. You get to Revelation 21, and you get what I call a glimpse. A glimpse from the afar. You're looking right through the best gated community That God has for His people. It's a glimpse into heaven's gated community. Heaven has gates and a good border control, border policy. Hell has wide open borders. It's wide open. All are welcome. But this glimpse into heaven's gated community, we see in Revelation 21, verse 1, and I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The Apostle John saw it. Think about that. God gave him a vision. This beloved disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ saw The new heaven and the new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. In the Bible, a sea is a bad thing. It's an ominous thing It's depth, it's depth. You can't drink the water from it. It sinks ships. There's problems in it. Oh, but I like the sea creatures. Well, they'll be able to Live in fresh water. In heaven there's rivers, abundant rivers and streams whereof make the city of God glad. It says the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. And in verses verse 2, and I, John, saw the holy city. New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Again, all of that language. God coming to be with his people. I will dwell with them. They shall be my people. I will be their God. All of that language, God likens it to a city. to a marriage. There's so many ways he compares it because this spiritual reality is frankly beyond our capability to fully grasp. And so God uses earthly analogies. But the most glorious part of all is that the righteous will dwell with God Himself. Faith will be sight at that point. You can actually talk to the God man. And not be afraid. It says, your joy shall no man, no man, take away. And heaven's not about us, it's about him. You'll be your chief joy? Yeah, peep people think about, well, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna go to heaven, I'm gonna see so and so. Heaven's not about us and what we're doing. It's about it's about who we're with. Yeah. And it will take you a long time as a Christian to come to appreciate that. Because he is that fountain of all the characteristics, the attributes, and the qualities we like. His love, his compassion, his strength, his wisdom, his knowledge He's omniscient. He's great power. You name it. He's got it all. He's order. You won't need a vacuum cleaner in heaven, mother. I hate to tell you that. I know it breaks your heart. Verses three and four. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them. And they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. Does that phrase ring a bell to you? What is it? Yeah, it's all new covenant language that was started way back in Genesis and echoed and repeated and refined and added to in Ezekiel and in Jeremiah. That is the promise, and that's the fulfillment of it. And you see but a glimpse of it here. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death. It's gone Neither sorrow. Can you imagine you never had a sorry day? Can you imagine it's gonna totally change the way we greet each other? How was your weak? I was miserable. You're never gonna say that nor crying. Neither shall there be any more pain. You won't have anything to complain about. You're not going to be praying for your knees to be working again or your back pain to go away or your banged up elbow. No And I don't even know if we're gonna have an elbow in heaven, to be honest. But the former things, the former things, see that word things? All of a sudden things is a lot broader. Things is tears. Things is pain. Things is death. Things is all that stuff. And as soon as we get a glimpse of this, the page turns and the bullshit And you're left with that promise. You're left with that hope. If you're a child of God, this surely applies to you. Not because I said so. I'm just a parrot. God himself said so. God Almighty testifies to these things. So I pray you walk in the comfort of that. And agree with the apostle that says, I reckon with the sufferings of this time. Not worthy to be compared with the future glory which shall be revealed in us. Ivonne would you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, Lord, uh what great and wonderful things even beyond our understanding you've uh laid up for uh your people Lord. Uh the the great inheritance Lord that we have through Christ. Um nothing that we did to preserve anything, Lord, and and yet Lord you have redeemed your people uh by your own mercy and grace uh to be brought in to uh inhabit eternity with God Almighty Himself and Lord Lord uh we look to you in utter humility acknowledging Lord that um were it not for your intervention, Lord, none of us would stand a short chance. And uh we thank you and we praise you perpetually for that, Lord. And uh ask that you would guide us in this uh Earthly sojourn, uh until we meet with the Lord in heaven. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.