All right, we are at the next section of our chapter on the topic of man and the state of sin, and frankly this is one of the saddest chapters in the entire section. We are faced with a dilemma that we personally didn't produce And yet it impacts every member of the human race. We're talking about the essential nature of sin. We know what the scripture says, by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. And we hear that and we understand it and take it by faith. But what we struggle with is the same question that the ancients have struggled with, that is the whole question of the nature. of sin or what they would refer to as evil in the world. How do we answer that? It is a tough question. It's a tough question theologically. It's a difficult question philosophically. Mr. Burkhoff, I think, captures that dilemma in this statement here. He says, at present many substitute the word evil for sin. But this is a poor substitute for the word sin is far more specific. It denotes a definite kind of evil, namely a moral evil, and that's a very good point that he makes here. for which man is responsible and which brings him under a sentence of condemnation. The modern tendency is to regard it merely as a wrong done to one's fellow beings. That misses the point entirely For such a wrong can be only called sin insofar as it's contrary to the will of God. Sin is correctly defined by Scriptures as lawlessness. It is a lack of conformity to the law of God, and as such is the opposite of that love required by the divine law that's in your Book if you're following along summary of Christian doctrine in your readings throughout the week, perhaps. Uh that's on page 74 So let's look at the essential nature of sin. Wherein does the Bible say sin is constituted? What is its nature? What's its essence? How is it? How has it come about? What's it like? We find several things about this, and I'm going to cover six points today about sin. It's essential nature. We're talking about what is this horrible evil that we somehow have. Where is it at? What is its nature? What's its definition? We're going to try to describe that today. First is that sin is lawlessness. Sin is in fact lawlessness. We see in 1 John 3. 14 a direct statement which answers that question for us. Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. Sin is, you remember your math word problems? Anytime you find the word is, that's an equal sign. I have a question. Can we also say that evil is sin? This gets to what the philosophers are trying to use as a replacement. Can we say that evil is sin? Thoughts? At first flush it seems like you could categorize it under that, but we know God is not the author of sin and And yet you create evil. Yes, very good. Uh scriptures does indicate that God creates something that is called evil. We see that in Isaiah 45. I form the light and create darkness, I make peace and create evil Yet we've already learned from last week, good morning, we've already learned from last week that God is holy, altogether without unrighteousness. and one who positively hates sin. So we can't possibly say that evil is sin because God Himself creates evil. Evil can be that which is, for instance, a natural catastrophe. There was a string of tor there was a tornado, apparently an EF-4, which went wiping through Kentucky recently, and it just absolutely decimated. a great portion of that land in many cities. One city was very heavily hit. Seventy to a hundred people have died. Uh and that would be an earthly catastrophe. We would call that an evil occurrence. And yet that is something caused by God. The moral dilemma that man faces is why is it that the human race, by nature, has a bent towards it that lends towards catastrophic results or catastrophic ends. Another definition of sin we find is in our second point of six. One, sin is lawlessness. Number two, sin is a lack of conformity to the law of God. We talk about sins of Commission, you commit something wrong, and sins of omission, you forget or do not or don't do something which the law requires. Omission, commission. Good way to remember those two. Romans is helpful here in Defining that, Romans 132, who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death. not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Notice they commit these things and they're worthy of death. Sin, of course, lends to that direction. And Romans 2, a chapter later in verses 12 and 13, as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without the law. This means the man without the Bible in his hand. It doesn't matter. He's still guilty And as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. This is the religious man, the man that has a Bible in his hand. He knows the difference, and so he'll be judged by it. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. So it doesn't matter whether an individual actually has a copy of that, the work of the law is written in his heart, he does have an innate, conscientious fingerprint of God in his very existence that he innately knows that theft is wrong, that adultery is wrong, that uh line is wrong that isn't in a um uh conscious uh ember that's there. It's a it's a thumbprint of God. It's a reflection of his moral characteristics. And uh And and men will uh of course seek to suppress that. There's a reason why there's an active suppression mechanism because they don't like what their conscience is telling them. So that's one way to get rid of sin is to suppress it. What's another way to get rid of sin from the unsaved perspective Is brushing it under the rug considered also suppression? Sure, yeah, brushing it under the rug. Okay. Yep, just to declare no I didn't do that. Blame it on some blame shifting, right. It wasn't me, it was his fault. Yep, blame shifting, that's uh that's a really effective technique. Come on, y'all know these techniques. Don't do what? Don't get caught. Don't get caught, right? Just try to run and hide. What's another way to get rid of sin? Ignorance. They claim ignorance. I didn't know. Now keep going down that vein. What's another way of of how do you entrench ignorance? If I could put it that way. What's another way to get rid of sin? Well, I was gonna say some people just uh do quite the opposite. They call evil good Totally twist it. Yep, twist the definitions completely. Alright. There's one way I'm looking for that's kind of interesting. Isn't there? Get rid of the law. Just get rid of the law. Right? I mean that's why uh adultery is rampant uh in our land. For instance, in my uh wonderful home state of Maryland, the penalty for adultery is ten dollars. That's the uh the amount you have to pay. They'll say, yep, that we have laws against adultery in this state. They do but the penalty is ten dollars. And so there's no surprise that it is run roughshod over. Romans talks about this, and this is everything what we've all fundamentally described is all child roots of that approach to get rid of that law. We get rid of it by saying it doesn't apply to me. We get rid of it by saying um I'm really I don't fit in the scope of it. We're we're all trying to get rid of it. Right? That's what we're trying to do. Romans 4. 15, for where no law is, there's no transgression, right? If there's no law against a certain activity in the scriptures, if the Bible doesn't prohibit it, you can't say there's a transgression against it. Romans 5. 13, until the law of sin was in the world, sin is not imputed when there's no law. You see, even God Himself recognizes there's a reason for his holy law. because it's designed to spotlight sin. It shines a light on the behavior that is incorrect on the omission of the uh uh of a of a duty or the commission of a restriction or prohibition, it shines a light on that. And it says that is wrong and what man wants to do. We say block the light. Well the way he's blocking the light is to say, no, there is no law. He tries to make that light, in this case the law of God, go away. So sin is a lack of conformity to God, and what men do in response to that is they try to get rid of the law. That's one big reason why I, among many, believe the Bible is the Word of God, because it does declare this character attribute of man very well. This is so consistent across the human race. I don't care what country they're from, I don't care what their nationality is or their cultural traditions. This is a consistent behavior among the human race. They don't want to be their s they don't want their sins, according to the scriptures, pointed out. You know, if this were a book that man wrote, Why wouldn't we write something that doesn't pin us to the wall? This book nails us pretty comprehensively. It really shatters all of our uh as an unsaved individual, all of our uh pre-salvation uh uh uh ideas about what is right and what is wrong as uh Anton pointed out we've got them crossed up by nature. Evil good, good evil. We we we switched the two. And so this book rightly pins us to the wall. No man would have written such a book that so thoroughly condemns him. Third point about the essential nature of sin, its very core essence. It's lawlessness, it's lack of conformity. The third thing is that it is guilt that makes us liable to punishment. Sin is guilt that makes us liable to punishment. This is the part that has the edge to it. There's the the alarm that goes in your ear. Ding ding ding. Hey, you've got a problem. And then after the rejection, there's a chain attached to that which draws you to God that says, and you're going to have to give an account for this, and you're liable to a sick significant amount of punishment as a result. Now it doesn't happen right away. It's a sentence. It's written in stone. It can't be removed. And men don't like that either. We find in Romans 3 we know that what things soever the law saith, Romans 3. 19, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. This verse is instructive to us for a couple of reasons. Number one, it certainly does show the liability of the punishment. that all the world may become guilty before God. But number two, what is interesting about it is the jurispruden the jurisdiction is the term I want to use of the Ten Commandments. We would say that God gave the Old Covenant, the Old Testament, to the tribe of Israel. They were the recipients of that old covenant, and it was given to them. They were the ones who were to bring the offerings and the sacrifices to the temple because of a commission of a sin. in order to have atonement, reconciliation again with the people of God and with the image of God's presence there They were the ones to whom the Messiah came. And we might begin to think, well, the law only applied to them. They were given it, and therefore it only applies to them. However, what is fascinating is in Romans 3, we have a very keen insight about the scope of that old covenant law. It says, whatever the law says, what things soever the law saith, It saith to them who are under the law. So it says, the law is speaking to those under its jurisdiction. All laws have a scope. I don't fall under the laws of France. I don't live there. If France has a rule against, I don't know, having multicolored couches in my house, it doesn't apply to me. I'm picking some trivial thing because I don't want to try to get too political or whatever, but I want to go down that path. The law says it has a range of applicants underneath it. They're under the law. And now we get an insight in terms of that scope. The second half of the verse says, that every mouth be stopped. Well that sounds pretty broad. We might say every mouth under the law. Ah, but he goes on and says, that all the world may become guilty before it God. What's the point? The law of God applies to every single human being on the planet. Whether they had a written copy of it or not. It doesn't matter in God's sight. We might begin to cry unfair. No, because they have the work of the law written on their hearts. Again, they know intrinsically that there is to be worshiped. Every place missionaries have gone, consistently the report is they were worshiping. They were animists, they were worshiping spirits, the American Indians worshiped wolves. all these things, the hint the in the the true Indians, not not the Native American Indians, but those from India, when they're Hindu religion, they're worshiping cows. They have objects of veneration there the Chinese. They also have worship North Korea. It's their leader, Kim Jong-yu. And But there is worship. We are a worshiping creature. That's because there is a drive in them that they are to worship God. corrupt in their nature and therefore they misdirect where that worship goes. So we find that this law of God is that spotlight. And see so we see how blessed Israel was to have a spotlight. to guide and direct them to the right behavior, to the right path. These are the things that bring you guilt. These are the things that bring you into a a state of uh of uh uh unreconciliation. I can't think of a better word, but uh you're at odds with God because of this, and here's why, and the light was given. Romans 5. 18, by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation. This helps uh something else that helps us understand the the breadth of this and the scope of this. lack of conformity to the law of God, how the weight of the law of God hits us, gets back to a previous study we addressed the covenant, where we said Adam was a federal head. He represented the human race, and by his fall he therefore affected all under him. By the offense of one, speaking of Adam, condemnation and judgment came upon all men. It was a universal fall. It was a universal sentence. Of course, the atheist doesn't want to hear this. The atheistic scientist alleges that he has a much more plausible reason as to why this doesn't apply, but actually he doesn't have answers. He has just as many questions, if not more. than we might have. He's ever searching and never able to come to the knowledge of truth. And so it won't wash. God insists, nope, I have a law, it's inviolable, and you're guilty. The fourth point about sin, what is its essential nature? How does it cost it? Is it a just say-so we just say so concept? No, sin is inherent corruption. Sin is a moral pollution. Man is born with a corrupt nature. Boy, the scriptures are extensive on this point. The legal aspect the Apostle Paul addresses very nicely in the opening chapters of Romans, but the whole of Scriptures talks about the pollution, the inherent corruption, the moral pollution of humans. Job 14 says this in verse 4, who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean thing? Not one. You can't Uh call 'em little babies and and they're cute. I just love cute little babies. We we have some new grandparents uh uh in in our midst and some great grandparents in our midst and those children I just The older you get, the more precious infants become because you see uh you start to have a little hope again, you know, maybe this one might turn out right. We're gonna roll the dice again, see how we do with this one, so to speak. I'm being silly. Um and yet we find that uh mommy and daddy rattlesnakes bring forth baby rattlesnakes. You know, it isn't long before it's evident that you've got vipers and diapers that in fact they do manifest a sinful nature and a tendency and some form of discipline, obviously age appropriate, needs to be applied to gently steer and direct and pull that child away from his inherent nature and point them to uh the precepts of Christ and to living as a Christian and laying Christian expectations upon them and urging them early of their need to come to closure with the Savior. There is no age of accountability in the scriptures. That's a huge problem. That would say that the children are perfectly innocent, fine, and morally disposed to holy, good, and righteous ends We certainly don't see that. We don't see that all of a sudden age twelve you had an angel on their thirteenth birthday. Wow, all of a sudden we fell off the cliff. What happened? I mean there is no nonsensical age of accountability that that isn't in scriptures. We we we uh you know what is Romans 3. 23 sense, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Well That includes babies. They've sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. There's no exception clause in the scriptures for the youth where you read and Isaiah 6, the prophet says, as he sees God on his throne, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of the people of unclean lips. This is Isaiah the Prophet. This is a great prophet of the Old Testament who stood before kings who uh Gave proclamations against armies that surrounded Israel and said the Lord's gonna take care of it. This is a tremendously wise, divinely inspired, prophet of God, and upon his vision of God, falls down and feels, I'm about to be consumed. I am undone. Now, I would assert that if we have somebody as righteous and upright as Isaiah the prophet, who in his assessment is utterly unclean. Where does that put the rest of us if we were to gauge and base our standing on some kind of a scale which doesn't exist exist. It's a binary scale. You're righteous or not. That's the standard. You're as perfect, good, and holy as God, and everything else is a failure. God doesn't grade on a curve. It's a very binary decision. All throughout the scriptures you find this binary decision. The sheep are on the right hand, the goats are on the left. There's the fool that walks in darkness, and then there's the children of light, the wise. The wise Virgins, the foolish virgins. There's this dichotomy that's presented in the scriptures. There's no middle ground. There's no cheerleaders on the sideline, you know, rooting for whoever and they're neutral. They're not in the game. That class doesn't exist Look at Romans 8, 5 through 8. They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. Now again, flesh here is a reference to a worldly disposition. It's not talking about Physical body. Just because I physically touch something physical doesn't convey to me a sinful disposition. There isn't a sinful physical object that's going to pollute my soul. Okay? So whatever the flesh is, it has a mind. And it has a disposition. And so it's talking in this point about the whole nature of the unsaved individual. They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh But they that are after the Spirit, and this is somebody who's born of God. The Spirit of God lives in them. They're born of God, as opposed to born of the flesh. For to be carnally minded, that's our word flesh, to be fleshly minded, to be carnally minded is death. But to be spiritually mighty is life and peace. Again, notice the two ends, death or life. I mean, there's no middle ground. There's no purgatory. Or it's a doleful, woeful existence, you know, hoping that somebody dumps enough money into a coffer that I might spring out. You don't find that in scriptures. Because it says the carnal mind is, and here's the word, enmity against God. This is the nature of the carnal mind. It's a polluted uh inherent disposition towards God. It's enmity. It means hatred. It doesn't mean it's mild. It's hatred against God. It's not subject to the law of God. Notice the fact that it's not subject to it. Well the implication is it's under the law of God. But it doesn't listen to it, it's not subject to it. You parents know uh if you've been saved later in life, and then all of a sudden you discover how you need to direct your household and now you have maybe children in the house that all of a sudden hey there's a new sheriff in town, mom's living differently, dad's got a different disposition And the parents discover our children are not subject to the law of God. They're not interested in that. People can make a lane change on the way to hell. They can go to Alcoholics Anonymous and talk about spirits and higher powers. But they're not talking about Jesus Christ, and they're not really even allowed to talk about Jesus Christ, because we want to bring everybody into this program, and their goal is to get them off the bottle, not get them off of sin, which makes them fly to guilt, punishment, and death. That's not their goal. And so this is a human common problem. Look at this list of problems in Ephesians 2. 3, among whom also we all had our conversation. I didn't finish the last of Romans 8. I'm sorry, back up to that last verse. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Romans 8. 8. They can't please God. That means God doesn't grade on a scale. If you're in the flesh, you can't please God. You've got to be born of God. So this is this is something that says, wow. God's describing the human race like perhaps you and I would describe the bottom of a weak old garbage can. to a chef at a five-star restaurant. You know, which portion of the bottom of this garbage can can I put on your clean countertop as you're making food? Mother, is there any portion of the bottom of a garbage can five weeks old that you'd allow me to put on top of your countertop? Not a chance. I can guarantee you this woman doesn't even want it anywhere near her house And in fact, why has them been sitting around for a week? It should have been taken care of a long time ago. That's how reprehensible, as a simple illustration, that the flesh is to God. It's comprehensive. And you might say, well, wait a minute That's that's a very fine upstanding looking individual. This is a nice contributing member to society. This is a nice church-going lady. This is a fine upstanding member of the community. He's been a good politician. Doesn't matter. They that are in the flesh cannot. And that's a pretty big word. It doesn't say they don't. It says they cannot. Please God. There is an utter inability for anything they do to please God. Well that's a problem. That's a very big problem, especially if life exists solely with God and apart from him there is no life That means you're directly headed down a path towards death, and your heart is so deceitful that it says, this is a great path to go down. You're I can remember um after God saved me I was racing through life, I was having lots of fun, I was going places and doing things and just having a grand old time, and every way of a man is right in his own eyes. And I thought, man, I'm really zooming, making my way through life, I'm doing great. And then after I was saved, I realized, no, I was actually falling deeper and deeper and deeper down into a pit It was actually going down deeper and deeper in a tunnel, and this pit had lots lots of nice flashing lights, lots of attractive things, but it was a pit, and it just draws you down into it deeper and deeper and farther and farther away And so all of a sudden the lights come on and go, I am radically going in the wrong direction. I better put the brakes on fast. I need to aim back up and get out of this pit as soon as possible. That's how deceived we are by nature. It continues. Ephesians 2. 3. Now we can go to these two descriptive verses in Ephesians as the apostle continues. He says, among whom also we all had our conversation, our conduct in time past, in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature That's a pretty big statement. The children of wrath, even as others. Notice that word children. The children of wrath. In the parable of the sower, when the uh The word comes and words are sown. It says the fowls of the air came and picked up the seed that was sown and carried it away. Meaning, the fowls of the air was the devil, the wicked one, the seed was the word of God, and the ground on which it fell, in this case the hard ground, was hearts. In that parable, the ground in its entirety is all a reflection of hearts in different states. Well, that ground was not limited to adults. It also speaks about infants. And it says the the devil comes down and just snatches it right out. It takes it right out. The devil has free access to the hearts of the unsaved. There's no boundary. There's no barricade there. He can freely access it. And if you're a parent and you're concerned about that, you're going to keep putting skis down on that arch. You're going to keep putting them down. You're not going to do it once. They've said something in an emotional state. They made a profession. They're great. Everything's fine. You're going to keep putting it down, you're going to keep working. You, the parent, are going to be interested in pushing and shielding, pushing them away. Ephesians 4, 17 and 19. This I they say therefore in testifying the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk. Now listen to this description here In the vanity of their mind. Vanity. According to the book of Samuel A vain thing is that which cannot deliver. In the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon speaks about vanity, vanity, all his vanities, and he speaks a lot about things we find in creation. All the waters and the rivers run into the ocean, yet the ocean's not filled. All things are full of labor, vanity of vanity, all is vanity. So it doesn't mean evil. It means it can't deliver. It's a vain thing. There's no deliverance from it. There's no salvation from it. You just keep doing something, but it doesn't give you any positive result from it. That's the sense of vanity here. They walk in the vanity of their mind. They pursue something which is of no benefit to them. Having the understanding darkened. Boy, that's pretty bad. Is there anything that's known as a useful idiot? I'm not sure there is a useful idiot out there. Being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that's in them So they don't even know what life is like. They don't understand the path of life. There is no experience or apprehension of it. The what is life. It's an alien concept, we would say. Furthermore, it says because of the blindness of their heart. Well, to have understanding darkened is pretty bad, but if your heart is totally blind, that means your emotional sense is going to totally miss it. You know, advertisers understand that we make decisions, purchasing decisions in particular, based on emotional. It's called impulse buying. And you know what? It works. It really works. People are impulse buyers. They see it, they like it, they covet it, and all of a sudden the transaction is made. It doesn't matter how much debt we get into, we're gonna go where I've gotta have it. And they know it works Because you have a blind heart. And that's just a silly example. We covet other things. We have a blind heart. Emotionally, we're unable. Intellectually, we're unable. We're darkened. It continues. Who being past feeling Have given themselves over unto lasciviousness, that means unbridled lust, to work all uncleanness with greediness You know, I look at things many a time as an engineer. And as a systems engineer, you worry about systems of things, how things all connect together and work together to produce a A capability, something that does something, a a system a weapon defense system or whatever that has all the associated parts. Um boy, and if you have one part that's not working correctly, the system might be able to operate in a degraded mode. When you have two substantial subsystems that are not working well, it may be simply time to put it into repair. three or more, you'd go, it's broke. But if that's how it comes out of the factory line to begin with, What kind of a wreckage is are all these vices going to bring? If you were to put a car on the road that doesn't have working brakes, whose accelerator pedal gets stuck, whose steering linkage isn't fully connected, whose tires are improperly inflated and incorrect, that And go on and on and on, and then a driver in there that's blind and deaf. Do you really think this person is going to make it to their destination? What kind of a wreckage do these vices bring? Frankly, I'm surprised that there isn't more catastrophe on this planet, given the state that the Bible says man is actually in. It's the restraining mercy of God that you don't see more catastrophic results in this planet. It is the uh common grace of God to restrain sin in society so that it doesn't come so far up beyond the neck that we're utterly drowned in it and come into a state like the days of Noah This is the issue of the state of man's heart. Fifth point, I have to be moving here. What is sin? Sin is lawlessness. It's lack of conformity to the law of God. It's guilt that makes us liable to punishment. It's inherent corruption. And the fifth point, sin sits in man's heart. And that influences the whole man. It influences his intellect. It influences his will. It influences his affection. It's in the heart. Scripture says, keep thine heart, for out of it are the issues of life. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of the it are the issues of life. Jeremiah, of course, a common popular verse among the Reformed camp, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked who can know it Yeah, I'll put a plug in for the King James here because other translations absolutely mangle Jeremiah 17. 9. They really soft pedal that part about desperately wicked Uh they they really backpedal that. They say it's beyond cure or uh uh you know having a bad day or something like that. I mean it it they really soft pedal it. It's it's a horrible uh uh mangling of it. And again the testimony to the fact that, yeah, I think I've got the Word of God right here. That's not particularly flattering. That's not something I would write about myself. Matthew 15, the Lord says, For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries. That's what you do in marriage. Fornication, that's what you do outside of marriage. Thefts, false witness, blasphemies. All these things defile a man, but to eat with unwashing hands doesn't defile a man. So here Jesus is getting this point. Again, physical material uncleanness is not what pollutes you This is also not an excuse, young children, to say, see mommy, I don't have to wash my hands before I go sit and eat. He's not talking about that. He's talking about moral pollution. You better wash your hands before you eat, but that's not going to morally pollute you That's not going to condemn you before God. What is interesting is that my heart is that which can produce murder. And sadly, I do understand that. To my own shame, I would be remiss not to give you an account of the stress that I had been under Year after year after year of making this very lengthy commute over the American Legion Bridge to work in Virginia, where the traffic is nightmarish Everybody knows it's a nightmare, everybody hates it, and everybody a great many people that are stuck in it are all strung out. And it's a twice-a-day sting in pain, once in the morning, another time in the afternoon. I could tell you countless stories of people having wrecks and pieces of concrete flying out into the lane in front, of a truck driver driving a 51-foot tractor trailer full of gasoline, trying to pass me on the right on the shoulder and then cut over in front of me at the last minute. You know, what could possibly go wrong there? Just countless stories of all kinds of nut jobs. And uh as road rage news of that is reported. I'm here to tell you that I understand why road rage occurs. I understand why people think it's a great idea to take a gun in their car. Praise God I never did that. Not saying I didn't desire to do so because it actually enters in your mind, I really need to take a few of these clowns out. But that is from the heart of man As if though that's a solution. Praise God, he said, and to what end would that profit you? That's the vanity of the mind. That's the flesh kicking back up. That's the old man speaking. You need to shut that nonsense up And were it not for the grace of God, I probably wouldn't be standing here telling you this stupid story. Luke says, a good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. Well, once again A binary assessment from our Lord. You've got a good heart producing good treasure, or an evil heart producing evil treasure. The only way I know anybody gets a good heart is if God the Holy Spirit dwells there That's the only way I know a man gets a good heart. And then Hebrews talks about, take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God Again, an evil heart of unbelief. This evil heart wants to be alienated from God. It wants to depart from the living God. Depart from us, for we know who you are, O Holy One of Israel. That's what the unclean spirits said to the Lord when he came. Depart. We don't want to be near you. How does this sinful nature affect affect the natural will of man? Any thoughts on how this sinful nature affects man's will? Let's talk about an unsaved individual here, Anton. Well, it would uh it would Corrupt his will, so all of his inclinations are to do you know wickedly that which is not right. Okay. Yeah. Other thoughts? He cannot choose God. He cannot choose salvation because his will is corrupt. He will only choose what is that, even to his eternal salvation Yeah, he cannot choose to do good. I put it this way. Um people will say but but uh w when when I heard the gospel I I wanted to come. I thought it was a great thing. I I I desired to come, and I would say, yea, verily you did. But the reason you did is not because you innately and inherently overcame that corrupt, dead nature. God had to choose you. He had to fix your chooser. He had to work first. Psalm 110 verse 3 says, Thy servant shall be willing in the day of thy power. You see, God came and as it were gave them life. And then they were very willing. But prior to that, our chooser is broken. We have a knob that doesn't work. It's not connected very well in the back. It's broken. You remember that list of broken systems we read in Ephesians 4? Well, one of them is your chooser. That's what an dark understanding means. That's what a blind heart means. It means that it's not on the dial. It's just um y'all don't know the old days. I remember when you know you had thirteen channels on a TV set and that was it, no remote control. You know. Dad sits there, son, go change the channel and you go down there, clunk, clunk, clunk. It was a big loud clunking well at least our TV It's probably the cheapest TV on the set uh in the market, but clunk clunk. I mean it it turned channels with authority. I mean that thing went clunk clunk. And you might get one that's broken. It couldn't quite get up to that one channel. Well that's kind of the unsaved individual It just can't clunk over to the God channel. It can't, it's broken. God has to fix that. And then all of a sudden, Jesus Christ is the best thing. You hear come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. It's like, man, that's the best thing I've heard. That sounds like where I want to go. Yes, you do. You do move. You do come. You then all of a sudden have a will because now you have life. Now your chooser is fixed. Last point here about sin as I wrap it up in the remaining time of our six points about sin. It's lawlessness. uh lack of conformity to the law of God, guilt that makes us liable to punishment, and fear of corruption, it sits in man's heart, and last sin does not consist in outward acts only. Sin does not consist in outward action only. This is what the Roman Catholics would say. Sin also includes evil thoughts, it includes affections, it includes the intents of the heart. Yeah, I wanted to kill that person, but I didn't. Doesn't matter, you're guilty. Guilty of murder. Whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause. Endanger, the judgment. That's exactly what Jesus said in Matthew 5. 22. Matthew 5. 28, whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. It's already occurred. Oh, but the deed didn't occur. It's not as bad. You haven't introduced as much wreckage. God has restrained you as he did with Abimelech, as he did with others who desired Uh Abram's wife Sarai, but there's restraint. God says, yeah, I know, but I restrained sin in your heart. I kept you from that. I kept you from it. Romans 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law it said, Thou shalt not covet. Again, that is an inward heart issue, and that's what the law of God shines and points out, and does a very good job of it. You wouldn't have known how to categorize that. You wouldn't have been able to Put that in the taxonomy. Ah, that is lust, and therefore that is wrong. It's against the law of God. Natural man's not going to come to that conclusion. But he is a sinner because it came up in his heart. And so how do the wicked mock that? Oh, so uh you're gonna be our more or our thought police? You're you're policing our thoughts, is that it? I can think whatever thought I want to. Not in God's universe, you can. I'm not the judge of your heart, because I can't read it. But in God's universe, he says every idle word that men shall speak They shall give account thereof. And we know that from the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. That overflow it will come out. Oh, I said it in secret. Doesn't matter, you weren't really in secret. God was there and he heard it Quite well. Got a recording of it. Can't erase. You can't go to Hillary's friends and find a way to erase all that record. Not gonna happen. It says in Galatians 5. 17, For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. We still have remnants and elements of that. In fact, I would submit to you that only the believer knows that he is a sinner. Only a believer truly knows he is a sinner. One proof of that is just go ask somebody in the street. Hey, are you a good person? Well, you know, I think I'm a pretty good person. You know, I'm alright. Can I ask you some questions? Have you ever told a lie? Oh well, yeah, you know, back in the past, when we started this conversation in the past. Everything's in the past. So what do you call somebody liar? A liar. Have you ever stolen anything, irrespective of no, I've never stole anything in my life. Have you ever downloaded any music for which you didn't have copyright proof? Well yeah, okay, that's that. Um and so forth. You take them through the commandments of God. And you'd say, well, by your own admission, you're a lying, thieving, blasphemous, adulterer at heart, and if God were to judge you by the Ten Commandments, would you be innocent or guilty? Well, I I think I'd be all right. I th I think he's a loving God, I think. Yeah, well the judge can be loving too, but he's got to do that which is right. Well, I've done a lot of good since then. Well, as you should, but it doesn't erase the past crime. You're a criminal, you're a convict. You might as well consider yourself in heaven on God's wanted list of top ten criminals. You need to view yourself that way. And only a child of God does. I've heard from people who are prison wardens that nobody in prison ever thinks they ought to have been there. Oh my lawyer screwed up. Oh this was bad. Oh you know, they've always got an excuse as to why they shouldn't be there And so you don't find a holy, righteous nature in people that will own up to their sin. I believe that only the child of God truly understands, knows, embraces, and owns up to the fact that they are a Bonifaity sinner. I'm only a sinner saved by grace. Some various off-the-cuff questions. So what goodness can we find in man's heart? Is there a shred of goodness in there somewhere? Is there some ounces of goodness in there? Is there a little bit of goodness in man's heart somewhere? Oh, out of the goodness of your heart could you do such and such? There's none that doeth good, no not one. Well there's an excellent answer from Scripture. From God let's get God's answer on this. There's none that doeth good, no not one. So why do we find any good in the world? For there is some measure of good in the world God restrains it? What else? What's another reason we find good in this world? From creation he did. Yeah. Does the does everything we see in creation remain in that state of goodness at this point? You know, it's not the fall. God restrains it. What did Joseph tell his brothers? You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. God's a master at turning man's evil, sinful, wicked, horrific ways. He's a master, he's so masterful at this, I continue to remain impressed, that he does it so that he can repay man's wage right back upon his head, and it turns out good for his children. It takes them a little while, takes them a while, but lo and behold, he consistently, continually does that. The only reason there's any good in this world is because God is still operating in this world. That's the only reason, scripturally speaking, I can find that. Alrighty, so when something good happens, you're not going to say, well, thank my lucky stars. You're not going to say that. You're not going to say, well. Huh? Karma. Karma, yeah, wow, good karma. You're not gonna thank karma. Uh give God the glory. Yeah, just going back to the law. I I don't know if This is this will be a lengthy discussion, but what what is the difference between the law and the conscience? What can you say is the difference there? The law of God is that strict, sharp, harsh, absolute, definitive, unchanging divine rule by which He governs the universe, by which He establishes His a righteous standard Man's conscience is that spirit of life in him that prompts him to a reaction to that law of God, prompts him to a reaction of things around him. And it can be seared with a high iron, it can be blinded and deceived, or it can be filled with God the Holy Spirit and directed and encouraged to positive ends. It's not inviolable. It can change the conscience. God's law cannot be violated, and it doesn't change. So yes. Alright, well let's wrap up there. Would you mind closing us in prayer? Thanks. Dear Heavenly Father, uh thank thee for thy word, Lord, uh thy law, which does show our exceeding sinfulness, Lord, um for but by the law uh we had not known uh our own sinful estate, Lord And uh Father, uh, we do praise thee, Lord, that uh we are not left without any solution or hope, Lord, but thou hast indeed provided all that thou hast required of us, Lord. Even uh uh even thy righteousness, Lord, which uh covers us, Lord, through through faith in Christ and Father uh We pray that we would uh accling to Him, Lord, and Father, um pray that you would uh bless and guide uh all the days of our lives, Lord, sanctify us and conform us uh evermore to the image of Christ. Christ, in Jesus Christ's name we pray, you know.