All right, well good morning everyone. We're going to get started in our topic today of a new chapter of Burkhoff's doctrine of Summary of Christian doctrine. The topic today is the origin of sin. The whole title of the that chapter of the book is Man in the State of Sin. We looked at how God formed man. We looked at how God brings man. into existence and his righteousness and of course the fact that he is a federal head. He's a representative of the whole human race. Now we get into this question of where we are today. Enough of studying the past, where are we at today? And when we think about where we're at today, we certainly look around us and see that it's not a very happy situation. What is this business of the origin of sin? Mr. Burkhoff has a statement in his seminal work, Systematic Theology, which I found helpful. He writes this: the problem of the origin of evil in the world has always been considered one of the profoundest problems of philosophy and theology. Philosophers were constrained to face the problem and seek an answer and the question is the origin of evil, particularly moral evil In the world, meaning the material world. To some, it seemed so much a part of life itself that they sought the solution for it in the natural constitution of things. It just is that way. they would say. Others were convinced it had a voluntary origin in the free choice of man, either in the present or in some prior existence. Imagine trying to find a one-size-fits-all answer to this business of the question of the origin of sin, the origin of evil. If you only believe in the material naturalistic world You would have to say matter is evil, that it can confer negative moral properties to humans, likewise to animals, in an evil form. If your uh have a false idea of uh religion, you would say, well man is basically good and he just chooses to do bad. But then you're really stuck with trying to answer and understand how is it that there is such a propensity in the human race, even from the earliest of age, towards sinful behaviors. No mother I know has ever taught their child You know, when you say that to me, I want you to not tell the truth. I want you to lie, okay? No mother has ever taught their child to do that, and so experience indicates a propensity towards evil. But then how do we reconcile that with the God of the Bible? How do we answer that? So let's talk about that stuff. That's what today's topic is A little bit of history here. What have our church fathers thought about this? Where have they come from in their position The early church fathers really had no definite position on this. Can anybody imagine, venture a guess as to why they might not have come up with a reason as to why they didn't have a doctrine established or written to cover this topic? What was the church worried about for the first three hundred years? Surviving from persecution. Surviving from persecution, yeah, they were just running from place to place trying to keep the canon intact, of course God preserving them, but they were largely concerned with one particular doctrine. What was that? The deity of Christ. Just who is this person called Jesus Christ that showed up, evidently was from God, evidently did miracles He easily passed the bar of being a prophet, but he raised himself from the dead, and he claimed to be the Son of God. Clearly he is everything he declared himself to be. We've never seen anybody do a resurrection of the self of their own body before, not henceforth, nor since then. So who is this person? So there was a big wrestling in the church as to the nature of the Son of God. That's why they weren't really paying attention to other doctrines. They were really focused on that, trying to come to a correct doctrinal position on it. Irenaeus, who was a disciple of Polycarp, pushed the idea of a voluntary transgression and a fall of Adam in paradise, and he was opposing the Gnostics who regarded all matter as evil, meaning when matter touched a soul, it rendered it evil. This was what Irenaeus was pushing against. Origen in North Africa held the Platonic view, of course he was influenced by Plato, that men's souls sinned voluntarily in some prior existence, and so they entered into the world sinfully. It really wasn't widely accepted, but somehow this idea got revived in the 18th and the 19th centuries. Obviously that would make God the altar of sin, and of course that didn't meet much favor with the church. The Greek church fathers in the third and fourth century somewhat disconnected the, or they discounted the connection between the sin of Adam and those of his descendants We looked at that last week, how Adam was a federal head by one man's sin entered into the world and death by sin. And so that's a passage that would destroy that idea, but somehow there was some emphasis to try to discount that The Latin church fathers, and this would be the old Latin, back when they were faithful, taught with ever increasing clarity that man's present sinful condition is explained by Adam's transgression. Uh it was Adam that introduced this problem. You can blame it on him. Now we can't go too far with that because as Brother Bernie used to tell me if you if he said if Jan and I were his wife's name was Jan, Jan and I were in the garden, we'd have done exactly the same thing. That's uh it doesn't matter who would have been in there. Uh he was convinced that uh there wouldn't have been a change in that. The Eastern Church have the doctrine of Pelagianism, which is modified today in Arminianism. Pelagianism denies any connection between Adam, Sin, and our state. Because man's basically good. There's still a spark of light in him that can reach out and accept Jesus and and and become their own savior. Now, that didn't meet much favor. It didn't last too long because the doctrine of total depravity would sort of tank that. And so you have semi-pelagianism which admits there's a connection to Adam, but we're not guilty. We're just polluted. Don't toss the baby out with the bathwater, right? He's he's he's just He's not dead in sins and trespasses, as Ephesians says. Arminians would share this view as well. Of course, today they even vary again still on that. The Western Church culminated in Augustine's position, which stressed the fact that man is guilty and polluted in Adam. And the Reformed camp shares that. You and I share that. view as well. In Adam, we die because we're guilty, we're polluted, we just, all those problems just rain right back down upon our head. Well, what do the rationalists of the 18th century, which was the philosophical underpinnings of evolution, how does how do they view that? How do those outside of the church camp view and answer the question of the origin of evil or sin. They wouldn't call it sin, right, because that implies a violation against the holy law and therefore implies a God. And they don't want to have anything to do with that. They give that to Heisman They would discard the doctrine of the fall of man completely, and the idea of sin was replaced with evil, which Kant, Immanuel Kant, said belonged to the super-sensible sphere. And I'm like, huh? What does that mean? Uh so they would concoct these high powered three cylinder, twelve cylinder words to, you know, confuse the masses. No, he doesn't believe there is a God. He's looking for a solution outside of any notion of God. He's only looking for the material world. But he concocts this miraculous idea of something called the supersensible sphere, which makes no sense. He understands there's a consciousness in man, so he describes it to that. Others would say that evil is a necessary limitation of the universe. You've got to have it there for natural selection to come forward. It would be man's sensuous nature, human ignorance, or an evolutionary stepping stone. So well this is the review of the Hall of Shame, all the bad ideas, all the bankrupt ideas, and I'm not going to take you any further down those. And if you have more questions about them, just squelch the questions, don't even bother with it. Let's just think what the scriptures has to say. about this. Alright, so Scripture. What does the Bible say about the origin of sin? Well let's start off Just right out the gate by planting a hedge. You know, plant a hedge. The hedge is this, is that God is not the author of sin We have to address this first. God absolutely positively is not the author of sin. Good morning. This is simply not possible And there's four reasons why this is absolutely not possible. The first one is this, that God is holy. Of all the characteristics we find of God, this is the chief characteristic that is mentioned three times The fact of the matter is, the angels round about the throne of God in heaven cease not to continue to say, holy, holy, holy. This is their job. God's pleased with it. And they continue to echo that refrain. Our God is holy. Job 34. 10 in your handout says this. Therefore, hearken unto me, ye men of understanding. Far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should commit iniquity. Far be it from God. This is a distant thing. Uh holiness is moral purity, moral cleanliness. We have some here in the audience who understand the concept of cleanliness and it's Value and the idea of cleanliness is that dirt and dust and all that sort of stuff is to be far away from the apartment. It is to be far removed, and so it is with our God Isaiah 6 verse 3 I alluded to was the angels around about his throne. They cry, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The second major point about the Lord our God is that he is not, there is no unrighteousness in him There is no unrighteousness in him. And look at this in Deuteronomy 32, where Moses writes, He is the rock, speaking of God. His work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity. Just and right is he. He is just, he's right, he's without iniquity. That's pretty clear. to indicate that he is upright. Psalm 9215 says this, that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in it. There is not one ounce of anything in which we can point to the Lord to say, well, that is not right according to your standard of right. There's no inconsistency and there's no unrighteousness. Alright, let's look at the third point. So God is holy, number one. Number two, there's no unrighteousness in him. And number three, he tempts no one. We know Adam and Eve fell because Eve was tempted, and she turned to her husband with her, gave him the fruit, and he did eat. So there was temptation involved in this business known as the fall. James makes it very clear, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. And I would point you to that phrase beginning with 4, for God cannot be tempted with evil, to help us to understand this business of temptation. We do find in the Bible that it renders and it translates that word tempt, for it says in Genesis, God did tempt Abraham. So then you would say, well, is James, is there a contradiction here? No, there's not. Just as our human words have nuances and shades of meaning, and we reuse that same word in different contexts, and we see no contradiction in our language, so it is in the Greek and the Hebrew in here. When it says God cannot be tempted with evil, what do you think that means? God cannot be tempted with evil. In what way can he not be tempted with evil? Just throwing this out there, I don't even understand how God could be tempted with evil. Yeah, it's hard for us to wrap our head around how could God even be tempted. Well let's throw the devil in there for a moment. Is there a way that the devil could tempt the Lord? Again, I'm just trying to Okay, you say not successfully. Alright, so yes, he was driven to the spirit in the wilderness in Matthew four and Luke four to be Tested, tried, tempted of the devil. Yep. So we know scriptures indicate he was. But does that violate what James says? For God cannot be tempted with evil? Certainly Satan is the embodiment of evil You can't succumb to it. In other words, there's not a fancy or a flight of thought that would ever even consider the option. of a wrong direction. It's just not possible. Totally beyond his character. That would be like waving a salad in front of a lion and a hunk of bloody flesh. Which one do you think the lion's going to go after? I guarantee you he's not going to go after a salad, even if Victoria makes it. The lion is not even if Kabule was made. The lion is not going to go get it, right? It's totally outside of his nature. It's just not going to be there. So this is the sense we talk about tempting with evil, meaning to be thoroughly tempted, down to the core of the soul, so that it's actually tugging at something innate in you that would be predisposed to want that anyway. Uh I may tempt some people to eat more food than they care to eat, uh, because there's a little something inside, maybe it's under restraint, to not want to have a little extra food, but I just wave this warmed-up piece of pumpkin pie. Oh, comfort your heart with a morsel of pumpkin pie. Don't let this holiday diet business stop you at this time. That would be a temptation because you know that inside of you you really want this. And so I'm trying to draw that out. God doesn't have that. There's no hidden private desire to do something wrong. There's no unrighteousness in him And likewise he tempts no one, meaning he is not trying to draw or pull or tug at some unrighteous element in you and draw that out. When trials come, when tests come, it is an opportunity to demonstrate and showcase your faith. Because faith that is not tried is not true faith. Like the devil says, sure Job trusts you. Sure he worships you. Sure he obeys you. You put a hedge about him. You've given him everything. Look at his family. Everything's great. But you touch him. You touch him. He'll curse you to your face. I bet that's what's going to happen. God says, let it be. Let's spare his life. Did God try Job? Sure he did. It was a difficult trial. But was God doing it to drag Job down? No, he wasn't. That wasn't his purpose. And so that's how we're to understand that business of temptation The fourth point, God is holy. Number one, there's no unrighteousness in him. Number two, number three, he tempts no one. And number four, he positively hates sin. He positively hates sin. There's absolutely no No affection there whatsoever. He positively hates it. Deuteronomy 25, 16, For all that do such things and all that do unrighteously are an abomination unto the Lord thy God. He calls it an abomination. Psalm 5. 4, thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with me. God doesn't Get a kick out of having a night out with the boys? And I'm not saying every time the boys go out, it's a nine to spend. But you know what I'm saying in the secular sense. God does no pleasure in that. That's that would be like saying, gee, let's go for a dip in the septic tank. It's like, ugh, no, absolutely not. It's the farthest thing from my mind. It's the last thing on my list. In fact I don't have a list that includes that. Psalm 11, verse 5, The Lord trieth the righteous, but the wicked and him that loveth violence, his soul hateth. God hates. Do you know that the God of the Bible hates certain things? God actually hates certain things. One of the things he hates is the soul that loves violence. That's whom God hates. Zechariah 8. 17, let none of you imagine evil in your hearts against his neighbor and love no false oath, for all these are things that I hate, saith the Lord. There's a whole list of things. the book of the Proverbs, six things the Lord does not like, ye seven, or things the Lord hates, yeah, seven. And he goes to list all these things, lying lips, uh, evil tongue, and so forth. Feet that are swift to shed innocent blood. Luke 16, 15 in the New Testament, the Lord Jesus said, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. But God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. And we live in a world that is upside down. You can certainly see it more than ever now. It's pretty clear these days how just how upside down man's opinion and assessment of things truly is And Jesus says that which is highly esteemed is an abomination. So, God, I think this anchors our point that God's not the author. Sin. But that still hasn't answered the question. So from whence cometh sin? What is the origin of sin? And we're dealing with this topic of man in this state of sin. How did he get into this pile of mess to begin with? Well Burkhoff, I agree with here. It's helpful to start with sin in the angelic world, to address that, to look at that. because the angelic hosts were also created. They're not eternal beings like God is. They were created at some point in time. We don't have a detailed record of that in the book of Genesis, but the Psalms does speak of their creation and it appears to be concurrent at the time with the stars, the fourth day. So we'll go with that. And of course at the end of this act of creation, God pronounces all of his creation, to include angels, very good. They were righteous. They were upright. There wasn't little hidden seeds of, you know, rebellion planted in them. The rocks would do what the rocks are supposed to do, and the trees would do what the trees are supposed to do, and the fish Do what they do, swim upstream if that's what they're supposed to do, or wade in pools, or what you know, whatever they were designed to do, all the way up to man, his crowning work, made in his image. Enlightened with the very breath of God. All very good, says. But a fall occurred, and it appeared to start with a legion of angels that fell away from God, the exact time of which is unknown to us. When did Eve eat that forbidden fruit? Wasn't an apple. When did she eat it? We don't know exactly. It appears to be fairly soon. And sometime between then and creation, there was a fall in the angelic world. We kind of deduce that from scriptures. For instance, we read in Revelation 12, 9, the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world, he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Oftentimes, Revelation takes surveys. It's like a searchlight that scopes and looks from heaven's perspective across the panoply of human events and history and time. In fact, there's one passage which covers the entire ministry of Jesus Christ in one verse, where the Lord Jesus is the child born of the woman and the great dragon there to devour him, and he was caught up to God and placed on God's throne to rule the nations with a rod of iron. From his birth to his ascension, covered in one verse from heaven's perspective, as this view, this timeless view from eternity gives insight in the book of Revelation. Here we have a little curious insight into the casting out of the devil and some angels with him. Furthermore, in the New Testament, we get a little bit more insight as we pick and pull at the different passages that give some indication as to what happened in the angelic world. Jesus says the devil was a murderer, quote, from the beginning in John 8. 44. And in 1 John the apostle says that he sins, the evil one sins from the beginning. So shortly after his creation, it appears that the devil fell. Very little is said about this sin that caused his fall, but we can deduce that it was pride. The Apostle Paul warns Timothy to not appoint a novice as a bishop, quote, lest being puffed up he fall into the condemnation of the devil. So there's always a close association between pride and the devil. Satan apparently aspired to be like God in his power and authority, and we find this idea in Jude and in Isaiah. So you'll look at your handout at Jude 1 In verse 6, excuse me, we read, the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains. Notice they kept not their first estate. the the position they had given to them by God. They were powerful. They were holy. They would have been around the throne of God, doing what they were doing, singing praises to his name And they didn't keep it. They didn't guard it. They weren't content to remain there. And they left it. And so God has reserved them in everlasting chains. We see, I think, the most amount of input in Isaiah 14, and there's a corollary passage in Ezekiel as well, and we read this in Isaiah 14, 12 to 15. How thou art fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning. How art thou cut down to the ground which didst weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thine heart, now notice this language here, see if you can pick out a common phrase, all right? I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation and the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the cloud. I will be like the Most High. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the pit. What's the common phrase you find there? I will. Yeah, the middle word in the you know the middle word that's found in the middle of the word sin is I, when there's uh undue focus and and over-emphasizing focus on I. You begin to worship your own holy trinity, I, me, and myself, and that's when we get into problems. And it seems that the devil led in that Perhaps some angels weren't satisfied with the government and the power that was entrusted to them. They do appear to have a hierarchy. There's an archangel, a chief angel. I don't think there's any debate about Gabriel being an archangel And if the desire to be like God was Satan's peculiar temptation, this might also explain why Satan tempted man on this particular point. Because if he was drawn down in a way with that sin, why not him use that same tool on Eve? And it appeared to have worked Well, let's turn to now our record of the fall, and I have some questions for you after this. So let's turn now to Genesis chapter 3. If you have your Bible you want to follow along in that. Uh if actually I think I printed it on uh the handout, maybe it's on the the back page or or front page. You'll find it there in red, Genesis three in the first thirteen verses. Um Hmm? Oh, it's in blue? Okay. Genesis 3, the first 13 verses. We read this. Sad account, saddest chapter in the Bible, but very insightful. Now The serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? The woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die. For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her. And he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened. And they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. The Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid. What a sad statement. Men still hear the voice of God and they're afraid. Afraid. No change. Because I was naked, and I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. Then the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. Only the scripture gives us the true account of what had happened so many years ago, and it answers so many of the issues that we face today. And we still see echoes and reflections of that character of our first fathers being brought, our father and mother brought forth. Well, let's look at verse 1 for the moment, and I have a question as you take a gander back at verse 1. What's the first thing that strikes you as unusual? What's unusual in verse one? Uh Victoria? Yeah, what's with this talking snake? We sort of haven't seen that before. Snakes don't talk today. They haven't talked. They don't chime. They don't shortle. They don't have mating calls. They they're pretty much silent creatures. There's a hiss, I suppose, but It's hard to stretch a hiss and do a sentence. I'm not sure I've seen many lisping, stammering, hissing people sing before or make a sentence. It just doesn't work. What's with this Snake. And let me ask the second question. How did the serpent and Eve mangle God's commandment? You know what God commanded. How did they mess up the commandment of God in their own declaration? I was wondering whether uh Eve knew about it. All right, yeah, so how did Eve know about it? Right, that's a good question. Now why do you ask that question? Well what sh maybe she did not know about it. Yeah, yeah, which it was her husband, so it said. But when she offered to Adam, he didn't ask from which tree you got this. Yeah, Adam So let's go back to how uh uh how the serpent and Eve mangled God's commandments. So he said, well, uh Eve didn't know. So you're correct in that Eve was not present. When God gave the commandment to not eat of the fruit of every tree. Eve was created afterwards. So she was not present there. So how would she have known? Her husband would have to tell her. Honey, what else are they going to talk about at the dinner table, right? You know, they're not going to figure out what politics are in the Middle East. There was no Middle East. And there's nobody over there. There's nothing to worry about. There's no such thing as a bomb They got wonderful trees. Life is great. Right? And surely, it's not a stretch. Surely this conversation came up. She knew something about it. But how did she mangle the commandment? What did she apparently not get right? Yeah, she added, and we cannot touch the tree. God didn't say you can't touch it. He just said don't eat from it. So Adam, perhaps, in a degree of safety, explaining to this new wonderful precious thing he found called a woman that the Lord gave him, said, We're not supposed to eat of that tree. In fact, I don't even want you to touch it. You just don't even touch it, alright? Maybe that's something he told her, maybe that's something she put in her mind. Oh, that's bad, so I'm going to step even a little further back. Don't want to touch it. God didn't technically say you can't touch it. But let's focus on the devil. How did he mangle God's commandments? Because I think that's a little more grievous. Well, he cast doubt on God's commandments. So we started off by casting doubt. Yea, half God sin. Why would that have been a temptation to her? Because he's saying some truth. Because you didn't hear directly from God, but from She did not she wasn't present when that commandment came forward. Adam was. And so he's now causing her to question not only God, but he's also causing her to question her husband. Maybe he didn't tell me. You know, he was there, I guess. Right? Because the animals were around when she shows up, so as far as she's concerned, they predate her. Yeah, very interesting. How else does the devil mangle God's commandment? Hint, verse four That you will not die. You're not gonna die. Calm down. You can eat from this tree, not a problem. You're not gonna die So the devil immediately attacks the doctrine of the preserved pure word of God. God had preserved that word through Adam to her. It was preserved. It was correct. What Adam told her was accurate. He was her ordained head as her husband, given to her by God. It was from authoritative channels and authoritative source. They walked with God in the garden. And they could have discussed it directly with the Lord, frankly. They could have gone over that a few times with him So it's not like she was entirely dependent on her husband. At this point, they were still able to walk with the Lord in the cool of the of the day in the garden. They had fellowship with God. He wasn't distant like he is to you and I now. They still have him face to face. They walk with the Son of God Hath God said, so the devil attacks the canon, the word of God, and he also attacks the doctrine of hell. You're not going to die. By fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. By fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It all starts with the fear of the Lord. You gut the fear of the Lord. You gut, thus saith the Lord. And those are two big pillars on which a lot stands. And you knock those out, and what happened? The building came crumbling and collapsing down. I was gonna say it's interesting too because Eve wouldn't have seen death yet. So she would have had to take it on faith. And so just like you said same thing with hell. We haven't seen it yet, that everlasting you know pit of fire. And yet this is something that the believer takes That's a very good point. She would have had to have believed death by faith. She didn't come across dead birds in the forest, dead animals. They all lived. There was no such thing as death. She had never seen such a thing as death that before and she had no idea just how bad death could get and how ugly it was. God shielded them from that. Right? It was a good thing when God says don't touch that, it's like don't get interested in that, because that's really bad. That doesn't have any good outcome. to it. Excellent point. Uh was uh what should Eve have done? I know it's a hypothetical. Here's a snake talking to her. What should she have done? Any thoughts? Walk away, that's not a bad idea. Right. Go talk to the husband. Hey, you taught a snake how to talk recently? I had this really strange encounter with this serpent. Alright, that would have been a good step I find this passage in 2 John 1 and verse 10 and 11. I'll read it to you. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house. Neither bid him God's speed, for he that biddeth him God's speed is partaker of his evil deeds. I give that passage to the Jehovah Witnesses when they knock on my door. I say, Do you have a Bible? They say, Yes. So can we come in? I don't even want to talk it's like I said, tell you what I want you to do. If you have your Bible, open up 2 John. I want you to read verses 9, 10, and 11, which says, Whoever does not abide in the doctrine of Christ does not abide in the doctrine And I let them stand there on my front step and they read that verse and when it reads that they don't have the doctrine of God and they don't know God, as soon as they closed finished verse eleven, I shut the door. further. She should have shut off the conversation right away. We have nothing to talk about. There's nothing further to talk about here. You've made it very painfully evident and obvious you don't believe God, you don't trust his word, you don't know who he is. And I know not from whence you are. You're a stranger. I'm not going to follow you or your voice. She should have cut it off right at the pass. But that temptation was there. And apparently it was effective. Was the sin voluntary? Was Eve's sin voluntary? Yes. Yeah, absolutely. She, uh, we would say, Adam and Eve indeed had freedom of choice. And by the way, they were disposed and inclined towards holy end. Adam's sin is not, the manner in which Adam sinned is not the manner in which you and I sin, because we are naturally disposed towards sinful choices. Adam was not. He was naturally inclined towards good choices. So for he and Eve to totally go contrary to that was truly a big deal. It was voluntary. You don't see, and the Lord God forced the fruit into Eve's mouth and gave it a big shove. You don't read that, right? That's not there. It's not Flip Wilson, the devil made me do it, right? She the devil tempted her. You just talk with her. And notice the devil's technique. His tongue. He just talks. Let's just have a little talk You ladies, when you go to work in the workplace, you're having troubles at home, it gets kind of tough and difficult. You do not want to open up and share with some man there about your troubles at home Oh, you're looking a little down today. What's up? Oh, my husband, he's just driving me crazy. It's just horrible. Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. Oh, tell me about it. Oh, that mean old husband in law. I wouldn't do anything like that to you. Oh yeah, and the same thing with husbands. It works both ways. It works both ways. But that power of the tongue is very effective. The first doctrine of God that was ever denied was the doctrine of Scripture. And that attack is still there. We're not unfamiliar with the devil's ways. As soon as the the biggest attack continues to be on the Bible, and he's wrought a pretty effective victory in that he has filled the world with many counterfeit Bibles that are now in a position where people accept the fact that, oh, let's go get this latest edition of the Bible because they've got a few more corrections in it. It's even closer to the original. We're not there yet, but it's got a few more corrections. Isn't that great? Great. No. When did your Bible get broke? There's no errors in mine. Sorry about yours. When did that become a problem? Well, right here If you're following the path of the devil, he's got a whole pile, ever learning, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. They continue to wander and they continue to question. Verse 6, how did Adam blow in? Yes, he took an eight, but how did he blow it? More is there in terms of what he didn't do than in terms of what he did do. So how did Adam blow it? He didn't tell Andy Warder Uh hey stop her hands going out Hey hey stop because it says With her. He did eat and gave also unto her. She did eat and gave also unto her husband with her. Homer Simpson is standing right there. Right? There's no advocating the show, but you understand what I mean. He doesn't warn her. He doesn't defend her. He doesn't intercede, so he blows his role as prophet, and he doesn't declare the word of God unto her. No hun, I heard it directly from God, thou shalt not eat of the tree of the knowledge of goodness He doesn't intercede as her king to defend her. Uh don't do anything, hun. I'm reaching for a stick. I'm gonna beat this thing to death. I got because I'm to guard, to keep and to pret and to ser to till the garden. I gotta be on guard. God told him to keep to what did he tell him? He put him in the midst of the garden? Uh he was told to uh to guard it. How come I can't find that? Uh thank you. He put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it, to serve it, and to keep it, to preserve it. He was to serve and preserve. He was to guard it, protect it. So that snake should have been beaten silly. Get out of here. He blows his role as prophet, he blows his role as king, he blows his role as priest and intercessor, to intercede, to come in with the law of God, with the word of God. God. All three roles he blows. Our Lord Jesus Christ succeeded as prophet, as priest, as king. That threefold role that Christ had, Adam failed miserably in. He essentially does nothing. And I think that's a sinful weakness we find in husbands and men to this day They sit back and do nothing in their godly responsibilities. They don't take active leadership in the home to stand up and lead. Yeah, I know I fail in this a lot of times. Hey, time for Bible reading. I mean somebody's got to spark plug this thing. Somebody's got to say, we've got to do this. We've got to to to direct and to pull the family in towards godly activities and things. By nature, that's not something we want to do. We have to do that, men. So now we look at the ramifications. of Adam and Eve's sin, and I find five points there, and I'll try to get through these quickly as not to eat up too much of her time into worship. The ramifications of Adam and Eve's sin. The first is the total depravity of human nature. The total depravity. Total depravity doesn't mean man is as bad as he could be because there's always room for debasement. It means that his total and entire character in nature is inclined and dispositioned and leans towards evil desires insomuch that the apostle can declare that we are dead in sins and trespass. Genesis 6. 5, God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. I'm here to change tell you that hasn't changed much. Insofar as God defines and determines what evil is, as he looks in the heart of man, he sees such great darkness that this is his assessment. It's only evil continually. Psalm 14, 3. This is the view of God from heaven looking down all of eternity. The Lord looks down from heaven upon the sons of men. To see if there were any that did understand, any that did seek God. Verse three, they're all gone aside, they're all together become filthy, there's none that doeth good. And just to make sure we don't miss what he means by none, he says, No, not one No, not Mother Teresa. No, not Mary. No, not your favorite righteous individual, some upright politician, as if no one existed, some great world leader, some wonderful philosopher. No, not one. From God's perspective, he looks across the human race. He doesn't see a few hands raised voting for Jesus. He looks upon the human race and says, Not a That's an empty shelf. We're not getting anything there. Yet some men do come to Christ. Why? God the Holy Spirit moves them. God has to work first. God's got to come. God's got to revitalize. God's got to regenerate. God looks out over a graveyard. And yes, he sees resurrections occur because he's the one giving life. But prior to that action, no life. Dark, quiet, and dead. My great neighborhood. No noise. No noise here. Romans 7. 18, the apostle says, For I know that in me that is in my flesh, meaning the mind of the flesh. Dwelleth no good thing, for to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. This is our natural state, and we certainly can testify to that if we have a moment of honesty as we inspect ourselves in the mirror of the Word of God. Second ramification. First total depravity. Second ramification. The loss of communion with God. This is a tough one. Loss of communion with God Man lost the image of God in the sense of losing original righteousness. We're in a shattered image of God. There are still elements that we reflect in various qualities of His that can be shared. But Ephesians says, you has he quickened, hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. Ephesians 2. 5, even when we were dead in sins, he's quickened us together. In the Hebrew, it literally means in Genesis, when God gave Adam the command, in the day you eat thereof you shall surely die. The sense of that phrase is, in dying you shall die. Because indeed, the day that Adam ate, his carcass didn't hit the ground. In fact, he lived for another 930 years. So what does God mean? In dying, you shall die. Immediately the sentence of death and the guilt of sin was pronounced upon him, and his life began a downward trend, a downward slope, until finally we read that he died. He was buried. In dying you shall die. And that's exactly what happens. In dying, you shall die. None of us really know the day of our termination. It shocks me at times when I hear of the death of a young person, 17, 30, 50, even seems young to me now. You just go, wow, that was so so soon. Why? Why why not? No man appoints the day of his death. You can't say, well, I'm going to live today and tomorrow I die. There's no discharge from that report. We read in Ephesians 4. 18 about this loss of communion with God, that we have our understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that's in them because of the blindness of their heart. Wow. Listen to those adjectives. Dark understanding, alienated from life, ignorant and blind. No way to go through life. Ignorant, alienated, blind, and dark. It's like roping. One time our family took a family vacation to uh Carlsbad Caverns in Southwest Texas It's in the part of the mountain range that is part of the Rocky Mountains. The Rocky Mountains actually terminate in Texas around the El Paso area. El Paso's on the western part. of that chain and the carsbed caverns are spectacular. I mean it's a huge cave. Every night some umpty squat million uh Mexican uh free-tailed bats come swarming out. Let's say they discovered it, because somebody said, look, there's a fire off in the distance. It wasn't a fire, it was a bunch of bats coming out in the evening flying around as they go about and now with radar they track it and these bats go around and they're looking for these big clouds of insects and they go and devour, you know, three times to five times their body weight in mosquitoes, you know, and so they're wonderful creatures. I really like them Don't kill bats, they're good. It's okay. Don't panic. They eat don't make soup out of them. Don't make soup out of them, right? Don't do that. Where was I going? So we get to this cave and they take us inside and we go deep into the cave and they say, okay, now stand close, children, stand close to your parents, and mothers hang on to your kids, whatever. We're going to turn the lights off And I'll never forget that experience when they cut the lights. It was literally darkness that could be felt. I mean I had my hand right in front of my face looking for anything. Nothing. Can't see anything, not a glimmer, not no cell phones at that time This would have been back in the uh uh probably the uh 70s. Darkness. People you walk around out there are full of darkness. They they hide. They hide behind anything they happen to have found, no matter how nonsensical it is. They'll hide They've lost communion with God. I have to finish quickly here. Third point, they have a conscious awareness of his sin Adam was conscious of his pollution. Verse chapter Genesis 3. 7. The eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. Why is it when the criminal is caught by a police officer he gives an excuse? He's got to give some kind of excuse. He's got to soak some kind of fig leaf as to why he did it. I was having a bad day. Why'd you kill everybody in the house is having a bad day? He's got to give some lame answer. He's conscious of it There was a consciousness of guilt, he said in verse 10, I was afraid because I was naked. I hid myself. So he expressed it in fear of God and an accusing conscience. The man said, The woman whom thou gavest to me with me, she gave me the tree of life This is how men declare their guilt, their sin. They're afraid, they hide, they're fearful, and they accuse Immediately the accusation goes out there. That's right there in Genesis 3. Fourth point, there's not only spiritual, but also physical death God told Adam, and the sweat of thy face shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken. For thus thou art unto dust ye shall return. And fifth, a necessary change of residence. And Pastor Joe covered this in the message recently about A necessary change of residence. Man was driven from paradise, never to return. We don't know where that Garden of Eden is, because there's been a flood since then, and it's reshaped the face of the earth Never to return. We cannot really go home. But praise God, He's going to build us a new home. He's going to give us a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness, and man can sin no more. There will be no tree of the knowledge of good and evil. There's no testing program in the new heaven and the new earth. There's no chance for us to fail and to repeat this cycle endlessly. It will be a place of everlasting. Joy. So this is the state of man in sin, and of course we'll continue on next week and talk about the essential nature of sin and look at other aspects of that. Ivan, could you close us in prayer? Sure. Thanks. Dear Heavenly Father, uh Lord, uh we know that in our natural estate, Lord, uh we uh we stand at enmity uh against Lord, we know that the old man uh has committed many gross iniquities and transgressions against thy law. But Father, uh how we do praise thee, Lord, that thou Uh clotest thy people with uh with uh thy righteousness. We have the righteousness of Christ, which has fulfilled the law on our behalf and uh Lord uh Grants us good standing in thy sight. Oh Lord, um how we do uh praise thee for the abilities To commune and fellowship with thee, Lord, and Father, uh how we do look forward to uh that the eternal state of of glory. With the Father and with the Son, our Lord. We do praise thee, and we ask thy continual guidance in Jesus' name. Amen.