Well good morning, everyone. Good morning. Um we are continuing our study of creation. And last week we kind of gave a general introduction to the uh the days of creation, what they were, literal six twenty-four hour days. And you may wonder, you know, why am I going to spend yet another study on this topic of the days of creation? So I had recently received a Article from a ministry that I personally support. I think they're excellent. It's Creation Ministries International. They have some brilliant scientists on the staff. One of them is Dr. Jonathan Sarpetty. You can go to creation. com and look at all their information. Here's the pictures of the individuals. And this recent one happened to be so timely as it relates to this. You may say, well, what does it really matter? Why do we care about the six days? There's an atheist, his name is Richard Bozarth. He pointed out in a debate, the whole justification of Jesus' life and death is predicated on the existence of Adam and the fruit he and Eve ate. Without original sin, who needs to be redeemed? Without Adam's fall into a life of constant sin, terminated by death, what purpose is there to Christianity? If Jesus was not the Redeemer who died for our sins, and this is what evolution means, then Christianity is nothing. And so that is his point. He rightly points out what the consequences are if there's no literal Adam and Eve. And of course, why would we say there's no literal Adam and Eve? Because they would say it's crazy to think that there's six days. Well, it's one thing if people outside the Christian camp are chucking stones. That's nothing new. They've been doing that for ages. It's another thing when people who claim to be inside the Christian camp embrace those views The former president of an outfit in the Northwest of America, Daryl Falk, of the company known as Bio Logos, wrote this. The option that Adam and Eve are actual historical people is the standard argument put forward by those who believe in a young earth created by God In six 24-hour days less than 10,000 years ago. That would be us. That would be me. Bio-Logos. the organization exists in no small part to marginalize this view from the church. Their stated mission. They get up, go to work, sit at their desk. Their goal is to marginalize this view. A fundamental part of our mission is to show that that option is not tenable. So unfortunately, there's adversaries without as well as adversaries within. And the thought process was, well, if we just bring them over to quote-unquote good science, which is predicated on far more faith than I have. Faith in something never actually seen, we've never actually seen something go from the goo to the zoo to you. We've never witnessed I've never witnessed a beautiful brand new Ford ooze up from the concrete out of the parking lot, never seen that happen. These individuals believe that if we just bring people back to science, they will have a more sure foundation in scriptures, but in fact the opposite is happening. It's driving out a great many people from the church to include church youth, to include people who have been raised in a church, taught these things. They've never been taught strong arguments for the six literal days of creation. And they've never been taught how the scientific models actually highly support that. And I've got a lot of resources. You can go to holdingfast. net. There's a bunch of things there. You can look up. Creation. com, very searchable insight. Institute for creation research, ICR. org, another good organization. They have excellent work. And so I put a plug in for them. Well Let's turn in our Bibles to the opening chapter of Genesis. I'm going to walk through the six days and discuss what was made pros and cons of what different people how different people might view those days and address them. And then we have a question from last week which I'll uh uh get to. First day is in the first five verses, where it says, In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth, and the earth was without form and void, and darkness is upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said, Let there be light, and there was light. Amazing. In the Hebrew it's one word. God simply said, Light, like a movie theater. Lights, camera, action. He just said, Light, and there was light. This principle, this phenomena, which we still struggle to truly understand. Is it photons? Is it particles? Is it waves? Actually both We still struggle to understand it. You say just put it under a microscope. Well, you're using light to understand light. That doesn't work. You need something smaller and more observable. And it's not. It's a fundamental part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Five things that were created. Did you catch that? Earth, heavens, waters, light, and darkness. God takes full credit for creating darkness. Isn't that interesting? He says so in Isaiah 45. 7, I create darkness. I find that very interesting. And what is darkness? It's an absence of light. You don't terminate darkness. You have to quench a light source in order to have darkness. Say, well, maybe there was darkness there before. Not really. It really wasn't. It's a created thing of God. And he did so through separation. He separates, he says, let there be light. He divided the light from the darkness. It was a division. God used division to increase to add up the creation. God does things very differently than you and I would do. There's also a lot of contention or a source of ridicule I should say between the light of day one versus the light of day four, that day four just Your hint is in verse 16 where God made two greater lights, the sun and the moon. And they say, well, where is this first light? How could that be? And science, however, has demonstrated that light does not find its sole source from the sun. It's an emanation of waves and or particles that are produced by energetic electrons. That's where light comes from. And so whatever that source, perhaps God choosing to allow a measure of himself, because he's infinite in power, strength, and energy, to Energize these electrons so that light would shine. There you have it. And this alteration of light and darkness. Light and darkness. That's exactly what you would see on a spinning ball. God made a spinning ball, the earth. Here it is, spinning. Then you have evening and morning. God's clock for the day starts in the evening. And moves to morning and back to evening again. That's God's cycle. It starts in darkness, it progresses and moves on towards light. And in our Roman culture, we've got it backwards. We start in light and head towards darkness. Spiritually, what might we see here? There was a question asked about this last week. What does the spiritual context look like of this that God, uh you've got God creating the heaven and the earth, you've got the Spirit of God. He's moving upon the face of the waters. Any ideas what this might reflect here. There's a spiritual aspect. There's a spiritual dimension. God's using this true creation narrative to reflect a spiritual reality. Any thoughts or ideas on that? Has the teacher stumped the audience so quickly? Well, hold your hand and go to the book of Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 4. If you don't have a Bible, I'll read it for you. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, the Apostle Paul writes this He says in Second Corinthians four six just lost my place. For God For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, all right, that's our passage, Genesis 1, hath shined in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So it's a picture of the Spirit of God moving upon man's darkened heart. It's a reflection. Man is in his unsaved state without Christ is like a dead ball in empty space, just spinning, endlessly spinning in a circle. Aimless, pointless, going nowhere and in darkness. But it takes the Spirit of God to come and to hover over those waters. The scripture says counsel in the heart of man is like deep waters. The man of understanding will draw it out. And there's a depth. There's a depth in people's hearts. And they try to fill that void with everything other than Christ. But it takes nothing less than the third member of the Godhead, the Spirit of God Himself, to come upon it and say, let there be light. There is light. He lets the light of the knowledge of God and the face of Jesus Christ shine forth, and there is light. That light springs forth and oh there is there is now a new birth, there's now a new creature, there's understanding, and it just keeps getting back. So, there's a scriptural basis for doing that, basis of Corinthians 4, to view that as a picture of salvation. Well, we get to our second day. Back in Genesis 1 in verses 6 through 8, we have another day of separation here. There's a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. God made the firmament two times and divided the waters which were under the firmament From the waters which are above the firmament, and it was so. God called the firmament heaven, evening and the morning were the second day. Now the firmament has a purpose. It is to divide the waters above versus the waters below. There's a separation. Alright? Any ideas as to what this uh waters we know what the waters below would be, right? We're here on Earth, we see plenty of seas and oceans and And there's underground aquifers and springs and so forth. What about the waters above? Any idea what that might be Okay, rain from clouds, right? We certainly have clouds up in the sky. Now, uh, and I would go with that, uh, but it's interesting because if you look at Genesis 2, And in verse, the end of verse 5, it said, The Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth. There was not a man to till the ground, but there went up a mist from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. So in the early days of creation, it didn't rain. There was no rain coming down from the sky. There was a mist that came up from the ground and it watered the earth. That's not hard for us to understand. You go out after a hot August day and a cool morning and you look out and the grass is kind of wet and damp. You get the idea. Well it appears that what likely was is that the early earth was like a terrarium. A terrarium is like a glass enclosed thing. You put uh plants in it. Some people have these sustainable terrariums where they put plants in it and it's got all the nutrients needed, it just keeps recycling and all the little parts do their thing and it survives even though it's totally sealed up. It's very fascinating. I believe the early Earth was like that. It was a perfect terrarium that would keep so there would be a uh a measure of water in the upper atmosphere that was there, present This could could account for some of the windows of heaven that were opened up during the flood of Noah's day. It wouldn't account for all the water. You can't have that much water up there. It would obliterate the sun too much and there'd be other issues. But there would be a layer of water up there And the earth would have been held at a perfectly constant temperature. You would add higher atmospheric pressure. Do you know that one of the most successful ways of treating athletic injuries is through barometric increase of barometric pressure? They put you in this large container that increases the atmospheric pressure. It actually forces more oxygen into your cells and you heal more quickly. You're in a healthier environment. It would have been an extraordinarily clean and healthy environment to have lived You wouldn't have radical weather changes, no wild swings. It would be very stable all year long. You wouldn't have to change out your wardrobe constantly. In fact, man was created buck naked. And he would have been perfectly comfortable the whole time, never too hot, never too cold. God had made a pristine environment. And so that's like it wasn't a sea of glass, some people try to talk about that in Revelation. Or it's not the river of life, it's not a solid vault. The word Rakia denotes an expanse, not a solid. And so I find that very fascinating that God created such an excellent environment for humankind to live in. It was Absolutely fit and perfect. We have the third day in verse nine. It says, Let the waters uh under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear. It's kind of like a servicing, and it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the gathering together of the waters called he sees, and God saw that it was good. This earth is different than the earth of verse 1. That earth in verse 1 refers to this terrestrial ball that we're abiding on, as opposed to the dirt and the ground that you and I stand on, make our homes and dig and so forth Again, it's another day of separation, sea from dry land. The book of the Psalms talks about that they are separated under the place which thou hast founded. God is the one that drew that division. And he did so chemically. I find it fascinating that this planet we live on is fundamentally an act of chemical engineering. Through chemistry, through physics, it says he hangs the earth on nothing. It literally is a ball floating in space. He hangs it on nothing. Our God does that. I'm trying to build something over here. I can't hang stuff on nothing as much as I'd like to. Boy, it'd really be nice to have a picture at an angle right here. I don't want any brackets on the wall, just hang it right here at an angle. Yeah, I nor my builder nor anybody else knows how to hang stuff on nothing or God does that by fiat. Let it be so. There's three great classes of things that are made on this third day. Look at the text. It says there's grass. These would be flowerless plants There's herbs, these are vegetables, could be grain yielding seed. There's also fruit trees, whose fruit and seed is in itself. I don't know about you, but I'm frankly fascinated with seeds. The older I get, the more fascinated I become with the simplest things. I'm going back to being a kid, crawling around on my hands and knees and just marveling uh at things I've never seen before Do you realize the fruit trees that exist on this planet? I'm not talking about hybrids, I'm talking about some of the natives that you still see out in the woods have continued propagating year after year after year from that little hardened shell called a seed. And that little hardened shell is engineered, I might add, so that it doesn't soften and crack open until the environmental conditions are right. For that little baby plant that's inside with its own little sack of food, its own little first tiny leaf, and its own little ready-to-sprout root bud. Is able to receive it. Doesn't need light. It needs the right temperature, it needs the right moisture, it needs the right soil. And once it's or oxygen content. And these three things, light is not one of them, because you can sprout things in the dark if you give it the right temperature. moisture content. And then that hardened shell. That'll tell you fascinating was a coconut shell. The coconut shell is amazing This thing can float on seawater, and seawater is I haven't grown anything with salt water. Has anybody grown anything in salt water? a weed killer on it if you put salt water down. It's not going to grow. But that coconut shell can float across an entire ocean, thousands of miles, land on a seashore somewhere, and as soon as it hits a sandy beach It'll crack open, you get a coconut tree. Are you kidding me? That's unbelievable. Birds will eat seeds, you know, the fruit, but they happen to get the seeds. The bird's stomach doesn't digest it. Your stomach doesn't break through that outer protective shell. All your stomach acids don't beat it up It doesn't tear it up. The chewing of animals doesn't chew it up. And what does it do? The bird flies and conveniently drops it with fertilizer at a distant location for the propagation of the plant. I'm just a seed. Folks, I'm talking about a seed here. This is not rocket science. And it's amazing how God has made these things. I've been studying apple trees because I've put apple in the yard. And one of my trees was supposed to be red delicious and it turns out it's something different. So I've been I was trying to figure out what it was and I found this website that you can actually go through about 300 questions total to determine what that apple is. But the reason they can do that is because they are still finding what they're calling heritage trees. Which have with all the hybridization, they're still producing exactly in their origin. Well. And the seed from that tree. You know, and and even some of the hybrids are going back to the hair. Interesting. The sustainment of it it it keeps coming back to the So I'm just very impressed that that trees can It says, let the earth put forth grass back in our text. This does not mean let the dirt develop by its own inherent force millions of years later into vegetables. That's not what that means. It's God bringing forth from that environment grass. The grass is suitable to grow in the dirt. And what a marvelous thing plants are. They give us oxygen. They take all the carbon dioxide that we produce and they produce oxygen for us. They're natural exchangers. A good turf lawn will reduce the temperature requirements and the heating and cooling requirements of your home by as much as 30% around your house if you have a good turf. It actually absorbs a lot of heat, it absorbs water, it it does a phenomenal job of actually helping to cool the place. That's why when you go to a nice park, it just seems cooler. It's not only because of the shade trees, it's also because of the grass. After their kind means that there are distinct species. One did not develop from the other. And I went on a rant last week about what is a species. It's arbitrary. The whole uh kingdom phylum uh all the way down to species, uh kings play chess on fine glass sets or whatever that acronym is to help you remember the mnemonic of the uh ontology that Linnaeus came up with to classify things. So when you talk about a plant and I talk about a plant, we're talking about the same plant Species is arbitrary, but kinds are specific. There's a certain kind. There's a dog kind. Wolves, foxes, they're all part of that family. There's a cat kind from which tigers and lions and leopards are all part of that family. There's a horse kind. There's a fish kind and different types of fish. And so that defines the species. There is no possibility for the DNA of one to mix with the DNA of another and form something totally different. It always results in failure. always results in failure. So their kinds means they're very distinct, interbreedable, I'll just use the term species for lack of a better term They're very unique. The fourth day we have in verses 14 to 19 we now have the light bearers show up, the sun, the moon, and the stars. Do you like to just go out sometimes find a on a really clear night when there's not too much light outside? I'm terrible about that. I love this, but I put all these lights outside my house. house and it just messes things up. I was driving one time. Do you like to look at the night sky is what I'm getting to. I was driving one time from uh I was moving, I was relocating from Austin, Texas at my college. Uh got my first job in Sunny, lovely Southern California. Beautiful place. Same same climate as Israel. It's a Mediterranean, uh it's a it's a coastal Mediterranean climate. It's perfect. Israel, Lebanon, San Diego have the best weather. Absolutely the best. Hands down, can't beat it. I didn't move here because of the weather or the traffic. I got a great job out here, and I had my lovely mother-in-law out here. Just had to get back. And so I'm driving from Austin, Texas to San Diego. And we're tired, my roommate and I. We stop in West Texas. And let me tell you about West Texas. Ain't nothing out there, folks. You're driving down the road, you're flipping on the radio, you get to an AM station Well, if y'all see Bertha's dog out on the road, stop, it's loose again. Please bring it back to Bertha's house. I mean, you know, you got people that are just we're really You know, you got 500 square miles of nothingness in it, and a self-proclaimed mayor is the father and the family and the cork of the The clerk of the court is the wife and the uh and the and the sheriff is the son. I mean that's the town right there, you know. You just you just obey those speed laws out there because you may spend the night in a slammer. Forget the ticket. We talking. And so they don't have a lot of lights out there is my point. We stopped, lay on the hood of my big old Chevy and Paula that had a 15-foot-long hood. And just lay up looking at the stars. Unbelievable. If you ever have an opportunity to go out and to find some truly, truly dark place and stare up at the night sky. The stars are spectacular. And here it is in Genesis 1. 16. He made the stars also. It's like, I'll just throw this in too It's the very thing that God would tell Abram to look up. See if you can count the stars. So shall thy seed be. You know, the early ancients thought they had counted all stars. They thought they'd counted about six or eight thousand, they had a mockery of the scriptures, until some guy invented the telescope and said, uh hey boss, Houston, we have a problem. We got a whole lot more stars out there we know what to do with And then we get the Hubble, the Hubble telescope, and imagine taking a pencil and the little rubber eraser at the pencil. Hold it at arm's length. and stare at that little eraser off in the distance for months and collect the light that comes through. And that was one of a deep field experiment that only Hubble could do out in space, and it returned back even thousands of more galaxies with another few billions of stars. That little tiny angle, looking at that one little tiny corner, it's beyond your imagination or possibility to number. stars. Stars themselves are tremendous testimony to God's creation. I'll say it again. Most stars are made out of hydro helium and hydrogen. Almost said hydrogen. That's not an element. You know what helium is. Somebody's car recently got filled up with a bunch of helium balloons. He certainly knows what that is. And it's a very light chemical And it wants to what? Dissipate. It wants to fill up a void. It doesn't want to concentrate. It's not like mercury. It wants to dissipate. How do you get this dissipating element collated, coalesced, and jammed into a small enough space so that finally there's so much of it there, there's sufficient mass that it executes enough gravitational force to hold it together. How does that happen? Well, if something explodes, well, that's a spherical wave coming out. That's going to blow it away. That's going to take your helium balloon, pop it and go, whew! You don't form more helium balloons out of that. It just totally dissipates, all the more so in the vacuum of space. How did those stars come about? They're a massive testimony. There is a God. That fact alone should cause every astronomer to say, surely there's a God. Surely there's a God. Notice their purpose, it says in verse um uh where am I at uh 14 through 19. It says 17 to give light upon the earth to rule. I'm looking for, oh verse 14. Let them be for signs, for seasons, for days, and for years. For signs, changes of weather, you know, you see the sky, it's red and lowering, okay. For seasons, um, future events, for coming judgment There was a star that hung right over where the baby Jesus was. There was all kinds of astronomical events. And by the way, that's one good way that we can date accurately the scriptures from certain astronomical events we can s take the clock of the very consistent rotation of the moon and the sun in our orbit, and we can figure out when certain solar eclipses would have been visible in Israel or Assyria or these other pagan nations where the children of Israel sometimes were uh scattered to. And so we can accurately date, coupled with the way the scriptures records the the kings, they would say, in the days of this king, this other king lived. So you got two kingdoms with two independent sets of records that you can correlate, so the scripture gives you a way to triangulate exactly the dates. You can absolutely zero back in on particular dates. Very fascinating. Signs, seasons, days, years. You know, these not only regulate our seasons and define our years, but they also support regularly recurring special feast days. So when the children of Israel later God would instruct them as to when they would have their feast days, the feast days were perfectly aligned with the agrarian culture of the Jews. so that the Feast of Tabernacles would occur at the end of barley harvest, if my memory serves me correctly and then uh Passover uh is at another convenient time. It wasn't like, oh the fields are full of grain and and I gotta uh they're just about to come, oh no I gotta stop and travel to Jerusalem. Oh no, it would be sl shortly after that time When they would have plenty of bounty, all the grain would be in the storehouse, and then they could take of that bounty, and then they could go and worship their God with true rejoicing. It wasn't a stressful thing. God supported all that They are lights for the earth, both are luminaries. Do you realize that both the sun as well as the moon supports plant development? I found it fascinating. There are several plants. Maybe you've heard of some of these. Maybe Mrs. Ross has some in her yard. You've got all kinds of interesting things in your yard, Mrs. Ross. All volunteers. All volunteers that appeared, yes. The evening primrose The devil's trumpet, the white moonflower vine, lamb's ears, and lady of the night orchids only bloom after dusk. They need moonlight to bloom. And all corals. And all corals. Interesting. All bloom after dusk. Fascinating. So the moon serves an important Also the moon spiritually is a picture. It says the light to rule over the day and the moon to rule by night. The moon, of course, has no light of its own. It doesn't have glowing dust. It's a reflection. Reflection of the Sun. That's right. Sun. That's why the moon's phases change, because the earth blocks its light from the sun. I believe that that moon is a fantastic picture of the law of God. It's a reflection of the character of who God Himself is, who likens himself to the Son. He is called the Son, S-U-N of righteousness, that rises with healing in his wings in the book of Malachi. It says when he is there, they have no need of the sun, physical sun, because he is the brightness of the new heaven and the new earth. And so the law of God reflects the very character of God. That's why it's such an absolute standard. We may speak of not being under the law. We speak of that only in terms of a covenant. I'm not required, nor are you, to go to Jerusalem three times a year to celebrate the feasts. That's impractical for when the gospel goes to the Gentiles. It just wouldn't work And yet it's a beautiful reflection of the perfection of who God is. It's a beautiful reflection of his standards of righteousness and holiness And inherently there's nothing wrong with it. Well then we get to the sixth day of Genesis 1. 24, the climactic day of creation. It's the climax. Everything is built up to this point. Again, this phrase in verse 24, God said, let the earth bring forth dot dot dot. This does not mean let the dirt develop into animals by their own inherent force. By the way, evolutionists don't think that animals came directly from min mineral materials anyway, so that presents a problem to the atheistic evolutionist. So you can't use that to say, see, there's evolution in the Bible. No, that's not what they're teaching. This idea that, hmm, I'm tired of being a rock, I think I'll be a gorilla. That's not happened, never will happen. It's nonsense. The creation of man, I would point out, differs from that of animals, because when you get to the creation of man, verse 26, God said, Let us make man in our image. Boy, what a loaded phrase that is. Number one, let us. There's a plurality in the Godhead, and yet it's our the Lord our God is one God. And man is made in the image of God. That's why there is to be capital punishment If you shed man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, because you have, though that guy may be evil, yet if somebody sheds his blood unrighteously, unjustly, You have, as it were, gone up and attempted to deface a living memorial to the true and living God. And God takes that seriously, and therefore that man also must have his blood shed. So it's very different. Man has a soul. Animals do not have souls. Sorry, little puppies in heaven. Now, there are those who have looked at this six days and said, hmm, six days. You've got three and you've got three. In the first you have the earth and then you get all the way up to the plants and then you've got um the uh the uh light bearers. And then you've got the uh the flying creatures. And I would also like to point out, oh, did I talk about the crying flying? I skipped over the fifth day. Let me back up. I'm glad I talked about the triad. The fifth day in verses 20 to 23 is the creation of the birds and fishes What's fascinating to me about this, being an engineer, I kind of look at these things, is that from an engineering point of view, both birds and fishes are designed to travel through a fluid medium. So a fish swimming through water is designed to move through a fluid. So are birds. If you take time-lapse photography and look for this, And look at the sky above you and just touch your camera. You can do this with an iPhone these days, anything special. Watch it over time. Speed it up. The clouds and the atmosphere above you sped up, moves and looks and swishes around just like water. It slops and moves with the same principles. Slower, because that's more vacuous, but it looks exactly like water. There are birds that can fly through the air and then they make this incredible dive into the water to go after tuna. They can go down. like 60 meters, which is an incredible depth, with their wings, and they can swim underwater. And then they can swim back to the surface, float, take a breath, and then take off. It's amazing to me. There's flying fish that can jump out of the water to escape other creatures trying to consume them, and they can pop out their wings and just float and glide. Again, there are they're designed to move efficiently through a fluid. They're both unstable on solid ground. Geese are fantastic in the air. I just love watching geese in the uh late fall and early spring because they fly a little closer to the ground. They're just phenomenal flyers to me. I'm just so impressed with how they just do you ever notice they just like barely move their wings? Have you ever seen a goose land and go puffing and puffing and just no. His lungs are designed to take air in from both cycles. When his chest cavity moves up, it takes air in. When it pushes down, it takes air in. It's a two-way pump. It's twice as efficient as the human. So he's not tired. If you and I were to run a marathon for two thousand miles, which is how far these geese can fly and stop, what do you see at the finish line? These people are just gasping and dying, of course. That's also Mark Leakey trying to go from the parking lot to yours without anything. Fat old retired ironworker can barely make it 50 feet to the front door. But these birds have no problem doing that. God designed them perfectly to function that way. And they both have comparable methods of procreation. Very comparable. Both are created after their kind. One didn't develop from the other. Our opportunities to try to mate fish with birds has been a dismal failure. In fact, I'm not sure many scientists have even thought of even trying it, because it fails miserably. It doesn't work. They're after their kind. So sorry for skipping over that because that gets us to the sixth day. There are these analogies that try out analogies that say God created the environment in day one and two for the things he created on day three, which would be the grass. As it were the grass and the herbs and the trees are kings. They rule over the dirt and the water and they take in the light. It was an environment properly suited just for them. Okay, I get that. And then you've got man, the apex, and the animals of day six in an environment that was properly suited for them. A terrarium, waters, uh you've got the uh you know the lights. You've got all these other creatures and man has the rule over them. There's these analogies, and this was popularized back in the day by a number of different people. It's an interesting observation, but it weakens things. It undercuts the linear progressive development. The previous five days unfolded greater and greater complexity. Things are getting more and more complex every day. Sometimes God introduces something totally new, and sometimes in the case of man, he takes dirt and forms that into a man. The sixth day man is king over all the creation, over land, over earth, over seas, waves, fowls, fishes, and beasts. not just his little kingdom part, not just the seas and dry land. You see that in verse 28 where God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply. and fill the earth. That should have been rendered fill. It's rendered replenish as if though there was a catastrophe that occurred and now it's got to get fixed again. It it really simply is the same Hebrew word meaning to fill the earth. and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, fowl of the earth, every living thing that moves upon the earth. All of these things were made for man's enjoyment. There was a time when you could walk up to this large lion with these big claws and and Big Fangs and just scratch him on the back and get him to purr. I'd love to hear what a lion purr is. You can go up to a bear and just give it a big hug and he wouldn't rip your head off, you know? That was really cool. That would have been really neat And there weren't ticks to bother you. They had their place, they were created, but they did their own thing and they weren't a bother or a nuisance. You might say, well Vince, if that's the case, then why do they have sharp teeth? I mean, uh why why they eat sharp teeth? teeth well I'll tell you why they eat sharp teeth because they ate plants. They ate all kinds of plants. You say, well that's ridiculous. Really? What's the most popular thing at the DC Zoo? But the um The what are those bears from China? Panda bears, thank you. They have huge teeth. What do they eat? Bamboo. You ever try to take a bamboo with your pocket knife and cut it? Not happening. You need a saw to cut that thing in half, but these panda bears need sharp teeth. So it was for these other animals. They needed sharp teeth. to get through this. I can't even cut broccoli without a sharp knife for crying out loud. I mean this stuff is tough. You need sharp instruments for that. And so they have sharp teeth to do that job. They would you say, well they can't eat woody things. Hello So I saw four deer out my window this morning. They're grazing heavily on the grass right now. In another couple of months their digestive tract will change. You know why it's going to change? Because there's not going to be grass and green things in the wintertime. But they're still going to eat. What do they eat? They eody things. Scrub. Sticks. Small woody things. Bark of trees. Their digestive system changes so that it can digest the wood And more woody, fibrous types of things. That's how they survive through the winter. It's not that they really get super fat on grass. I think it'll last very long. That's got a metabolism rate that It's got to keep up. And so yes, they absolutely would have ate plants, all the variety of plants. There was all kinds of plants, and they were herbivores, every single one of them. And man was too. He had no need to eat. meet. So that's what we find on the sixth day. Then we get to the seventh day. In the seventh day And there we have an interesting statement. God stops working, so there's a negative and a positive. The negative is no work done on this day. And the positive is that God took delight in his completed work. He just stopped, he rested, he admired. God stood back and said, Ha, that's really good. You know, I think it's okay for a person to be, to enjoy. we would say take pride in, but pride in the religious community has a negative connotation. We don't want to be proud people. But it's okay to stop and to step back and look and say, you know what? That's a really good job. That is a really good job. I like I think that's great. That's okay because God does this. He stepped back and he saw everything that he made, and behold, he said it was very good. There were no problems. God created man upright. But he has sought out, man has sought out many inventions. It's man whom God gave at the garden free will. to sustain it, keep it going, or he could absolutely screw it up and throw it away. Well, he chose the latter. Absolutely did. He had that ability, he had that power. He absolutely screwed it up and thrown threw it all away. You say, what about viruses, Vincent? What about some of these horror what about uh Ebola? What good could Ebola serve? I mean that's a horrible thing. We have outbreaks of that. That's very contagious. That's problematic. A researcher at this ministry I mentioned to you earlier, creation. com Has begun research in what I believe is a very interesting and fruitful field, because that's a legitimate question. What about viruses? What about Ebola? What about these horrible things that are creatures? Then all of a sudden now plague people don't help them. Well, it turns out that a certain type of crab has Ebola in it. And it doesn't bother the crab one bit. In fact, it helps the crab. Crab loves it. Crabs love Ebola because it helps them fight cancer. So the concept is that at the fall, when man fell, Adam was what? Driven out of the garden. There was a displacement, this nice, beautiful terrarium in which he found himself to be in, this luscious garden with every fruit tree didn't need to work antibody, he didn't have an alarm clock. imagine. He got up, he went to the breakfast tree, pulled it. There could have been a coffee tree for all we know. You push the button on the sign, have a cup of coffee half a coconut full of coffee and What do we know? God said it was very good. So there is the theory of a displacement theory that things that should be in the right place are displaced. Some of you have gas stoves. Fire in the gas stove is good. Fire underneath your countertop, bad. Right? That's a problem. Grease in pan, good. Grease out of pan plus fire. Very bad Displacement theory. So Ebola, huh? There would be no work? Th there was no work. Yeah There was no disease. You'd live forever, enjoy your kids, they'd enjoy you. Yeah, it was all a wonderful place So the displacement theory says that Ebola and other horrible things had a useful place. They've now been driven out of their useful place and put where they don't belong, and they cause harm and damage and problems. I think that's a far better answer. And of course the flood of Noah's Day really jumbled things up. They really got uh whack and of course once the bag of Pandora's box is opened there's no way of stuffing it back in. why God's going to destroy this earth and create a new heaven and new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. So Like the rest, Burkhov says this, like the of the Seventh day, like the rest of an artist gazing on his masterpiece, finding perfect satisfaction. in the contemplation of his production. It answered the purpose of God and corresponded to the divine ideal. And so he rejoices in his creation, for in it he recognizes the reflection of his glorious perfections. His radiant countenance shines upon it and is productive of showers of blessings. I think that's actually Excellent. Well, uh, one of our online listeners last week had a question and uh wanted to know, God rested on the seventh day. Didn't he rest at night after each day's work? Why did he have to rest at all? So the uh good question. He did not rest on the six days like you and I would count rest. If anything, scriptures depicts God as uh all-moving, all energetic, the the eyes of the Lord uh are are uh He uh run through and fro throughout the whole earth. Uh uh God's depicted as just constant energy. The miraculous thing is that he rested it all in the seventh day And he did that as an illustration, as an example in whose steps we follow. You can work yourself to death for six days and get lousy sleep. But if you don't get good sleep on the seventh day, you really begin to get into some serious biological bodily harm That's been proven medically again and again and again. You really can't keep it up for seven days. It just doesn't work. uh develop shift work schedules for some of my shift workers back in the day. And even working at nighttime messes you up. It throws out your circadian rhythm. You're kind of designed to get up when there's daylight and go to bed at night when there's sleep. Your body produces certain hormones when the light disappears. and other hormones come in and erase the sleep hormones as soon as you see light. That's why if you have a room with a a light bearing window in the morning and you really want to sleep in, you really need to blacken that thing out because as soon as your eyes see that light The little sleep hormones are going to disappear and you can't go back to sleep. We are so tied to this creation. It's just amazing. It's just amazing. So God didn't need to rest the Sabbath day. He did so as an example for us. That in six days thou shalt do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath to the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. And of course, Hebrews 3 and 4 tell us what that rest is. You enter into rest by faith. There's a spiritual rest that's in view, and that's your rest in Jesus Christ. The rest of God in creation is a cessation. Yes. He he he rested. He stops in his labors. No more creation was none more was needed. So thanks for that question. I hope that answers it. If not, uh happy to to get a uh there there's more things I've got here. Yes. The music hasn't gotten tired, but it it puts up exclamation. And at the end of the song, the song rests, there is no more. And it was the same with God. It was finished. He rested. God didn't create this creation because he needed to. There wasn't he was like, oh I'm so lonely up here. No, he was perfectly fine Uh God doesn't disclose to us why other than he chose to do this for his glory. The scriptures are adamant about that. Well, I'm out of time and thank you for your patience. It was a lot I covered. I hope it was helpful. The notes are online and you can pull those down. There's another section that answers the question, is there a second account of creation, Genesis 2? And I've got a some Supporting material for that. Anton, could you close the super please? Father in heaven, thank you for this time considering your word, considering your creation, O Lord. Though man tries to deprive you of this glory, O Lord, it is evident even in creation itself that it's of your hands, that the creation of your hand the stars and the heaven and the earth, all these things. We praise you for revealing it to us and we ask Lord that you would uh uh provoke us to draw nigh to you, Lord, showing that you are this marvelous God that has the power to create even the the natural natural things and also to work in your people the spiritual things. So we praise you, Lord, and uh we ask your guidance all in Jesus Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. All right, very good