We're going through the very light topic. We ought to be able to cover this in about five minutes, the light topic of end-time teaching. Right, yes, right. It's quite quite laughable. Um so it turns out that the Bible actually has quite a lot to say about Jesus returned. And that's part, I think, of the difficulty of teaching on this topic because how do you get your arms around something so comprehensive? The other thing that's difficult is that there are a lot of speakers in the religious and Christian world who are free to talk about this. Case in point, this morning I turned on uh Sermon Audio's radio station. You know they have a radio, Sermon Audio Radio, where you can just play it And they have a combination of music and sermons. Well, the sermon today was from a dispensationalist view of end times. Of all topics, of all days, there it is. I'm sure you know that it's probably not too hard for you to find either on Facebook or on YouTube, all kinds of social media channels you can find all kinds of teaching on that dispensational view. of Christ's second coming. But first I want to kind of review the terms that we've looked at, and then I want to introduce you to the handout. Then I want to take you through what is the dispensational view, at least one that was prevailing at the time Mr. Burkhoff wrote his book, Summary of Christian Doctrine. what the prevailing understanding of that is. And then I'm going to take you through a number of passages, and I hope the handout will support that, that indicates to you why There are Christ's return, and all of these final things are actually one event. They're co-occurrent events. And I'm going to provide you some support for that And so principally today is kind of a refutation of the dispensational premillennial pre-trib rapture view and why that is without warrant, but to try to also give you a toehold on how to go search this for yourself. So the first is a review of the terms. So we've spent last week patiently working our way through and a little bit from the week before. of the terms that were used. One was apocalypsis. Does anybody remember what that word meant, apocalypsis or apocalypse? It was too. Unveil. The unveiling. The removal of that which now obstructs our vision of Christ. That's Apocalypsis. You've seen movies called Apocalypse Now. You've heard people talk about the Apocalypse. It doesn't mean disaster. It means removing. It's the unveiling. Okay? And uh then there is the word epiphania. Epiphania, which means, anybody remember? Close, his appearance. His appearance, the epiphany of the appearance refers to his coming out of hiding. A coming out of hiding. Hi, I'm here. Poof. He just And then there's parousia, which means, anybody remember what parousia was? Coming, presence. Presence, yep, presence, coming, it's most often translated coming points to the coming that precedes his presence or results in his presence. Hi, come on over. Everybody has come. They're all here now. That's kind of how we would use the term and that's somewhat how it's used. Now let me ask one last question as we discussed those terms and as we went through the scripture passages that used those terms, did you find that they were describing different events? It feel felt like they were different of it. Well, uh let me put it this way, uh different um So there were different things that were happening, right? Is that what you mean? There were different things happening. But were they totally different in terms of time? Well, yeah, I don't think so. In fact, if you now take your hand out and look to the back, I want to point out something for you. I'm indebted to a gentleman named Dr. Robert Whitelaw. He was a nuclear engineering professor uh at uh a university in virginia uh name escapes me. He passed a number of years ago. In nineteen seventy four he wrote a seminal book uh or a little handout called uh uh the Gospel Millennium and Obedience to the Scriptures. And this is Table 2 in his little booklet. I've got it if you'd like a copy. But this is a dynamite little table We'll try to bring it up on screen. Those of you watching online, I have sent this handout to you through email, and if you're just now watching it, you can go to uh holding fast on the very front page and you can pull it down. It's under end-time assortments under topics, Bible facts about final events. And let me first of all describe the table So on the left hand side you have what it is that's happening, what event, whether it's the total dissolution of the universe, resurrection of the dead. uh separation of the righteous and wicked, the wicked being punished, the destruction of Satan. That's an activity. But across the top is the when. So the left side is the what, and the top is the when Coming at his coming, that's our word parousia, which we studied, at his epiphany, his appearing, at his manifestation, it was another word we looked at, fanuroo, we kind of touched on that at his revelation, apocalypsis, etc. So we only touched on four of them last week. Okay? There's other terms. There's a term that's referred to as an event as the end of the world. the last day or the last hour. There's a term referred to as the last trumpet, the last vial, the last seal, and another term called the great white throne. And what he has done is assembled a matrix of the event and the activity, the when and the what. And what do you see? A tremendous amount of overlap that you can tie these together. You can connect some dots. For instance, look at the row called Saints Rewarded. The saints are rewarded according to three verses at his coming. In that same row, the saints are rewarded at his appearance, 2 Timothy 2, excuse me, 2 Timothy 4. 8, Hebrews 9. 28. The saints are rewarded at his manifestation, his fanaroo. The saints are rewarded at his revelation, his apocalypsis. The saints are rewarded at the end of the world. The saints are rewarded at the last day or the last hour, and so on. You get the point? Well, how many times do you think the saints get rewarded? Once when he comes in something called that great day. And so you can do that with each of these topics. You see why this is such a powerful table? It begins to get your arms around the language that the Bible uses and the events and how they tie and connect together. Now I would like to point out one, what appears to be a glaring gap. So look at the section, and we sort of looked at this last week. Look at that second line called the resurrection of the dead, the resurrection of all the dead. We don't see that concept with the Greek word used for his coming, his parousia. We don't see that with the word appearing. We don't see that used with the word phanaroo or apocalypsis. And so there are four Greek words that we looked at last week that don't seem to indicate that when he comes there's a general resurrection. Now I would argue that when he talks about glorificate glorifying the saints that we have a glorified spiritual body, that that's certainly implied in there. But it's not explicitly stated. However, Jesus does talk about this in other places. And so from other aspects, you can clearly tie those together. Well, some earnest Bible believers have looked at that and have made the observation that, okay, well, there must be a different time frame or a different set of sequence of events with respect to the resurrection. And they're Bible scholars. They know the Greek, probably know the Greek better than I do, and they will notice that gap. So let me describe to you now the dispensational view, and then I'm going to show why that does not hold water. So Mr. Burkhoff in his larger volume, Systematic Theology, oh, I've got it down here This is his larger book, Systematic Theology. We are going through the smaller book by volume, his summary of Christian doctrine. This is kind of a condensed form of this, but it's so condensed that it's Very hard to read. It's just very packed. And if you don't have one of these on your shelf or in your digital library, you ought to get it. It's freely available through a PDF. file and if you'd like that let me know I can direct you to it. You can just Google Systematic Theology Burkhoff and you'll get the PDF pretty easily. He writes this on page 695. Let me just read this to you here. Dispensationalists distinguish a twofold future coming of Christ The first is the parousia, that's one of the words we study, parousia, or the coming, and results in the rapture of the saints, also known as the secret rapture. And again, there's no single view on this, but this is the prevailing one at the time he wrote this. This coming is imminent. It can occur at any moment since there's no event that's going to precede or signal its The prevailing opinion at that time is Christ does not come down to the earth but remains in the upper air. He just sort of stops at the cloud level. And those who die in the Lord are raised from the dead. The living saints are transfigured, and together they're caught up to meet the Lord in the air. Hence, this is also called the coming for his saints. That's what they view that as. It's followed up by an interval of seven years during which the world is evangelized, national Israel is converted, the Great Tribulation occurs And the Antichrist or the man of sin will be revealed. So the saints on earth at that time are taken up. They don't see what's going on down here. So there's nothing but unbelievers down here, but then there appears to be another wave of evangelism that occurs, and that introduces some interesting problems. And it says, after these events there is another coming of the Lord with his saints. So the first time he did not come, they claim, with his saints, as if though there's no saints in heaven, so that poses another problem And then he meets them in the air and and so on. When he comes with his saints, that's called the revelation, the apocalypsis the apocalypse or the day of the Lord when he actually comes down to earth. This one is not imminent because it's preceded by several predicted events. At this coming, Christ will judge the living nation, and he ushers in a millennial kingdom. He's going to reign for the physical throne in Jerusalem for a thousand years. That's the view. Thus, we have two distinct comings of the Lord, separated by a period of seven years, of the which one is imminent and the other is not. One is followed by the glorification of the saints, the other by the judgment of the nations and the establishment of the kingdom. This view is not warranted by Scripture It will not hold scriptural water. It cannot. So what I'm laboring to show you today is why that day, the day of Christ's return, is a single event. We look for a second coming, not a third. It's a singular singular event. Open your Bible to John chapter 6. If you don't have it, I'll read it for you. I'm going to give you what I believe are five strong reasons why this day is a single event. I believe the Bible is pretty clear about this. There are many passages that cohesively tie several activities to a single day, and I believe the easiest way to see this is in the book of John. Hear it from the lips of the Savior Himself. That's not any greater weight than if a prophet were to say it or if the Apostle Paul were to write about it, but it ought to make you stop and think. John chapter 6 and verse 39, the Lord Jesus is having his lengthy discourse in the synagogue in Capernaum. And he tells them as they were discussing this business about the bread of life and the bread of God from heaven and who the Son of Man is and how he came down from heaven and so forth. He goes on in John 6 and verse 39, he says this. Now listen to this carefully. I want you to pay attention to this phrase, last day. Alright? That's our key phrase here. He says, this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again. at the last day. Alright? And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. No man can come to me except the Father. Verse 44. Skip to verse 44. No man can come unto me except the Father which hath sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up when? At the last day. Now, what happens at the last day? Well, Jesus says he's going to raise an individual up. He's going to raise up believers. When? Something called the last day. We are in the period of time now known as the Last Days Plural. There was the days of Adam There is the days of Noah. There's the days of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. That's how the chronology of the Bible works. It lists a calendar according to the patriarchs. In the days of King David, in the days of Solomon, in the days of the judges, and so forth. That's how the Bible records it. Jesus Christ has come. And he hath come, and Hebrews says, um the opening verse of Hebrews, uh I've got a fatter Bible here, so it's not exactly Right there. In fact, says God, who at sundry times and diverse manners spake in time past, as the fathers and the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. Now that Jesus Christ has come, he is our final patriarch. This is his era. We are in the last days. There will be a last of the last days. And that's when he comes again. There's no other continuation. So we see that something called the last day has something called a resurrection. Well, that's interesting because the Pre-Tribute showed that there was a resurrection that occurred when he came the first time, but Jesus calls that the last day. There's no other days after that. You have eternity. So based on John 6, 39 through 40, where he uses the three times the phrase last day and raising him up, you can automatically reject any view Otherwise, you don't need to go further than that. Turn now a few chapters ahead to John chapter 12 and verse 48. What else happens on this thing called the last day? In John 12, 48, Jesus said this. He said, He that rejecteth me and receiveth not my words hath one that judgeth him. The word that I have spoken, the same, shall judge him in the last day. Alright? So now we have something else happening on that thing called the last day. They are being judged. They're judged because they rejected the Word of Jesus Christ. They knew not God. They obeyed not the gospel. They didn't believe it. So there is a judgment, and there is a resurrection on the last day. So that very phrase that Jesus uses indicates to us a very specific event that is occurring and two things that are happening. There's a resurrection and there's a judgment. You can't get around that. And that's just one entry in our table. That's just one entry in our table. That is the one that connects resurrection of the dead with the last day or the last hour. It turns out that resurrection of the dead also occurs and there's something called a great white throne that shows up. So when you start to tie these things together, you have a lot of cohesive activities that bring it all together This is how God speaks. He is not going to unload the entire salt shaker at once on the table every time he speaks about that. He's going to talk about the item of significance that occurs at that time that is relevant. And so Jesus, for instance, in John 12, 48, you reject him, you reject his words, he says, you know what? That is going to judge you in the future. And you know when it is? In something called the last day. When Jesus is speaking to the Jews that he's not going to lose anything. He makes the point. I'm going to raise it up at the last day. I'm going to raise it up at the last day because that fits his point So that's the first reason why I believe all of that activity that you find listed in the scriptures occurs at one day, one event. Second point I'd like to make, and this is now back to your handout, and the color coding in the handout helps here. If you recall, from the dispensational view, they made a distinction between the parousia, his coming, and the apocalypse, the revelation. His first coming, they say, is the parousio. He's coming for his saints. And then there's the apocalypse, where he comes with his saints. They say, those are two separate things. Just hold them apart. Okay, they're separate. But the Scriptures puts them both together and it does so in one passage, and it uses them synonymously It's in one of my favorite passages to discuss the end of time and it's 2 Thessalonians 1. We've looked at that several times. Let's look at it again In 2 Thessalonians 1, 7 through 10, the revelation, the apocalypto, occurs in sync, that's your fill in the blank, in sync with the coming or the parousia that glorifies the saints. It's in sync. 2 Thessalonians 1. 7, to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed Apocalypsis. From heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know God. Now, he's taking vengeance on them that know not God. Because it's the last day, and the word that He has spoken shall judge them. You see how it's starting to tie together? And that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall Come, Perusia, to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe, because their testimony among you was believed in that day. Notice the phrase again, in that day It's a day, not a time period. So, right here, the Apostle Paul, under divine inspiration, uses Apocalypse and Parousia in the very same context. They're talking about the same thing. So they're linked. So you can't separate them. That idea is contrary to Scripture. Third point While we're in 2 Thessalonians, the and in that very same section, I would point out that the terms parousia and the day of Christ are used interchangeably. That word parousia, his coming, and day of Christ are used the same. You can't, again, separate those two. That would be an error. 2 Thessalonians 1 says this. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming, the parousia of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him. Notice who's gathering together unto him? Our That you be soon not shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as that day of Christ is at hand. Verse 8 And then shall that wicked be revealed, that's another apocalypse, by the way, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Here's that word coming. It's a word parousia again. Okay, now let me ask some questions. What new terms do you find in these passages here that relate to our Lord's return? What else is happening here? Or what all is happening here. The wicked was revealed. Yeah, the wicked's revealed. What else? The wicked is revealed. Okay, there's some and then also the Christ and uh Destroy with the brightness of strongness. Okay, yeah, when he comes it's he's very bright and he's destroying those with the brightness of his coming. So he's apparently quite bright when he comes. Did you notice that phrase in verse 1? It says, by our gathering together unto him, there was a gathering of the saints together unto him. So when the saints were gathered, the devil was also destroyed at the same time. That happened at the same event. Well those are two keys, folks. They're You can take that and say, oh, where else do we read about the gathering of the saints into Jesus? Because when we're gathered, the wicked one is going to be revealed and destroyed So when else are the saints gathered? And you can go look for other scriptures to talk about that and you can start to connect the dots. You see where I'm going with this? Do you understand why this table is helpful? And do you understand why eschatology is difficult to talk about? Because there's some 40 or 50 different verses of scripture that have it in couplets or triplets, little factoids that you have to go in like Lego blocks and connect it all together to see what's happening. And that's what the faithful have done throughout the millennium. They've connected these dots together and they've come to a conclusion that when Christ returns, it's the general resurrection of the dead, it's judgment day, the saints are resurrected. And they're glorified, new glorified bodies. Heaven and earth are destroyed. New heavens and new earth are ushered in, and it's an eternal kingdom. as you would expect at the return of the Savior, no longer the suffering servant, now the reigning, glorious, omnipotent Savior mighty to save and to complete the salvation he wrought for you at the cross. He's zealous to take his bride home with him. So there's a lot of additional terms we found in there. Fourth point I want to make here. Fourth point. And these next two points I'm going to make is something that is quite big in the pre-trib pre-mill camp. And it has to do with the doctrine of the tribulation. This is a very big deal with that camp. It seems like they seek to work overtime to make sure that you know You're not going to face the tribulation. You're not going to have great tribulation. That's not for you. You're going to be removed from that. And I think that's part of the reason why it's so attractive. Because it says your life is going to be smooth, grand, and easy going forward. Everything's going to be hunky-dory. Oh, it'll have its ups and downs. But it's not going to get really tough. Yeah, Jesus isn't gonna he'll he'll rescue you before that happens. Uh there's not gonna be any saints that experience that. Well I hear a lot of people in that camp they say that Christ is not gonna put this his bride through that. Yeah. You know, and then It just baffles me. It sounds appealing and frankly I wish it were so. I wish it were so, but I find that there's two errors in that view. One is the tribulation they have in view is a hyperliteral tribulation. They will take language out of Revelation where it says the blood will be up to the horses' bridles, and they will say that's how bad the battle will be. You'll have blood flowing up that high. Folks, we don't fight battles with horses anymore. Nor are any nations preparing a lot of horses to go fight a battle. They're not using that. I don't know of any military source out there that is retreating to the battle of horses. And blood that high is not what you're going to see. You need to get familiar with the language of the prophets, how the prophets speak And there is very symbolic language. And the second point about the tribulation is that it's spiritual, but it is every bit as much, if not more grievous to the saints. It is very grievous to the saints. It's a spiritual battle. And we will discuss that some more, but I do want to make a couple of points. We had a question or a comment? Nor is there that much blood on Europe. Nor is there that much blood on the blood of all the populations. It still would not be that deep. Yeah. It would be very difficult to get to that, let alone from just horses. Fourth point is this is that In the book of Matthew, chapter 24, and I touched on that last week and I gave a great prelude for it last week, but I realized I would not be able to cover Matthew 24 in a short period of time. I have spoken on the Olivet Discourse. You can go to Holdem Fast, you can go to End Time Study Series, and you can look on the topic about the Olivet Discourse. And it's a six-part study. that I walk you through that. It's got handouts, it's got you've got the teacher's notes, and you can walk your way through that because it's a very dense part of scripture and would be and is not something that, in all fairness, Mr. Burkhoff covered extensively But he did touch upon this point here, and that is in Matthew 24, 29 to 31, Matthew says the coming or the parousia of the Lord, and bear in mind this is what they think is the first coming. The coming of the Lord, at which the elect are gathered together, follows immediately after the Great Tribulation. mentioned in the very context. But the dispensationalists say that this occurs before the Great Tribulation So they've got it switched. Matthew does not put it that way. Matthew 24, 29, 31, Jesus says this. Immediately after the tribulation of those days And he already talked about great tribulation. He he used that language, great tribulation there. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened, the moon shall not give her light. The stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. We've looked in other places where it talks about tribes mourning. And they shall see the Son of Man, Perousia, coming in the clouds of heaven. Lo, he cometh with the clouds, with power and great glory, he's coming in glory, and he shall send his angels with the Great sound of a trumpet, so there's a trumpet blast. Nothing secret about that, nothing quiet about that, and shall gather together his elect Not living elect, not a subset of the elect. His elect from the four winds from the one end of heaven to the other Well, if you're talking about saints on earth, why wouldn't he say from one end of earth to the other? He says from one end of heaven to the other. He's gathering all his elect. When he says all his elect, folks, that means The whole church. And it occurs at a period which is immediately after the Great Tribulation. Alright? So Let's look for these other phrases we found in relation to our Lord's return in this passage, in Matthew 24. What are in 29 to 31? What were some of the other things that happened related to his return. I've mentioned a few. It's okay to mention them again, I'm just footstalping here. Sun will be darkened. There's a darkening of the sun. Yep. What else is happening? Moon's not giving its light, because the moon that would make sense. If the sun's darkened, the moon doesn't have anything to to to share. So that means it doesn't matter what part of the planet you're on, whether you're looking at moonlight or sunlight, you're gonna notice a big difference. Powers of heaven are shaken. The powers of heaven itself are shaken. They're shaken so hard what happens The stars are falling. The stars are falling. St even the very stars are disintegrating. There's no more. Heavenly the heavens, that second heavens, not the one where the fowls of the air do fly, but the the heavenly bodies we would refer to them. dissolved, disappearing. What else is happening? Yeah, then there's some sign of the Son of Man appearing in heaven. He comes with clouds. That's interesting. There's a big announcement. What else happens? The powers of the heavens are we shaken? Yep. Yeah? And what else? Tribes mourning. Oh, tribes of the earth yeah, which tribes are mourning? A small little bunch of hot and tot charismatics in Africa somewhere? It says all the tribes of the earth are gonna mourn. Well what does that imply? That all the tribes of the earth are gonna See them. See him. Why are they mourning unless they know something bad is going down? Global A global realization. Yeah, you could say that's the ultimate global warming. What else was happening? Angels blowing a trumpet. Angels blowing a trumpet. I've heard some mighty good trumpet players and I've heard some mighty loud trumpet players, but I can't imagine what it sounds like with an angel blowing on a trumpet. That's gotta be loud. You ain't missing it. And what else are the angels doing? Gathering the elect. They're gathering the elect. You will have a personal escort into heaven. You ever go to an airport and see somebody stand at the bottom where the baggage are with a little sign? He's in a tuxedo, got a dapper little tie on, you know, Mr. Stenson or whoever they're looking for. God's going to send an angel to you. Pardon me, ma'am. Hate to disrupt your day. I'm an angel fluffing done. Have a bit of good news for you. You're going home today. You've never probably been through this journey before, so allow me to assist you in this matter. So you see there's details on the heavenly signs. You now hear about the great sound of the trumpet. You have the gathering together of the elect. You have angels involved, you have the dissolution of all things. Christ is wrapping all that into one bundle, and it's called at his coming, his parousia, which they say There's a secret rapture. Folks, how do you get secrecy out of this? How do you get Where people are missing this. What are they mourning about? Because their stocks have collapsed that day? I mean, what are they mourning about for crying out loud? If it's not for that. It's it's it's chaos for these people. It's a catastrophe. The sun's gone, the moon's gone, the stars are gone. Angels have just yanked all the church of God out. The church of God is gone. It's all his elect. It doesn't say living that those are remaining, and there's a second round of conversion. The angels are not sent back saying, oh, you got a second chance, just Hang tight, we've got to do a little cleanup here. We got a little cleanup. It's gonna be rough for you guys for all, but there's a second chance. I don't see that in the text. The whole point is that You need to get right with God right now. The gospel is a right now thing. Now is the hour of salvation. Not then, not five minutes later, not not over here. It's a right now thing. Because this could happen. It's a false sense of hope. Yeah. For them to say that to to people that you have a second chance. They call them the tribulation saints. Yeah. Mm-hmm. And let's let's let's let's make my my fifth point while I'm talking about the tribulation. There are a number of passage passages that make it clear that the church indeed passes through the Great Tribulation. Now, I won't be able to get into all the character and the tenor and the nature of it But there's a lot of passages that make that clear. In Matthew 24, the very section of scripture we're at in verses 21 and 22, it says, For then shall be great tribulation. Such as was not, since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be. And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved, but For the elect's sake, those days should be shortened. Well, let's think about that for a moment. There's a period called a Great Tribulation. Jesus Christ says, I'm going to have to shorten it. Because if I don't shorten it, the elect that are in it would not be saved. There has to be a shortening of it for the benefit, for the sake of the elect. Why is it shortened? For the sake of the elect. But the point is there's elect involved in it. They're some of God's elect. Does every single believer have the have the chance that they'll be caught in that? Yes, Christ could come in another 10, 15, 20 years, 10, 15, 20 minutes. Is it guaranteed you will be one of those in that time? Not necessarily. There is a last of the last days. But listen to all this other language we find. Look at Acts 14. The apostles came and they confirmed the souls of the disciples. exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must, through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. Now that's not the great tribulation. But the point is that believers do go through tribulation. The Greek word thallipsis, that's the same word used in Great Tribulation. That phrase great tribulation is mega philipsis. We all know what mega is. We brought that Greek word into our language. But it seems that for the believers, they do have tribulation. But it doesn't seem to peter down and get better over time, the onslaughts against the Church of God get worse. Do you know there are more martyrs in the name of Jesus Christ in our century than there have been in the first 300 years of Christian existence when they were getting slain left and right by the Romans? It's pretty bad in a lot of places. 1 Thessalonians 3:4. Verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer what? Philipsis, tribulation. And even as it came to pass, and you know. 2 Timothy 3, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. This is part of the course for the child of God. It's a tough roe-to-ho. This world is no friend to grace. The political system is no friend to grace. The The school system these days used to be sympathetic, is no longer a friend of grace. There's just an onslaught. Support 1 Peter 4. Peter says this, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened. He says, don't think of this as weird. Don't have the idea that it's just going to keep getting better. Not necessarily, Cloria. question. Maybe this is a topic that you'll cover later, but is there some culminating Great Tribulation Yes. And if so, what is that? Right. So is there some final culminating period when it gets very, very rough? All right. Yes, I believe that the closer and closer we get towards Christ's return, there are several parables that the Lord Jesus gave. He says, let's look, for instance, at Matthew chapter 25. I hope I have this correct. I'm going off script here because I'm trying to answer it. Is it Matthew? Where does it talk about No, it's not Matthew 25, it's not the one I want to go to. Where he talks about as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the Son of Man. Oh it is twenty-four. Starting with ground verse 34, 35, 36. Oh, why yes, the very passage I'm at. Okay. Yes. Verse 36, of that day and hour knoweth no man. Thank you, Penny. No, not the angels of heaven, but my father only, but as the days of Noah were. So also shall the coming of the Son of Man. Now, he's comparing the days of Noah to his coming, which I'm Asserting the scriptures are clear that his coming is that final event, and that great tribulation is right before his coming, because Matthew said, immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the Son Man appear So what is it like? Well, this is very instructive. In the days of Noah, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark and knew not until the flood took them away. Luke adds, as it was in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, until Lot was removed and Sodom and Gomorrah was overthrown. So What do we take from that? Well, we read in Genesis what it was like in the days of Noah. It's that violence filled the earth. There was great, and certainly we see a lot of violence now. And it seems to want to trend that way. From the world's perspective, they're eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage. The world is at peace The tribulation, folks, is a spiritual tribulation in that godlessness and lawlessness abound. They're in peace. with themselves, but they're at peace with everything that is godless. They're at peace with everything that's lawless. The pagan, godless lifestyle rampant homosexuality, all of those sorts of things. That is grievous to the child of God. That is a tremendous grief of mind to the child of God. Think about how many millions of babies being slaughtered. And it's not just America. The most unsafe place for an infant to be these days, sadly, is in her mother's womb Who would have thought since the foundation of the world, when has that been the case? It's just astounding. And so the nature of that great tribulation is such that it is one that is entirely antithetical to the things of God and to the gospel. And so you look at the days of Noah and you look at Son and Gomorrah, that's kind of the picture that I have in mind. It's going to seem like business as usual because when Christ returns, one of the elements we find in Scripture is that there's surprise They're caught unawares, like a thief in the night. They're not expecting it. The world isn't running around saying, hey, you know, it's getting kind of rough around here. Maybe it's time for Jesus to come. What do you think? God is far from their thoughts, utterly far from their thoughts. But for the believer, it is very, very, very grievous. Very grievous. Even Abimelech. Who had Abraham's wife said, I knew not choose your wife. I could have had a dangerous thing happen. He's reproving Abraham. Why did you let her come to me? This pagan king He doesn't have a three-part government system, but the word of the king is power. He could have easily th you don't tell the king no. King does what he wants to. Even he had enough of the fear of God that says, you don't take another man's wife. That's how far our sense of morality has degraded. How far it has degraded. Somebody had a hand up. So you would say that the picture of the Great Tribulation is not some big battle or some big you know some big like World War Three singular, you know, event. But it's more of like a period of time where there's godlessness, lawlessness and And an ever-decreasing number of saints. Revelation refers to it that uh the camp of the saints is surrounded. Yeah. Yeah. Well this one, the son of man which there's eventually the last of the elect do become saved. Back to Noah's Ark. There was a point in time when two of every uh uh uh unclean and seven of every clean, I think, uh went into the ark Eventually the ark got loaded. Eventually there were two monkeys left to put on the ark. There's a third monkey out there trying to get on, but Eventually, you have the final round of the animals brought into the ark. And then the door is shut And it says the selfsame day, the flood of the waters were upon the earth. So there is a last of the elect who have to be saved, but boy. For those handful of elect grandchildren, great grandchildren, who have yet, they're gonna we're gonna be gone. Just imagine for the moment. You have some elect children yet to be saved, and they're it. They're the end of the line. God has no further plans to save anybody past that individual. And they don't hear many voices. What kind of spiritual teaching do they get? What kind of spiritual encouragement do they get? What kind of hope? And do you see how difficult that's going to be for an elect child of God? And do you see why God cares for all of his sheep? So that this warning would extend to the very last one? To the very, very last one. And yep, I think that's what that's going to look like. Yes, Penny. So again, I think it's probably coming in the future too. But when we look at all the prophetic language of Revelation, and we've got seals and trumpets and judgments and all these things being poured out. You are saying basically that that almost is happening now and it's just gonna get worse and worse, not that it's like I mean, I was always taught that seven years tribulation period and that that is when those things are happening in heaven and being poured upon earth. Right. Revelation is not chronological, and so the repetition of the sevens is kind of repeating the is is showing the same movie and re rewinding in time from a different perspective. rewinding in time from a different perspective. There's another table I can show you of in in the book of Revelation that if you take it literally and chronologically, heaven and earth are destroyed four separate times. No. It's just one time. Right. So, um, uh, but yeah, that that was a lengthy one. Let me get to my last verse, which is in Revelation 7. Uh and the short answer to your question was yes, those things are somewhat unfolding now. And Revelation is looking at the vision of what's happening on earth from a spiritual dimension. We're not wrestling against flesh and blood. Flesh and blood down here is stealing the political elections and forcing your way into school systems and homocide that's Up above, it's a spiritual warfare aimed at you. It's trying to get after you and to the children of God. That's heaven's view It's very different. It looks different. Alright? Revelation 7, this is again showing up my point that the elector present during the Great Tribulation, 13 and 14, one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these? which are are arrayed in white robes. And whence came they? And I said unto him, Sir thou knowest, and he said unto me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. So here is a great multitude arrayed in white. They're in their resurrection garments. God refers to that as a white garment, spotless, pure. Am I going to get only a white suit in heaven? That's not what God's talking about. That's a picture, okay? And it says they've come out of Great Tribulation. How do you wash something in red blood and get it to be perfectly white? Again, the language, the metaphorical language of Revelation. So yes, they came out of Great Tribulation. It was saints that was involved in that, and it's a spiritual nature, and it's grievous to the saints of God. It really is. It really is grievous. God is consistent and He never changes. He created all things in individual distinct days. So it is only consistent to say that the end of things is Mm-hmm. Just as creation was in the right. Just as his I mean the you again, the analogies of Sodom, Gomorrah, and Noah's flood Jesus couldn't have picked two better analogies if I may phrase it that way, but it really fits. And it very succinctly helps the understanding, I think More on this topic to come. I hope you take this handout home and hang on to it. The Bible facts table I trust you find will find very useful. And I double-checked it last night and reprinted it. I found one or two typos so you have the corrected book. So very good. All right, thank you. Normally we close in prayer, don't we? Yeah. Yvonne, would you close us in prayer? Sorry, Mrs. Rawls is looking at me like I forgot something and I did. Thank you for the the teaching of your word, Lord, and uh the great and marvelous truth lord of your coming Lord and uh Uh the fact that you will gather to yourself all of your elect from the four corners of the earth, Lord, and uh bring into judgment the wicked. Uh which were aforeordained unto destruction, Lord. And um we just uh marvel, Lord, that you uh had mercy on us here your children, your elect and uh yeah, just uh pray Lord that you would uh keep us, help us Lord to endure the the the the great uh spewing that that comes out of the dragon's mouth lord and Father just uh Yeah, help us to uh endure the difficult times that uh may come about us, Lord, in in this nation and Um we recognize that many a nation around the world uh they're already dealing with uh onslaughts for the faith, Lord. Uh we just pray that you would help them, Lord, uh especially. And uh we ask your continual guidance, Lord, in Jesus' name.