Well, Uh we're uh continuing in our study of the uh summary of Christian doctrine, the sixth chapter, and we're dealing with the attributes of God. If you don't have a handout, there's one near you. get you one. I printed up just a select few because we're going to have a little smaller size class this morning. Attributes. Boy that's not a term we use often. Maybe you had it in a college class or high school class some time ago. Why in the world would we study attributes, attributes of God? Why would we study that? Well, I like to give this example in this illustration. Maybe it would be helpful to you. Uh two women are talking and one woman says, Oh yeah, I saw your husband Bubba the other day uh up at the supermarket. Oh yeah And says, yeah, he was so funny with his little bald head and the cap on there, you know. He looks like he's put on some weight, he's maybe like two hundred, two twenty-five pounds, you know. I didn't realize he was that short And she's like, uh no, my Baba is, you know, five foot ten, doesn't wear a hat, got a full set of hair, kinda tall and lanky actually Obviously they're talking about two different individuals. But we didn't realize that until we discussed more than just the name, we started to talk about attributes. There's a lot of Jesuses running around out there that are for sale. You know they're for sale because they come with a little offering basket conveniently placed next to them. We're going to talk about some attributes of God that will extend upon what we did last week, which was the incommunicable attributes, those attributes which God intrinsically has but cannot be passed on to the creature, such as this infinity. God is infinite. And so forth. There's three of those. I commend those to your review. for last week. This week is the communicable attributes, those attributes God has, which He communicates, shares to the creature. God made man in his image. And so there are certain things of uh in our human nature which we bear that image of God. And we're going to look at two of those today. His knowledge and his power. So we're going to talk about the knowledge of God. Now, when we say it, it communicates to us, only God is omniscient. Man has knowledge, but his knowledge is limited the knowledge that man has vastly exceeds that of the creatures. I always laugh when the evolutionists claim that we came from apes and baboons and monkeys, because frankly, um All these experiments they've done with these different creatures, they've desperately tried to get some kind of intelligence to come out of the ape, and he's dumber than a box of rocks. Uh crows are smarter than apes. Octopus blow them way out of the water. There's some incredibly intelligent animals, but don't look to the ape So common morphology, the way you're constructed, has nothing to do with what your alleged ancestry is from. It's from God, and so God conveyed to us knowledge. Let's look at our first reference. It's in Psalm 139. There's a handout nearby. If not, raise your hand. Glory will get you one. Psalm 139 in the first four verses. We're going to look at a lot of scriptures today, so I printed them up for you. It makes it a little easier going Where we read, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my down sitting and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. Thou compassest or in in enclosed my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo O Lord, thou knowest it all together. That's a pretty comprehensive picture. There's another place where the psalmist says that Before I even pray, you will answer, meaning he knows the formulation of the thought in the head before it's even verbalized. God is able to address and answer that prayer In Isaiah 46, Isaiah I refer to as the fifth gospel, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and Isaiah, there's so much gospel teaching and truth to it. Isaiah 46, 9 through 11, remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none else. I am God and there's none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, the things that are not yet Done. Notice this, God takes full credit for declaring ancient history exactly the way it was, as well as distant future, exactly the way it shall be. Because he is omniscient. He is in his infinite state. He can view all of uh humanity and our existence at one time. He knows it all perfectly well. He says, My counsel shall stand, I will do all my pleasure, calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man that executes my counsel from a far country, yea, I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass, I have purposed it, I will also do it. Now that's interesting here. I kept reading these other verses in Isaiah 46. Obviously, the passage that underscores our point at hand, the infinite knowledge of God, was in the ninth verse But what other attributes of God do you find in that verse connected with his knowledge? Hint, they're in verses ten and eleven. What other attributes of God do you find connected with his infinite knowledge? His council. Okay, his council. What is it about his council? point to understand. Okay. All right. When you say it doesn't change his unchanging counsel. What are some other words we would use to describe his counsel? His true what? Maybe his I think faithful. Is faithful, okay. His counsel when when men sit together anybody can answer this and and take a counsel of something. Well basically what are they doing? Want to hear advice? Okay, yep, it's just a sounding board to get some advice and they're getting this advice. They're calling a council typically because why? What might be some reasons why somebody would hold a council? Why would you want a bunch of advisors? Trying to find the path forward. Exactly. You're trying to find out something that you're going to do. You're trying to take some counsel to figure out what's the way forward. And as you discover this way forward, you're basically coming up with a plan. So notice what's connected with God's knowledge, as Victoria pointed out, his counsel His declarations, his plans, because he knows all things, therefore we are assured that his plan is solidly based on his knowledge. And so those two are connected, and you see those here in in Isaiah 46, 9. What else do we see it? And it's a little more subtle. Look at those last, that phrase, yea, I have spoken it, I will bring it to pass. I've purposed it, I will also do it. But that phrase, I've spoken it, I will bring it to pass. What else is intimately connected with his knowledge here? Truth. Truth, yes, absolutely. He's based on truth. He does what he says. Right. And the power of his word. Notice his word is connected to his knowledge, connected to his counsel, connected to his purposes. Notice that connection to God. They're all there. We're trying to look at them. thread at a time, like I'm examining, say, the red thread in this carpet, but it's all woven together, isn't it? And it forms a glorious picture as we're pulling this one thread about his knowledge We see that the purposes of God and his word are also connected. We see this, for instance, in our next verse, Ezekiel 11, in the last part of verse 5, says, Thus saith the Lord Thus have ye said, O house of Israel, for I know the things that come into your mind, every one of them. See that intimate knowledge that he sees. He knows them He knows their words, he knows their thoughts, and he compares it to his words and his thoughts, and he sees that there's a disconnect. There's obviously something that's not right In the New Testament, Hebrews 4. 13 very plainly tells us this, neither is there any creature that is not manifest, not open, not revealed, not fully disclosed in his sight. But all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. For the believer What emotions do you suppose that this attribute stirs up in the heart of a believer? This intimate knowledge of God? In a believer. Oh in a believer. Yeah. Well, fear, okay. He knows me so well. He knows me so well. Not in a fear like that I you fear the Lord, but not in a fear where I'm like scared of him, but like because he's so knowledgeable to fear him in that sense. Okay, yep. There's this uh the way that uh some have phrased it this reverential uh fear of God, this that we pay them reverence and respect as a measure of, I don't want to speak too flippantly here, uh, you know, the little child who's uh got cookie crumbs around his mouth and uh on his shoes and the cookie jar is uh half empty. Uh he's may go to his brother or sister and talk about some things without fear. He's like, well we got some cookies over here come with me But when mom or dad shows up and there's a little tinge of fear now, all of a sudden they are probably going to figure this out. What other emotions do you might uh find stirred up in the heart of an unbeliever? God sees everything even their deep and secret sins. Even their deep and secret sins? Okay, that's true. What emotion might that stir up? What might that cause that unbeliever to Great discomfort, yeah. Uh be rebellious? Okay, fine, I'll just do it even worse. Yeah. Notice there's a sharp division. There's a fear and a healthy respect for the Lord versus I don't care or uh stark terror or there's a distinction, even an attribute. Talking and discussing about a characteristic of God can strike um fear in the heart of the unbeliever, and that's why I think they reject the God of the Bible. They don't like this God. Doesn't fit with their comfort level. All right. Well, I think it's probably not a stretch for us to see that God knows everything, omniscience of God, the omniscience, the all-embracing knowledge of God is something we can embrace and understand. Then we get into some tougher questions, and frankly, that's why this is one of my favorite studies in Burkhoff's booklet. summary of Christian doctrine, because God's foreknowledge extends to conditional events. The study of this truly helped me understand a lot when it comes to balancing The sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man. Atheistic unbelievers will kick and uh rebel against God's revealed testimony with sharp-pointed arguments. One of the arguments that they will use is If God knows everything, then why is the world such a wreck? The false uh religionists will come up with this idea that if uh God knows everything then it doesn't matter what I do I'm just programmed to be a robot Why try to do such and such? If God ordains all things and purposes all things and knows all things, then then then why attempt to to be obedient. It's just uh let go and let God or just live and do as you please. It doesn't matter. He's behind it all Well, they're describing a different God. That is not the God of the Bible. And the Bible describes some of these attributes of God. And I. I'm probably not doing it justice, so let's get right into the text. God's foreknowledge of conditional events. A conditional event meaning if A, then this path. Else if B then this path. That's what I mean by conditional event. Look at 1 Samuel 23. 1 Samuel 23 and verses 10 to 13. Again, they're on your handout. This is an account where David is on the run. Saul is out to kill him. He is in a city called Keilah, I think I'm pronouncing it correctly. And he wants to know what to do. Should he stay in this little city or should he run away? So, here we read this. Then said David, O Lord God of Israel. Thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah to destroy the city for my sake Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Lord God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. In other words, is Saul actually going to come? Is he going to come to this city? And the Lord said he will come down. You see, God knows what's coming to pass, and he describes it. He tells David, David was a prophet. God spoke to him. Prophets foretold things that were coming. Today we no longer have prophets. We use the prophetic word. We foretell that which has already been declared will come to pass. Continuing on. Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? That's really the pointed question. Doesn't matter if Saul comes or not, but if he comes and he conquers the city, am I going to get turned over? And the Lord said, they will deliver thee up. If you stay in that city, David, they will deliver you. The men of Keilah, not your friend. They're your friend, they're they're fairweather friends, as long as everything's okay, you're safe, but a little pressure, nope, they'll turn you over in a heartbeat Then David and his men, which were about 600, arose and departed out of Keilah and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah and he forbeared to go forth. He didn't go there. Isn't that interesting? God saw a future event That if David took a certain path, if he made a certain choice, you stay there, you trust in the men of Keilah, Saul will come, he will take over the city, and you'll be delivered up. And based on that knowledge, David did something differently, and he wasn't taken up. God foresaw what could happen. God's the ultimate Chairman of the Risk and Opportunity Management Board. He knows how to manage those risks very well. If you do this, this catastrophe shall happen. There's more. In 2 Kings 13, the prophet is speaking with a king. And he says in 2 Kings 13, 19, and the man of God was wroth with him and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times Then thou hadst smitten Syria till thou hadst consumed it, whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice. Well, I should have included a little bit more context in there, because The prophet came to this king and said, What is in your hand? He said, Some arrows. He said, strike the ground with them. And so he just hit the ground three times. He says, Why did you stop there? If you'd kept beating and beating and beating and beating, you would have beaten the men of Syria who were coming against you until you would have absolutely destroyed them. But because you only hit it three times You'll have only three victories, and after that you will not continue to beat the king of Syria. This is an interesting one here in Psalm 81 The Lord Himself speaking about his knowledge of condition of events. Psalm 81, 13, oh, that my people had hearkened unto me. And Israel had walked in my ways, I should soon have subdued their enemies and turned their hand against their adversaries. The haters of the Lord should have submitted themselves unto him, but their time should have endured forever So what God is fundamentally saying here is if you had in fact obeyed, if you had listened, if you had hearkened to me, I would have Subdued your haters, I would have oppressed them, I would have beaten them, I would have driven them away. But because you did not do that, therefore I will do this action over here. You had a question? My ham, you said Zelho. Oh, okay. Thank you. Jeremiah 38, Jeremiah had a very difficult time as a prophet. He was a fairly young man at the time the Lord came upon him. He was from a lineage of priests, and he was there in a rebellious place, Judah. And he's prophesying to Jerusalem's kings. There were many at that time short-lived. They kind of had a circulating office that they got deposed quite quickly. And he would come and he would tell them that you will be conquered by the king of Babylon, you are going to be destroyed, unless you do one thing. Go and submit yourself to them. Leave the city, walk away from it all. You'll be spared, everything will be okay, and you'll be fine. But if you stay, the city's gonna be burned with fire and a whole bunch of bad stuff's gonna fall down on top of you Let's read it here, Jeremiah 38, 17. Then said Jeremiah unto Zedekiah, this was a king. Thus saith the Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, if thou wilt assuredly go forth unto the king of Babylon's princes, then thy soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire. And thou shalt live in thine house. But if thou wilt not go forth to the king of Babylon's princes, Then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans? They shall burn it with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of their hand. This is quite the proclamation to the king. This is a tough message to give to a king. It's not a popular message. Has any of God's words ever been popular to anybody? Has it ever been well received upon arrival? It's always a tough message. And Zedekiah the king said unto Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Jews that are fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their hand and they mock me. He's actually not afraid of the Chaldeans. He's afraid of the Jews that have been delivered to the Chaldeans, the Babylonians. Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of the Lord which I speak unto thee, so it shall be well unto thee, and thy soul shall live. Ezekiel is another interesting prophet who was a contemporary of our prophet Jeremiah. A great prophet, just as all the Old Testament prophets were. And at his commissioning, this is the third chapter of Ezekiel Here he's being anointed of God for a specific mission. And he is told, basically, I'm setting you on a path to failure. Listen to this. He says in Ezekiel 3. 6, God speaking to him, not to many people of a strange speech and of a hard language. Whose words thou canst not understand, surely had I sent them to thee, they would have hearkened unto thee. Instead, God is sending him to the rebellious house of Israel, and he says They won't listen to you, but you're going to be a witness against them. That's an interesting concept, isn't it? To our New Testament ears, it seems like, oh, God wants everybody to be saved If he wants everybody to save, everybody would be saved. He does all his pleasure. He executes all of his counsel. When he says it, it will accomplish it. So why isn't everybody saved? Bottom line, because God doesn't want everybody to be saved. That's why. You see it even in the New Testament, in our very next verse. Look at Matthew 11, 21. He says, woe unto thee, Choruson, woe unto thee, Bethsaida, for if the mighty works which were done in you, Christ is speaking about these miraculous deeds that he's doing In Galilee, in Jordan, in parts of Israel, he says, if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entirely in Sidon, they would have repented long ago. in sackcloth and ashes, just like the Ninevehites of Assyria. They would have repented a long time ago. He later on goes to say that if they had done the mighty works in Sodom and Gomorrah, They would have repented and it would have remained to this day. God did not have a purpose to save them. It wasn't his plan. So what's interesting is when we think about this. What are some questions that might arise in your mind about God's foreknowledge, his foreknowledge of conditional events? What other teachings about the Lord that you know of that might make you scratch your head and say, hmm, how do all these things fit together? I mean I know some people say if God already knows who's gonna be saved and who's not, what's the point of preaching the gospel? Because, you know, then You know, there's no choice you have in the end. Right. Here clearly this indicates that there is some kind of a choice involved. There is clearly God knows conditional events. And yet he has also ordained it. that the end will be according to exactly the way he puts it out. The teaching of God that hits this head on, that sharpens our thinking to make us come to a win-win solution, if you will, is this this sovereignty of God and salvation. This absolute um he clearly has a group of people called his elect. He clearly has a people who for whom Christ died, a people whom he intends to call, and there's a group of people he permits his hand of restraint to pass over He gives man his just deserve. He gives him justice, not mercy. It's God's prerogative, so to do. He's not unfair either way. And so we would wonder, well, how does this work then? Is it is is is God really sovereignly determining who's going to be saved, or is there really a choice? And the answer is both. In fact, the Old and New Testament writers do not try to resolve this alleged conflict. When we consider God's knowledge and his omniscience, and when we consider his ability to take a counsel and to make plans and purposes, that he will purpose it and it will come out exactly the way he wants. Our God is so incredibly, I'm gonna speak for the manner of a man, so incredibly smart, which is a gross understatement, you understand me. But he can so ordain different paths and channels of the river of life. And yet he assures us that it will arrive at the destination he intends. And how he does that across millions of different people is beyond my ability to understand. For some reason, I'm able to Apprehend, I can't comprehend, but I can get my head around the fact that he knows the beginning from the end. He created time. He sees it all simultaneously. He dwells and inhabits eternity. That's where he lives. That's his home We are stuck in time. We're creatures stuck in time. I'm doing good to remember what I had for dinner two nights ago. Let alone predict what I'm going to have. Two days from now, even though I've got a pantry full of food and and I can probably make an educated guess, but I can't peg it And so God's foreknowledge does extend to conditional events, but it does not change his counsel. To me, that's amazing. Now what's amazing about all this is one of the things I can conclude about God's foreknowledge of these conditional events is that there really are choices in life with consequences. There really are consequences to the decisions and the choices that you make in life. And God talks about those and he warns his children about those. things. It doesn't rob them, if they're his elect, of their salvation, but boy, they can do a they can row a pretty tough Uh they can hoe a pretty tough row if you know what I'm talking about there. It can be a hard path for them. Isaiah forty-nine, excuse me, Isaiah forty-five, nineteen Listen to God's language here concerning his plan of salvation. He says, I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain. I, the Lord, speak righteousness. I declare things that are right. So this Anton kind of gets to your question. That if God has ordained a people whom he intends to save, What difference does it make for the unbeliever? Why should we bother preaching the gospel? Will we preach because God has commanded us to? Because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God Because God has ordained means by which men do come to Christ, they can become an awakened sinner, and election is not salvation, election is unto salvation. It simply indicated this one in time will become saved. There's a lot of elect people out in the world, I'm sure, who are yet dead in sins and trespasses. The word of life has yet to approach them, to get them and quicken that that that thing in them. To to implant that thing in them that will quicken them. I shouldn't say that there's some seed of life already present there. No, the word of life has got to come to them. And that's what's going to change. That's what's going to make the difference Can you give me can you give an example of um election unto salvation? Election unto salvation? Yeah. Uh let me find that phrase. How would I explain that to someone? Oh okay, okay. You're just looking for an example for that. Um Well um I can give you an example from scriptures. You have the patriarchs, Abraham and Isaac, and Jacob. So there was Abraham, whom God called out of Ur the Chaldees, and he gave him promises that he would have a son, and his son would be an heir, and so forth, and lo and behold, Isaac eventually came along. And then Isaac had a child, Jacob, and Jacob had many children. Now the promise was to the seed, which at the time was understood to be descendants. Ultimately that seed would be Christ. Were all of the descendants of Jacob saved? No. Some were. And in due time it became evident, it became plain which ones were the children of God, because those are the ones that came. to Christ. Look at John seven. Uh John seven, and I think it's verse thirty eight. I I'm gonna use a scripture point to answer your question, then I can give another example if you'd like. Uh John seven. Just because I tried to explain that and I couldn't. Right. Like how do I give an like a real life example of Yeah, yeah, yeah. John six thirty-seven, that's where I was going, not seven thirty-eight, to have some a reference crosswired in my brain. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me And him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. In families, when uh parents are dealing with their children, uh they don't assume that There's two wrong assumptions, two wrong approaches to parents dealing with their children. One is to say, um, well, uh I'm a Christian, my spouse is a Christian, and therefore we just automatically assume our Christian, our children will be Christian. And we don't do anything to impress upon them the need to repent, the need to believe. We don't impress upon them. We're not asking them to make a free will decision. We're not asking them to walk an aisle. We're saying you've got to believe God You've got to repent. You've got to listen to what the Lord says. You've got to seek me and search for me with all your heart, and I will surely be found of you. And at some point it enters into the child's minds, either through the preaching they hear from the pulpit, if they're taken to a faithful church on Sundays, and they ought to be. that something will click and the child begins to walk in the ways of the Lord. That's an example. They're elect, they're identified by God as one who will become saved in time So they will be eventually Eventually. We don't know when, but the when occurs when the Word of God comes to them and they go, you know what, this is a good idea. It's like the Parable of the prodigal son, where it enters into his mind, I have in my father's house is bread and food enough, and here I perish with hunger. I know what I will do. I will arise and go to my father's house and say I have uh I have sinned against thee and against heaven, am no longer worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And so that's what enters into their mind. Something different comes into their thinking, and there's a change. Does that kind of answer it some? Yeah. There's a point in time. There's a point in time when they will become saved. So just because someone is elect in and of itself does not mean at that second they are saved. But eventually it's happening. Eventually it will happen. Yes. Um next point we talk about. Any other questions about the um uh the the knowledge of God, the foreknowledge of God? What is uh like that's when we were talking, uh God was giving them all the what to do. Uh uh how it's going to be done. What about now? How do we know what God wants us to? Like for example, David when he told him to get away from that place. Yeah, it's a very good question That's a very good question. Boy, wouldn't it be nice if you could turn to uh first Hezekiah chapter thirteen to find out what do I do in my particular life situation Or that we could uh pray and and and God would answer you right there in the closet with a booming voice from heaven and an angel sent down and handing you some scrolls. Boy, that would be really convenient. Um well God has chosen his infinite wisdom not to operate that way anymore. And there is a very good reason for that is because he's already spoken, he's already said enough. about how to navigate through life. He doesn't need to repeat himself. We just need to read and get familiar with it. So in the Old Testament, before Christ came, Before Jesus Christ made an appearance in the flesh, I'm not talking about being born through the quote-unquote mother of God, which is what the Catholics will say Jesus is eternal God from the beginning, and he is the creator. So before the Christ came to fulfill the promises of the prophesied Messiah, God sent his prophets who would direct and steer and navigate these critical characters in the life of those leading up to the coming of the Messiah. The Messiah has now come. We're not looking for a Messiah. He's already come. He's already fulfilled everything. And furthermore, he has concluded this book It's written, it's complete, it's a comprehensive set of things, and you know what? He actually tells us a lot of things that are coming. He tells us far more information than the Old Testament uh people ever ever had. He gives clear insights uh about heaven hell, about judgment day. He gives all kinds of parables. He talks about difficult times. He talks about he gives signs. In the last days perilous times shall come. So he has given us information of things that count of things that matter. He gives us principles in the Bible as to how we are to live, to love not the world, neither the things that are in the world All that is in the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life, are not of the of the Father, but of the uh of the devil. And I'm I'm m misquoting uh first John too, let me get that. the gospel and after Jesus came and was finished on the cross, I think everything you really need to know about decision making is all in the Bible. We can that's all you need to to know. Except humans don't really See it that way because it doesn't you know, because they want to see it from their point of view. Sure. But I think everything you ever need to know is in the Bible after Okay. I I I agree foundationally. Her point is getting to some of the more detailed questions of life that come up. Some of those things. And uh so you are fundamentally correct, and I will not disagree with that one bit. Everything we need to know is here. Part of our problem is we don't know this book very well. And number two, we're filling our minds with so many other things that it's very difficult for us to mentally process and to shape our thinking in a way So that as we face struggles and challenges in life, we're not coming at it with a biblically informed mind, with a biblically sharpened mind It's like trying to chop down trees in the forest with my chainsaw. The the the saw keeps coming off. The chain keeps falling off the plate. And if I keep running it but it's not attached, it's it's useless. I'm not making any headway. I'm not making any progress And so God talks about prayer, that we would pray, that he would make the way plain and known to us. There is a lesson to be learned in dependency There's a lesson to be learned in waiting on the Lord. There's lessons to be learned in the fellowship of the saints, where there's a fellowship in the multitude of counselors, there's safety. So there's a lot of principles that we can use to avail ourselves, to apply, to figure out some of these smaller things, which in the river of life ultimately don't matter. Good question though. We wrap up with a consideration of the power of God. Another attribute God does communicate to us, the power. This is the strength, the ability, whether in terms of government or in terms of uh the ability to, you know, in man's case, wage war. Um only God ultimately is omnipotent. We know he's omniscient. He's alone is omnipotent. He alone knows how to do all things. There's a hand out there if you'd like it. In Genesis 18, 14, uh he asks, is anything too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed I will return unto thee according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. This is another one that I'm astounded with. Think about the prophecies that all related to the Messiah, to the specific lineage. of Jesus Christ. And he would be born of a woman. Gee, that's not tough, you would think. A virgin, born of a virgin woman, well that raises the bar a little bit. Of the seed of Abraham Seed of Isaac, seed of Jacob, line of David, Solomon. So we're identifying a specific generational kingly. And he would be born in Bethlehem. Okay, now we're naming the place And he would be born, the s the the scepter shall not depart from Judah till Shiloh come, meaning they would retain, Israel would retain a measure of sovereign right. All of this specific detailed information That God declared. And it dawned on me one day how intense our God's knowledge is. Because the last I checked Most marriages were between two people that wanted to get married. They didn't just happen to be You know, thrust by God, okay, these two people gotta meet because they gotta have a son that's gonna marry this one over here and the timing and boy, oh this has got to work out. There wasn't this, you know, I don't know, I don't know why we're married. We were just shoved together in the parking lot and, you know, we were thrust into a Vegas, you know, get married quick booth and we came out and a child came. I don't have anything to do with her now. No, it's like these people wanted to see each other. They they willingly made the choice. They joyfully entered into that arrangement I'm not going to talk about the struggles and difficulties that come later in life, but isn't it amazing that our God has ordained all that would happen, and yet the creature, every step of the way, seemed to be willing participant. Even in the case of Judah, who thinks he's going into a harlot by the side of the road, but it turns out to be his daughter-in-law, who has more respect unto the covenant of God than he does, and shames him. He never had relations with her again, and lo and behold, Pharise came from that, from whom came Boaz and eventually David. How does God do all that? I don't know. Is anything too hard for the Lord? Matthew 3. 9, we talk about the power of God. I think not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father, for I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. I don't think he was kidding. I think he really could do that. Look, Adam came from dirt. So stones, this is not a stretch either And then in the Garden of Gethsemane, as he's praying, it's nighttime. Soldiers have come out to arrest Christ. And here's Peter. I gotta love Peter, I tell you, I we all see a little bit of ourselves in Peter, and here he is in his zeal. I'm gonna defend the gospel, I'm gonna defend Christ, I'm gonna defend He pulls the sword off, bold fellow takes a swipe, I think, sideways, at the soldier's head, who probably would have ducked like that and taken his ear off. If it had been down, it would have taken his shoulder off And Christ tells him, put up your sword. Thinkest thou not that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? I could pray. I can ask this. Peter, what are you doing? Again, he had already told them multiple times, you know, the Son of Man is going to go to Jerusalem, he's going to be delivered in the hands of the chief priests, the scribes, and elders. You'll be uh crucified and buried in three days' wise again. He told them that a lot. And even at that moment, Peter's out there swinging his machete, and Christ says, No, I can I can Do this. Do you have a comment? No? No. I want to ask another question now. Is it conceivable to talk about any limits to God's power? This is a trick question Is it conceivable to talk about limits to God's power? Does God limit his power? Yes or no? What do you think? No. No. No? No? I was just going to say only limited in That's correct. That's correct. So God can self-limit himself in some areas. Exactly. In Numbers twenty-three, nineteen, God is not a man that he should lie. Can God lie? No, he cannot lie. It's impossible for God. He's truth. 2 Timothy 2. 13. If we believe believe not, yet he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. So he can't deny himself. That's a tremendous blessing for the child children of God if the Spirit of God is in them. God the Father can't deny that individual because he can't deny himself. He's there James says this, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil. Neither tempteth he any man. God can't be tempted with evil. He can't look upon that and say, hmm, well, that would be an interesting thought. You know, and then and then pull away from it. No, he cannot be tempted with evil. It's all repulsive to him. His immediate instinctual reaction, if I can even use the word instinctual, pardon me, I'm speaking as a man, but his immediate character demands in a response that says, that's repulsive. Get thee hence for me, Satan. Thou savorest not the things that be of God, but of men. That is his nature. Well, we wrap that up. That's our study to look at the the knowledge of God and the uh the power of God. So I trust you were blessed with that. Let's wrap it up in prayer, shall we pray? Father in heaven, we thank you for the time that we've had to consider these wonderful attributes you have, Lo, but a portion of your ways we do understand And the secret things do belong to thee. Lord, we do not understand how you can ordain all things to come to pass exactly the way as they shall, and yet give man conditional events in life promising life and death if we would but obey thee, and horrible consequences if we disobey. Father, we uh thank you for your word which warns us and Exhorts us in these things. Cause thy people to be faithful to all that thou hast spoken, and to uh that these things would be a blessing and not a cursing to us. Bless the remainder of worship services today. In Jesus' name. Amen Yes.