We're in the twenty-eighth chapter now. We've covered uh the questions of religion, we've covered the questions of God and how he reveals himself, how the Bible came to us, we've covered who the Bible reveals, its inerrancy. It talks about Jesus Christ. It talks about Christ as the Son of the Father, who the Father is, all of his attributes. Who man is, his attributes, the things that man shares with God. And we've kind of taken a very systematic walk through the teachings of the Bible as it relates to life, starting with God and coming down to man. So at the tail end of the study, we start to enter into some teachings that might make us a little uncomfortable. We're going to be dealing with some teachings that are not something you think, well, why do we need to have be taught about these things? They're obvious, it happens to everyone, and the topic is that of physical death. So why do you suppose people die Body wears out. The whole body wears out. Okay. The seeds of dissolution. That's the theologians refer to that as the seeds of dissolution. So uh well turns out that that's close, but that's uh What'd you say? Because of sin? Okay. So what happens when I uh uh w well I'm well w next week we'll look into what happens. Uh But talk to me a little bit more about what you sense or perceive that death is. So body wears out. But what is it? What actually is death? Separation from the body from the soul. Separation from the body and the soul, good, good, that's correct. No cheating and looking ahead. Well, let me read to you this introductory excerpt from Mr. Burkhoff. This is in his systematic theology book And it's three paragraphs. I believe it's included. No, it's not included on your handout. You've just got the verses there. And so this whole chapter that we're dealing with is end times, and we're going to start with the end of our own life. That's kind of our personal end time. The question of eschatology, that's the doctrine or the teaching of end time things, is a natural one. The doctrine of the last things is not something peculiar to the Christian religion. Wherever people have seriously reflected on human life Whether in the individual or in the race. They haven't merely asked whence did it spring and how did it uh come to be what it is, but also whither is it bound You know, the great question, what is the purpose of life? Where are we headed towards? What's all this mean? And they raise the question, what is the end or the final destiny of the individual? What is the goal towards which the human race is moving? Does man perish at death, or does he enter upon another state of existence, either of bliss or of woe? Will the generations of men come and go in endless successions and finally sink into oblivion? Or is the race of the children of men and all of creation moving on to some divine telos, an end designed for it by God? If the human race is moving on to some final, some ideal condition, perhaps, will the generations that have come and gone participate in this in any way? And if so, how Or did they merely serve as a thoroughfare leading up to the grand climax? Plato taught the immortality of the soul, that is, some continued existence after death. Spinoza had no place for it in his system of pantheism. Immanuel Kant stressed the untenableness of this argument, but retained the doctrine of immortality as a matter of practical reason. These are all famous philosophers. If you haven't heard them, those of you in college surely will have stumbled across their writings somewhere. Not only did the philosophers reflect on the future of the individual, they thought deeply on the future of the world The Stoics, you read about these cats in the Bible, the Stoics thought and spoke of successive world cycles. You know, one world begins and ends, another world begins and ends. Kind of sounds like evolution, right? Or in the Buddhists who talked about world ages, in each of which a new world appears and again disappears. Even Immanuel Kant speculated on the birth and death of worlds Buddhism has its nirvana, Muhammadism its sensual paradise, and the Indians of North America their happy hunting grounds. It's only in the Christian religion, and this is a really big takeaway point, that the doctrine of last things receives greater precision and carries with it an assurance that it is divine. Naturally, those who are not content to rest their faith exclusively on the Word of God, but make it contingent on experience and the deliverance of the Christian consciousness are at a great disadvantage here. And I really like that last part, because if you're trying to base your sense of the future on what you perceive and feel right now. You're sadly mistaken. You're sadly mistaken. There's a radically different program. And you see the seeds and the elements of evolutionary thought, the succession of worlds. That's why NASA, in order to justify their existence, continue to promulgate these ideas of we're looking for other exostars, habitable planets out in the universe. uh as if though God's center of attention isn't here on earth. And all of this is uh nothing new under the sun. We've always had these ideas of circling worlds and cycling worlds and so forth So we're talking about physical death, kind of the first step of your own personal last end times, your own end things Let's look at the Bible's description of death, and there's where you've got your notes in the handout. It's effectively referred to as a termination of life, where life ceases. Matthew The angel said to Joseph, Arise, take the young child and his mother, go into the land of Israel, for they are dead which sought the young child's life. Here you have a young child, he's alive. Herod's trying to kill him, they're dead, they're deceased, nothing further they can do. Jesus asks the question, is it lawful on the Sabbath days to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it? So the opposite of life is death, and we all understand these things. Ms. Iba pointed out that there's the death of the body, and there's something called the death of the soul. There's two different aspects to it And Jesus spoke about this. You know what's interesting? The Lord Jesus spoke more about hell and death than any of the former prophets combined. His teachings on this far exceeded anything that had previously been written. He says in Luke 12, 4 I say unto you, my friends, this is interesting, he's speaking to his friends, not his enemies. Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after they have no more that they can do. What do you divine? What do you divide? What do you pull from that sentence? What's tantalizing about that statement? Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more they can do. There's some implications of that. something worse that can happen to you than death. Yeah there's something worse. Yeah, after they have no more they can do. Okay, any other thoughts on that Glory? Well the flip side it could be the worst you experience because you have hope of something better after you die. Because there is a hope, right? Okay. Yeah. What about that phrase and after uh that they have no more they can do? The evil design Right. Man's power s uh extends only to this physical uh area of life that we're currently in. After that, they can't do anything. You know, I I remember uh uh um there was uh yet another mass school shooting in the days of uh President uh G. W. Bush, number 43, President number 43 And the press was roasting him. You know, why don't you make a law? Now the shooter went into school or did something shot, and then he himself was shot. He was dead. And so they're insisting, why don't you make a law? We need to add more laws, you know, isn't there something more that can be done? And he was retorting He's dead. What what more laws are you going to make that have jurisdiction beyond the grave? And I thought it was a good retort because Yeah, if the law prosecuted the individual and he died, he didn't get shot at the shooting. He was, you know, uh killed from capital punishment. I forget the exact circumstances, but the guilty was put to death And the outrage was, you ought to do something more. And he was kind of saying, um, you know he's dead? What, you know, we can't Even even a president recognizes there's a limit to what we can do, and it's patently obvious. Now the Roman Catholic Church didn't think so when Wycliffe had translated the Bible into English uh and he began to disseminate it uh throughout the land. Uh he uh uh passed, he perished before he got to see the fruits of his labors. And uh years later as the Bible in English became more popular, the Roman Catholic Church and its rage against him dug up his bones and burned his bones as if that's really gonna fix it. So there's a limit. We see more of the insight into what Jesus is talking about in Matthew 10, 28, fear not them which kill the body, and are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. So there we find that there is someone on the other side of the grave. There is someone uh on the other side of this life, who certainly has some additional power, and that power can extend beyond just dealing with with the soul. He's also able to do something to that body that died Because that body that died can be brought back to a form that can sense every bit of pain and then some under an eternal bit of suffering. So uh there is a distinction in the Bible between the death of the body and the death of the the soul. Ms. Abba pointed out that it's a separation, that the body and the soul are separated. We read in Psalm 104, 29, Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled, thou takest away their breath They die in return to their dust. We read a lot of some uh Miraculous occurrence at the hospital where so-and-so, an individual, they will say, was clinically dead, and I'll give them a pass. They use the word clinically dead. And then they say he came back to life. And the individual reports some bizarre encounters. He was floating above, he saw his body. I I don't know what to say to that. Perhaps that's uh You know, there is some uh ability to reflect about the room of yourself and so on. But it's clear that he really didn't die because when the body is truly separated from the soul, The only time you see that reunion is when God Almighty resurrects the individual. Notice the word breath here in Psalm 104 is in the Greek In the New Testament, when it uses the word breath or wind, it's the word pneuma. We get our word pneumatic tires from that. That's often a figure and same word used to refer to God the Holy Spirit. Genesis talks about the The Spirit of God breathed into Adam. That breathing in, that breath is imparting a soul. It's imparting life into it. And so that phrase breath is referring to the soul. The soul is being taken away. God takes away their soul. We see in Ecclesiastes 12, 7 It says, Then shall the dust return unto earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it, that is the spirit of life. That at death there's a separation, God pulls that spirit back, all the spirits are his, that spirit of life, he owns that, and the particles return to the earth Isn't it interesting? Uh I love to pick on evolution. It's one of my favorite uh targets. You would think that the evolutionists would be positing the idea that when something dies that the spark of life can once again come to it and that would be the source of new species. I mean You had all the parts there, right? They were working. They were up and moving. All we need is to kick start the engine, right? There's just got to be something to crank the handle again that to get it going. I mean you pretty much have intact a fully operating, functioning design. Yeah, you have proof of it. Ten days ago, the individual, the animal was moving around. Why can't they just add one little thing To get it going again. The answer is because they can't answer for the soul. They can't answer for the principle of life. We've never really witnessed the law A biogenesis, I'm not exactly sure how to pronounce it, that is, that non-living things do not create living things. Life only begets life. If it's alive, it's complex. extraordinarily complex and we just don't see the dust animating and coming back again. James 2. 26, for as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. So when you read these stories, I don't know how to answer them, but I can tell you this, the individual in the hospital really wasn't dead because if he lost his spirit, he's gone. The spirit returns to God. It's gone. And unless Scripture indicates God returning the Spirit to that person, and that was a rare uh circumstance in Scriptures, we don't find that happening today. 2 Corinthians 5. 8, the Christian's confidence. He says, we are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Isn't that interesting? What does that statement say to us? We are willing to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. What can you pull out of that? I don't care for God. They don't care to die, it doesn't ultimately bother and move them that much. Okay, what else? Yeah. They have a confidence to go to heaven. Yeah. What else? Focusing on that word we. You could make it the word I. The believer has confidence that there's uh something that goes on beyond the race. Okay. I'm gonna ask a question about identity. What makes up you? What's your identity? Is it this? Is this you? Yeah, the soul. That's your identity. In other words, you are not what I'm looking at. So think about this. It says, we are confident, dot dot dot, to be absent from the body and to be present from the Lord. How can I be confident that I can be absent from my body, still be known as Vince, and be present with the Lord. In other words, the body then you look at as a shell. It's like the turtle's shell. It's referred to in Corinthians and another place as our earthly house. It's like a tabernacle. It's a temporary dwelling And there's a spirit that lives in that, and that happens to be you. So this business of getting hung up on what the flesh is like. Shape. You know, there's more variations in the shape of a human ear and the human nose than there is in the color of the skin. There's only sixteen skin colors. Right? There was an early biology thing where you go look at the amounts of melanin in the skin and the combinations and the chromatic variations you can have. But the shape of your ear and shape of your nose and that there's far greater range in that, but we don't have people defined as the big ears, the short ears, the curled ears, the you know. Uh straight ears. I mean that that we don't get hung up on that. It doesn't matter, none of that is you. The you is the soul. That's where the identity is. It's the soul. It's the character of that soul. That's the thing that matters. And death is the separation of that body. Well we turn to our next thought here in what is the cause of physical death? Mrs. Ross answered earlier that the old body just wears out. I know that's your experience. So I have all of our experiences. I'm feeling that. But what is the cause? Another mentioned earlier sin What are some of the causes? There's multiple causes. I'm not talking about pulmonary embolism, heart attack, cancer, lung disease. I'm not talking about that. Yep, yep, sickness, right. But what what's the what's the cause? Why is sickness around? Sin. Okay, sin. She's already mentioned that. Yep, sin. It's time Just the passing of time. If Adam had not eaten from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the Garden of Eden, would he have died? He wouldn't have died. So it can't be just the passing of time, because if he had not sinned, sin came in, then he died. But just passing of time in and of itself, we're designed to be eternal creatures. We would have lived forever. I think God just changed these up Change the design. Well he certainly cursed it, right? So let's look at some of these things. I've got your mind thinking here. So there is a teaching out there that death is fundamentally natural. It's just part of life. that it's always going to happen, that you can't get around it. And it's due to the seed of dissolution within man. That's kind of a phrase. The evolutionist will teach this, they think this, that atheism has at its core this concept because for them death is necessary for the strong to prevail over the weak. How can the strong prevail over the weak if the weak don't die? And so, yes, they say that death is necessary. It's a natural part of how things are. However, Scriptures doesn't teach that. It's not saying that that is natural, that that is normal. That is not the reason for death. The reason for death is not natural because man was created in God's image. Does God die? No, God can never die. Even on the cross, he said to the thief, this day you'll be with me in paradise. So he suffered the death of his body, but he was alive, very much so. God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him. And so because man is in God's image, he lives forever, Psalm 90 says, Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. I'm in Psalm 91 and 2. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. So we're made in that image. Because we're made in his image, we're made, we're designed, we're built to live forever. There's fundamentally nothing wrong with our construct as body and soul. It in fact could live forever, and yea, verily, in the ages to come, shall, to not have pain. It won't wear out, it won't get tired, the eyes won't fail, the hearing won't go bad. Yeah. Won't have bowel problems, won't be throwing up, won't we have pain. All kinds of goodness happens in life. Right? There is a day coming. It will surely come. You will surely see it. So then what is it? Well, death is a result of sin, and it's also a punishment for sin. And that's really the part that the world doesn't want to talk about. Talk about sin as if though, whoops a mistake, whoops, you goofed up, whoops, you uh messed that one up. Kind of like the Apollo 13 mission went up in space, something astronauts are zipping around in their little module up there, they heard a bang. What was that? That's not good. Whoops. You know, the whoops moment up in space. Well, we're gonna pay for this one. Whoops. Wasn't their fault? Stuff just happened. Badness occurred and things can spiral out of control fast. Hint they came back alive. But it's a punishment for sin. God said to Adam, But of a tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. Question, did Adam Did Adam's carcass hit the ground the second he ate from that tree? He obviously didn't because we're still here So what does God mean when he says, in the day you eat, in the day you eat, you will surely die? Well, what happens? It turns out in the Hebrew that phrase, you shall surely die. See that phrase, surely die? can literally be rendered in dying you shall die. In dying you shall die. The sentence was pronounced. There was an immediate change in Adam's makeup and his constitution and how Adam as a man was made. He was immediately alienated from God. There was a, as it were, a spiritual death in him. His um uh Uh uh he still had the spirit of life, but he was alienated from God. There was a there was an alien there was like a spiritual death that um Uh Ephesians talks about. And yea, his body would no longer be fit. It was losing its fitness, and it would slowly but surely So there was some change that God made because of punishment, because of a punishment for sin. Genesis 3. 19, the curse came, and the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread, till thou return unto the ground. Out of it thou wast taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. Two, young college, three, young four, five, six young working age individuals. And the hope is I'm gonna work and sweat and toil till I get a certain point and then I'll have many goods stored up in a bar and I'll say Take thine ease, eat and drink, I'll just live off of, what's the word, passive income? Is that the phrase I mean? Unfortunately, it says in the sweat of thy face, you shall eat bread until you return to the ground. When riches be increased, there be those increased that eat them. You have to go and beat off the little rats that want to chew And take a bite out of all the income. It's part of the curse. It's just part of the curse. And it goes beyond just the physical body. For out of it thou wast taken for dust, thou art into dust you return. I know, baby, this is hard language, isn't it? Talk about death to an infant. I thought this was the happy Sunday school. Poor child. We love hearing your voice. Don't take him out unless you need to, unless he's hungry. Romans 5, the apostle says this, Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. Notice what was what entered was sin, and sin unfortunately had a poison pill with it, and that poison pill was death. And so death passed upon all men for all that sinned. And we know these things. I like the language in 1 Corinthians 15 in verse 56. It says, the sting, the sting. of death is sin. There's a sting to it. That's that that curse, that's that punishment. The sting of death is sin. And the strength of sin, the thing that empowers sin, that makes sin so stainful, is the law. Because it's the law of God that says the soul that sins shall surely die. It's the law of God that brings with it the curse. It's the law of God that is offended, that is violated, that says I have to be made satisfied. And that is The sting is that punishment. Furthermore, death is uh an expression of divine anger. We've kind of been I think channeling our thoughts down the path of just a natural point in time when the human body expires and we give up the ghost. However, Read through the obituary some morning. Brother Bernie used to do that and say, Good day, Vince. I didn't find my name in the obituary. Well, Bernie, I guess that's true. He always had a sense of humor. But it's interesting because you'll read so-and-so died at age 45, so-and-so died at age 30. I read about famous musicians or football players or athletes, prime of their life, strong, could outwork me any day and do far greater things. They die. Death is also an expression of divine anger. God will terminate your life early if he so chooses. Psalm 90, Moses saw plenty of this. He said in Psalm 90, verse 7, it says, We are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee. Hint. Bad place. Bad place to have your iniquities set right before a living God. Our secret sins in the light of thy covenants. For all our days have passed away, in thy wrath we spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years were three score years and ten, but seventy. And if by reason of strength they be fourscore, that's 80 years old. So you leaders are very strong. You've made it to 80. Way to go. It is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. So think about Moses. He was a great lawgiver. He was a great leader. He took all of these Jews, a huge number, upwards one, some estimates high as two million individuals out of Egypt through the desert. Across the Red Sea to the Promised Land, wandering in the wilderness for forty years. I can't imagine the headache, the the the the difficulty of dealing with that many people And what he saw was God's wrath upon an angry people. Every day somebody died in the wilderness. It says, because of their grumbling. Because they murmured against the ten spies that came back, or the two spies that had a good report, and believed the ten spies with an evil report, because of that, what should have been a four-day trip into the land of Canaan turned out to be a 40-year detour wandering in circles, looking at the same sand dune and cactus and dead camel bones for the next 40 years as they kept wandering around. And every day somebody was buried. You count 600,000 men of eligible age to be counted coming out of Egypt, and about as many that were age 20 and up, uh age 20, excuse me, and below, who survived and grew up are those that came in. So every day I estimated that Moses was burying about 14 people a day. For 40 years. This was the man's ministry. Somebody was dying. Somebody needed to be buried every single day of 40 years. And so he saw firsthand. We are consumed by that anger. He saw a whole nation of grumbling Jews consumed in the wilderness, except for two. Who were the two that weren't consumed? There were two of that first generation. Well he was a little earlier. He he he he died before I think about the day that Noah got on the ark is when he punched out. So he he was alright. Who were the two in Moses' generation that didn't die? Yeah, Joshua and Caleb. Those were the two faithful spies. They were spared. Another cause of physical death is the judgment. It's a judgment of God, and this we see in our land a lot. Romans 1. 32, who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. There's different ways that God brings that about. Sometimes he just up and kills an individual. Other times he uses his secular sword, known as the government, to come down on an individual. Uh there are some people that do some pretty heinous crimes and if they're actually convicted by a jury in this land and actually sentenced by a judge in this land and sent to prison and condemned to death in this land. Uh you can guarantee they are certainly worthy of it. That's a mighty, mighty tough uh batch. And you read about their crimes of some of these individuals on on death row and wow you just shake your head and go, ish, yeah, this individual needs to be removed from society. The Bible supports capital punishment I do believe that there have been individuals that have been unjustly condemned and then finally freed from DNA evidence and the like, but for the most part I don't see that. It's a judgment against sin. But those who commit certain certain things are worthy of death. And they approve others who likewise are worthy of death. So it should be a judgment of God, and that judgment is rendered. It's a condemnation. To be condemned to die. That's another statement from God. It is by one that sinned, for the judgment was by one to condemnation. It's an early statement of the Lord, you know, come ye blessed, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world, and on the left hand depart ye cursed. It's a condemnation. uh to to face that. And likewise it's a curse, Galatians 3. 13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us. Those are all the things that are related. to physical death and its cause. Does that kind of open your appreciation, perhaps, a little more for death. It's not this, oh well, evolution's idea, but it's just natural. It's penalty free. Uh poof, you're gone. You know, never to be seen again. Never never have to face God again. Um, you know, there's a place in Isaiah it speaks of the wicked, and it says, they have made a covenant with death and hell. They've got their own little insurance policy. They'll do their sins, they'll bury it in some obscure place, they'll pour it in the end zone of a newly built football stadium and concrete over it and never to be found. There, my sins are hidden. I don't have to deal with God. It's gone. The evidence is can't be found Some say the ultimate way to kill somebody, the ultimate murder is to stab them with an ice pit, a big old icicle hanging down, and you got this big sharp thing and you can stab somebody with that and the evidence will melt. How convenient. The perfect crime. Can't find it. There is no perfect crime. You're not getting away with anything. The God of the heavens sees. He'll surely bring it up There is no escape. Your covenant with death and hell will be annulled and made null and void. So it is a curse. It is a condemnation, and it's a measure of his just wrath. Well, for the believer it is. Absolutely. It's a tremendous relief. It's a tremendous escape. Uh it's their way of uh of uh Uh well let's talk about that because I'm gonna get into uh this this last topic. So it's a good good segue. Let me ask a question I've kind of been talking about death of the unbeliever. But let's talk about a believer, because believers die too, right, physically. But why? Why? Why must a believer die? I mean, think about it. Wouldn't it be great? You're a child of God, you become saved, very interested in the things of God. And you don't physically die on this earth. Pretty soon people begin to notice the Christians are like 500, 600 years old and they're still around. But we keep dying. That'd be pretty interesting. Well, why not uh uh uh a person become saved and poof, they're immediately taken to heaven? But we're left here. So any ideas? Why must a believer die? We must teach. Okay. Okay. Very yes. So uh that that's good. I like that. I like that. That's interesting. We must teach. Okay, that kind of gets down to there's a purpose. And one of those purposes, I suppose you could say, is a great commission going to all the world. Preach the gospel, teach. There has to be some propagation of the Christian faith. Sure. Can't do that if the old boy's not here, right? Victoria? Just to kind of take you back off what Mrs. Ross is saying. I'm reminded of the death of Polycarp. Um very powerful uh testimony he gave as he was burned at the stake. Um And his death was instrumental in bringing forth tremendous reformation in Rome and just just kind of turned the tide towards Christianity because people were so disgusted that that regime was killing such a Upright, godly, aged man. Yes. Yeah, the death of Polycarp brought about a lot of fruit. It immediately stopped uh the nearly immediately stopped the uh persecution and the torture of Christians in the Roman uh stadia uh for the emperor's pleasure. The audience just with one accord was uh uh was So uh and he it just it it as Victoria eloquently said, it just cut it out. It sniffed the snuffed out the interest in these things. Well, believers die, folks. We die because it appears to be from Scripture an important element of sanctification. It appears to be an important element of sanctification in their life. as we lead up to that. First of all, it's a supreme test of faith, right? When you're facing the gates of death closer and closer, right? Well your age, right? That death is so far out of mind. Yeah, that's just way down. I understand mentally that that's going to get there, but I'm feeling the mist If I could put it that way, of the Jordan River. Those of you a little closer to the river feel the waves lapping at the feet and the toes. And it's cold and it's dark and murky. It's a supreme test of faith. You know, when you're faced with it right here Do you really still believe the God of the Bible? Are you faithful to the end? The scripture talks about, right? 1 Peter 4 says this, beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. Now this is not talking about death. Peter's not referring to that. But just listen to this next part. But rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings. Ah, well, Christ did suffer in the flesh here, walking on this earth. But what was his ultimate suffering? What was his ultimate humiliation? Was it not the cross? Was it not that death? And was he not faithful even to the very end? So it's a supreme. It's that ultimate test. You could say it's your final exam. the final exam of life. And there are some who flunk it. There was a thief on the right hand who passed, and the thief The thief on the left hand who failed. He flunked the final exam of life. Well, you can flunk a lot of things in life, but that's not one you want to miss. Let me read the rest of that verse. Rejoice in as much as you are partakers of Christ's sufferings, this is 1 Peter 4. 13, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. There's a great joy that comes with it. Revelation 21 says this, there shall in no wise enter into it, speaking of heaven, anything that defileth. Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. You see, God has a purpose, a plan for refining for shaping you because you see you is not this we already talked about that you is not this physical body. You as that soul. And so God is allowing things that happen to your body to have an impression, to have an educational value to teach the soul to lean on Jesus, to teach the soul that God's word is true, that he's trying to reorient your thinking, and he will succeed. And making you understand how and why this world is wired the way it is, and how and why heaven is wired the way it is. We're being prepared for our future home. And all that happens here is somehow coming together to shape and form each of us individually. to correct some of the things of the past, to lay forward things of the future, it's all shaping our thinking. Some lessons take a really long time, Mrs. Ross. Especially for humans. Okay, sure, I'll deal with that. Alright, we must, through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of heaven, the scripture says. Alright, well, that's the the topic of this, and I know it's a familiar one. It's not a uh happy subject, but uh I trust it round out our rounded out our thinking a little bit. Anton, could you close us in prayer? Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we praise you that you've granted us this hour, this uh time to gather to hear what your scripture says about death, O Lord. Uh Uh uh men have many vain philosophies regarding it, but your word is clear. It's uh punishment, it's a result of the fall, it's uh uh payment for sin. But we praise you that in Christ the sting uh the death has lost its sting, O Lord. We pray you wouldn't help us to continue to look unto Christ uh the one who does give everlasting life and and who's already borne the wrath of God for all of his elect. We pray you would bless the time and worship as well, and we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.