Well, last week we looked at the uh names of God and we covered some of the more common names. The names that we first discovered in Greek and Hebrew, Eel, Elohim, is one that I think many Christians know, that name for the creative power of God. It's also plural Let us make man in our image, God says in the plural. We looked at Adonai, which corresponds to the New Testament, Kurios, which is just general Lord. If you were a servant, you would speak to your master as Lord There would be El Should I. Michael Carr has made a song with that name. It's become popular of late and uh well it's been popular for a while now. And the Greek is Panto Krator. It's a name of a supreme powerful ruler, one who has great legal authority to rule over all the Almighty God is how it's rendered. And then we looked at the word ab, father, and that's of course the most endearing name, corresponds to the Greek word, from where we get our word paternal, the paternal and maternal side of things But today we're going to devote the entirety of this study to the most special name of God, and that most special name is Jehovah. Seems that everybody knows that name. Now there's a handout next to you there. Yep, you've got it And we'll use that to kind of follow along. I did change slightly the order of what we're going to look at in Exodus. We'll first turn to Exodus 3 and then Exodus 6. But that word Jehovah was deemed an incredibly special name by the ancient Hebrews. Tradition has it that when the Masoretes were making copies of the Bible, and that was a funded government position, scribes, job. was to make copies of the Bible, put it on vellum, which would be lamb skin, and over time, as they would get used, they would wear out, they'd have to make a new copy. that when they came to that most holy name, Jehovah Yahweh, that they would write the first letter with one pen and throw that pen away. And they would take the next pen and they would write the next letter and throw that away. Fortunately, there were only four letters in that Hebrew name, and there was no shortage of pens, and so that is the path they went down. So let's look at that uh uh that name Jehovah. It shows up over 6,823 times in the Bible. It is an enormously popular name of God, one that he truly likes to ascribe to himself. extensively through scripture, eclipsing the the nearest neighbor of Al and Elohim, which occurred 2,380 times in the Old Testament. Don't quote me exactly on that number, but it's in the 2,000 plus range. The first place we find it is in Genesis 2. 4, in the day that the Lord God made the heavens and the earth, we see that name Yahweh show up It just appears. No explanation. Yahweh made the heavens and the earth. We then get to an interesting place, and that's where I'll have you look in your handout to Exodus chapter 3 and verse 13. Where Moses is having a little discussion with the Lord. You know, he was a rather bold fellow. He liked to negotiate. Abraham liked to negotiate. Moses had some arguments there about I'm not eloquent, I'm not this, I'm not that Well one of the first complaints he had was, okay Lord, you've given me this vision. Yep, burning bush that doesn't get consumed. That's impressive. Haven't seen that lately in the desert. Things get dry and hot and they burn up into in a crisp in a second. He says, When I go and speak to this people, well let's just read it here in Exodus 3 13 to 15. Moses said unto God, Behold, when I am common to the children of Israel, skip ahead a little bit. They shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? It's a decent question, legitimate question. And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. Could also be rendered I am who I am. Now that's not our word Jehovah, but just bear with me, you'll get to the connection in a second. And he says, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am and sent me unto you. And God said, moreover unto Moses, thou Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, The Lord, the Jehovah, God of your fathers, hath sent me unto you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. So we begin to get a hint When God sends a deliverer to Israel, and Moses astutely asks the right question, so what's your name? It says, I am that I am. That's my name throughout all generations. And he connects it with the Lord God of your fathers, Jehovah has sent me. unto you. That's what you're to say. So he's connecting I am with Jehovah and with that word God, the Lord God. Turn now to Exodus 6 and verse 2, and that's the verse that's up above in your handout. I printed them slightly out of order. Again, God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord. And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob. By the name of God Almighty. Now that was the word El Shaddai. He said, that's how I appear to them. But by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them. Isn't that interesting? Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob did not know God by the name of Jehovah, like you and I do, because God had not revealed it unto them. He had given his name In Genesis 2. 4, the Lord God made the heavens and the earth, and Adam and his Toledoth, his record of his life history that would be passed down to his son and he would have written a Tolodov, his life history. That was the Hebrew word that would describe, you would see it in the King James, in the days of, in the days of. That would reference the patriarchal time period. And so God says he was not known by that name Jehovah. Later, he'll get the Ten Commandments. And then he repeats it in Deuteronomy chapter 4, and that's our next reference, 31, for the Lord thy God is a merciful God. He will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he swear unto them. Again, that's that word Jehovah. What I find is interesting is that we have to stop and think about that for a moment because I'm really struck with that passage in Exodus 6. He says, I was not known by this name. to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But you, Moses, that's what you're going to tell your people, that I am that I am, that Jehovah It's a column. And it's a compound word. Yah, weah. Joshua, answers to the New Testament. Jesus. Wait, Savior. Jesus saves, right? That's what we heard from Gabriel the angel, Matthew 1. 21, when the name Jesus was given to Mary. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he, Jesus, shall save his people from their sins. It's the incarnation. So here he's being known most clearly now as God as Savior. Before he was God as creator, the one with the duh uh with the ability and the de facto right of ownership. The Almighty God, the powerful God, the one who is Lord, who has legal disposition over all, but now Past that threatening backdrop of that name, it now comes out with the name God's Savior. You ladies like to look for diamonds. Maybe you've admired some at a jewelry shop. When you look at a really nice diamond, how did the jewelry shop present it to you? It's on a piece of velvet. It's usually a black velvet. And then that diamond sits right on top of it. So here God paints his name with this black backdrop, these powerful, stark Unyielding names of this power. And right there in the middle is this diamond. God is Savior. It just sparkles. And that's how Scripture sets it out, like a diamond. So what does this tell us about God's character when looking at Exodus 6, 2, and 3, he says, I was not known unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. by the name of Jehovah, but but I but by the name El Shaddai. What are your thoughts? What does this tell us about God's character? What does this tell us about God in general? He didn't reveal that name to the patriarchs, but to Moses. He now is. What are your thoughts on that? God's revelation is always timely. He gives us the information we need for the time that we exist in. And Uh he gave his name Jehovah Savior at the time of the deliverance from Egypt when they needed deliverance. They had not been captive before this point. Um and of course the deliverance is a picture of our deliverance from Savior. Okay. Yep. Any other thoughts? About God's character here being put on display? With how he is going to lead the children out of Israel, he's going to save them from Pharaoh. So by by bringing in this new element in his name, it just I think ties in with that deliverance. Sure, it certainly ties in with his deliverance, what he's about to do. Mm-hmm. The timeliness of his name being given. I think he has an A-type personality I like that. Amplify that a little bit. Well, he wants to be noticed. He wants to be the center of everything. Yeah. And he wants to I like that. It doesn't dismiss what the other comments were, but I like the flavor it adds because it shows that, oh well, who's special in all of this creation when that was all there was to talk about? When There was this brand new earth with creatures and animals and birds and so forth going around. Well God was the center point. I'm Elohim, I'm the creator I'm the eighth, the alpha and the omega. And then as you go on, well, who's the most powerful God? El Shaddai, I Abraham. Don't worry that you don't know anything. I'm the center of attention here. And as you point out now when it gets to this business of redemption, yeah, no, I'm gonna be that Savior. All things were made by him and for him. That ties right in. This was for his pleasure. Yep And God's not ashamed and it's not embarrassing and it's not arrogant for God to say, Yeah, I am the center of attention. Arrogant is coming from a word arrogate, which means to ascribe to yourself characteristics that you do not have. But God is not arrogant because he does have those characteristics and he is rightful to point it out, thump thump, thump, I am your creator. More often than not, when God is speaking to the wicked, he will point out the fact that he's creator God and therefore has rights over them. Good discussion. Alright, so we go to these other places where we see, again, I'm not going to go through all six thousand eight hundred and twenty-three times that word Jehovah is used, but some Great places we find it is in Isaiah 42. 8, I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. Psalm 83, 18, that men may know that thou, whose name alone is Jehovah, art the Most High over all the earth. Gloria, could you hand a couple of those uh Sunday school handouts to the uh late arrivers over here? Because they're Flipping furiously, and they're not going to catch up. Look at Leviticus 24, 16. This is interesting, and I want to ask you what this tells us about that. Leviticus 24, 16, he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord Jehovah, he shall surely be put to death. And all the congregation shall certainly stone him, as well the stranger as he that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth the name of Jehovah shall be put to death. There was none other name that God gave that had a death penalty associated to it if you blaspheme his name. And that Hebrew word, I like the study of Hebrew. Hebrew is very colorful. Arabic and Aramaic likewise. This is a very colorful language. So are the Romantic languages of the old world. Very colorful Unlike Greek, which is very strict and sharp lines. And you know, when you add the two together, you have a great painting, the strict sharp lines of the New Testament with all the color of the old filling it in. That word blaspheme means to puncture or to curse. It's a mar against the name, to puncture it. It's to stab it. It's to poke at it, we would say. He's taking a poke at it. God says, you poke at the name Jehovah, and that's the death penalty. And hence why the Hebrews would dare not even speak the name Jehovah, lest they inadvertently puncture or blaspheme the name of God. What does this indicate to you and I? What does this n Certainly tie yeah, absolutely, certainly ties into one of the ten commandments, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. For the Lord God will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Blasphemy is very seen. Will not hold him guiltless. Isn't that amazing? The Lord Jesus kind of reinforces that later. All blasphemy against men shall be forgiven. But blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, he says, shall never be forgiven. And so there is a very serious, very serious penalty to that. And if you're ever worried, if you've perhaps done that by virtue of the fact that as a Christian, if you are scared and concerned that you might have done that, that's a pretty good indication you probably haven't. What else does this say about this name? But there's a death penalty associated with it. Look, he wants it to be very important And he wants to create fear in case you do do it. Yes. It's uh I like the first part, it's very important. The thing I got from that was that this is his name, par excellence. It's the chief, highest. It's the, if you were to say, what is the one best description of the name of God that we could give, it would be Jehovah. God is Savior. And you see how God, even by his very name, is wrapping a tight shell around that aspect of his character. He says, in this shell, I'm protected. In this shell, I exist uniquely. And that unique aspect is I, God, and I alone. And Savior. None other. Let no one else think that they can pull off this business of salvation. Because if you think you can, you're dead. So in some respects it's not so much a threat, although it certainly is, and it should be taken as one and not be taken rightly. But it's also true. It is a warning you would give to your child, son. These rail these railroad ties you see at the metro have 330 volts pulsing through 330,000, I forget how many thousands of volts are pulsing through the metro rails. Do not touch the high voltage rail. If you touch that, you're dead. There's no remedy. You warn them because you're telling them the truth, and God says, don't you dare. encroach upon this area of salvation that is mine and mine alone. That's part of his name. It it bespeaks absolute perfection in every area. Perfection in holiness, perfection works, perfection in salvation. Um when Job's wife said, Curse God and die, she basically was saying, Impugn the name of Jehovah and suffer the penalty which is portrayed. And he rebuked her saying, You speak as a foolish woman. You speak as a foolish woman. We find that name echoed again in the New Testament. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am He took up that that connection. He didn't s refer to Jehovah. He says, I am. So he's using that. And we know from the Old Testament that that's a bridge, that's a connection when God spoke to Moses. Tell them, I am that I am hath sent you. In Revelation, he appears the same way. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and was and is to come, the Almighty Again, an echoing of many of those names that he uses, the I am. I am, by the way, implies, that's an interesting name, I am Think about that. I am. Emphasis. It is an emphasis? What else does I am convey to us? Complete and total ego. Complete and total ego. Yeah, we certainly see that there is a um So expand on that. Uh we take ego in a harsh way. Um but uh uh but uh but there's another sense I th but there's uh let's amplify that sense when you when you say that there is a complete and total ego. How does that come out? no one else. Okay. I I am. Yes, yes, I am. There's no one else. Uh during what period of time? Yes. Yes. In other words, if his name is I am, meaning I exist, I have being, well, when does that name not apply? It would apply when he's dead. No no, I am. I never die. I'm the life giver. I am the life. And then you can fill in the blank. I am the truth. I am the door. Everything proceeds from him because I am. And so it implies that God possesses being, eternity, immutability. He doesn't change. That God is, and all else becomes. That's the difference we have. What's that? Present. Present. Yes, God is always present. Not I was. I has been. I am. I I am. I am. That's a powerful name What's interesting is God is so excited with that name that he actually uses compound forms of that name. He'll attach endings to the name Jehovah to illustrate certain aspects of his name. So for instance, we have, and I've got a list of these, I have four, five, six, seven, eight, nine different compound forms, just with that word Jehovah, and there's something added to the end of it. The first is Jehovah Sahabbath, the Lord of hosts, you will find it frequently used. It's used Throughout the book of the prophets, it's in Jeremiah 88 times, it's in Hakia 14, Zechariah 55 times, and Malachi 25 times. The Lord of hosts Hosts there I would take to mean the angelic hosts, those that God used with Elisha's servant Gehazi to open up his eyes and look round about the mouth to see that there were more with him than had gathered against him. The Lord of hosts he commands. He turned to Peter and says, Pff, Pff Up your sword Don't you think I could pray to my father and he would immediately send twelve legions of angels, and one angel could wipe out 185,000 Assyrians in one night? If you got one angel on your side, I'm telling you, you can crack open a big can of punishment there for whoever comes against them And he says I can get twelve legions, which if a Roman legion is about five thousand men, that's sixty thousand angels. That's in other words I can snap my fingers and call down judgment day and it's over with. Don't you think I can do that The Lord of hosts. David said to the Philistine, boldly, thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. Jehovah, Sabaoth. And it's not the word Sabbath of rest, it's uh Shehobahoth, Lord of hosts, I'm mispronouncing it. How would that name help those that are on the verge of defeat? Feels like you're on the rocks. You've seen that picture maybe in the cards that you give to people to encourage them. Here's a little rope and here's a kitten hanging onto this knot at the end of the rope and he's a little fuzz ball that's all puffed up and he's got his claws out everywhere What does this name Lord of hosts say to those on the verge of defeat? God is bigger, God is greater, there's nothing beyond his power. Yep. Uh amplify, you said God is greater. Remember this is a compound name. It's Yahweh of hosts. Yahweh is able to say Yes. The Savior who is in charge of the hoaxes. Yes, not only is he this great God, this Pontocrator, this this uh this curios, this lord with the ability and the strength, but it's the savior who is over these hosts. Your savior is in charge of these hosts. God is sufficient and able to save despite their failures. The other name is Jehovah Jirah, and this was given at this epic event in Abraham's life when he finds himself up on uh the uh mountain to sacrifice his son Isaac. And as he's about to plunge that knife into that deer young son of his, uh, who he would have been about twelve or thirteen years of age. He wasn't a child. He was able to carry wood up the side of a mountain, and he was able to reason with his father Here's the wood, here's the fire, but where's the lamb? Does God Himself God shall provide Himself a lamb? Lo and behold, Ram with his horns caught in a thicket was found, and he was sacrificed instead of Isaac. By the way, with the ram with his horns caught in a thicket, he now became a perfect sacrifice because you were not to offer to the Lord that which was torn. So if it been caught with his flesh, it would have torn up his flesh, but it doesn't, he was caught with his horns. God is perfect in all of his ways and his recordings And so Abraham rejoices. The Abraham called the name of the place Jehovah Jirah, as it is seen to this day in the mountain of the Lord. In the mount of the Lord, it shall be seen. What is special to you about that name? Jehovah Jira. Okay, he came to save. That's the Jehovah part. It says in the mount it shall be sea, meaning the Lord sees. It's also kind of a split sense the Lord provides. If somebody, you ask a servant, hey, I need you ask a waiter at a restaurant, you know, hey, I need such and such a table. Don't worry, I'll see to it. That doesn't mean they're just going to look, they're going to provide. What comfort does that give to us? Just say John 3. 16. You know, God so loved the world and loved his own people of all peoples, tongues and nations, that he gave. Mm-hmm. That's an essential character of the gospel. He sees the problem, he provides it. God sees. God sees. Have you ever maybe prayed to the Lord, Lord, don't you see my situation, what peril I'm in? Lord, don't you understand this dreadful hole that I'm in? Lord, don't you, dare I utter it, don't you care? The disciples had that time. They're in the boat. Lord, don't you care? He's asleep. He's the one calling up the storm. The Lord sees. The Lord provides. That's his name. And see, I think he reveals that name to us that we may learn to trust at all times because it's those tough times that come When we need to just kind of reflect back on who we serve, and surely he sees this, and it must be in his good knowledge that he's allowing this suffering to continue for as long as it is, but he sees and he provides Jehovah Rapha, the Lord that healeth thee. We find this in Egyptian Egyptian in Exodus 1526. New name for the book of Exodus. I NIV'd it. IESV'd it. If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, dot dot dot, I will put none of these diseases upon thee which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am Jehovah Rapha, I am the Lord that healeth thee Alright, question, why do people die? Because of the sin. Because of sin. The wages of Sin is death, wages, the paycheck. You simply tell people, you've earned it. You've earned it. You've worked real hard for you've worked your whole life for this thing. You're getting paychecks. It's called death So what does this name uh imply about who God is? Position. Kay's a great position. Kay amplify on that. What position are you talking about? Christ. Um okay thank you. You've answered the qu you didn't answer the question I had in my head, but you answered the question I said, so that's good. Um what's what disease is he healing? Yeah, the sin disease of the heart, as we heard recently in a message here about the plague of the heart, he is that Jehovah that heals the plague of the heart. And of course, Christ came to reveal to men that he has the power to forgive sins when he said to the sick of the palsy, Arise, take up thy bed and walk. And the thing that carried that held that man captive, that very bed, was the very thing that he could now take up and move. He had been killed captive to it, now he could move it about. It defined where he was, now he defined where it was. God was the healer. Since all disease and death owe to sin, God's power to heal assures us of health for our soul, healing us by his stripes. By the way, if there is no death. It means there's no sins. If he removes the sting of death, if he removes the penalty of death, if it means you have eternal life, it means you also have eternal righteousness. You'll be sinless. Why? Because death is due to sin. If there's no death, there's no sin He's Jehovah Rapha. He heals you. It's an ultimate healing. We only think of the flesh. God's looking more. The flesh is a reflection of the issues of the spirit When the Spirit is perfectly healed by God. And of course, that comes when He changes us completely. But when He imputes that righteousness to us, there is no sin. Yeah, um it's an absolute healing. It's not a partial healing. Right. If if the whole man. Right. When when they do a cancer surgery, they're very careful to get every single cancerous cell because it will reproduce But he so thoroughly saves that the sin is totally gone. And the soul now is free totally from sin. So it continues. off because every cell out but pretty good chance they didn't Jehovah Nisi, this is an interesting one. It means the Lord our banner or the Lord our standard. We talk about standard bearers. It's not that they're walking around with, you know, uh rulers or anything, but uh the banners, the fellows carrying flags. You know, here we've got some back here where people are carrying some banners. I think somebody's carrying a banner. Moses built an altar, this is Exodus 17, 15, and called the name of it Jehovah Nisi. What's interesting is this is the only time this particular name is used. Isaiah picks up the figure to encourage his audience with the coming of the Messiah. He says in Isaiah 59:19, the Spirit of the Lord shall lift up a standard against him. Speaking of Israel's enemies. Isaiah 11, in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall be for an ensign, a standard for the people. His name is Jehovah Nisi. He is the Lord our banner. So let me ask the question, why do men raise banners in war or erect a large sign for their ball team, whether they're a hockey game or a football game or baseball. Why why do men put banners up? Wha why do they go to war waving, say, a flag? What what does that say? Recognition. Okay, recognition. What else about that? Amplify on that so I mean you're just out there to tell the enemy, hey here we're here we are, we're over here. Victorious also. Well, you hope to be victorious, um, but you may not be. Uh what what what why would you erect a banner? What what what's what's the purpose? Identification, right? Okay, so complete Shows your allegiance to a cause. Allegiance to a cause, right? So uh if it's uh Team Spirit Day at the school, maybe everybody wears the same shirt with the same emblem, the same banner stamped on it, embossed on their nice shirt. They're just showing Their allegiance were all kind of in this together, right? What else? Um in ancient wars they followed the flag. Okay. When the five went forward, they followed the flag. flag in the bell. All right, so to let people know, hey, we're fighting over here, go this direction. Absolutely. So it's an a st it is a statement of identity. You know, identify with that. That's my flag. I I I I'm supporting that cause. This is my uh country. This is my people group with whom I am in allegiance. And it's a statement of who we support and who we glory in. Believers are to be Christ fans. The banner over the heart, the mind, and the soul of the believer should be the Lord. Isn't that what Jeremiah 23 says? Let not the rich man glory in his riches, the mighty man glory in his strength. Uh what's the rest of it, Gilgabel? I forget that. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he knoweth and understandeth me, and that I am the Lord that exercised righteousness judgment and loving kindness in the earth, for in these things I delight. I'm mangling that passage of scripture, but you find fundamentally get it. Brother Bernie used to tell me, you know, people can be fanatics about anything except the Bible. God says the Lord is our banner. Isn't that interesting? People will go bonkers off the walls nuts and dress up in the most stupidest of costumes to show up at a ball game. They'll make their head into a big block of cheese. I'm like, are you kidding me? Really? This is supposed to impress people. You're I okay. Whatever. It also tells us that though we are weak, we are more than conquerors through Christ You know, when I was uh a kid, I was a skinny scrawny little thing until like I kind of had two growth spurts in life, uh, and they all came after everybody else, so I was generally shorter than most at the time and fairly thin. All I knew is I could climb a tree like a monkey and eat forever and it never bothered me. I asked my neighbor kid across the street, how do you get so fat? Well I eat and I go to sleep. I was like, man, I can't do that. I eat and I think I want to get up and run around. But um when it came time for sports I was always the last one picked. I wasn't good at football, I wasn't good at baseball, I wasn't good at soccer, I was the last one picked every single time. Can you imagine a group of kids over here in the playground They're the last ones that always get picked, but they got a banner that says, We always win. We've never lost a battle. I don't care how many you can get all the Goliaths you want, you can get all of uh Ittai the Gittite and you can get all of David's mighty man and you can pile them up you can get the beast and the prophet that tells lies and all that stuff on your side. But the banner over my team is Jehovah Nisi. He's the Lord of my banner. The next one is Jehovah Mekanesh, the Lord which sanctifies you. Jehovah Mekedish. It's found in Exodus 31. You have to turn there, but I want you to look at Leviticus 20 in a moment. Exodus 31, 13. Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my Sabbath ye shall keep, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations. Very often God speaks about the Sabbath as a sign. He spoke of it very many times. It's a sign, folks. It's just a sign. What's a sign? You take a piece of cardboard, you write something on, you tag it up on the wall. It's a sign. It's not the real thing. It's got significance. Point you to something. That you may know, here's the thing it's pointing to, that I am the Lord, knows I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. I am Jehovah Mekedesh, the Lord which sanctifies you. And look at this text in Leviticus 20 in verses 7 and 8. Listen to what God says. And ye now now pay careful attention here. I'm going to be a Philadelphia attorney for a minute, alright And ye, ye shall keep my statutes and do them I am the Lord which sanctify you. Now I tried to emphasize the parts in there that I want you to pay attention to, but what is unusual about Leviticus 20? Seven and eight. What's unusual about that statement Telling us to do something when it closes by saying that Christ was doing it for us. I imagine if I were to say to Gabriel, I want you to cut the lawn. I want you to mow the grass and do the trimming, for I am the groundskeeper that mows the lawn and cuts the grass. It would strike you as odd. Okay, well which of us is doing this, Chief? Am I cutting the grass or you cutting the grass? You see that interesting statement there? He says, I want you to do these things. Notice it's two parts. Keep, preserve, protect, guard. And do. I make a big point about this, and it's something I've recently discovered and on this drumbeat, keep does not mean do. It means keep, preserve. The keepers of the prison weren't the doers of the prison. They weren't the ones inside. They were just making sure guys didn't get out. What's interesting is that what God requires, he also provides. Isn't that amazing? What God requires of his people, he also provides. You see this in the New Testament language in 1 Peter 1. 2. He says, we are elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, not through the will of man. Through sanctification of the Spirit, God sanctifies you. What's the purpose? Unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. And a pastor recently covered the opening verse of Jew to them that are sanctified by God the Father. And he repeats it again in 1 Corinthians at the end of the first chapter The point is this, we're responsible for our sanctification, yet as we seek it, he graciously provides it. He is Jehovah Mekedesh, I am the Lord thy God, which doth sanctify you. I can tell you over the years I have found myself an interesting path and pilgrimage, and I will never present myself, God willing, as an individual who has been Well sanctified. That would seem to be arrogant if I were to say that. But I can report in a sense that I've seen the hand of God working in me. I will give an example which is embarrassing for any Bible teacher to acknowledge, and that is the sins of those with the gift of teaching. It is a gift. It is not something that you can truly develop on your own, although men may have the gift enhanced. by practice and use and exercise, but I would submit that's true of any gift. If you're musically talented, you're not going to just wake up one morning and bang out all the hymns with the chords and in perfect harmony. You develop it through use. But what are the sins of a young man who has a gift of teaching? And again, I'm not trying to bring examples, uh, draw attention to myself. I just don't want to use a vain example that's not relevant. I just want to show something that I've experienced. And over the years, you begin to desire to want to occupy that position, and you want to occupy it solo more and more. You want to own that platform. And you want to look for a following. And you want to look for, and now it's even easier because you can get metrics, right? You can post it online, and you can get number of likes and number of downloads and comments, and boy, that really can feed the ego. And God, in his glorious, gracious mercy, let that go on for a while. And he pulled out his God-sized ball peen hammer and hit me on the head so hard that it shattered every ounce of wanting that. To the point where I was almost ready to say, all right, forget this. I'm just not doing it anymore. Buddy then gave an opportunity for that to occur, and so now I look more at this task of, okay. What does God's church actually need? What what words are actually going to be helpful? In fact, uh when the opportunity to speak in this pulpit comes when Pastor Joe takes a well-deserved vacation or when there is a sickness that cannot uh allow the pulpit to be filled. I can tell you a difference, that as recently as five years ago, I would have elated to raise my hand and say, happy to step in. Yep, I can do it, and probably would have gotten it. muscle your way in because I get a chance to get a little glory. But I can tell you with judgment day honesty, and I believe I have a witness. My name is the last in the list right now. Oh no, give somebody else a chance. Is there somebody else that deserves an opportunity to exercise the gift? Is there somebody better to help feed the people of God? Is I want to be the last in that choice, in that list. That is God wrought. That ain't man wrought. And I'm just giving it as a personal example, because that's something that God's painfully taught me. I am the Lord God, which taught to sanctify you. Sanctification is not an easy process. folks. It is not an easy process. The next term. Yeah, go ahead. Come in. He must increase and I must decrease. Boy, is that ever tough to learn. Boy, that is tough to learn. In the speaking role, that is tough to learn. He must increase. I must decrease. Because he's our standard. He's our banner. His name is Jehovah. You puncture that name, you penetrate that sphere, you want to stick your head up a little bit and boy, you're looking awful satanic. I will sit in the mount. I will be as God. That really just sounds like satanic language and it creeps into our hearts. Heart and the soil is so fertile there for it to want us to raise our puny little worm-like head up off the ground and think that, boy, we can we got this. It's the Home Depot theology. You can do it. We can help. Right? That's what it's all about. I call it Home Depot theology. It's very attractive to people. Jehovah Shalom, the Lord is our peace. Judges 6, 22 and 24. When Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for because I've seen an angel of the Lord face to face. The Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. Then Gideon built an altar there unto the Lord and called it Jehovah Shalom. God, the Lord God, Jehovah, is our peace, unto this day as it is yet in Ophrah of the Ezra. Tabese writes. Ephesians 2. 14 reinforces that. It says, For he is our peace. Jehovah Shalom. What comfort does that give you? That your God's name is Jehovah Shalom? I don't need to fear that I'll be there's punishment for my sin because he is my salvation and he gives me peace. Okay. Okay. That is a theologically correct answer and I love it. Okay. Which I know you I'll always I know I'll always get that from you. Expand that a little more. Well, peace of art, peace in mind, I don't have to In what situations? In well, first of all Eternal situation. But God extends that just in daily life. Yeah. The world is their peace in America at the moment. You know, they say America is one of the most Christian nations on earth. Probably still is, insofar as the broadest possible umbrella called Christianity is concerned. Is there peace in the hearts of people right now in America? No. No. Is there peace in the hearts of Americans Christians? True Christians. Should be, because his name is Jehovah Shalom. He is our peace. I'm going to hold that thought and move on. We have Jehovah Rohai, the Lord is my shepherd. Everybody knows that one. Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. It's actually one word. Jehovah Oh High. And he told Ezekiel the prophet, I will search my sheep, I will feed my flock, and Jesus comes along in that classic statement of John 10, I am the good shepherd. For years as a little boy in Irving, Texas, I went to a vacation Bible school and we made little cutout lambs and you take your little fluffy cotton balls and you glue them to the silly piece of paper. and you'd write down, I am the good shepherd, and I hung it in my closet and I forgot about it and there it sat for years. But every time I went to my closet, w ran short on clothes and the laundry pile got high and the hangers got more frequent, I would see that little little fluffy lamb sitting there. Lord is my shepherd. God tenderly cares for his people, even sacrificing himself for him Remember, this is the word Jehovah. God is Savior, the shepherd. God is savior, your banner. God is savior. the healer. God is savior, your peace. God is savor, the one who sanctifies you. Do you see how he keeps attaching all these names? to Jehovah, that sacred name, that name that says He is Savior. This illustrates a walk of faith. This illustrates the life of grace. This illustrates that God is central in everything in the Christian's life. He goes on. And this is the crowning name. There's two crowning names I really want to get to. Jehovah Sidkinu. Boy, there's a name you don't hear much. The Lord our righteousness. It's twice in Jeremiah. Both of them in verse 16. Excuse me, 6. Never mind. Jeremiah 23, 6. In his days Judah shall be saved, Israel shall dwell safely, and this is his name wherewith He shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Wow, what a great name to take on, the Lord our righteousness. And then again in 3316, same thing, except he tweaks it a little. This is the name wherewith she shall be called, and that she is the church of the living God, the elect of God called from before the foundation of the world She shall be called the Lord our righteousness. This is the Messiah's name. First Corinthians 1 confirms this. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us, underscore that twice, made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification. Find the Lord will still sanctify you. And wisdom. I already said wisdom. And redemption. How does this name go further than simply declaring God's righteousness? Yeah, he's righteous, but how does it even go further than that Gives it to us, imputes it to us. There's a word that imputes it to us. What does that mean? Makes us as righteous through Christ. So he infuses righteousness into us so we act out righteously, or is it an accounting term? But his righteousness is imputed in us and it should show itself in our fruits of life. But we nothing we do is gonna earn us heaven. Right. But if if you did righteousness then the then we're beyond judgment. Mm-hmm. We we don't I'm just picking on the word impute just to clarify for the audience. It's something God installs in Okay, so let me he's sharing his righteousness. So a Roman Catholic would not have any trouble with what you said so far. That's why I'm picking that a little bit. Oh, they uh they they'll talk about grace. Oh, they'll talk about grace, and they'll talk about this passage, and they'll talk about the infusing of another word, God infuses in you a heart that then is able to do righteousness. So they love that term infused. They'll agree with that. So that's why I use the counting term. Because impute is also used in Romans as the word reckon shall be reckoned unto us, imputed, reckoning. In other words, it's a uh it's a uh a a legislative uh issue. Uh the um uh A fellow shows up at a court and he's nervous as all get out because he's just run a red light and he's T-bone the car and he's injured another driver and he's up on big charges. And he's just nervously waiting for the judge to call his number on the docket. And pretty soon the courtroom's empty. All the other cases have been heard The judge is wrapping up, the the the lady taking dictation is folding up her stuff, and the judge looks up and says, What are you here for, son? He says, Well I I uh you know, ran a red light and it hurt somebody. And he looks through the record and says, Bailiff, you have anything on this fellow? Bailey says, No, I don't say anything. We don't have a record. You're free to go. That's an imputed righteousness. On the books, there's nothing there. He's as guilty as all get out, but there's nothing on the records. Removed as far as he removed. Yes. Yes. The the the the the the transgression, the record of the transgression is gone, blotted out. Right. And he gives us a new life. Right. So that's the difference. Scriptures are clear that God imputes his righteousness to people. I'm not disagreeing with the word impute, I'm just amplifying the I like it. Last one, and this is the one I'm really over my time, but I just cannot pass this one up. Jehovah Shema, the Lord is there. This is the last Old Testament name of God. It describes the city that Ezekiel saw in his vision. And it's the end, it's the last verse, one of the last verses of Ezekiel 48. It was round about 18,000 measures, and the name of that city, the name of the city from that day shall be the Lord is there. That's the name of the city. And oh by the way, guess where else that city is talked about? Huh, the book of Revelation in chapter 21, as you get a peek behind heaven's ultimate gated community. In Revelation 21, 3, I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them. And they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. Verse 22. I saw no temple therein for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb or the temple of it. And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it, and the lamb is the light thereof. And my my dear friends, the glory of the final consummate state is this, that God will be with his people. How do you know that's going to happen? How do you know that God's going to be with his people in the end? Boy, this is a real simple question. Yeah, because of what he says, because of the word Yeah, yeah. What are we studying here? His name. Name? Jehovah. Because his name Is God is there? His name implies God will be with his people. He puts his very name on it. He stakes his name on the fact that he will be with his people. It's it's indelibly stamped. It's his very name. It's his very name. He takes the name. God will be there. I I couldn't I'm sorry I've gone really long but I could not pass that one up. Pastor Keith, would you mind closing, Mr. Purr? Father, we not only thank you for your word, but you are the word and you sent your word in the flesh to us. We couldn't have a better witness than your presence. And to know that your presence is still with us today, that you'll never forsake us. And that your word never changes, that you never change. No shadow of journey. Not one job God now went to so grateful Lord for a record that is perfect and preserved. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen. Amen and amen.