We are on a topic which is near and dear to everyone's heart at this particular time and it happens to be of course the doctrine of the resurrection of all religions in the world only Only Christianity has, as its core central tenet, that upholds it above and beyond anything else, the doctrine of the resurrection. Mahatma Gandhi is dead. Buddha is dead. I'm not sure he was ever alive. Muhammad is dead. Muhammad is dead. You name every religious Confucius is dead. Plato, you name them all, all the great philosophers, all the great prognosticators of religion. Darwin is dead. All of them fail utterly and yet Jesus Christ is not only the head of the Christian movement, yet he still lives. And it's astounding to me because I was thinking this morning, while It's one thing to talk about the resurrection. It's another thing to achieve it, to actually endure the painful, shameful death of the cross and then uh arise again in the face of all your enemies and and ascend up into heaven. It's an a it's an amazing thing. And in fact it's so amazing that this is the target of much of anti-Christian attacks The Bible is undermined because of this teaching. They say, well, this was invented later, that this was a clever insertion of facts later on. But we're going to look today to see that no, this isn't anything cleverly reinserted. it's actually quite indisputable on multiple fronts. So I hope to cover that with you today. Once again I've overpacked my study, but I do have some uh some interaction time and we'll start with this. We're gonna have some reading assignments. Victoria, I want you to read Job 19. And so for the next one, two, three, four, five passages, I'm going to have reading assignments given out. And then I'm going to ask a question. And the question is, what do we learn about the resurrection from each of these verses? So the first is that the main doctrine I'm trying to hit at at this point is the Bible is clear, let's your first fill in the blank, the Bible is clear that there shall be a resurrection of the dead. The Bible is very clear about that It doesn't leave any room, wiggle room for doubt. This isn't something that was invented later. It's actually anchored throughout the text. Alright, Victoria read uh turns out to be Pastor's passage today, so I won't spend too much time on it, but if you would uh read it. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed. Okay, what are what are just one or two points that we might learn about the resurrection from this? I don't want to exhaust this one fully. I'll steal too much thunder. very flesh is going to see the risen Christ in heaven. Absolutely. Uh wa only in heaven Well, I don't see him now, so I'm not entirely sure. I'm I know you're trying to get to something deeper. I'm not seeing it. Okay. Well but you're right. You your your flesh will see God Your your flesh will see your Redeemer and you said Jesus Christ, and that's correct. Okay. I'm not gonna spend more time on that because there's a lot there, but uh I'll leave it for your uh apt. Uh uh observations a little later. Isaiah 26. 19. Owen, would you mind reading that one? Isaiah 26, 19? With my dead body they shall arise. Awaken sing ye that dwell in dust, for thy dew is as the dew of herbs. Alright, so what kind of observations do we make about the resurrection from that? It can be you or anybody, I'll let give you first crack. If we also have a lot of people, It's the hope of them that dwell in dust. It's the hope of them that dwell in dust. Okay. What else do we see in Isaiah 26, 19 that stands out to you? Is it a personal resurrection? Is it just you? Probably not. All right, probably not. Alright, well we're trending in the right direction. It seems like there's So it's not just me, but there's others also also rising up. Okay. Yeah, it's uh a multitude of people. It says thy dead men and it says together with my dead body, so it's me and then there's others. And in fact that last phrase tells you what extent it is. What what is the extent? According to that last phrase. Penny, you're muttering something. The dead sounds like a generic all dead. Yeah All dead, and and it says, the earth shall cast out the dead. Well, how comprehensive is the earth? If it's got dirt, it's going to cast out the dead. So that's pretty comprehensive. That's from Isaiah Now let's turn it over to Hosea 1314. Joey, would you uh cover that one for us? I will ransom them for the power of the grave. I will Redeem them from death. O death, I will be thy plagues, O grave, I will be thy destruction. Alright, what observations do we have out of that passage? Christ is the enemy of Christ. that. Ooh. Ooh. A plague to it. Ah, Christ is the enemy. I like that. He's the enemy to death. He's a plague to it. I will be thy destruction. That's really interesting imagery, isn't it? It paints out death as an enemy. You think of an enemy as somebody in a uniform on the other side of the field pointing the gun at you and you see the open boar aiming at you That's kind of what the gaping jaws of death are doing to you. It's got its fangs and its mouth aimed at you. Christ is the enemy of death. Yeah, good observation, Shuly. I like that. Uh 1 Corinthians 15, 3 through 8. Joe, why don't you read that for us for the word? Well I will deliver unto you first of all that Which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day, according to the Scriptures. and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present, but some are fallen asleep After that, he was seen of James, then of the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. All right. What are some observations about the apostles' writings here to the church at Corinth about the resurrection? Victoria? There were eyewitnesses of his resurrection. There were eyewitnesses, yeah. Did you catch how many times it points that out? In fact that is one of the biggest phrases you find in there. Did you hear that repetition? He was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. He was seen of above 500 brethren at once. He was seen of James and of all the apostles. Last of all, he was seen of me also. Four times that phrase says, he was seen. That's quite interesting. You don't report that unless, you know, it really happened. I mean you're actually naming witnesses. And if you go to any one of them and they say, no, no, no, it was all fiction, you know, we got together and agreed to make this stuff up. I mean that would be a conspiracy that we would blow it apart. That wasn't the case here Do you have another observation? I was just saying what it wasn't mass hysteria, which is what the Liberals will say. Oh yeah, they just imagined this. Well no, it was multiple times, multiple people, different settings. Yes. It was not mass hysteria. Good observation Alright, I'm going to read Matthew 22, 23 to 32, and you can follow along. Matthew 22 and verse 23. This is the Sadducees coming, you know, and they're trying to find fault with Christ. The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him, saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife. and raised up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren, and the first, when married a wife, deceased, and having no issue, meaning no children, left his wife unto his brother Likewise the second also, and the third unto the seventh. So these fellows just can't seem to produce children. Last of all, the women died, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven? For they all had her. Jesus answered and said unto him, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are the as the angels of God in heaven But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead But of the living. Alright, observations about this interaction and dialogue with the Sadducees. What does that tell us about the resurrection? It's a very interesting dialogue going on between Christ and these Sadducees who didn't actually believe it. believe that the resurrection existed. So he's kind of showing them from the portion of scripture they would hold that no resurrection does exist. She says she says, I am the God of Abraham. That's a good observation that he's taking Not he could have gone to maybe Job. Jesus could have quoted Isaiah or Hosea, which we just covered, but instead he quotes something from the book of Genesis. The Sadducees only held the first five books of the Bible as canonical. They said, this is the Bible, everything else is an add-on, has been added to. And so Jesus goes to quote unquote their Bible, which of course is a subset of his Bible, and he points out the doctrine of the resurrection when God comes to Moses and says, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And he says, why would God say that if he was over dead bodies, not living souls? So that's a very powerful point. What else do we learn about the resurrection here? There's another couple of interesting points and then I'll move on. Did you gain any additional insights into it, Joe? Well, because he is the god of the living, not the dead, he's the god of life. All the other gods are gods of death. Okay. It goes a little deeper into Victoria's point. I'm looking for uh maybe a little different uh aspect in here, Victoria? Sorry, I'm tough Ah. Yeah. Now we get a ton of insight. A lot of these passages that we've covered are really pointing out the fact of there will be a resurrection. Okay, fact of, yep, come back out of the grave. And then Jesus takes it a little further. And when you come up You've got a whole different ball game. In fact, this is the most insightful passage as to what life in a resurrected body looks like. You're not healthy again, oh, to be 30 years or twenty. I'll be happy to be 45 all over again. I mean yeah, 25 would be perfect. You know. Um no, it's gonna be far better than that. It's gonna be far better. Yes, you'll be out of aches and pains. Yes you'll you'll there's no more death But he says in the resurrection, there's not marriage. Joe's probably thinking this is a huge loss. You're not given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. Says, no, you don't understand. This is a whole new arrangement here. You need to be thinking on the terms of angels And that's quite impressive because now you can look at what the Bible says about angels, how they appeared to Abram in the form of men, and yet they could disappear out of sight. They had great power. They could roll back this stone. They could, one angel could destroy 185,000 Assyrians. And so you get a totally different picture of what it means to be a resurrected individual. And so very Jesus' uh indications here are very, very insightful. So for for the Christian, this is just but a sampling of verses that talk about Obviously the four synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, all cover that seminal morning which we celebrate today. But there are those who are outside of the camp of Christians. They're intelligent thinking people, and I bring to your attention two in particular one fellow named he was, well, his pen name was uh Frank Irwin, I believe. I may have that incorrect. I was gonna I made a note to myself, go get the book this morning, but I forgot. He wrote a book called Who Moved the Stone. He was an atheist from the early 1900s And he says, if I'm going to sink this nonsensical idea of Christianity, I've got to go right for the jugular. And the jugular for Christianity is the resurrection. Because if I can show that this whole resurrection business was fiction, then I've just knocked out the feet underneath Christianity. And the Apostle Paul says as much in 1 Corinthians 15, if there's no resurrection from the dead then your faith is in vain. You have no hope. You're of all men most miserable, right? It's it's this is pointless. This book is pointless. You understand that? This book is pointless. You can chuck it if there is no resurrection of the dead, in particular of Jesus Christ. So he sought out, to set out to prove, to disprove the resurrection, and ended up becoming a Christian because he was blown away. with the evidence. Now what evidence do you look into? This right here. He said, I'm willing to accept this as a reasonably reliable Well, he didn't say reliable. It is an ancient historical document. That's all he was willing to give it. That it is it is an ancient historical document. It's been around for a while. So I will investigate it. And so he, with the mind of an investigative reporter, went out and he re- and he recounted his steps and in a book, Who Moved the Stone. And it's an excellent short read It's fascinating to look at how somebody comes into the scriptures with an unbelieving mind, and lo and behold, God has got answers even if they try to come into that door. He can directly answer them. There's another fellow that did the same thing within our lifetime. His name is Lee Strobel. How many of you have heard of Lee Strobel? He was a legal reporter for the Chicago Sun newspaper. His wife, whom he recently married, was Christian and kind of kept bugging him to come to church and investigate, and finally it came to a head. He says, all right. Um, you know, we're really on two different pages here. I my wife's reasonable. I'm gonna go investigate it and again try to go for the jugular. I'm gonna disprove the doctrine of the resurrection, and likewise he came up against a mountain of evidence and said and fell down and said, My Lord and my Savior, this is incredibly true. Because he realized that if in fact a man rose from the dead, it validated everything he said. That's a pretty tough act to follow. Nobody has done that. And so if one did that, then it validates the claims that he is God. And you cannot get around that. Well, he came up with an approach to the historical facts of the resurrection. As an investigative journalist. And that's the four E's we're going to cover next. This is looking at it from the, walking in it from the steps of an unbeliever. And I'm grateful to focus on the family. I was listening to a podcast back in 2011 And this was uh wow, it's been twelve years ago. They still have this broadcast if you want to listen to it, and I do encourage it. It's a short listen. uh it's about twenty minutes long, uh from Lee Strobel called Digging Deeper into the Easter Story. He said, you know, there are some h historical facts of the resurrection that can be called the four E's The four E's. He says the first is the fact of Jesus' execution. You know, before you have a resurrection, what do you gotta have? A dead body. You gotta have a dead body. Does anybody attack the death of Jesus Christ? What famous religion attacks the death of Jesus on the cross? Anyone know? The Muslims. They say Jesus didn't die on the cross. Judas did. They put Judas on the cross, not Jesus. Well, that doesn't work because it turns out that the New Testament's pretty clear that Jesus died on the cross. Okay, one. one piece of evidence. There was a Roman uh historian named Tacitus. He was an excellent theologian. You can read his documents online. He definitely spoke uh in great detail about which Roman governor or uh leader crucified and committed executed the death penalty on which prisoner or criminal and he listed Crestus or the Christ and he says Pontius Pilate did it So the Roman procurator, uh or the Roman uh historian, Tacitus notes that procurator uh Pontius Pilate crucified Jesus. Josephus testifies to the same. In fact, Joseph, Josephus has two proofs in his writings One and both of them uh one of them is very controversial because he says Jesus was the Messiah and Jews don't like that You can't call him the Messiah. It's not the Messiah. They go livid over that. But there it is in Josephus' writings, and they come back. Well that was added later by Christians. They they went and all the day, you know, it's the same old round But there's another place where Josephus makes reference to the death of Jesus Christ as well. And so you have these. So the bottom line is it's a non-controversial fact. It's in fact indisputable. that Jesus Christ in fact did die on a cross. You just don't have, you you're not going to get more evidence than this in terms of secular history. The second E is the early reports of the resurrection. E for the early reports of the resurrection. Now, if this were a legend, how do legends come about? If this were a legend It would develop 100 to 150 years later. Because why do you think that is? If you're going to make up a legend about something, why would you have to wait 100 to 150 years before you bring up this legend? and have to pass away. First generation have to die, right? Those cats are still around. They can raise their hand. No, no, no, he ain't got it right. Because I was there, you know, on their old canes. I was there something and you weren't there. You know, they could just shake their hand at him and beat 'em up. So you have to wait for those folks to die. And then you can't then you can revise history, right? And that's what is being attempted today. Well, that didn't happen. Because the reports of the resurrection came about very early in the Christian faith, and the very earliest creeds captured it. In fact, he points this out in 1 Corinthians 15. In verses 3 through 8, which are up above in your handout, notice the first phrase, for I delivered unto you first of all, notice that which I also received. You see, the Apostle Paul was not an early disciple. He was not one of the original apostles, so he would not have been in the vicinity. with the original apostolic band looking at the resurrected Christ and seeing this. Christ appeared to him on the road to Emmaus later, and so he Not only directly from Christ received his message and vision, but then it says he received a fuller explanation of his tradition. So there was already a tradition within 30 or 40 years after the resurrection and pro uh after the event, and so it captures it as a doctrine. So you have the fact of the execution You have the very early reports of the resurrection, so you can't say this is something they made up later. And the third E is this, you have to have an empty tune. You have to have an empty tomb. How easy would it be to dispel the idea of a resurrection when all you have to do is open up your tour wagon led by a few uh donkeys? Now going by the burial ground of Jesus. Yep, you've heard he raised from the dead. See them bones in there? Yep, they're the bones of Jesus. And their next tour stop. I mean you could just dispel that in a heartbeat. Produce the evidence. Here's the body Here's the bones. We all saw it. We reported it. Except that never happened because there was an empty tomb. In fact. So powerful was that, it meets something called the criterion of embarrassment in the legal beat, if you're covering cases that go to trial When the truth, so-called truth, comes out, it's got to get through Vois dir, but that's a whole nother story. When the truth comes out, there sometimes is on the side of the innocent An embarrassing fact. It's embarrassing because it kind of works against their case, but that's often a mark of truth If everything lines up perfectly, it smells like collusion. We all got our story together, so near anything would come out against it. Well, the criterion of embarrassment here is that who were the first eyewitnesses of Jesus at the tomb? Who were the first ones? Who? Roman soldiers? No. No. Who were the ones that came the women? The women. The women. And in Roman court, women's did women's Opinions, testimony counted for zero. That's just fact of how the Romans handled it. They did not take the testimony of the women. So, if you're trying to prove this point, why would you start off with, and our leading witness are the women? Well, that's not going to work in court. We picked the wrong ones. So It's also the empty tomb also makes it impossible to start fiction in the same city with a body in the tomb As I mentioned before, you can't you would be able to produce it. How could you start this fiction where there's the tomb, there's the by you right there in the same city. This didn't start off five hundred m miles away where you can get some people deceived. It was right there in the same city. And the third point is that the enemies of Jesus Christ implicitly use the fact of the empty tomb in their argument. They said to the soldiers, Say, we fell asleep and his disciples came and took him away. In other words, they had to give an answer for an empty tomb. Now, it was the stupidest argument you could possibly imagine, right? Do you know do you know how self-defeating that argument is? Can anybody help defeat that argument based on its own merits A soldier Roman soldier comes to you, and you say, hey, I hear there's an empty tomb. What happened? Well, we fell asleep and his disciples came and took him away. How are you going to defeat that argument? Death penalty. For Roman soldier deposit the watch was the death penalty. Oh I got a pr I got I got uh coverage from my uh governor on that one. This was a special case. They had that covered How do you defeat the argument on its own merits? This is simple. It's even simpler than that. How do they get that stone out of the law? Yeah. The disciples moved and nope. No, you had your shot. If you were asleep, how do you know his disciples came? Your eyes were closed. You just told me you were asleep. You don't know squat. Bigfoot could have come and taken him for all you know. Or maybe Christ himself came out of the grave. That's a possibility. You don't know. You said you were asleep So it's a stupid argument from the get-go, and it's what they could concoct, you know, real fast to try to save face. So that's the third E, and I thought that's an interesting one Fact of the execution, yet early reports of the resurrection, you have an empty tomb, and the last one, eyewitnesses. You know, an eyewitness is a legal fact that can be entered into court of law because you can cross-examine the eyewitness. You didn't have one. He didn't have two. You had 500. That's a lot of witnesses. You had him in groups. You had him in individuals. He sat down and had dinner and ate with people. Yeah, we had him over for dinner. So you had too much evidence there for this. And so this is what convinced Lee Strobel that in fact a resurrection had occurred. And I thought it was always interesting, the four E's of the resurrection. It was a really good observation. I thought to share that with you. All right. Third thing we cover this morning is that the Bible is clear that there shall be a Bodily resurrection. This isn't people coming up, that's your last fill in the blank on the first page, a bodily resurrection. This isn't uh Some metaphysical, you know, um uh some people teach soul sleep My soul is going to wake up or I'm going to get into a renewed. It's just a general description of what the brain goes through chemically after death. have this near-death experience and you're just floating around. But it's not your body, right? It's just gonna decay. It's just gonna be dust. There's not gonna be anything there. But no, the Bible is clear there will be a bodily resurrection. This thing on you right here will in fact return to life. Now it will change, but it will be this body. Alright For instance, Romans 8. 11 says this: if the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken, old English word, make alive, your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you. Verse 23, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of the body. Redemption Death, sin, decay bought it. It it captured it. It's holding it ransom, and Christ paid that ransom to redeem you from the grave. Therefore, death has no legal claim on it. First Corinthians six fourteen is another interesting passage that does make it clear it's your body, but Notice the context, alright, because that's important to tie in here. It says in verse 14, now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. Well, that would be this. And the Lord for the body, and God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us, who's the us, us that are in this body that, you know can be subject to fornication. He says, oh no, but that's not for you. You don't yield your body that way. God's going to raise us up by his own power. Our body is not for us, it's for the Lord. I like Philippians 3. 20 because this is a glorious passage about the resurrection. He says, for our conversation, our conduct is in heaven. From whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body. according to the working whereby he is able, even to subdue all things into himself. He's going to change this body. He calls it a vile body. Why do you think he calls it a vile body? You're laughing, why is that? Because it is. Well I but vile She has experience. She has experience. But vile is kind of a rough word. You know, you talk about a a villain that's a vile individual. Why would he call it a vile body? The medium of our transgression against him? Yes, it's the medium of our I like that phrase, the medium of our transgressions against him, and the wages of sin is death. It's that instrument through which all manner of sin is carried out. And so, from a moral perspective, it is vile. Is it vile physically? Well, sin does have an impact on us. We do see the results of it as we age and die. There's really no reason why we should die. Our body is designed to continue to perpetuate. They can continue living, even as those after the fall lived hundreds of years. Yay, Abram. I mean Abram. Adam going up to 900 plus years of age. I think he died at 930, if I'm not mistaken. That's a mighty long time. I I would be like a 20-year-old if I was in the days of battle. You'd look at me and go, how old are you? You know you're almost sixty. Ah you youngsters You're just a teenager. Don't tell me anything. Just amazing. It's a vile body, and he's gonna change it. He's gonna change it. And that's something I really look forward to. Alright, we're gonna read the next set of verses here with a reading assignments. Um And this is a section that talks about the fact that the Bible leads us to conclude that the resurrection coincides with Jesus' return and judgment day. The Bible teaches us that the resurrection coincides with Jesus' return and judgment day. And I would add the general resurrection, meaning all that are in the graves. Let's see some reading assignment Yvonne. I want you to cover these next two verses one at a time because I'm asking a question at the end of each one. And the question will be this, what events are happening at the same time? What events are happening at the same time? So read first Corinthians 15, 23, please. But every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward, they that are Christ at his coming. Alright, so what are the two things or three things or what all is happening at the same time? If somebody wants to beat him to the punch, they can Victoria? seems to indicate there's the general resurrection that goes on and Christ's coming. Absolutely. So those two things. Yeah. It wasn't a trick question. Yeah. Probably overthinking it besides. I know the answer is Jesus, but it sure sounds like something else to me. Um that's a silly joke. I'll tell you all that later So yes, the resurrection of those that are Christ's and then at his coming. You see those two things happening together. All right, read John 5, 28 and 29, and then I'll ask the same question Marvel not at this, for the hour is coming in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice and shall come forth. They that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil until the resurrection of that nation. Okay. What are some of the things that are happening at the same time there? Resurrection of the the good and the evil. Yeah, resurrection is good, resurrection of the evil, yep. And what's the trigger? What triggers it? One to damnation. Yes, one to life, one to damnation. What's the thing what pulls the trigger? His voice. His voice. They hear his voice. Alright? Yeah, that's pretty powerful. Uh Jeffrey. Would you mind reading John 6 and those passages in that little section there? Verse 30 now through 40. Yep. And this is the Father's will. which has sent me, that of all which he has given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him May have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. No man comes to me Except the Father which has sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up at the last day. Whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Alright, so what are a couple of things happening at the same time here? Anton? Anyone that partakes of Christ will be risen again on the last day. Okay. So you've got uh uh individuals being risen again, those that partake of Christ, and it happens on something called the last day And did you notice how that phrase got repeated, which is why I put that in there several times. I will raise him up. It's a resurrection. When? Last day. How many times did he say that? Three times. You think God's kidding. No, I think he means that's when it's gonna happen. Alright. Now Just from what we've seen so far, and in the interest of time, I'm going to skip reading Revelation and Matthew, I may touch on Matthew. Notice what happened here is that This is talking about, as Anton pointed out, him that believes in Jesus. So strictly speaking, what happens in John 6 39 through 54 is referring to the resurrection of believers. And yet we found earlier in John 5 28, the previous chapter, that when there's a resurrection, you have both of the just and the unjust. You see that? So when you start to chain all the scriptures together, you begin to get a comprehensive picture of everything that happened simultaneously at that event. And we've covered that in the previous series. I just want to touch on this again. Alright, in the interest of time, I'm going to skip ahead forward to my last part because I do want to touch on this, and this has to be, this deals with the premillennial teachings. The premillennial teachings on this resurrection do not match the scriptures. Now, our pre-mill brethren have a variety of teachings on this area. It's hard to go to one systematic book that they have. You can't look up the free will pre-mill um booklet, pre-trib booklet to say this is our system of doctrine. Within that camp there is generally a center swim lane, but there are variations. Some say And they differ between when the tribulation is, when resurrections, because they're trying to break apart the events that we've shown now and in previous studies all occur simultaneously because they try to break them apart, you end up getting piecemeal with the You know, these little puzzle games you played as a kid in the car where you're trying to arrange these silly little blocks around and you got one block missing. I don't know, I'm dating myself I had stupid plastic toys as a kid. So they're trying to fit all this goofy stuff together and it comes out in different ways. However One of the main things they do teach is a double resurrection, that there is one at the return for the believers, one of the just at the return of Christ. And another of the unjust a thousand years later at the end of the world. Now, this fails the test for three reasons. We're going to look at three reasons why and I'm going to wrap it up here The resurrection of the just occurs at the last day, not before it, that's your next fill in the blank. Resurrection of the just occurs at the last day, not before it. You saw that in John 6, 39. Jeffrey read all that. Jesus said to Martha in John 11, 24. Martha said unto him, I know that he, speaking of Lazarus, shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. This was common knowledge to even the simplest of believers, Martha. So it's clear that the just, here referenced to a brother, Lazarus, will rise at the last day. Jesus in John 6 talks about the resurrection of the just in the last day. So it's not before that, it's at the last day. So that tanks that point of the premillennial doctrine. The next is this, the resurrection is spoken of as a single event, not two events. That's your next, second from last, go on the length. The resurrection is spoken of as a single event, not two events. For instance, Daniel 12 and verse 2, many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt. So that's an awakening that's a rising up. Acts 24 The message of the apostle and others, we have hope towards God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. A resurrection, not resurrections, plural. And John 5 28, which we read earlier, did talk about a single hour coming, and the trigger point was hearing his voice, and you have all coming out. of the tombs. Interestingly enough, have you ever thought about the calling of Lazarus out of the tomb? Jesus stood outside and said, Lazarus come forth. What if Jesus had shouted loudly, come forth? You wouldn't have had just Lazarus coming out of the tomb. You would have had a whole lot more. God's voice was specific to Lazarus. Lazarus, you in particular, come forth. I'm calling you out of the tomb. Third point, last one I want to make here to wrap it up quickly. The Bible connects the judgment of the wicked with Jesus' return. So when Jesus returns, it's a judgment on the wicked, and he's not judging wicked that are in their graves. They've been resurrected and they're standing there before the judgment throne of God. And my favorite passage in all of Scripture Concerning end-time teaching is in 2 Thessalonians 1, 7 to 10. And to you who are troubled, rest with us When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven, with his mighty angels in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power when he shall come to be glorified in his saints and to be admired in all them that believe. And so this shows the destruction. the flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know God. And I would assert to you that they have been raised from the dead, and therefore they are uh trembling and fearfully to face him. What an amazing Savior we have. Because we have a risen Lord, he's not coming back as the suffering servant Because we have a risen Lord, he has faced death head-on and has conquered it. Because we have a risen Lord, you have a hope beyond this life beyond your present situation, beyond however bad life may get, yea, the body they may kill. God's truth abide is still, his kingdom is forever, as Martin Luther has said. Anton, would you close us in prayer, please? That's correct. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you and have How we do praise you that indeed you sent your son to be the uh suffering servant, and indeed he was uh put to death for our sins. And we praise God that He resurrected and ever lives and intercede for the elect. We pray, Lord, you would help us to know Him more. Please draw us closer to Him. Help us to be conformed to his image. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Uh before we uh