We um have been covering this marvelous doctrine of Scripture called God's Covenant of Grace. And I really hope you've been appreciating it. I'm taking it slow. Today we're going to review some of the little tidbits that we left hanging at the end as we were looking at the requirements of grace. And we'll also add today, Lord willing, the nature of the covenant of grace. So we're going to look at those as well. I do hope you appreciate this because we're looking at God's covenant of grace from a technical perspective. Maybe some of you are like my wife who will go and look at things, maybe a new pot or pan or some electronic device that she would look at like in the kitchen and she would like my opinion, how well built is it? Is this thing gonna hold up over time? And I can look at it and just judge from the construction, the type of material they make, and so forth, whether this is of good quality and justifies the price, or nah this is awful cheap, you're really going to have a problem with it pretty soon. That's kind of what we're doing here in evaluating God's covenant of grace. We're looking at how it is built from a technical perspective. perspective. I'm sure you've been, if you've been in conservative circles for a while, you've heard you're saved by grace, uh, it's by faith, uh, it's Christ's work and not your You've heard that, but you may not have peeled back the covers beyond that to look underneath to see just how well built this plan of salvation is. That's really what we're getting at here, So let me review here this business of the covenant of grace. The covenant of grace is not a covenant of works It requires no work with a view to merit. All the work that was done was done where? I'll give you my little hand signal. In the Godhead, in this other covenant called the Where was all the work done? Covenant of redemption. Yeah, the work of redemption was strictly a God thing. It wouldn't be fair to put man in there. His contribution would be zero because he's spiritually dead in sins and trespasses, any much as I would go to a cemetery to try to hire some dead engineer in the ground to help me on my job. That would be a pretty bankrupt idea. No management would accept that. Getting back to this covenant of grace, it does contain requirements and it does impose obligations on man. By meeting the demands of the covenant, man earns nothing but merely puts himself in the way which God will communicate his blessing. to him. All of those promised blessings. Now, it should be borne in mind here that even the requirements of the covenant are covered by the promises, meaning God gives man all that he requires. God gives the elect sinner all that is required of him. So two things that he demands are this, that you accept the covenant and the promises of the covenant by faith. And thus enter into the life of the covenant, and from the principle of the new life born in them, whatever it is to mean to be born again, they consecrate themselves to God in due obedience. is otherwise known as holiness, this idea of separating from the world. They enter into that. So the terms and conditions are faith and repentance Faith and repentance are really two sides of the same coin, and frankly, I think repentance is the first one, and the first area you repent in is you quit being an unbeliever and you start believing God. You quit stiff-arming the Lord and you start to say, hmm, this makes sense. That's a first principle act of faith. But I believe faith and repentance are really tied together. synonymous, those who say there's faith and not repentance. How do you have half a coin? I mean how do you split the coin in half and not have a backside? Faith is backed up by repentance. It's essentially there. The faith and repentance, again, God provides. He gives us that faith and he also grants repentance which truly is an amazing thing. The main promise, what was the main promise of the covenant? I will call you I will be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. God takes care of the whole enchilada, right? The whole package. God deals with families. That little house village, uh man's first pastor, it is his family, God includes that. All of those promises include these things. Excuse me. That main promise includes this. I will be your God. You shall be my people. Christ redeemed them that were under the law. I will remember their sins no more. I will give you a heart of flesh. This is the one good place where a heart of flesh is a good thing, where flesh is a good thing, as opposed to the heart of stone Stone was not sensitive to the prickness of God. Heart of flesh is. I will put my laws into your mind and write them in your heart. I will cause you to walk in my steps. In my flesh I shall see God. That certainly implies, well, what happens when it dies? Well, there's a resurrection. In my flesh I will see God. We will arise unto everlasting life. He will receive me unto glory, where joint heirs with Christ. Neither can any man snatch them out of me. my hand. All of those are subsets of this main covenant promise, I will be thy God. Because when the true and living God, underscore true, underscore living God, is your God, He has a heavenly host of divine blessings and benefit that flow from that. You ever be in the s you ever been in the school ground where kids are playing kickball? I used to love kickball as a youth and the two teams would line up, uh a coach would appoint two captains of the two sides and they could pick out. I generally was the last one. No one really wanted me on their team. Scrawny little kid, couldn't kick very s very hard, but I loved to play it. You know, the kids with the big fat legs would get picked first. Why? Because if Joey is on your team and he's got these big legs, you know that you're going to win because he's on your team. If the Lord Jehovah God is on your team, you know you're going to win because he has an abundant grace and kingdom and powers. and authority, you name it. He's got it all, and we are partakers of that. Well there's a couple of things that we've I've mentioned here. Let's give some scriptural uh backing to it, that God gives the elect sinner all that he requires in the covenant. I didn't print them all out for you here because I want you to see them in your Bible. There's just certain things I think you need to see in your Bible, and I think you need to highlight and underscore. I didn't give you the full cheat sheet today. You've got the subset But uh the references are there. In case you missed it, you can look. The first is in Job 23. 14. Job understood this at a very early stage of the game. In Job 23, 14 he writes, speaking of God, for he performeth the thing that is appointed for me. He performeth the thing that is appointed unto me. That's very impressive. God performs that. And that appointment has to do with something that he declares is to be done. And he says, and many such things are with him. He understands in Job's language the grace of God. He might not have used that term grace, but that's basically what he's explaining there. Uh skip ahead to the next book, Psalm 57, and the psalmist in Psalm 57, which by the way is a psalm that has been made into a song in Psalm 57. And verse 2, it says, I will cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things for me. He performeth all things for me. Now this doesn't mean we're robots, as Brother Bernie used to say, oh please make me a robot. Please make me a robot. Oh, that all of my steps were directed to keep thy statutes. I think David said as much in Psalm 190 But it does mean that he does put his statutes in our heart, the laws. There's a new heart, there's a new desire, there's a new inclination Jeremiah 32, 40 is another good one, and then the last will be John 6 in Jeremiah 32 and verse 40. Uh and I realize my error I have not given the broadcaster, the cheat sheet of verses we're going through today. So I might want to hand those to him as he's pulling up Jeremiah 3240. Victoria will slip in one. God speaks this way. He says, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. That I will not turn away from doing them good. Jeremiah 32, 40. I will not turn away from doing them good, but I will put my fear in their hearts So that they will not depart from me. You know, God puts his fear in our hearts. And I think perhaps a great number of saints, I don't want to say many, I don't want to say none, but there are those saints who at times have wondered, as the apostles did at the Last Supper, is it I? Is it I? Am I going to be the reprobate that scripture speaks about. I just feel like I'm just ready to throw in the towel. This thing is just getting to be a bit too hard. And God puts his fear in our heart. Because when we s turn or back to the light, what are there options out there? Is there anything else that really burns any brighter? Is the grass greener on the other side? I think not There really isn't any other viable alternative and you simply turn and say, Lord, I don't understand. understand. You know I fill in the blank and greatly depressed. You know I am in love with this sin at the moment. You know I am enamored with something I ought not to be enamored with. Lord you know all things But you know I love you. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my hand. And that includes my own hands. Yes. That's correct. Yep, absolutely. Absolutely. That's a good good reference in John T. So God does give the elect sinner all that he requires in the covenant, and you see that language also in the sixth chapter of John. John chapter 6 is a spectacular passage of Scripture where God speaks to a bunch of Jews. He's been doing miracles. They've gathered because they've heard he can feed a great multitude. They're interested in seeing more miracles. They're interested in feeding their bellies. They really would like to just simply make Jesus a king. And he finally stops the feeding business. If you want to open up a ministry, start feeding people. It's a good way to get them around. That's what our Lord did. And then he says in John 6. 27 John 6. 27, labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life. Which the Son of Man shall give unto you, for him hath God the Father sealed. Then said they unto him, What shall we do? They're asking, What do we do? They're looking for something to do. That's a reasonable question. That we might work the works of God. We want to do these God works. Jesus answered and said of them, this is the work of God, that you believe on him whom he hath sent. Now in the Greek it's very clear. Believing on him is a work of God, not a work of man. It's very clear in the Greek. Your faith in God, your even very native ability. is not native. It seems native, but it's infused into you this ability to believe on him whom God has sent. Jesus says as much right here. It's very strong in the Greek and I trust That'll benefit you. God gives the elect sinner all that he requires in the covenant. The second point is that the elect sinner is to obey. The elect center is to obey. This is a requirement. Now, there is a principle that uh theologians have come up with, and um I sometimes I don't like the little uh theological terms that they produce. Uh we have totally skipped over some of the things that the doctrines of the covenants uh deal with because I just don't like the terminology. It's too high powered, infra-lapsarian, super-lapsarian. The other thing and I'm like, I don't use those terms. I've never heard those terms except here and The term doesn't help me and I don't find it very helpful at all. But I do find this particular one helpful. So this is a biblical concept. It's not a biblical term. It is a good biblical concept. There is the Indicative, and there is the imperative. The indicative, put the indicator, the indicative, the indication, and the imperative or the directive, the thing that you're told Go to Colossians 3, where you'll see an excellent example of this. Colossians chapter 3, you'll see an example of this indicative versus imperative. These are proof texts for that the elect sinner is to obey. So we find in Colossians 3 As it opens up this interesting statement, he says, if ye then be risen with Christ Well what's he saying? Well the presumption is he's talking to somebody who has been risen with Christ. Did he raise himself? Hardly. He's a new creature in Christ. As John 5. 24 indicates, if you hear the voice of God and believe, you're risen with him. There's a new creature there. He has a resurrected soul. If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. So the indicative is you're risen with Christ. That's the indicator. That's who you are. You're a new creature, you're resurrected. If that's the case, Seek those things which are above. God is then directing you to seek Him. Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affection on things above, not on things in the earth, and so forth. The whole chapter is an excellent instruction about How to seek the Lord, and it takes it in steps. You're shedding off the big chunks and the major sins. You're working then on sins of the heart and the mind, and then you're moving more towards brotherly love and getting the focus away from self and a complete consummation of self into this business of serving and loving the the fellow saints. 2 Peter 1 is another section of scripture that gives excellent concise directives for the believer in 2 Peter chapter 1, the opening chapter of Peter's last epistle uh 2 Peter chapter 1. We read this in verse 3. Uh we uh second uh oh no wonder I can't find it. I'm in 1 Peter. 2 Peter chapter 1 Verse 3. According as his, speaking of Jesus, according as his divine power hath given unto us, notice given. He's given unto us, you can circle that word, all things that pertain unto life. This is life in Christ, this is salvation, and godliness. is, I think, a biblical term for sanctification, right? Becoming more like Christ. It's a lifelong process. We never perfected or completed in this life, contrary to a Nazarene teaching, that you have to be made perfect before you go into heaven That's true, but not in your flesh, not in his life. God makes up the difference, as it were, with that new resurrected body. Again, I want to put stop that first verse, three. His divine power, that's the Godhead, that's this this this This operation from the Lord hath given, it's a gift unto us, these are the them that have obtained like precious faith, verse one, all things Everything, there's nothing lacking that pertains unto life and godliness. The gift of God. Isn't that stupendous? I think that's fantastic. This is the gift that keeps giving. It's an everlasting life, therefore it's an everlasting and ongoing gift. It keeps giving. It's not give and done deal. It's gifting that keeps going. It's that recurring gift. It's a daily recurring gift. We had some talks about recurring gifts there lately and uh but uh yeah it's it's it's it's a wonderful gift. Uh Freddie and then uh then Pastor. I remember early on in um Um after being saved, I remember not understanding um that I didn't have to work for my salvation after that. Oh yeah. You know, and I kept thinking I'm doing this, I'm doing that, I'm doing that But it was never in peace with the understanding that I'm doing this and doing that and doing this and what else do I have to do and what else I have to do. Everything got it all already given me all things. And anything outside of what he's given me is fruit of my salvation and thank you as due for you. I didn't have to keep working to be saved. I didn't have to keep working to stay safe. I didn't have to you know And I just wanted when I just really got tired and just tired. Yes. I he just dealt with my heart about it. It's a tremendous relief. It's a tremendous relief because if you have a works salvation program You never know, is it enough? Is it enough? Did did I cross the finish line? And then you come to find out You're nowhere near the finish. You nowhere near y it was not enough and it it you you fundamentally aren't even qualified to be in a race. I was gonna say it's not just the giving of life, it's sustaining of that life. It's a special yes. uh Penny and I and um Victoria, no matter what you're going through or where you are in life, he's with you. Yes. You know No, you don't have to do some great thing in order for what his will is to be fulfilled in your life 'cause he does it. Right. He does it. That's right, he's working in you. And we have to remember that because after a while we get kind of out of whack and start regressing in our thoughts. You have to remind yourself, okay, all right. You got it. I'm a child of the king. No, that's good. That's good. Second Peter one continues, he goes on to say in verse four, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. So here again, salvation in the New Testament. is a reference to the promises of God. And what role do the promises have? Next phrase. That it's a purpose statement. By these, these what? These promises. You might be partakers of the divine nature. Whoa. The divine nature. Really? You're done? He's done. Gloria's watching that for you. She makes sure you have full dip. that you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption. Notice the past tense, the corruption that is in the world through lust. Having escaped past tense. You have escaped it. Right? But you don't want to be the dog that's returned to his vomit. Besides this giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. And then there's a number of steps that are listed. there and I do believe they're sequential. I don't believe they're simultaneous and I can make a proof for that. In fact, go to holdingfast. net, look up the 2nd Peter study, and you can knock it out. yourself out with. And verse 10, skip down to verse 10 where he says, wherefore the rather brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure. It doesn't say to make it effectual. It doesn't say to create your calling and to create your election. It doesn't say to establish it. It just says to make it sure. In other words, it's a proof, first and foremost, to yourself. To others around you, if you're head of the house, to your family, hey, I have a God-fearing parent. Gee, what a nice thing. Keep saying gee If you do these things you shall never fail, for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And Hebrews says as much as well, but this is that principle of indicative If you're risen with Christ, you're those who have received like precious faith, that group of people, therefore seek the Lord. Therefore, And frankly, I look at it this way. I'm glad the Lord says that, because if he didn't tell me to do it, I wouldn't do it. And I'm viewing that in terms of the Word of God as life. God said, Lazarus, come forth. I'm thinking that Lazarus was pretty dead when those words entered his ears. I'm thinking Lazarus, if God hadn't said that to him, he would not have come forward. So the power to come forth was the power of the Word of God, not the power of Lazarus, not the ability of Lazarus, not the strength of Lazarus. He told him to come forth. And Lazarus came forth. God tells Vince certain things to do in scriptures, repent, believe, and so on. And because he says that, thank the Lord he did, I therefore will do them. Yes. too much but um that's all right um I got a chart sent to me this week by a young fellow that I'm trying to counsel with um that poses free will against sovereignty grace. And the the first point it makes about free will is that man has to cooperate with God. Yeah, that cooperating with God man is saved. But if man has to cooperate with God, that's a work. Right. You know, someone wants you to cooperate with them, but they say, work with me here. Work with me. Exactly. Right. If I have to cooperate with God in order to be saved, then I've been saved by one good work. Yep. And we can raise our little head up. See, I was just a little smarter than this guy over here. I was just a little better than this guy. I was just smart enough to figure this thing out. And he gets a little credit. And God insists he alone will get the glory a thousand percent. Right? And if it was left up the us, none of us would turn to Christ. Oh. And if it was left to up uh up to us, I'm not sure we'd know the right path or decision to make or what do we know? Well now we turn our attention to the nature of the covenant of grace, and there are certain elements to it that I think are helpful. And we're going to look at four of them today, and uh Lord willing we'll use the balance of the time for that, the nature of the covenant of grace. What is the framework of this covenant? First of all, it's a gracious covenant. That's why we call it Grace. There's cute little acronyms that help with grace. G-R-A-C-E, God's Riches at Christ's Expense. That's a very helpful one. Grace also is rendered favor. You see that in Proverbs 31, speaking of a woman. She's very favorable. It's a very favorable thing to indeed God is being very favorable towards his people When he does that. It's grace from start to finish. Christ is the author and finisher of our faith. He is there at the start of it and as Freddy's already said, every step of the way up until the finish of it. He who hath begun a good work in you shall perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He is working, our God is not dead We don't want to think of him as this idol propped up at the front of some Baptist church where as long as you walked the aisle and got wet and came back, that you've done your duties and now you move on in life and it's up to you to keep things up. I'm not saying Alver Baptist Baptist brethren believe that, but there are plenty of people who have that thinking in their head. They went up to the Billy Graham concert. I had a roommate of mine one time Uh when I was a young believer, trying to get away from living with other unbelievers into a Christian home at least to surround myself with other Christians, I Went in with a fellow, I didn't have the best of discernment, but he had a Christian testimony, and that he claimed that he was a Christian. Uh but Beyond the five minutes I met him, and later as I moved in, it became evident he was not, and I questioned him about it. He said, Oh no, I'm saved. And he brought me a piece of paper that the evangelist had given him. And this was his proof And that was what he was resting on. I'm not even sure he kept it in the safe place, to be honest with you. No, I'd put that in the bank vault if I thought that was my you know my salvation card. You'd want to hang on to that pretty you know, maybe put it in a little gold frame or something. I mean this is kind at least the Orthodox Church, you know, knows how to gussy stuff up a bit to make it look real important, right? But he just had a little crumpled piece of paper. And this was his proof. And he was really banking on that. And it was clear that he was not interested in the world. It's a gracious covenant. It's executed by the grace of God. It's realized by the grace of God. And you know these passages, Ephesians 4, 8 and 9, for by grace, through grace, you're saved. And that not of yourselves is the gift of God. Even the faith to believe unto salvation is not of yourselves. It is a gift. The Greek is very specific in that. The it refers to the faith. That is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Romans 4, the apostle is making a very big doctrinal point. to the glory of God that God will not have any of man's works enter in because that is a glory-robbing element. You can't mix certain types of metal together in electrical circuits. If you have an aluminum and then you have a zinc or a copper end to it, you're going to get some corrosion over time. And that corrosion can get to the point where it weakens that electrical circuit, the a little the little amount of metal that conducts electricity will then bear a greater amperage, which will eventually Perhaps start a fire and get too hot, get too hot and start a fire, or it will just simply break entirely. You can't have dissimilar metals. Likewise in God's plan of salvation. You cannot have works and grace together. And that's exactly what the apostle is talking about in Romans 4. He's illustrating the dichotomy. He says in Romans 4 and verse 16, he says, therefore it is salvation, it is a faith that it might be by grace. To the end that the promise might be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of this all. The law demands a man to run. It does not give a man legs. The law demands you to climb, but it does not give you a ladder. the law demands certain things of you, and man is utterly unable, especially fallen man, who has lost those things and lost the means and the ability to walk in a holy, godly way, which thing Adam and Eve at one time had Having lost those things, the law cannot provide the solution. So therefore the law can't be any part of the solution in terms of God's grace. In the redemption, the covenant of redemption, yes, it plays a part. Christ came under the law. That was his role, not ours. That's why the reformers find it helpful to distinguish this covenant of redemption where all the work of salvation is done strictly in the Godhead, where the law of God plays a central role. That's a standard of righteousness that must be excelled, not just met. And then the gracious covenant, the covenant of grace, where God bestows those benefits of all that He's done to us. It's a separation. the promise might be sure. Sure. That's how much sure because it's based in God, not in me. But it might be sure. Yeah, that's why I want you to see it in your Bible. So you can note it in your Bible, because that's a real treasure trest uh it's a real treasure troll. But you'll remember it longer when you kind of see it on the pages of your scriptures, and then when you visit it again, it'll Stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. It'll help. Yeah, the promise might be sure. Thank you, Penny. Yes, it is excellent. 2 Thessalonians. 2 Thessalonians 2. 16 is another place where the gracious element of this covenant shines forth, where we read, now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God, even our Father. Which hath loved us and hath given us everlasting consolation, everlasting comfort. You remember when the story of rich man and Lazarus, Lazarus Went into heaven, ascended by angels, and was comforted in Abraham's bosom. Comforted. Everlasting consolation, that's the word comfort. And good hope through grace. It's a very gracious covenant. God gives us hope. He gives us comfort through this grace. The introduction to all the epistles, how does it start? Name any epistle. How does it typically start? If you were to kind of just summarize it in your own words. Grace and peace be unto you. The word grace is nearly always in there. Grace, peace, and mercy may be added, but grace is always in there because that is God's word. It's a gracious covenant. The second point, it's a Trinitarian covenant. It's a Trinitarian covenant, the entire Godhead. is graciously operating and working on your behalf. It's gracious because of three things. It's Trinitarian because of three these three elements. God the Father elects. That's his role. He elects. All that the Father hath given unto me. It speaks about the foreknowledge of God. The Son atones That's the Son's role. He's the payment bearer. Holy Spirit didn't hang on the cross. God the Father didn't hang on the cross. God the Son did. And yet Christ said, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Yes, the Trinity is a mystery to us. Because God cannot make God, else one would be the creator, one would be created, and thus not identical. It's impossible. There can only be one God in the universe at a time. And God's it. The Lord our God, Jehovah God. The Father elects, the Son atones, and the Spirit applies. It's the Spirit that makes application to us. It impresses upon our heart. opens our understanding. And I'm calling the Holy Spirit it because it's actually in the Greek a neutral adjective. We can't make the Spirit a he or a she There's kind of a third gender, if you will, a neutral one. It's an it. It's the Holy Spirit. It's an it. That's how God uses that that uh that Greek uh term. Yep. The Spirit applies. First Peter one two uh is the uh is the place that shows this most clearly that it's a Trinitarian covenant. And the opening uh uh statement of the epistle, Peter writes this, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, the foreknowledge, meaning God knew us long before we were a gleam in our great, great, great, great, great, great grandparents' eyes. I find that frankly amazing. That all those XY chromosomes that would be mixed and remixed and changed and mutated and going all the way. Eventually there's going to be a pair come together that's going to instantiate some some guy called Matt. Some guy called Ivan, some lady called Lena. Eventually those are going to come together and form an individual. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through Sanctification of the Spirit. It's the Spirit that does the sanctifying work. The Spirit's the sanctifier, you see. Unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, because he is the one that came in the likeness of sinful flesh. So we have the blood of Jesus Christ. All three elements you see right there grace unto you and peace be multiplied. So there's the connection to grace. All three of the Godhead shows his grace through their self-chosen roles. It's the Father who chose to elect. It's the Spirit who chose to sanctify. It's the the Son who chose to atone. And yet all three were in agreement that thus it should be John 1. 16 is another place which theologians will appreciate. It's maybe a little obscure at first, but to show that the the the the entire Trinitarian the whole Trinity was involved in this business of grace. It reads this, John 1. 16, of his fullness, now you've got to think about that for a moment, of his fullness, we're talking the fullness of God So that would be the entire Trinity. I think of the fullness. I'm trying to put my arms around all of it. Well, that would include the Trinity, I think. Of his fullness have all we received. And grace for grace, there's a connection to grace. His fullness we've received, and grace for grace. So that's part of the Covenant of grace, it's a Trinitarian covenant. Third point of this. So first we saw that it's a gracious covenant. Second, it's a Trinitarian covenant. The third aspect of the covenant of grace is it's an eternal and unbreakable covenant. It's eternal and unbreakable. God will always be true to this covenant. He will always be true to it. And though men may break it, he invariably will bring it to pass to a full realization in his elect. He will bring it to pass. All throughout the Old Testament and the New, you read about the sins of the saints. Yes. You see them together, don't you? They're saints. There's still saints, and yet you still see their fall and their struggle. Yet I believe I'm going to see a David in heaven and a Noah who got drunk. And uh you name it. I mean, they're going to be there. God's very gracious to them. Isaiah 54. 10 is the passage there, and I'll read it to you if you'd like to hear it. It says, For the mountains shall depart, the hills be removed. But my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy on me God has obligated himself to ensure that this covenant comes to pass. It would be quite the shame, quite the embarrassment to God if it failed. It's inviolable and can also be called a testament, and I want you to turn to Hebrews 9. 15 for this one. This is one that I believe we can more fully understand. Sometimes promises are, oh, that's wonderful, that's great, I got a good promise, but we can soon forget it. This one, I think, comes a little closer to home. It's inviolable and so it can be called a testament. Now, a great many of you as you reach a season of life when you begin to think I need to start writing up certain documents so that my stuff can be passed on to my predecessor or my my heirs. And that thing is called a will. It's also referred to in the legal terms as a last will and Testament. We still use that phrase. That's about the only place I know where we still use that word testament, unless people are talking about the Bible. Well, Hebrews 9. 15 makes the point that God Almighty had a will and testament It says in verse chapter 9 of Hebrews and verse 15, for this cause he, speaking of Christ, is the mediator of the New Testament. That by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions under the First Testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Now that's quite the heady statement the apostle makes, but he points out that it's by death that certain blessings are conveyed. And he makes an illustration which is very helpful to us. He says, for where a testament is, and now in here where he says testament, think last will and testament. Where a testament is There must also of necessity be the death of a testator, for a testament is a force after. After Men are dead. Otherwise it's of no strength at all while the test eater liveth. Alright, so you help dear old grandma make out her last will and testament. And she's kind of feeble and you're helping her make it out. And oh, you can have all my fancy race cars and you can have all my racing horses and you can have my 500 acres of land and your and your other brother gets this and your other brother gets that and you we divvy up the estate. And now imagine if while she's still living the brother goes out and starts to grab the race cars and grab the horses and she said, whoa whoa whoa what are you doing? What would he be doing? He'd be stealing from her. He'd be taking it early. Why? Because she ain't dead yet. That testament is not a force until the testator dies. It's a unique document. It's a very unique and interesting document. And the scripture says that's exactly how you and I are recipients of God's coming of grace. God made a will. He wrote out your name in that will. He wrote out what you would inherit in that will. You were not around to advise him as to what to put in that will. He wrote it out. And it says it's made effectual upon the death of my son. I mean it could be written that way. It doesn't have to be a grandparent. I can write it out that upon my death some beloved co-worker, a boss that I like. Could get something. It could be totally separate, so long as it was in my possession to give. And that's exactly what Christ did for us. He is the mediator of the New Testament, and by means of his death. He died because of redemption. So in his death it accomplished two things. It paid for sins and it kicked in the will. You see how efficient the work of God is. He accomplishes many things in one action. And by that death, that covenant springs to life I think that's a little indication at the cross. It says uh many of the bodies of the saints in Jerusalem rose. There's an immediate resurrection. It kicked in. It's a little sign, a little token that eternal life is given. In in the same passage in context. What we were talking about earlier about works and never working enough. Verse 14, he did all this to purge our conscience from dead works. Just to wash the dead works out of our conscience. And it doesn't say heart. Right. It says conscience. Yes, right. Because it doesn't say the record of heaven. Yeah, God's done it in our heart. But our conscience is what comes along and says Right. You're not good enough. You're not good enough. So that's a uh incredible, inviolable concept. of this gracious testament. It's an eternal, it's an unbreakable covenant. It can't be broken. You've got to really stop and appreciate that. You see, because God gave Israel a covenant that they could break, and if they broke it, there would be some catastrophic consequences. Read Deuteronomy 28. There's fifteen verses of benefits of blessings if you keep it, but from verses fifteen to like sixty-four, all the curses that will fall upon you if you break it, and indeed it did. Fall upon them. And there wasn't a fault with the covenant, the fault was with them. You don't have those terms and conditions in the covenant of grace. You don't have those terms and conditions. What you have is God says, I will bless them. I will be their God. They shall be my people. He will not break it. It can't break, it can't fail. And so that's a great comfort that this is a superior testament. Ready? Yeah. I was finishing up um Joshua. And towards the end it says, I've done all all the things I said I was gonna do, I have done them. And he was telling them to not uh commingle with the pe the inhabitants of that land. If if you do everything I'm paraphrasing, if you do everything I said do all of these things, you know I'll be unto you your God But if you don't, I will send evil upon you. That scared me and I'm a a product of grace. It made you nervous because you had a heart of flesh. It didn't bother them too much because they had a heart of stone. Sure. The last point about this covenant, and I'm kind of short on time, but this is a very important one, is that's a particular covenant. It's a particular covenant. It's very particular. The covenant of grace is not universal. It does not apply to every single human being on the face of the planet that's ever lived throughout all time. It's just simply not. Cannot be. Grace will not be realized in all men. God has already said, Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. And that was before they were even born. They were in the womb of the right woman who had the right husband, who was God's anointed and ordained and appointed and elect. Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. We are to look diligently lest any man fail in the grace of God. Listen to this language of Hebrews 12. He says, lest there be any fornicator or profane person is Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. You know how afterward, when he s would have sought afterward When he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. You see, Esau sought it. But there was no place found for him. He was not elect according to the foreknowledge of the Father. He was not sanctified by the Spirit. The blood of sprinkling had not been applied to him. It was a specific promise. To God's people and God's people only. It's a very particular covenant. Grace does not extend to all who hear the gospel because many are not willing to come. They just don't want to come. They're not interested. The Lord Jesus encountered this in John 6. It says in John 6, verse 60, therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, this is a hard saying. Who can hear it? When Jesus knew it himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Does this offend you? He goes on to say, The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life, but there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray them. And he said, Therefore I said to you that no man can That's the word ability, dunymus. No man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my father. And from that time Many of his disciples feared, oh Lord, please let it not be so. Fell down at his feet like the Syrophoenician woman who was not offended at the doctrine of election. And insisted to come, and Jesus says, Great is your faith, that even the hearing of this didn't reject you. No, from that time many of his disciples went back and walked. No more with him. Oh, but they believed at one point, but they walked. No more. No more. With him. That's a damning statement. That's a statement of condemnation. That's a statement of, yep, evidence and proof that these were reprobates. Oh, they heard. Many are called, few are chosen. Grace does not extend to all who hear the gospel. And lastly, the offer doesn't come to all men Since there have been many individuals and even nations who were never made acquainted with God's way of salvation. You know, in Acts the apostles wanted to go to a certain place after they were come to Mycia. They essayed they desired to go into Bithynia. These are ancient Roman provinces. But the Spirit suffered them not. God, the Holy Spirit said, oops, stop, not going there. There were only two angels that went to Sodom and Gomorrah. Not all three. I think the Savior didn't go there. There was no salvation for the Sodomites and Gomorrah and those of that land. Jesus said earlier that if the mighty works which had been done in thee, Korazan, Tyran Sidon, had been done in Sodom and Gomorrah, it would have remained to this day. It has still been there. God knows they would have repented. Nope, I'm not sending you there. I'm not sending it. I want these people to be an example of suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Our last passage is Ezekiel 3. Ezekiel 3, verses 4 through 6. Ezekiel had a very interesting ministry. This is one I need to think about from time to time as we wrap up here. Ezekiel was set up, from man's perspective, Ezekiel was set up to fail Ezekiel was not going to be a Jonah who would preach a very short message and a hundred and twenty thousand Assyrians would be saved. That was a phenomenal ministry that Jonah had the privilege of doing, and he didn't get all happy about it either. He was kind of upset. Remember the sins of the saints part of the earlier. Ezekiel. Ezekiel. This is a big chunk of scriptures this brother has the privilege to write. Tremendous prophecies coming through to him, and God gives him this commission in verse 4. He said unto me of Ezekiel 3. 4, he said unto me, son of man, go, get thee unto the house of Israel, and speak my words unto them. Thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel. Not to many people Not to the multitudes of a people of strange speech and a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely had I sent thee unto them, they would have hearkened unto thee. Ezekiel, if I'd send you to Babylon, if I'd send you off to Assyria, to the Medes and the Persians as far away to the east as that, if I'd sent you to the Lydians at the time. Or down to Egypt. You don't understand their speech. Doesn't matter. If you speak to them, they'd hear you. I'm not sending you there. I'm going to send you to somebody who ain't going to hear you Because I want my words to be a witness against them. But there's a double edge there. He says, I have no intention of giving a message of mercy and grace to these other people. Our God governs the universe how he pleases. If God wanted to save everybody on the planet, It, he would, and it would not fail. But that is not his intention. God's gospel of grace, I close with this, and those who are graciously given to it and Fearfully, love and adore it, understanding how particular it is and how sure it is, and that they are but a remnant that are saved by the skin of their teeth. will forever be grateful and a monument to his grace, forever they will say, glory to the Lamb. It's all of thee. They'll cast their crowns willingly down to Him. And the wicked will forever complain. They will forever rebel. They will forever blaspheme, even when they suffer great scorching heat, as Revelation speaks. about. And they will be an eternal monument to God's justice against wrath and sin. But God will have two monuments. He will have two monuments. His covenants will be vindicated. The covenant of works will demonstrate his wrath upon the wicked and his covenant of grace will forever have you as a living testimony. Look at what I can do with a big, fat, nothing. I hope that's a blessing. Yes, Jeff. There are multiple instances in both in scripture and in our own experience. Where there's been a faithful preacher that was rejected and was refined. Um at the at the time that we left Jamaica, um about five other missionaries that we can equip. All with in a year and a half period of we're just removed by health, by circumstances. You know, and and Dave Henley, my good friend, said to said to me, you know, is the Lord let draw Okay, ask would you close briefly in prayer. Gracious Father, how marvelous is the grace of God. How infinite are your ways. How unsearchable. Lord, we cannot find them out except that your Spirit guide us into all truth. Uh the these things are not the ways of man. They are not the desire or the way that man would have designed salvation. But Lord, if man designed salvation, it would all be reliant on man. So Father, we thank you that it is indeed all of grace and all of mercy, and your perfect and eternal plan is the only reason we're saved. For Lord, uh we would not have sought thee, but you were found of those who sought you. Lord, thank you. Thank you for the teaching this morning. Lord, implant it deep in our hearts. May we not be forgetful here. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.