And we're talking about the doctrine of last things. That's a very short chapter because the Bible doesn't give an enormous amount of insight, but the insight that it does offer is quite good. This is kind of a bonus study because uh was not it's not covered in Mr. Burkoff's book, so don't think this is a section you will find in there, but I wanted to address a A I don't know how common it is, but just bear with me. A common misconception or fear that believers have. And it's this language you find in scriptures that believers stand before the throne of God. Now, we're going to kind of cover that today to try to understand in what sense it is. Now, there's an old rule of thumb in presentations. Tell them what you're going to tell them, tell them, and then tell them what you told them So I'm going to tell you where we're going with this. And the answer is that believers stand before the throne of God in a good sense. In a good sense, in a positive way. They are not standing there unto condemnation. but rather unto eternal glory as his loving subjects. So um now you might ask, well why do we even ask this question. Well, if you have your Bible, you might want to turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10. I'm just going to cover this one verse If you don't have it, you can listen. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10, we find this passage In 2 Corinthians 5. 10, we read this, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body. According to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. And of course, we uh uh know and understand something about the nature of man, I dare say any of us would assess that we are perfect or that we will actually ever attain perfection in this life We would teach that God's standard of perf uh before the throne is perfection, a perfect compliance to his law of God. And so at first blush, that passage may sound like Well, if I'm going to be judged before God based according to my works, and we know from plenty of places in the Bible there's none that doeth good, no not one, then this certainly doesn't sound like a positive outcome. How am I to understand that verse? How are we to treat that? So this is what we're going to try to address today. Now in your handout, there are some fill-in-the-blanks that I try to leave for you. And the first is the section that we're looking at now, and that is our sins are paid for, what's left to condemn? The sins are paid for, what's left to condemn. Now, I'm going to read a couple of verses, and maybe Gabriel can bring them up. The first will be Hebrews 9. 24, and my question would be will be this. Actually I'll have some of you read. Uh what are each of these verses teaching? Alright, so um Uh Joe, if you would, uh could you read Hebrews 9. 24, and then Joe or anybody could kind of address what that passage is speaking about. For Christ is not entered into the holy place made with hands, which are the figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Okay, so what's going on in that verse? Anybody? Christ has entered into heaven for us. Okay. He's entered into heaven for us, all right. And uh and uh What what what might he have appeared in heaven for? Any thoughts on that? But to make atonement, just as the pre center into the earthly tabernacle to make atonement, Christ is entered not into the heavenly, not the one Yeah, did you notice that language he says that Christ is not entered into holy places made with hands? What are those holy places that are made with hands? What would that have been? The church? The which? Temple. Temples, yeah, the Old Testament temple. That was a it was called a holy place, but it wasn't truly holy. The New Testament temple is the church, the body of believers Um, but he's talking about Jesus showing up in Jerusalem at that temple. He says he didn't appear there and he called those figures of the true, a figure, a a shadow, a type. You get these little figurines of little ice skaters or uh things that you might purchase. That's not the real ice skater. It's a figure of it. So it was with the temple. It was a figure, it was a picture of a of something else that was true. That was just a representative. Alright. Victoria, read Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh But after the Spirit. Okay, so anybody, what's going on in this passage here? What's God telling us from that? When Christ entered into the holy place, as we see in Hebrews 9, He took the judgment for us. He was our atonement, and therefore there is no condemnation because it has already been condemned in Christ. Yeah, there's no condemnation to a certain group of people. What group of people is that according to this verse? What's that language? Them which are in Christ Jesus. Yeah, them which are in Christ Jesus. So if someone is in Christ The scripture says that for them there is no condemnation to them. And when is that condemnation, when is that state of no condemnation seen? When do they see that? It's in Christ Jesus and when do they experience that? Salvation. Yeah, they experience salvation. Uh it says right now There's therefore now, currently, currently, right now, right, now, there's now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Right now. So as you sit here today as a child of God, as an elect child of God in Christ, the Bible says there's no condemnation. And think about it, if I'm in Christ, and that language is great because it implies that he is this protective element around me, and all that God the Father sees is Jesus Christ, as long as I am in him, there isn't condemnation. We don't find any kind of judgment. Now what's also more interesting about that passage is the root word for judgment is the same as this word for condemnation. There's it's a different noun, preposition, adverb, whatever. I'm not uh I don't know the English parts very well. I'm doing good with noun and verb penny. Beyond that, don't push it. Just don't push it. I can write, I don't know what the parts are called, but I I I've I've got it. It's Krinos. It's still that same concept of judgment. It can be rendered as condemnation. It can be also rendered to judge, meaning to assess, to determine Let's look at back at 2 Corinthians 5. If you still have your Bible open, look at 2 Corinthians 5. 21 and uh Again, my question is going to be the same thing. What does this passage teach? Owen, did you happen to have your finger on 2 Corinthians 5. 21? All right, yeah, read that, please. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. Okay, so there's two parts in that. So what is the first part, the part before the comma? I know commas. I'm good with that. What is that first part telling us? First session Substitution comes to mind. Okay, substitution comes to mind. It says for he, who's that he capital letter he? Who's that he? Jesus. Father. That would be God the Father, you're not wrong, but God the Father hath made him. Who's that second him? That would be God the Son, Jesus. He, God the Father, hath made him, God the Son, to be sinned for us. Who's that? us, all right, his people, all right. Who knew no sin. The one who knew no sin was him, Jesus. So he who knew no sin, God made him to be sin. Now it doesn't mean that his nature changed because we know he raised from the grave in the same body he was at. It saw no corruption because death couldn't have a hold on him. Sin was, as Victoria pointed out, reckoned unto him, imputed unto him, transferred unto him, substituted unto him. This is the concept of imputation. It's right here in this passage. It's the clearest Biblical language you can find concerning imputation. He who knew no sin became sin for us. Now what's the purpose of that? Why did he do all that? I mean, why bother? That's the second half of this verse after the comma. We're in Second Corinthians five twenty-one. You're shaking your head, Victoria, because it's amazing, isn't it? Yeah, it's amazing. Why the righteousness of God Yeah, the purpose. So when you see the word that in the Bible, here's a hint. Just understand that's a purpose clause. It's telling you the purpose of the reason why God's doing something. The reason God made Christ to be sin for us, the sinless one to be made sin for us, there's a reason. That the purpose is we might be made the righteousness of God. Now if it didn't have those last two words, that would be pretty significant. But it says the righteousness of God in him. We're only found righteous in one location, in one person that's in Christ. So this is the clear teaching of Scripture concerning our standing based on what Jesus has done. And this is the battle cry of the Protestant Reformation. that we are justified by faith in Christ. Justified means to be declared righteous before God. All that God requires for there to be found perfection. on the behalf of the believer can be found entirely with Jesus Christ. Oh, but the church is so full of hypocrites. So is the grocery store. I still go to the grocery store. It doesn't matter. But until you find fault with Jesus Christ, you haven't found anything on me because I'm in him. And you won't find fault with Christ, because he's the only beloved and accepted before the Father. So this is foundational teaching concerning justification. And we don't need to forget that when we find eleven verses earlier in 2 Corinthians 5 when the apostle writes, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that everyone may receive the things done in his body, and that would be this right here, according to that he hath done, whether good or bad. We don't need to be terrified at that. Because Romans 8 says there's therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. But how are we to understand that verse Because we know even after salvation comes we still live in a body that lusts after sin. There is still the principle of sin in us. Sin no longer reigns, but it does remain. It's still present. So how are we to account for this? So I've done a study on this a number of years ago and I've uh rehashed it and try to reorganize it some. We're probably not going to cover all of it. I'm just going to skip around to different things. Did you have a comment? Oh, okay. Ms. Radching. And eye that was itching. Random body part movement. So one of the things we do find in scriptures is that uh Believers, in fact, do desire to stand before God. That's your next point here in the fill-in-the-blank bottom left. Believers desire to stand before God. They really do. David in the Psalm says this, my soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. There are many gods in David's land at that day. He made it clear it's the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? He doesn't seem to find a shirking, fearful, cringing approach to the throne. He says, when shall I come? He wants to appear before God. This is something he desires to do. So David understands that that's a positive thing. How did we get it in our head that it's a negative thing If in fact that concept is there. Now we're going to go through this next set of verses here. There's about four of them I'd like to cover. And again, as we read each of these passages, I'm going to ask the question, what is it like to stand before God as you read each of these passages? So we're going to start. Gabriel's going to pull up Matthew 25, 22. And we're going to look at Matthew 25, 22, and we're going to read those parts of Matthew 25 up to verse 23. Anton, if you would cover Matthew 25, 22, and 23. He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliverest unto me two talents. Behold, I have gained two other talents beside them His Lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. Okay, so Anton or anybody else, what is it like according to this passage to stand before the Lord? Well the one that's done good and faithfully he's uh received a reward for it. So I would imagine it's a joyful thing. Now there are some individuals to whom God will pronounce good and faithful servant Does that mean that individual lived a perfect life? No, they didn't. There was a continuation. They were faithful. There was a general trajectory. You know, people like to invest in certain kinds of stocks in the stock market, even though it may dip down, they just know that over time there's a trajectory that goes up. So it is with the child of God. There's a general trajectory. There's a general trend. You know the the the the the righteous fall seven times and rises again, the wicked fall into mischief. And so that's the path they take. Their life just grows worse and worse and worse. Their fruit is even worse. Uh let's look at the next verse, Matthew 25, 31, 32, uh, 32, and then 34. Marissa, would you cover those? That next chunk of verses there from Matthew 25? When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall set the sheep on his right Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the Isn't that interesting? Here it is, uh the two different parables that Jesus gives in the very same chapter, Matthew 25. To my ears, it sounded very similar to what we've read with the parable of the talents. And I ask again my same question for Marissa or anyone who cares to answer. What is it like in that instance to stand before God? It's not a trickle. Well if we've lived our lives in such a way that we've always depended on God, then it is just a continuation of minutes. I mean we were one place one Yeah. There's a uh uh you're looking uh kind of beyond where the question's going is uh how we live. Uh and whoever it is that's standing there, the king says, Come you blessed, inherit the kingdom. So there is a blessed state. You're basically a line that says, Come you blessed, you're here to inherit something. You see these movies sometimes, you know, the old boy's on the bed dying and the family around is all concerned and then he passes and they quit, where's the will? They're gonna go, you know, run to the vault and they're And they're they just can't wait to pull it out and you know, what did he leave me? And they're looking for the inheritance, right? You know how Hollywood plays these scenes up in a really stupid way. But here, Christ has a pronouncement. He says, Come, you bless, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. So here they inherit a kingdom that's prepared. They they have an inheritance. Now, when you hear that word inheritance, what what do you think what did you have to do to inherit something? I think you have to be an heir of of whoever is giving that in everything. Alright, you have to be an heir How are heirs chosen? Is there some general path that an heir is chosen? How do you choose an heir? Child. Child. Child or children always chosen as heirs. They're born. They're born, okay We're born again. Alright. In general among among the sons of men. Just working with the analogy first. You're you're you're not wrong. Our uh if if um if a man is childless and he has great wealth Who are his heirs? He had no children. Okay? Whoever he chooses. Who oh I like both of those answers. People he loves and people he chooses. You ever hear of somebody called the black sheep in the family? You ever known families that have a black sheep in the family? And it's not that we're against any particular color. We're talking about somebody who has a a rap sheet to their family name and they're, you know, kind of, my dad used to call them there's in-laws and there's outlaws. Sometimes those don't get included in the will, do they? They're sort of excluded. They have no relationship with the family. They were never around. They never helped, they never contributed. They were just a big sucking leech the whole time and they they brought you problems and gave you more problems in exchange, they're probably not going to show up in the will. There is no hard and set rule for who becomes the heir. In general, loving parents donate it to their children. In general, uh you find that there is a familial relationship, maybe to an extended nephew or something, or to grandchildren that might go further down the line. That's the normal case. But at the end of the day, it's whoever the heir loves and chooses. And so this is the illustration given here. Where I'm getting to is What if the black sheep got everything and the nice children got nothing? That's not safe. They would cry it's not fair. Can he not do with his own what he wants to? Maybe he wants to just help out that black sheep just one more time You see, that whole concept of inheritance has nothing to do with our idea of fairness, and I think God's giving this illustration here to begin to back us off the idea that we're somehow earning our way into heaven. Yes, they're good and faithful servants, but at the end of the day it's an inheritance because they're born again and their sons, and he is a good father, passes it to his children, no matter what they were like. on this side of the grave. Well look at Jude 124, our next verse, and I have the question, what is it like to stand before God? It says this, now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless, before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. I've cut that sentence in half. I didn't go to verse 25. It's a great ending to it, because I want to focus on 24. Unto him that's able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. What is that like to stand before God, according to that passage? Joyful. Joyful? Okay. Glorious. Yeah, glorious. Gloriously joyful It says exceeding joy. I've never really experienced that, I suppose. My wedding to Angela would be a measure of exceeding joy those happy events. Those were too happy. I never saw a happier happier groom in my life than Anton at his wedding. Bruce's father wasn't too happy at that event. I can't imagine why. But anyway He's able to keep you from falling. He's able to present you. Now that's the next that next word is pretty big. How is he able to present you before his throne? What does it say? Faultless. What does faultless mean? Just unpack that word, faultless. It means not human. Faultless. No fault. No fault. Yeah. It's like what Pilate said of Christ. I find no fault with him. So as we stand before the throne of God, because we are in Christ, And it is there to determine the deeds done in the body, whether good or bad. He's already declared he is able to make you stand before that throne. Bless my soul. Faultless Therefore, he says, Come, good and faithful servant I'm a trade nut and on the north and southern most most train systems, there is a radio system and there's sensors all on the track and in a very robotic voice it will say mile six thirty three no faults in other words it's safe to proceed. Interesting. Yeah. Interesting. And that that um that language is clear in the scriptures and it's a great encouragement, and I think it helps us understand what it means to therefore stand before his throne Because that can be a scary thought. It would be a scary thought for me if I had a summons in the mail that says the FBI would like to speak with you at their headquarters. But what if it said the Senate has depositioned you for an inquiry? What if it said, your website has caught the attention of the White House. We're not happy. We'd like to see you. You know, even mere rulers among men, that would be a terrifying thing. This is the God of Gods. This is the King of Kings. This is the Lord of Lords. This is the one who raises up kings and puts them down. And none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? to stand before him and yet according to his word I can call him my father according to his word he's able to present me faultless before his throne According to his word, if I'm in Christ, I have the righteousness of God in him, and there is therefore now no condemnation. So He gives us confidence. He gives us confidence in this thing. In fact, our confidence ought to be so strong that the Apostle Paul writes this, it's in 1 Corinthians 6, 1 through 3. So look at that. This is an a very fascinating passage of scripture. I don't know I don't know why it's not trumpeted more often. And I'm not taking fault with anything coming out of this pulpit. I'm just saying over the years I don't recall ever having heard any teaching on this whatsoever. 1 Corinthians 6, 1 to 3, dare any of you, the apostle writes to this church at Corinth, with all kinds of issues, dare any of you, having a matter against another, One brother borrowed a shovel, he didn't return it back. He's got an issue. Go to law before the unjust and not before the saints. Why do you prosecute a lawsuit? In the church, among the body of believers. He says, why do you do that? He says, Do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life? What's the Apostle Paul arguing about here? What's he arguing for? What's the thrust of his argument? Why are you bringing uh any matters before the world when uh the the standard of judgment is is to be held by us the saints. Right. It's the saints who are who know, have, possess, and understand the higher criteria Why would you go to an inferior court? That would be like I don't even know what illustration to make this. I've I I I've got a a an i One brother here in our midst has an issue with a company with whom he has a contract. They owe him money. They're not paying him money. And so imagine if he went instead of to a courtroom, he found some eighth grader out in the schoolyard and says, hey, I've got an issue here, and he complains to the eighth grader. You go, why are you going to him? His what? What kind of judgment has he got? He hasn't any sense. He has no jurisdiction in your matter. Why are you bothering with him? Well that's what he's fundamentally saying here. Saints. You actually have, as Holy Ghost-filled, born-again sons and daughters of the Most High, the privilege, at the end of time, to be co-judges with God Himself. Yea, even of angels. He says, so why are you doing this? That's a he's appealing to a a a larger doctrine the judging of the world by the saints and applying it to a local church matter that you're going to law with the unjust I find that quite impressive. I I I to me it doesn't to me I kind of want to get there. To me it sounds like David, my soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before the living God? David has man fighting daily against him. He says, oh, I want to appear before God because I want to point out to him, Lord, deal with this one, deal with this one, deal with this one. dispense with them, I've had it with them. They're wicked. Get rid of them. The believers have a standard, have a sense of righteousness Well, we continue on. The other thing we discover, and um is uh That good in fact is found in God's children. Now there are some theological circles. There are some. Brethren, this is an issue particularly on the West Coast from some of the circles I used to be in, that would, I call it overdosing on total depravity. Man is evil. Amen. Man is wicked. Amen. There's none righteous. No, not one. There's none that doeth good. There's none that understandeth God. Amen. That's the description of the unsaved. They don't stop there. They continue it on to say, as a believer, all I can do in this body is sin. And that's incorrect. That is incorrect. That is a false statement. There is the other side I never circulated in that camp, but it's the Roman Catholic side or any other works, gospel side, which says, oh no, you must do goods, because they don't understand the concept of being in Christ. They think that on their own merit, on their own standing, they've got to do enough good in this life to pass that judgment throne standard. What's that balance between the two? Well, then the scriptures never say that believers do good. Well, this is what the scripture actually says in that department This description you'll find in here applies and is referencing believers, but I want you to consider the good that is found in God's children. Let's look, for instance, at Titus 1. 8 This is one of the qualifications of a man who is considered to be an elder. It says in Titus 1. 8, he is to be a lover of hospitality. A lover of good men, sober, just holy, temperate. Well, how can he be a lover of good men if good men don't exist? It's like saying the lover of Barney the purple dinosaur. I mean he doesn't exist. It's not a real thing. No. Now that's one word in the Greek and it refers to men who are of good character, men who are of good demeanor. This would be other believers. You find in Titus 3. 8 it says, this is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm. You reinforce them constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful To maintain good works, these things are good and profitable unto men. Now we're not talking absolute perfection. I'm not talking about that I'm not talking about you've dotted every I, crossed every T, though that is the goal We strive towards that, that's the standard. You know, if you set a low goal, you get low results. If you set a high goal, you get high results There is a desire on the part of the believers to do things that are good and profitable, according to Scriptures, and they ought to seek to do these things Those are called, quote, good works. They're not perfect works, they're good works as a pattern. Ephesians 6. 7, the same concept, with goodwill doing service as to the Lord and not to men. You know, believers need to view themselves more and more that they are Their adoptive sons of royalty. It was a lot of fascination these days with the imminent coronation of King Charles upon the death of Queen Elizabeth after her fifty, sixty, seventy, some odd year reign, some stupendously long period of time, one of the if not the longest reigning monarch in my recent history, probably in in in history, in Britain's history at least. So There's a great fascination for that. And there's all kinds of ridiculous news as to who will or won't attend. And frankly, uh us Americans separated from them a long time ago care less about that. But I bring it up because it's a news event. Believers need to understand that they're part of royalty. You're of a royalty that has truly the longest reigning monarch. God the Father's monarchy, who has never had a cessation of existence, you're in that kingdom, you're part of that royal court, you're part of that royal family, you're royalty That mindset ought to come in. Of his kingdom there shall be no end. Of his kingdom there shall be no end, and we're part of that. And so that's all That Scripture seeks to exhort you to walk and have a vocation and a walk worthy of His calling. Why are you one of the most productive employees on your job? Because you're representing someone. You're representative of the king. You're working as unto the Lord and not as unto men. God gave you that job, God gave you those skills, God gave you that opportunity, God gave you the wherewithal. So do it as unto the Lord, not as unto men Oh, but the boss is wicked. Yep. So was Daniel's bosses. Fared pretty well for him. You know, you see in Galatians 6. 10 this exhortation, as we therefore have opportunity, let us do good unto all men Especially unto them who are of the household of faith. There ought to be a desire to do well. We don't want to harm intentionally those who are outside of Christ. Why? We don't want to compromise our witness to them. We don't want to give them an occasion to turn away from the gospel. You know, the apostle said in Acts 23, he was earnestly beholding a counsel. He's up on trial. And he says, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. He was driven by his conscience. He had a tender conscience. And let me tell you, folks, you either have a tender ego. Or you have a tender conscience. Either somebody steps on your toes the wrong way and you get upset and you get angry, you have a tender conscience. I always worry about somebody who can never apologize for anything Why can't they apologize? Why is it people just can't apologize for something? They have a tender ego. Don't you dare impugn anything on me. And there's a tender conscience. I'm sorry. I'm just so sorry. I didn't realize I'm, you know, they they assume I probably erred somehow. I probably screwed something up. I wouldn't be surprised if I screwed something up. I'm prone to being able to do that 3 John 1. 12, the apostle writes of an individual, he says, Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself, yea, and we also bear record. There's somebody he says, you know this fellow, Demetrius. He has a good report. Don't you want to be like a Demetrius? That has a good report among all men. You know, frankly, I have a question. How do you know somebody's a Christian? By other fruits. You shall know them, yeah. Do they have apples coming out of their ears? What are we talking about? You're speaking in a parable to me. You can see it by their speech and the speech and by their words. Speech, by their actions, by their deeds. Yes. There's just a difference. There's just a difference. Ephesians two ten, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good work, which God has before it and that we should walk in. That's a great verse because it combines both aspects. It is God who worketh in you, willing to do of his good pleasure, but bless my soul, it does come out in me. And following with the penny, God saw his creation said it's good. Yeah. If we're his workmanship, then it's gotta be good. Yeah. Absolutely. And so good is found in God's children. And so when we do say that it says that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Why, yes, God will look upon. God's not unrighteous to forget your labor of love in which you have served and ministered in his name. He's not unrighteous to forget these things He will remember. The world will forget. The world will ignore. The world will care less. God doesn't forget. It says if you've given a cup of cold water in his name, do not lose that reward. So that's a blessed thing. And that is something the believers desire. They do want God to stand up and to say, oh no, oh no, these are my sheep, these are my people, these are beloved of the Father. These are the ones that I am going to choose to be the judges of the universe. This is my crew over here. This is my camp. This is my crowd. These are my people. I am their God Depart from me, you wicked. Right? So that is a great thing for a child of God. On the backside, I'm not going to go through all of these, but When you look at this phrase about standing before God or standing before rulers, just look at how the context implies that position. They're not terrified. You'll find that they're in a privileged position. For instance, I like uh look at Genesis 41, it's the second verse. Genesis 41, 46. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. Now Did Joseph stand before Pharaoh to be condemned? Was that his purpose? No. He was promoted second highest in the kingdom. He was authorized, and frankly, to stand in the presence of such a great king or ruler What does that imply to be able to stand in the presence of Pharaoh? What does that imply? Joseph was part of the government. He was there as an officer of the government. He's an officer of the government? Okay. What else? Privilege. Privilege, that's a good word. He has a pr it's a privilege to be there. Sometimes you have to make an appointments and many a time those appointments are denied. No, you have no business here. So why should I talk to you? Um when I was yes, thank I'm sorry, it's just another word. Goodly confidence. A confidence? Yes. I'm gonna change it to a confidant. And um I I know y'all are tired of hearing about this, but it it it has been my experience set and and um as I look back I was very fortunate for the Lord to have it. Um In executive circles, whoever has access to the chief executive of the business unit is in a privileged circle. When you're pulled into those private meetings, when he shares in his trusted staff, we have a problem. I need somebody to help me fix it. What are the ideas on the table? We've got 30 minutes. When you're pulled in, just like in the Bible. You had Belteshazzar has this drunken feast and his hand shows up on the wall. He's in a panic. Call in some help. And none of the guys could help until Daniel appeared on the scene. He was a faithful confident. So it's a privilege to be there. You have access, you understand the thoughts. You know these news conferences for the various rulers of the world, whether it's for the Russian Politburo or the United States White House or whatever. They have news conferences. They're trying to get at what people are thinking They must be thinking this because and they draw their deductions. Or they must be trying to do this because or it's obvious to me they're doing such and such. Well Do you really have access to this individual? Do you really know? Are you telling the truth? You don't know. There's some obfuscation there. But if you personally were in the room, if you personally were there. If you heard, if you heard his voice, you see where I'm going? You have access. This is the word of the king to you. Are you familiar with it? This is how God of the universe governs his cosmos. Are you familiar with the principles here? Because you're going to be judging angels someday. What are the standards of right and wrong, do you know? So all of this just ties together. I'm just gonna cherry pick some verses. I'm running out of time here. We see Joseph standing before Pharaoh. He's not terrified. It's a tremendous physician of privilege. He was a confidant. Because he came up with a grand idea. Pharaoh said, that is spot on, correct. I love it. You're it. You're the man. Run with it. Boy, in in corporate America, you know that's how they work in Google, because they hire all these really bright people. And somebody who comes up with a really awesome idea gets funding Meaning they may shower ten to twenty million dollars on you, go make it happen, which is chunk change for them. You hear in 1 Kings 10, 8, when this queen of Sheba came up and saw Solomon, her pronouncement was this In 1 Kings 10 8, Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom. That hear thy wisdom. Oh, you want to be in a place where you hear the voice of wisdom. You don't want to hear profane talk. You don't want to hear average talk. You don't want to hear cheap stuff. And that's what you get If you're mindlessly scrolling through TikTok, if you're mindlessly watching short video clips, you're just hearing stupid stuff. You're not hearing wisdom. Psalm 15 says, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. You see, the ungodly won't be in his presence. He has no use for them. They have no place there. They can't possibly They're not chosen of the Father. They're not beloved of the Father. He doesn't care for them as he does for his sheep. And he finds nothing in them but bad. fruit. And so on. You go all through these passages, all of them talk about uh I like 1 John 2. 28. Scroll down a little bit, left column up in the middle. 1 John 2. 28, and now little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence, there's your word, Penny, and not be ashamed before him at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone that doeth righteousness is Born of him. Joe, that was your point. Born again. So 1 John 2, 28-29 ties a lot of it together. I'll stop right there. I'll leave the rest of these for you just to consider and to know that to stand before the throne of God and to be judged. Assessed, God's going to look and say, is this one of my sheep that's in Christ or not? It's a positive thing. There's nothing we should shirk back from. Pastor, would you tell us in prayer? Gracious Father, we do thank you. Uh Lord, that even when you divide the sheep from the goats, we'll be a part of that. because we will be be involved in that judgment process, Father. It's a concept that is beyond our uh human ability to fully comprehend the things that you prepare for them that love you. So Father, we thank you. These things are true. We thank you that they're in your word. We thank you, Lord, that they're pre place there for our admonition and our encouragement. It's profitable to us, Lord, for doctrine, for proof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Father, we thank you, Lord, in these granted dark days, no darker than the days of our fathers. But these dark days we have thy word. Lord, to encourage us, Lord, to give us that strength to continue on. Father, bless these truths to our hearts, Lord. May we never be forgetful hearers. Lord, but may we remember these things. May we look into the perfect law of liberty and continue in the things we see there and learn there. Not continuing as we came, but Lord, leaving improved by thy grace. Lord, we we know that we are not perfect, and yet we know that in thee we are perfect. We thank you for this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.