People with very energetic people in the front row. That's always good to see. Lots of energy here. I have to make a uh a public confession before the start of this morning's I am both happy and sad at the same time that we have a small church Happy on the one hand because uh you get to know individuals much better. The fellowship and community of the saints is much sweeter, the interaction time is is just so the quality and the and the quantity is just uh just wonderful. It's hard to replace. And yet I'm saying on the other hand because as we discuss this topic of what is the church in our summary of Christian doctrine. As we look at that, why can't I go into any church building down the road I live on? From the start of what's called Moncaster Mill Road to the end of it at the Liberty Gas Station here two miles down the road, you know what uh why can't I just walk into different congregations and find that same like precious fellowship. I suppose in in in one or two that I have walked in, one in particular I can think of, yes, I would find a measure of fellowship there. Central Baptist down the down the street. So we know a number of people there. Mary comes and visits us from time to time. That's kind of her home church, wonderful family. But it's the exception. It's the exception and not the norm. And why is that? Well, that's because there are differences. There are differences in congregations. And those differences get down to what they believe, and you can tell what they believe by what they practice. You almost don't have to read the thing the church sign. You don't have to read their statement of faith. If you want to know what a church or an individual believes, just look at what they do. If you really want to know what they believe, look at their checkbook, but that's typically not more open and available. So what are the attributes? What are the marks of a true church? How do we know that Because we're just a little enclave. We're not some wild-eyed sect stuck in the corner of Durwood, Maryland, uh that is just a little off the rails and they're nutty. They're nice people, but you know, who don't get too close How do we know that? Well, it turns out that this is not a unique problem in to our particular geography here. It's not a unique problem in the twenty-first century. It's not a unique problem, frankly, to the people of God over time. Because there has always been Tares, plural, among the wheat, plural. Wheat gather in a church. That's where they get together. And if there are tares there, then there must be a higher concentration of tares elsewhere. You know, you look at this property and you extend out some space another five or ten acres, you're going to find a patch of weeds over there. Why don't We worry about those weeds over there, but this grass over here is so much more manicured. Well there's different forms of management. This is under one set of management, that's under another set of management. So it is with churches There's collections of tares where some wheat happens to stray into. There's collection of wheat where some tares, unfortunately, will be found. What are the marks and the attributes of the church? Well, there's two categories. And the first, on your handout that you can fill in, is the invisible attributes of the church. the church, the invisible attributes. These are the things that don't readily come to your eye, but the scriptures are very plain. From God's vantage point, if this attribute, if this mark is present and in your midst then you are in fact a church of God. This is a characteristic of you. And the first is that they are united. You know, the invisible church Burkov has defined as the company of the elect who are called by the Spirit of God. As I've said plenty of times before, we don't walk around and find people with E-L-E-C-T scribed across their forehead. I have no idea who they are, and I'm somewhat trying to give up who the elect of God are. when it comes to a son-in-law. I really have to pull out the magnifying glass and the radar and the infrared and all the sources to scan and determine that, uh unless my precious daughter and fall into the hands of a wolf. So the uh invisible attributes of the true Church of God, they're united, they're holy. And they're Catholic, meaning they're found throughout everywhere throughout all time. Not just a little sect in Waco, Texas, not just a little unique group off the Aleutian Island chain someplace. No, they are scattered across the planet. Always have been, always will be. United. Jesus himself says in John 10, 16, the first verse in your handout, Other sheep I have which are not of this fold. Now Jesus was talking about the Jews, the Jewish fold. The gospel had been committed to the Old Testament people of God, the Hebrews, the Jews. You know that. You look throughout the Old Testament. Who is God dealing with? Israel, the Hebrews. Which are not of this foal, Jesus says. He has other sheep. Them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one foal, and one shepherd. That one shepherd is not or belonging to Pastor Joe, it's not another beloved radio preacher you might have. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. We are but under-shepherds at best. unprofitable servants who have done that which was our duty to do, more likely. But you know what I mean God has other sheep. Jesus says in John 17, he says, Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me. So Jesus is praying for a group of people that will believe on him. I would submit. That's the group number. It's the church. And that's an invisible attribute. Jesus is praying for them. They're united under one shepherd. Ultimately, at the end of the day, it's one flock under one shepherd, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. And you see, in fact, I just jumped ahead and read Ephesians 4. There is one body and one spirit, even as you are called, and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. That's the unity of the body of believers And 1 Corinthians 12 repeats effectively the same thing, speaking about the body being one. It's a holy congregation. It's a holy group. That doesn't mean they've got halos circling around their head with angels flapping over their corner. It doesn't mean their garments are glistening and shining. It doesn't mean they run around with water blessing people, blessing clocks, blessing buildings, blessing cats. It doesn't mean that, as some denominations not too far down the road might do But it is holy. It says in 1 Peter 2. 9, you're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation. Holy meaning Sanctified, meaning set apart, meaning God has placed his mark, his fingerprint on you. In the Old Testament, Jesus speaks about perverse Crooked children, and their spot is not my spot, says in a place. They don't have my spot. Sometimes people lose their cats or their dogs. How do I know that's your dog? Well he's got an interesting spot on him at this location. You know him by his spots. It's interesting, Jacob, when he went to uh take care of Laban's sheep, he did some interesting tricks by stripping off the bark of certain uh plants and sticking it before the sheep and only the spottled and the ring straight and the motley colored uh uh cattle were his uh the sheep or the goats or whatever he was caring for. What a marvelous picture of the Church of God. We're a bunch of mottled ring straight spotted individuals. You know, we know our history. You know, our sin is ever before us, but praise God recovered. Yeah, we we show his spots, we show his mark. We don't have the mark of the beast, we have uh the protection. And the seal. We have our Father's name in our forehead. That's how we're marked, and we're holy because of that. Jesus, excuse me, Moses, the word Jesus says Jesus speaking through Moses, I'll get it right. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. They're a sanctified nation. They're a special nation. They're a nation set apart for a particular purpose. I've used this illustration for my kids as a very simple way to convey the idea of sanctify, to sanctify holy. uh sanct uh and so for those are all the same Greek cognate, they're all related. Uh what does it mean to be sanctified? And I'll take one of my mother's chocolate chip cookies and I'll dip my finger in some saliva and touch it and pull back and say that's my cookie it's now sanctified to me. I've sanctified that cookie. It's mine. It's like all the other cookies on the plate. But I've made sure that one's mine. Of course they don't touch it because they refer to dad as dragon breath. But anyway, that's a different story. They are also, the Church of God is a Catholic church. It's universal throughout all time. Why don't we use the word universal? Because it doesn't have the time component to it. Universal means over this planet right now. We don't want to say, oh, I can't wait for I oh that we had lived back in the former days when the church was vibrant and wonderful and fantastic. Yeah, there have been some periods of time when it seems that God was pleased to spawn a large reformation, but it doesn't always it's not always been that way. It's kind of always been a remnant. But they've been scattered across the earth. Psalm 28. God speaking. As it were, to the Lord Jesus, ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen or the nations for thine inheritance and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Christ asked that, the Lord God gave it to him, and lo and behold, you do find that there will be people from the uttermost parts of the earth. This is not a mystery. Revelation 7-9, this I beheld, and lo, a great multitude which no man could number, of all nations, kindred, people, and tongues, stood before the throne and before the Lamb. God is going to have a representative from every nation. The thing that I particularly like about the church, the true church, Is that it really doesn't matter your background. Now I have the opportunity to speak with somebody of a different background to learn something about their culture, but also how a Christian operates in that culture, because our connection in Christ is is far greater than a cultural connection. Those cultural barriers are gone. There's neither Greek nor barbarian, Scythian, nor free. Those are gone. They're they're They're obliterated. One of the most interesting cross-cultural times I had was when uh my mother-in-law's uh uh aunts rose and who was the other aunt that came out Oh Rose and Mary came visiting and Afronia from uh overseas. Where were they visiting from? Lebanon? Were they from Lebanon? And um I don't believe they could speak much English. And they were speaking what was their name? Turkish. Turkish is their native tongue. Armenian Turkish no less. A little variant of my normal Turkish wouldn't cut. I had Armenian Turkish, so I was a little out of the out of the ballpark there a whole lot. But the um one thing what they d wanted to do after dinner was to sing some hymns. And they started singing some hymns that I knew. And they were singing it in Armenian Turkish and I was singing it in Armenian Turkish. And what I was what was I saying? I don't know what I was singing in. We were singing together. I was singing in English. Thank you. They were singing in Armenian Turkish. If I sang in Turkish, I'd always be saying uh uh uh uh And that's Arabic, so I wouldn't go very far. But as I was singing and they were singing, we were both amening the same parts of the song. We were both getting excited the same. They knew the words, I knew the words, and there was a connection there that I can't explain. It was really, really interesting. I I enjoyed that very much. much. So those are the invisible attributes of the church. I suppose you could say I kind of penetrated that invisible part a little bit there because I could see that connection. But I can't, again, beyond those types of incidences, reach out and say conclusively, ah yes, that's that's a true But that is an attributed church. Now the next thing is that there are visible marks of the true church. And that's your next blank In your handout, there are visible marks. There are things you can see. God has not left us to wander around, flip a coin, guess Scott Baptist in the name Must Be Good. Well, not always There's the Church of the Snake Eating Baptists in Texas. There's the uh there's all the uh all kinds of signs and wonders, Church of the Baptists. I mean you've got Huh? Cowboy Church? Yeah, there's the cowboy church with the bronching bull in the fellowship hall. Wonderful. Just what we need. There's the visible marks of the true church. The visible church, what are we talking about there? Well, if the invisible church is the company of God's elect, what's the visible church? The one I can see. And that would be the community of those who profess faith together with their children. It's a community of people who are professors of faith. And yes, they have households, Christian households that are meeting together. Now, in short, how do you know that you've walked into a true church? Because there's church Churches I'll go to. There'll be families in there, there'll be single people. Ah, okay, that must be a true church. What do you think? You walk into a building, How do you know you're at a church church? What would you look for? What would be a mark? What are the things you would look for to say, yep, this is the place I would want to raise my family in? My wife can begin to develop relationships with people here and get connected. My children can play with the Johnnies and the Maria's in this little congregation. What are you looking for? I know you know the answer. What would you be looking for? Marissa, you're about to move to West Virginia. We're hoping the drive isn't too terribly long for you. What would you be looking for in a church? Just by saying physically or by their doctrine. What what are you asking in terms of What are you looking for to see is this a true church? Doctrinally sound. Okay, doctrinally sound, all right. Well that's good. What else Is that it? Would that be sufficient? That goes a long way, no doubt. Okay, the Bible they're using, right. Yeah, there are those who have a wonderful doctrinal structure but they're set on a corrupt foundation. What's that? Preach Jesus. They're preaching Jesus, okay. Yeah. Okay. Victoria? Okay, you're gonna look at their music. Yeah. What kind of music do they have Right? Because a doctrinally sound church I would argue could be pretty it would seem close down the road, but they're charismatic and they got a wrong foundation. Okay. Most of these churches down here would say they got a great fellowship. Ah, okay, now we're getting into leadership. All right. Under management, right. There's the grass and the cluth lawn, it's under one set of management. There's the weeds in the field that have a different set of management. Who's the management? Who's leading, running, guiding and directing that? I guess you want to make sure that they have good doctrine and then also what they put into practice regularly they're good doctrine. Okay. So it's both like what they say they believe and what they Yeah, right. That's that's pretty good. Yeah, you've got orthodoxy, they're saying something, and then you've got orthopraxis. Their practice is correct. As opposed to certain political parties which say one thing and they do something, but I'm not going to go down that path. We all see that in spades. We're more attuned to it politically, but we're not attuned to it religiously and spiritually, and that's the more deadly one. That's the more deadly one Well, um, what is the visible mark of the true church? It can be boiled down to one single item, and then it can be broken apart into four parts. And that one single item is this. The church operates according to the pure word of God. Pure word of God. So there's your foundation. They operate. There's your practice According to, there's your doctrine, a church operates according to the pure word of God. That's a key, key mark. Are they operating according to the pure word of God If they have a corrupt word of God and they can operate faithfully to that and have a wonderful fellowship, they've got a different authority. You're boarding a different train whose train tracks are going to end up in a different location, not the one they claim you're going to have. At the end, the devil pops off his clothing and says, woo-hoo, ha ha ha. Fooled you. Took all your money in the process. Uh the uh this mark I believe can be broken up into four pieces, and it's best captured in this one verse. You can look at your handout. It's Acts 2. 42. I'm going to pass over Ephesians for the moment. Acts 2. 42. Here's the four marks that you can look for. It says, and they continued steadfastly. This they is the group of believers immediately after the resurrection, as the New Testament church began to be more uh Start to come into more focus. They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, number one, and fellowship. And in breaking of bread and in prayers. So those are four elements that you can find there. Doctrine, fellowship, breaking of bread, prayers, and we're going to talk about these. things. And the first one, doctrine, relates to true preaching. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank on your handout. True preaching. Preaching, not entertainment. Preaching, not ear tickling. Preaching, not jokes and storytelling time. I may tell some stories in Sunday school, but that's not the point of the message. The point of the story is to convey to you a spiritual spiritual truth. It always ought to be in support of, not in replacement of. My father was grievously disappointed. He was a small town kind of guy. He moved out to the country. It was all about supporting the small town of Quinlan population, I think, around 800. Is that about how many people Quinlan had in it? It may be tops on a on a on a on a holiday with people visiting Wanted to support the local congregation and went into a Methodist church and on Easter Sunday the pastor didn't bother bringing his Bible because he preached the message out of Reader's Digest. That'll make it easy to understand It wasn't even the Bible, Mike. It was Reader's Digest, as in readers digest. And so true preaching, I mean, there's got to be that You read, for instance, all throughout scriptures, and this is just a, it was hard to just boil it down to five or six verses, but look at the New Testament emphasis on this. Jesus himself said this, he that is of God heareth God's words. Ye therefore hear them not because you're not of God. If you want to feed a bunch of goats, don't give them the word of God because they won't hear it. They'll get bored. They'd rather have hear something else. And hear something else they will. But if it's a sheep of God, if it's a child of God If it's somebody given ears to hear, eyes to see, and a heart sensitive to the pricks of God, they want to hear the words of That is of great interest to them. It's something they can't necessarily explain why, but boy, it's there and it's a hunger. It's a newborn babe. They desire the sincere milk of the Word. And so if you bring your children in I don't believe it's right to just shuffle them off and send them to children's church. I think little Johnny and little Maria need to learn to sit next to mommy and daddy. We sit here. We listen to the preacher. I don't understand. Mommy doesn't understand half the time either, but you're going to sit there and listen. Is it okay to teach little ones age appropriate material at some other Absolutely Sunday school perfectly wonderful? But when it's time for worship I don't see that Moses had a children's church. Children's church is meeting behind the rock on the backside of Sinai. Young teens are playing in the water pool over here No, it's a communal worship. It's a family worship. We worship, as for me and my house, we shall serve the Lord our God It's a household deal, and if you don't teach them that early, well, when do they come in? And that also is a cudgel to the preacher. He has to be sensitive to his audience. I've got old I've got mature, I've got young, I've got sheep, I've got young little lambs. He needs to put his cookies on the lower shelf so that everybody can get to it It doesn't mean he has to dumb down the entire message, but now you begin to understand the challenge of a minister to try to speak and convey the Word of God to all. It is very simple, but it's also very profound True preaching. Acts 17, 11. There's also true hearers, because those who hear true preaching don't just sit there, swallow, walk away. As our brother Mike is quick to point out, they need to be paying attention to Acts seventeen eleven. These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures annually Monthly? Ad hoc? They searched the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. Question, who were they checking out? At the time they're checking out the Apostle Paul. He wasn't offended by that in the least He commended them for that. You're good. I appreciate the fact that you're doing that because he saw that they're setting a good example. They better be checking them out. The apostle had to confront Peter to his face saying you're an error and the whole book of Galatians deals with that. And so yes, can a true servant stray into some stupid positions? Yes. Needs to be called out in private by others, not publicly with tomatoes from Is it likely that he will? Because it's likely that he will, yes. Galatians 1 8, the apostle says, But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which you have received, let him be accursed He says it twice, later, a few verses later. So true preaching is a big deal to the sheep of God, and it's a chief form of and a test of a mark of the faithful church. As Paul is in prison, he's got to convey the gospel baton. He's got to hand it off to the next generation who's going to run with it, and run they did, because here it is. You and I have it today. In our language, it's wonderful they did it. And what's the the lesson? What's one of the main points he says in 2 Timothy 1? Hold fast the form of sound words. Which thou hast heard of me, which is in Christ Jesus. Hold them fast, hang on to the form of sound words. This is the ultimate book of sound words. Yet there are some helpful explanations, like for instance, this business of remaining sin in the life of a believer Is he totally free from it, or is he absolutely totally and entirely polluted? How do you understand that? And I find a very helpful phrase which I passed on to me, proved it out, pass on to you, hang on to it Sin no longer reigns, but it remains. That's just a very helpful little phrase to get a handle on what that means and kind of keep you on the road. Is it found scripturally? No. Is it taught? Is it a doctrinal truth? Absolutely it is. Hold fast the form of sound words. He says you need to hang on to these things. 2 Timothy 2. 15, study to show thyself approved unto God, rightly dividing the word of truth. Dividing does not mean, uh, as our dispensational brethren would take this, to say, well, you've got to pull out an axe and chop the Bible into five chunks, and this chunk has nothing to do with this chunk, has nothing to do with this chunk, has nothing to do with this chunk. And frankly, it's very hard to take that kind of approach. Does God speak to the people of God with different um uh applications relevant to their day? Yes. Does that mean it's irrelevant to us today? Not in a spiritual sense. There's some examples of it. We've, as a family, have been going through the book of Jeremiah in terms of how God deals with rebellious nations. I don't think God's going to pull out a different playbook in terms of how he's going to deal with nations on the earth. He has expectations for them. There were woes against uh Judah, but there were woes against Moab, against Edom, against Babylon. I mean and it was a lot of Reasoning's given there that you can apply forward and say, hmm, these things upset God in the past for both religious and irreligious nations, and he won't do it to us. It won't have that. I'm not banking on that. I think I can learn something from that. I think I can begin to understand. This is how my God operates when he deals with nations, that he doesn't particularly care for their habits. You see in 2 Timothy 2. 1, speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. So true preaching is based on sound doctrine. And again, The New Testament is replete with references. I was struggling to just boil it down because there's so many that talk about that. Is doctrinal preaching and teaching. I have a question for you I know you're going to agree, I hope you'll agree, that that preaching is important to a church. After all, that's one of the things you expect. It's interesting the Orthodox Church isn't big into the into preaching. They're more big into the ceremony, into the mystery. They're really not into explaining. They're just more of marveling and beholding the mystery. They they like to kind of keep it mysterious. And you know the smells and bells approach to worship is kind of their thing. Is doctrinal doctrinal preaching and teaching important to a church. By that I mean You're pulling together passages of scripture to convey a Bible teaching, a Bible principle. Is that kind of preaching and teaching important to a church? What do you think? That's okay, I don't mind his little baby noises. I kinda like that actually. What do you think, Mrs. Ross? But Denny and I always interviewed uh pastors. Oh, good for you. Before we decided where we were taking our children. Good for you. That's just the way we work it. That's excellent. And why were you interviewing them? Because we wanted to know what they thought. What they thought? Yes, because what they think is what they will teach. Mm-hmm. That's right. Absolutely. You're trying to understand their doctrine. Okay. Mike, is doctrinal preaching or teaching important to a church? Critical, I like that word. It's highly important because the history of the church is the history of heresy. And when any Man, woman, whatever, person, goes off on one doctrine to such an extreme and emphasizes and narrows down that on One doctrine inevitably becomes a heretic. There is a balance in the scriptures and there's a balance in orthopraxy. Doctrine is not some abstraction It has to walk in shoe leather. Yep. It has to walk on the streets in love and uh You know, the Christian virtues have to be evidence. It has to be fruit. And in terms of what Mrs. Ross said, yes, in terms of these passages, I've had the instance of doing the so-called fantastic years ago, it was the Lord wasn't involved in it. I thought he was I was desperate for a church. And the man was um hiding what he was gonna do. He was going to use the church as a financial security and lord it over people and and and and and put it people in suggestion under him. Yep. And so um doctrine is critical, but it has to be doctrine uh one verse of the Bible interpreting another. I like exactly Gentiles. I like exactly what you're saying. I really like that word critical and uh because uh uh y you're you're everything you said is fine on target. The um The church, as you said, the history of the church is a history of a lot of heresy because that's when the church tends to want to sit down and write things, and so that's when we see a lot of heres And I just would add that the greatest one is the murder of the church and the state because that has plagued the church throughout all its history. When Constantine Constantine the Great moved things in that direction, that changed everything. Doctrinal preaching and teaching are important because as our brother pointed out there's a connection and a tie. I can remember as a young lad, unsaved, but at least I had a measure of listening ability to my uh pastor at Irving Bible Church. I'm not gonna fault them too much. I heard and I got some foundational basics in place. They were uh uh I suppose the best uh that uh was uh available at that time. And but I do re distinctly remember sometimes as they would read a passage of scripture and then go to preach on it As he read it, it struck me one way, and as he preached on it, it came across a totally different way. He seemed to just read it, we shut the book, and we went off on a tangent. And I thought, well, I never got that. I must be an idiot. I obviously don't understand something correct correctly and uh you know thank the Lord that we have somebody from seminary who can explain this to me because I have no idea how would I got that out of that verse. That was my conclusion from it. And over time I began to uh uh well not over time but uh when God saved me and then I realized oh you can check out the preacher I never thought that to that you could do that. I never thought to have the audacity to dare question what the minister in robes up front is saying. He's so nice, he's so tall, he's so handsome, he's got a nice wife and all these wonderful trappings. He's got this big building here. All the people in the front five, ten rows are applauding, amen and shouting, and you know, think he's wonderful. Who am I to question him? Well you're everything to question them. Yeah, you better be questioning, you better be searching the scriptures daily to see whether these things are so. Because orthodoxy is. important. I have to go on because I want to cover the other three marks of the church as well. I like doctrinal preaching. You're sitting in a Sunday school going through doctrinal preaching. So you know my opinion on that. Let's go to the second, which is fellowship. So on the back side of your handout, your first fill-in-the-blank is fellowship. And I am, I would be remiss not to also report that fellowship has to include the faithful exercise of discipline. You know, discipline comes across as a bad word. You know, do you discipline your children? What do you think when I say that? Do you discipline your children? What's the first thought that comes to your mind? Am I Well yes, you can experience. Some people think spanking. Oh you're spanking you're beating them. Beating them with a rod in the closet. Ah, you monster. Well, discipline is a form of the word disciple Right? To disciple somebody is to say, this is right and this is wrong. Do this, don't do that. It's teaching and training. If you insist on doing this, let me give you a little measure of pain now so that you learn if you keep doing this in the future. You'll face bigger pain later. I'm just giving it to you in measure now. But that's true in a church as well. Let's talk about the fellowship part first. John 13, 35. By this shall all men know. Now this is a pretty broad statement. This means believers and unbelievers alike. Shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another? And we can get into how the world gives love versus The faith faith less church used the word love versus the faithful church used love, but we would have taken that to mean a biblical love, getting back to doctrinal teaching and preaching, a biblical love, a sacrificial love, love that is described in First Corinthians The um the the the the business of uh uh of uh fellowship is a big deal in the New Testament. There's always a fellowship. And in fact, when there's a breaking of people away from fellowship, if there's a self-separation from that, needlessly over vain excuses, usually not excuse usually the word of accusation. You know, they're kind of giving an indication that we are not of you. We're really not of you. There are those who are content to hang around you and just keep causing problems. They just want to stick around and be a thorn in the side. They don't want to leave. Please leave. Oh no, they come. They come. Eat the dessert. Leave mess on the floor. Yeah, I mean they just they're a plague in the side and you just can't get rid of them or they're an embarrassment. They're just a huge embarrassment to the church. They're living in flagrant sin. They're just flagrantly uh wayward, Jesus has given to the church uh a tool uh to the leadership to aid and assist in that. He says it in Matthew 16, kind of a shadowy form, explained more as we get into the New Testament. Jesus himself said, I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shalt be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Who sins you remit, they remit it. Who sins you retain, they are retained. Meaning that the Church of God has a measure. Some have called it the keys, although I would say technically that keys is the key to the knowledge of life But the church has so-called keys. You see in Matthew 18, one of his roles of a church. In conflict resolution. Now, by the way, this is probably one of the more widely known but widely ignored passages of scripture. And there's a lot of reasons why it's ignored, but let me describe it to you Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault, between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother Wonderful. That's great. So what do we normally do? If my brother has trespassed against thee, go and tell everybody else your grief and complaint except the brother. Go complain, post it on social media. You won't believe what so-and-so did to me. Ah, it's just a horrific thing. Go tell all your friends that you know are going to sympathize with you immediately, and be sure to blab the matter abroad Be a big gossip. That's what some versions appear to have in it because that seems to be the practice. Well, that's not biblical. You go directly to the individual. Directly to the individual. Alright? And just calmly, patiently use the specific activity on this date. Don't go with you always. Just be specific. Be specific about it. an event, please, and be patient, but you have to be specific this time what the action, the result was, and you can just be very mature about that. Just step up, put your big boy big girl underwear on stepped up to the job. Alright, sometimes that doesn't work. Well now you go to social media and complain about it. Now you go to your friends. I went to them and then this is what they said back to happen. No If he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Now I struggle with that phrase for a while. That does not mean somebody who is an eyewitness to the event That's not what that means. Because that almost never happens. You don't always have three people witnessing it. What it means is you take two other people with you who are going to witness the response Here's what you said to this individual, here's what they said back, and now you have some witnesses. Already our church has had occasion to do that. An individual was confronted. There were witnesses present And the individual to this day insists that that's not how it went down, but you've got two reliable witnesses that say, nope, that's exactly what was said. And his revision revisionist form of history is incorrect. So that's why you're doing this. You're establishing the matter. Then what happens if he will um If he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. Now, I don't believe this means airing out in front of the entire congregation. What I do believe this means is airing it out to the church leadership, and this is where it often fails, because people fail to commit themselves to a congregation. You're committing yourself to a congregation, to a to leadership, to aid, guide, and direct you, but also to heed their admonitions And this is one application of that. If he neglects to hear the church, let him be into thee as a heathen and a publican, meaning you deliver him unto Satan. You cast him out of the congregation. Please do not come back, stay away from our fellowship. There's all kinds of examples in Scriptures. The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians deals with the church at Corinth, telling them. That they had to deliver such a one to Satan. He said in verse 13, put away that wicked person. The Apostle Paul calls that man a wicked person because he wasn't heeding him. He says, I've already judged this matter. I've heard enough This reputation is staining the good name of Christ and you have to deal with this. This is not popular. 2 Thessalonians 3:6, the apostle tells them as well, We command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. Then say he's talking disorderly. He's walking disorderly. And one of the things he was doing in terms of his disorderly walk is he wasn't working for his for his food. If you're to withdraw yourself from somebody who won't even work to put bread on their own table, that's kind of a low water mark. There's much greater offenses, therefore, that ought to be treated the same. Have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. Again, this is the real process. It's not the first time. You have to inform an individual. Husbands will quickly realize, especially new husbands and new wives, I suppose, as well, that they have blind spots. And there are things that uh us husbands, us dumb, uh uh stiff-headed, stiff-necked husbands will do again and again that are a tremendous nuisance because they're frankly blind to them You really just don't know. I'll give you a great example. I was so upset at Angela because I couldn't believe that she always took the toothpaste and squeezed it in the middle. You know, you squeeze it at the end, you roll it up, why would you squeeze it in the middle? And one day after a few months I confronted her and said, Hunt, yeah, I gotta tell you, you're squeezing the toothpaste in the middle, it's driving me Crazy. She says, no, I don't use your that toothpaste. I got mine over here. I was like, well, she's using that, and I'm the only one using this one. So I'm upset at myself. Because I don't even realize I'm squeezing the toothpaste in the middle. I mean that's how blind you can be to things. I ha I yes, I'm an idiot sometimes It's really unbelievable. That's a true story. I yeah, Penny, shake your head. I'm still shaking my head. How could you not know that you're squeezing the Anyway, I gotta get off on toothpaste here Titus 3. 10. A man that is an heretic after the first and second admonition, reject, knowing that such a one is subverted and sinneth being condemned of the self. The New Testament talks a lot about church discipline. Why do you think that's important? Why do you think it talks about that so much? You had another comment. I don't know if it's an answer to this one. To your immediate question, because it's because of the human nature. Nature and the f you know, it's gonna be needed. It's gonna be needed. Needed because why? Because men go astray from the wound. What badness happens if it's not addressed? You say it gets worse, I agree. Just want to get some specific Contagion. It's like a contagion. Yeah, it spreads, okay? It grows like cancer, the scripture says. It'll grow like a canker, like a cancer, yeah. Others will start to do it. What does that do to fellowship? It ruins it because you don't share the same values anymore. One put and then one person uh described it this way. It's like, you know, what if uh let's say you just have a person that every now and then just kind of just kind of goes off the handle They just get really upset and just nibble at people and then later, oh, I'm fine, everything's good. He said, well it's kind of like somebody walking around the house With a shotgun. BLAM! The shotgun goes off. There's a big hole in the side of the house over here. And then they walk over here and blam there's a shotgun. And pretty soon you got a house full of holes in. Is that house going to be warm after a while? It gets a little cold, doesn't it? So a slip of the tongue can introduce some severe damage. I've got a couple minutes and there's two more points I want to cover, so so if I we can hold that point for a second. just a second. The third mark of the church is there is a right administration of the sacraments. A right administration of the sacraments. And now these verses are actually more descriptive than prescriptive, but it speaks about baptism and it also talks about the Lord's Supper. And I just want to focus on the one with the Lord's Supper. It says in 1 Corinthians 11, 28, let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh Unworthily, excuse me, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. If the church administers the Lord's Supper incorrectly, is that bad? Why? Why would that be bad Because Christ himself told us how it was to be handled and why. So we're not doing it right, we're in disobedience to him. Okay. His body and his blood. Okay. Yeah, it would certainly be dishonoring to what the Lord commanded. If you remember, uh Pastor S spoke one of the most frequent messages you'll hear about is the Lord's Supper, because we have that on a regular basis and we try to have a message on that. For as often as you eat this bread and do drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he comes. Do you remember what that word show is? It's really the word what? What's it normally translated as? Preach, proclaim. It's a proclamation. If you mangle the Lord's Supper, you're mangling the Lord's message. If you're mangling the message, you're goofing up the doctrine. You're preaching a different message, right? So yeah, it does matter. It does matter And I won't get into this crazy uh video circling right now of the Orthodox baptism of an infant who's dadoozy Gloria. If you want to know about it, Gloria will share it with you. The last point is corporate prayer. People of God are a praying people. They pray together as a body of believers. They like that. They enjoy that. They look forward to that. And there's biblical warrant for that. The Lord Jesus says, whatsoever things ye that's old that's old English and Texan for y'all, whatever ye desire, when ye pray, believing that ye receive them, ye shall have them. Jesus is speaking to the believers collectively that you together are praying, bringing one another's burdens forward. And if you're not able to or yeah haven't yet joined us for our Wednesday night prayer session, encourage you to do that. Can't join in, send us your prayer requests. It's a it's a beautiful thing. If ye abide in me, John fifteen seven, and my words abide in you individually, ye plural, shall ask what ye will, it shall be done unto you. Whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, plural, he may give it to you. There's a corporate prayer request to God, and God is faithful to answer it to. individually. It's bearing one another's burden. That's important. It is important. It's a mark, a true mark of the Church of God. And I'll close with 1 John 5, the very last verse in your hand out. I really have to cut it off here. This is the confidence that we have in him. that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. It's a collective hearing. And we know that, if we know that he heareth us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire to hear. him. Now one of the things I like to do to help shore up faith in our small group is at the end of the year I ask Brother Edward, thank you Brother Edward to pull together from our prayer list all the praise reports throughout the year. All the things that God has answered. We have asked our Lord God for prayers, requests, petitions, and He's faithful to answer them, and it's really nice As we go into a new year to see wow, look at how God has walked with us this past year. Look at all these things we asked. At the time we asked them, We were moved enough to let our brothers and sisters know, hey, this is a concern. Please beg the Lord on my behalf. We did, and he answered. And so we see that, and that's one of the marks. I will close this there and we will wrap it up. Mike, could you close us in a brief word of prayer, please? Thank you. Gracious, loving, heavenly Father, God, righteousness. Father, Holy Father, again we seek to obey you in all things and be faithful to your word, not holding men, not men holding men on a pedestal or or women on a pedestal or anyone on a pedestal. But uh again uh to avoid preacher worship and only worship and serve the triune God and Lord in this day of uh following men and celebrity pastors and all that goes on that claims to be church, we uh pray again that this that we here would be a faithful body of Christ, a true body, in which each m each member uses its gifts for the education of the body. And uh Uh Lord, there's so much here. It it's it requires days and days of study really. We just pray again, enable us by thy Spirit to yield to the promptings and proddings and teaching your Spirit. into uh this teaching of what is a true church, what are the marks of a true church, and that we might have great love toward one another. Love one another fervently as a pure heart. And uh to show real care for one another and to be able to treat one one another in a loving, um, gracious, kind manner. Uh as ones who have been shown such kindness by the Lord Jesus Christ. By you, Heavenly Father. Again, teach us in all things. Here is for Christ's sake. Amen. Amen.