Alright, well last week we were looking at the decrees of God. God makes decrees, and he makes these decrees based on a purpose and a plan. What God does, he doesn't do willy-nilly. He doesn't just launch into it and say, oops, I made a mistake and revamped everything. The amazing thing about God's decrees is that when he makes it, it's eternal, it lasts forever. He doesn't have to fix it, which to me is truly an astounding thing if you've ever tried to lay out a plan even several months in advance. Even with all our technology, we're doing good to get the weather correct two days out, let alone three, four, five, seven. Let alone thousands of years, it's just not possible. Now we're going to get closer to the metal in terms of God's decrees as it relates to your salvation. And this is one of the most significant topics in conservative theology, what we would refer to as the doctrines of grace, that God graciously comes and reveals himself to us and calls us unto himself. I'd like to just read briefly to you from the Westminster Confession of Faith and the third chapter, which covers this business of predestination, which is our topic for today. And I'm just going to skim through it. It's got a number of, it's got eight excellent short paragraphs that are very helpful, and I think they do justice to the balance of how to speak about this. Uh the first statement is this God from all eternity did, by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. We would expect that of God. God would do something like that. And then they add, correctly, yet so as thereby neither is God the author of sin, nor is violence offered to the will of the creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but rather established. Second cause is the concept of God's the prime mover and shaker. Joseph had to go to Egypt in a prison. But the secondary cause that helped move that along was his brothers, I shouldn't say help, but that was involved in that, was that his brothers sold him into slavery. And that the Midianites came and hauled him away. They were there. There was no violence done to their will, but God Almighty ordained that Joseph had to take that path. It speaks about although God knows whatsoever may or can come to pass upon all supposed conditions, yet he has not decreed anything because he foresaw it as a future or that which would come to pass upon such conditions. We touched on this briefly last week. Some would say that election works because God looks down the corridors of time to see who would raise their hand for Jesus. Sounds reasonable, right? Unfortunately, that is a view of God's ordination that puts man in charge. He's the one that is the final kingmaker. He is the one that makes the final choice. And predestination and God's view from heaven is never listed as dependent on man. No element of it depends on man. footing of it rests on man. It's his council, a secret council. His purposes, his plans. It's in his shop, as it were, and we're sort of outside of that completely We looked at Psalm 14 and others to talk about that. He also uh the confession goes on to speak about men and angels. It goes on to speak about um uh uh those of mankind, verse uh the fifth point, that are predestinated unto life, God before the foundation of the world was laid according to his eternal and mutable purpose. and the secret counsel and good pleasure of his will, has chosen in Christ unto everlasting glory out of his mere free grace and love, without any foresight of faith or good works, or perseverance in either of them Or any other thing in the creature, as conditions, or causes moving in thereto. Why? All to the praise of his glorious grace That's what we call the doctrines of grace. We're saved only because of the gracious, merciful favor of God. It doesn't look this isn't God doesn't have a Marine Corps or an Army slogan, we're just looking for a few good men. That's not God's program. He's looking for sinners that are crying out in need of a Savior. And and that's who he calls, and turns out that those are his elect. And there's other excellent purposes that speak about this in terms of uh other topics concerning the doctrine which we'll get into next week. I want us now to look in our handout because actually the word predestination is in the Bible. You can't argue with it. It's actually a Bible word It's an interesting word, and it's made up of two Greek words. Greek's kind of like German where they just kind of bolt words onto each other and they kind of have meaning to it. Pro and uh meaning forward or looking forward and orito, which is related to our word horizon. So God, as it were, looks over the horizon to see and to ordain things that come to pass. It's used only six times and only found in the New Testament. There is not an explicit word predestinate in the Old Testament, but we'll look at some verses that share that concept and deliver it to us in the Old Testament. So I have a question for you. I'm going to read six verses, they're short verses, and I have a question for each of these verses, and it's this. Tell me, for each of the following verses, in a short phrase, what each verse is saying. In other words, simply put, what is it? That God is predestinating. So we're going to read the verse. Sareb in your handout. You tell me what he's predestinating. Okay? First one is this. It's Acts 4 and verse 27. And 28, it says, For of a truth, against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod And Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. Now, first of all, what event is this speaking about? Do we know what event this is? Christ's crucifixion. Yeah, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Alright. Now what is it that was determined before to be done? What did God plan? That he'd be put to death. Yes, yeah. Jesus' very death and crucifixion God had determined before. Isn't that interesting? Alright, and then we have our next passage, Romans 8, 29 to 30. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate, to be conformed to the image of his son. that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, there's our word again, so it's twice in this section. them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. Alright, so what is it that God predestinated here? In Romans eight, twenty-nine to thirty. What was it that was ordained or decreed? We'd be conformed to the image of Christ. Yeah, that was God's purpose. All whom he intends to save, he's going to save with a purpose in mind. They shall be conformed to the image of Christ. You know, this is probably a good point to stop and to give a simple illustration that I've used concerning this business of predestination, because our minds sometimes go rampant and we start to go off and see, well, if it means that, then it might mean this, and it might mean the other thing How many of you have taken a metro ride or gone on a bus or even an airplane? We've all traveled through some means of public transportation. When you show up to that bus, plane, train stop, there's typically a sign somewhere that indicates where it's going. And you are relying on the fact that when you get on this vehicle, it will in fact take you to where it's going. Well If you have no problems with that, then you have no problem with predestination. Because that airplane was predetermined by somebody at air traffic control or within the company or however they plan air routes in these companies to go from BWI to Dallas-Fort Worth. And you're planning and hoping that in fact it will go there. And you rely on that information. What we have problem with is who does the predestinating. That's what we have a problem with. We want to be the one to select it Well you want to have something to do with that. And why do you suppose it is that people might have difficulty with God being the one doing the choosing, with God being the one Doing the selecting and the predestinating. Why might people have problem with that? They can't see him They can't see him, okay. Uh build on that a little bit so they can't see him. Well I can't see who sets the metro. No, and you don't trust it completely because of that Alright, so there's a trust factor, right? There's a trust factor. And doesn't that really get right at the core of the issue? We walk by faith, not by sight. God declares, I have a path for you. We have to trust that what it says in Romans 9, uh Romans 8, whom he did, that we're going to be conformed to the image of Christ, we have to trust that. To not trust in that is to doubt his goodness in ordaining us to a perfect state, that to be conform to the image of Christ. Alright, just something to think about there. If we look at our next verse here, 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 7. This one says, We speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world. Unto our glory. Alright, so what was ordained? That word ordained there is the word predestinate. We'll read so same word. Good word ordained. What's been ordained there That that he will suffer and that that uh that will be uh our he will suffer for us. Okay. Our suffering, all right. Uh that's speaking of the the hidden wisdom I think here that God is speaking about he's going to glorify his children. He plans to reveal his wisdom to us. This is something he desires to do. Part of that is the knowledge of the suffering of the Son. Notice Ephesians 1. 5. I truly like this one. This is a great one in Ephesians. It's the last two, and one's in verse 5, one's in verse 11. It says, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will. So what's being what did God determine or decree in advance? Thoughts? It's right there Yeah, that we would be adopted. All whom God saved, he intends fully to adopt them into his family. Isn't that a powerful thought? You were not adopted into God's family by accident You know it isn't that how the adoption process works. Does anybody accidentally adopt a child? Hey hun, I was driving home, stopped by the grocery store today. They had some kids for sale out front. Thought I'd pick one up and bring it home Right? We're not kittens. Even our adoption process doesn't work that way. God's is also, likewise, well planned. He fully intends to bring us into his family. Verse 11 in the last reference in the New Testament, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. And so there his purpose was to give us an inheritance. It seems to make sense if we're adopted. Some might say, well, we're adopted, we're brought in, but you know, once he's gone, yeah, we're going to be left out, we're on our own, the love is ended. No. He is also ordained that we should be a partaker of his inheritance. We are joint heirs, the scripture says, with Christ. Now think about that. All of those are truly astounding thoughts. These are the six places in the Bible. Five passages where that word predestination is used. Did you ever read or see in any of them a predestination unto hell? Could you view that in any of these passages? I would submit there's one passage you could view a predestination to hell. Which one might that be? We'd be where uh God tells uh his people to kill everybody. Pretty much predestined Yeah, right. That's a good thought. That's that's Old Testament language. We'll get to the Old Testament in a minute. But within these six New Testament references, which one is the closest do you think to a predestination in the hell? Joe? Oh, I would say Acts four. Isn't that amazing? Yes, Acts four. The only individual I think you could ever say that truly was ordained of God To take upon himself all the punishment deserved, every ounce of wrath that our sins deserved, it would be Jesus Christ. Only him I can find in the scriptures of whom it can be said he was ordained to be the sin bearer and to bear all the penalty. Only Christ, nobody else. Nobody else can say. Because when you get to the gates of hell, it's your fault. God ordained that there would be sinners to go to hell, but if you wind up there, it's your fault. Yeah, I I love the passage, vessels of wrath fitted for destruction, but even that verse does not come exactly to where where God made them for destruction, but rather they're worthy of destruction destruction. The vessels are wrath and therefore they're worthy. But it's not that they were not a good idea. It's a balancing line. God gets awfully close to the fitted for destruction. He and he and he uses that un unequivocally and we'll we'll get to some key phrases on on how to handle that. So my only point at all this is don't be quick to overstate what the Bible says God has predestinated. We're understand, last week we dealt with the decrees of God, and that occurred within his council, and it's a secret council. And it's according to his good pleasure and his goodwill. And he hasn't given us a lot of insight into what his counsel is. He discloses to his people a measure of it. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and our children, that we may keep and obey the words of this law to do them. So we can only go with what God has told us. We have to understand we're looking at the tip of the iceberg. There's a whole lot in the Council of God that we're not privy to, and so we dare not overstate what God indicates in the scriptures. Predestination, let me put it this uh uh uh this uh let me let me uh uh uh uh take another step back here. Um Predestination unto life is an act of God's sovereignty. That's the only way to work. After all, he's looking at spiritually dead people, Ephesians 2, you who were dead in sins and trespasses. That's an act of his sovereignty. But predestination unto damnation, as you mentioned, you know, killing all the Canaanites in the land, don't let anything spare. Predestination to damnation, and that would be a picture of it, is judicial It is judicial and it does take man's sins into account. They come into account. They can't show up and say, well, I'm here and I'm going there because this is what you ordained, and so I have no choice in the matter. It's not my fault. It's yours. No. Damnation comes up as you read again and again and again. Every man should be judged according to his works. I mean in the book of Revelation, the books were opened. Every man and the dead were judged by their works. You see that consistently in the scriptures. So you cannot remove the judicial element from men winding up in hell. It's part of it And yet God has ordained that there will be those who go to hell whom he never intended to save. Well I have a few little cluthisms. Predestination is simply the sign on the front of the bus. When God saves you, he puts on the bus that says you're going to be conformed to the image of Christ. And thank God we're placed on that bus. It'll take some interesting paths and journeys. It'll have some ups and downs, and it it may appear sometimes the bus is broke, but it's gonna get there The other point is that men are not elected unto hell. God simply elected to not save the reprobate. God elected to simply not save the reprobate. They will get justice. There is no injustice done to them. They will get absolutely their just due reward. Some receive mercy And God is pleased, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy. And so we can only but thank God for his kindness to us. Now we'll go to the Old Testament We go to the Old Testament, the Old Testament concepts of predestination. The Hebrew term Yada means to know or to take cognizance of. And it's used very generally as we would use the word to know. However, there are some places where it can be used in the sense to take knowledge of one with loving care. An example I use is Genesis 4. 1 and Adam knew his wife Eve and she bore and had a son. It just didn't mean he was aware of her. There was actually an act of procreation going on. Genesis 18-19 is another example of this taking knowledge with loving care, this sense, this Old Testament concept of predestination. In Genesis 18, 19, God speaks of Abraham, for I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him. It's not that God knew about Abraham. He knew of him lovingly. It was one who demonstrated such knowledge of Abraham's household that he was well pleased in it. He said, Abraham's going to do the right thing. And so I'm going to speak to him. I'm going to inform him because I know him. Because I know him in a loving way. Oh yeah, I know him. He's in my family. So there's a bit of that sense that's there in that phrase. Jeremiah 1. 5 is probably the strongest reference to this This predetermined, predestined knowledge of God for his people. God speaking to Jeremiah, and of course to you and I, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. It's interesting, he says, not when he was in the belly, God knew him. But before he was in his mother's womb, God knew him. That's quite the extensive reach of foreknowledge. And he says, even before you came forth, I ordained you to be a prophet. Jeremiah didn't go to the school of the prophet, get a degree four years with a certificate hanging on the side of his hut. God ordained him to be such. He was called to be one. And this is how God operates. So this is the Old Testament concepts. They were very shadowy and murky, but when you get to the New Testament and the Greek, it's very clear. Pro orito, God sees over the horizon and he has ordained things that will come to pass long before. Alright, well that is the extent of the specific narrow passages that speak about predestination, but it does start to knock on the front door then on two other things. That of election, God's choice unto salvation for a set group of people. And the flip side of the coin, God's choice to not save some individuals, to allow them to pass on with their sins. into eternal damnation. So those two doctrines are known as election and reprobation. And I'm just going to introduce them uh this week, just lay out some introduction. Next week we'll get into it a little bit more and dig a little deeper. But I just want to kind of peanut butter this thing out in several layers because it's a potentially contentious topic with some, but I trust my audience has left their rotten tomatoes at the door. Alright, so uh Uh Burkhoff defines election this way. He calls it God's eternal purpose to save some of the human race in and by Jesus Christ. He's going to save some people in Christ. And he will save some people by Christ. Christ is often depicted as a vessel, as a container. We're in him. And others, other passages refer to our salvation by Christ. And I think that is probably more widely taught. Now in the scriptures we find that word election used in three different contexts, three different ways, and I believe it's there on purpose. It gives us a dictionary definition of the term. The first way it's used is the election of Israel as God's Old Testament people. God, we would say, were the elect, God had elected Israel. They were the elect. You talk to Jews today, they believe they've got a totally different plan of salvation because they're elected of God. They have a Jewish lineage. They're all right You can run around with your whatever religion, but we've got a separate deal with God because we are the chosen people of God Now there is a sense in which they use that term correctly, because they are unique and distinct people of God. God had raised them up as a type shadow and figure of what would become the New Testament church. They would be very different, they would have to have a high priest, they have a had to have a special place of worship and so forth. All of that was prototypical in God laying forth and bringing in the entire body of believers, the Israel of God, that is born of those who are circumcised in heart. In spirit and not in the flesh. So we see that in um uh uh uh the uh Old Testament Let me just turn to one passage. I intended to put it in the handout. I don't believe I did. Deuteronomy and verse 4, chapter 4 and verse 37, I think is the place I want to go. And because he loved thy fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them and brought thee out in his sight with his mighty power out of Egypt. So the cause of their election was because God had made a covenant promise with Abraham that his seed would be multiplied as the sand on the seashore, as the stars in the sky for multitude, and because of his love for them, therefore they were the seed of Abraham. And they were held in special esteem. That was one example of the word election. You see that quite a lot in the Old Testament There is also the more common term that we use it, and that would be election to an office or to some special service. You're voting somebody in. Presumes, of course, a legitimate vote, but I'm going to not derail off of that. Deuteronomy eighteen five. For the Lord thy God hath chosen him, speaking of the Levites, out of all thy tribes. to stand to minister in the name of the Lord, him and his sons forever. So here, God had elected, God chose the tribe of Levi for a specific purpose. They were royalty. That's how royalty operates overseas in the UK and other places. It's by direct bloodline descendancy. It's not by qualification. You don't have to be smart, good looking, or anything, and boy, they really get some doozies in there sometimes that are that are that make the tabloids, you know, sizzling hot sails. But so it was with the Levites. Their role in life was to minister in the place of God for the people. They were elected to that purpose. They were chosen to that purpose, and you couldn't doubt it or couldn't question it. They had to be able to show their lineage to be able to take advantage of the benefits of them. Lastly, and the one that this doctrine is talking about is the election of individuals unto salvation. When we talk about the doctrine of election in conservative teaching, this is what we're talking about, election unto salvation. That's what this doctrine is about For instance, in Matthew 22, 14, great passage that illustrates this perfectly. Many are called, few are chosen. Some falsely accuse, some Bible teachers who hold to the doctrines of grace, that If I were to believe like you did, your gospel message would be like this. Come unto me only if you're elect. You know, and and you're running around looking for, you know, individuals and you don't know who they are. And I say, Amen. I don't know who they are. That's why the gospel call goes to everyone. We're beating the bushes, we're in the highways and byways and the hedges, compelling them to come in. I don't know whom God has truly saved. And I can tell you over the I don't know, we've been in this house close to 20 years hundreds of people who have come through that door and have listened to Friday night Bible studies and different things. I've quit trying to figure out who God's elect are because there have been some people who have been extremely extremely zealous. said all the right words, I would have sworn on a stack of Bibles, this individual is saved. Only to find out later, two, three, four years, some time later, they stab you in the back, they go on and they're They won't have nothing to do with you. And by this shall all know men you are my disciples, if you have love one to another If love is lacking, and there's no repentance, and you confront them with Matthew 18 in the process, and they refuse to carry that out, I'm sorry, on the authority of the Word of God, they're not his sheep. I've seen plenty. I've been in other circumstances where I've been in churches and I see some old guy sitting up front. He's half asleep sometime at the sermon. I'm wondering, what is this guy doing in here? Why does he come? And and in a Baptist church down near the border of Hakumba, some old guys in there, I'm like, why are you people here? It's like I I you know go to the pool hall. You obviously don't want to be in here But when a crisis hit the church, the most profound words of faith came out of their mouth that I just set me back. With scripture. So, boy, you just can't judge a book by the cover, can you? You really can't. And I I've just I quit figuring out quite y you you you speak the words of life And if they're blessed by it well, and I've just seen it too much. Many are called fewer chosen. Romans 11, 5 You'll look at your handout for this passage. This is really a keen, excellent insight into this business of the true election that God has in mind. The Apostle Paul was making a distinction between that first election, you know, Israel as a people, to the election that God ultimately had in mind, the Israel of God, circumcised in heart, born of God's spirit, not born of Abraham. descendancy. He says, even so at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. In that context, who is that remnant speaking of? Remnant of what or who? The remnant of the Jews. Because the context says, has God cast away his people whom he foreknew? Meaning the elect of Abraham? He says, no, he hasn't cast away The people he foreknew, meaning those that are truly elect, Elijah made intercession to God against Israel. God says, I have reserved to myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. God had reserved 7,000, even in that rebellious climate, there were 7,000 men, truly elect, in their heart. God had brought a difference and only God can see the heart. Elijah couldn't. Elijah's a prophet. He can see a lot of stuff. And Elijah had no idea who the 7,000 left of God is. God reserved them to himself. And so at this present time, even today, there are still some Jews whom God intended to to save. Notice I said some. Because it's a remnant. You ladies know what remnants are. If you've done any sewing, you go to the clothing store, a fabric store. And if you're looking for a bargain, you go to the remnant section. There might have a scrap, not a whole bolt of cloth, but a few. And you just need a little piece, just enough to make a doily or something small. You look for the remnants That's what God calls the elect that are in Israel. Remnants, just a few pieces. Ephesians 1 4, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love New Testament Gentiles might get a little uppity and think they're better than the Jews because look at us, we received the blessings and they didn't, he says. True, you stand by faith, but you better fear, because if God spared not the natural branches, he may not spare thee either. There he chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. Why do you suppose God even lets us in on this fact that he did this business of choosing? I mean, he doesn't really have to tell us that, right? You know, uh I remember my dad taking me fishing for the first time. He wanted me to catch a fish. Now he didn't tell me where he was going, that it was a little covered dock area that was against a lake And they regularly fed the fish there. And you paid your $5 and you went in with a cane pole. And the fish are right there under the dock. And it's just about guaranteed you could almost put an empty hook in there and then you'd come up with a fish Now God dad didn't tell me that that's where he's taking me to. Why? Because he wants me to think I caught the fish. Hey look what I did. This is great. I went out and put my pole in the water and pulled up. There's a picture of me, a little kid with his plaid shirt, still like plaid shirts. Still on the pole. Your dad didn't take him off the pole. There's this dead fish hanging off this thing. You know, I'm just grinning ear to ear like any little four-year-old would do If dad told me, you know, son, um, you know, I actually picked out the place and I uh you know identified where we're gonna be and I I I set up all the conditions so that it was gonna be a no-brainer for you to catch a fish. What would that do a little four-year-old if I told him that? What's that, Penny? It would discourage him. It would discourage him, it would deflate him, right? This isn't any fun, right. So why does God tell us that our coming to Christ, giving us I mean it's the most glorious thing you've ever found in your life I remember the day I cracked open my Bible and started reading through the book of Matthew, I was like, I've never read this book before. This is incredible. I had no idea God was like this. Reading the Sermon on the Mount blew my socks off They just literally blew my socks off. Those words jumped off the page. When I got to Matthew 7, we says, not everyone says to me, Lord, Lord, shall I enter into the kingdom of my Father? For many will say unto me, Lord, Lord, have we not done? List a bunch of things, and I will say unto them, depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you I nearly fell out of my chair. I still remember the room I was in, the desk I was sitting at. I probably with a little bit of straining could remember the color of the carpet because I was just blown away with that passage. It was like nobody ever told me about this Jesus. I couldn't wait. And when you discover that, and it's a tremendous thing, you're just pumped. It just pumped me. I was pumped. I've never been so pumped. I was like, wow, this God is something else I have never known about this guy. Well then why would he go and spoil it all by telling me that it's his choice, Victoria? Well he would not be high-minded but clear. Yes. Lest any man should boast. God does this. This doctrine is meant to humble us. And it does such an effective job of humbling us that you get a lot of complaining. And we'll get to some common complaints. Well, then we enter into one that is a little more difficult to handle, and this is a topic known as reprobation. What is a reprobate? Somebody says he's a reprobate. There's even a term reprobate silver if some of you know something about uh metallurgy. I actually don't know what that is, but I'm pretty sure I can figure it out. What's reprobate silver? I know you know something. I mean metal working. It's polluted. Okay, it's just polluted silver. It's not has been refined. It's full of dross. Shiny dross. Shiny dross. Okay, kinda like fools gold, recipe. All right. Burkhoff defines reprobation as this gu and I like the way he puts this and and Brother Bernie hammered this in with me early and it and it's been very helpful God's eternal purpose to pass some men by with the operation of his special grace and to punish them for their sins. The key phrase here that theologians have wrestled with, and we step right up to the precipice of our knowledge of how God operates, we will not, shall not, dare not impugn God with sin. And with doing injustice. But we also dare not put man's hand to the plow Put man's hand into the counsel of God that can affect and change and ordain things of all eternity. And so we step right up to the edge, and the phrase that is used, that's very interesting, is permissive. decree. God has decreed that He will permit some men to continue in their sins. Permissive decree. It's an excellent phrase that gets right to this concept. To pass some men by. What does it take for somebody to wind up in hell? What's the what's the hell by the way has no borders. It's wide open. It accepts everybody. It's it's it's just wide open. It's uh uh it's got a you know on my car. Yep. Yeah that's where I read it. That's good piece of theology there. What's it take? What's the entrance ticket to hell Transgression of God's law. Any transgression of God's law. Yeah, sin. Doesn't take much. That's how men get there. They transgress the law of God. Next question. Who has transgressed God's law? Everybody has. We're all equally in the same boat. We're all we don't find ourselves remember my illustration about the bus stop where predestination is the sign on on the bus Well let's take that a step back. We're not standing at a bus stop seeing a bunch of buses coming by, well this one goes to hell. I ain't getting on that bus. This one goes to hell. Nope, not going to get on that bus. This one goes to hell. No. This one goes to hell and yeah, I want to get on that bus. That's not the proper illustration. You're already on the bus to hell. Okay? You're on it. You're in it. Gladly, joyfully, gleefully. And some men simply do lane changes on the road to hell. They get out of drunkenness and they go to something else. And they just change buses, but the sign on the bus is hell and they don't care what the sign on the front of the bus says. They love it God, by his incredible sovereign mercy, yanks you off of that. And it may be a catastrophe. It may be a train wreck. It could be painful. Undoubtedly it will be. And you're wound up on a bus to glory. May not be as shiny of a bus, maybe a rickshaw, maybe something a little less glorious. Kinda like the man who um was healed by uh Elijah who came and I thought your master would, you know, wave his hands and clap and do some big thing, just go dip in the river seven times. You know, Naaman Assyria. He just wanted some big grand thing. No, it's it's very simple. It's very base. It's very lowly Well, this concept of reprobation does imply that he actively chooses not to save some. Notice this, there's a few passages here. Romans 9, of course, is the premier passage that speaks extensively, but let's start in Matthew 11. It's on your handout. Bottom of the inside. It says, At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things. What are these things? Knowledge of salvation, knowledge of who the Son of God is, knowledge of Christ and the saving work. Thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent. and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, father, for so it seemed good in thy sight. It seems that if God is consistent about anything, it's that he is not too terribly impressed with human pride. Human pride is a big stumbling block, hence the doctrine of election comes in to lower us some. You've got to be a humble mind, a lowly spirit. You've got to be brought down a peg or two. That totem pole's got to be cut shorter and shorter so it's a totem stump. It can't be a totem pole. And God'll whittle away at it. Think about Jesus Christ, who thought it not Robert made equal with God, but was born of a woman, taking the form of a man, made in the likeness of a servant. And then the dad of a guilty criminal hanging on a cross. You talk about coming down. That's a mighty far way down. And I can speak about these things. But heart work that occurs, that's something that God brought works in a man over time. Notice God hid these things from a certain group of people. Who did he hide these things from? This business of salvation. From whom did he hide it? From the wise people, prudent people, smart people, have their act together. They can figure everything out. I don't need your help. I don't need your silly book. I've got this thing figured out. Pontius Pilate standing there. What is truth? For him, that's an excellent, insightful question. In the upper echelons of politics, as it was in Rome, so it is today. Truth is a relative term. It's absolute everything's relative. They've always had it that way. And they God catches the wise in their craftiness And then you have Romans 9. 13. Romans 9 is a powerful chapter because he goes through the key patriarchs of the Jews, first with Abraham. He was justified by faith. He believed God and he was a counterman for righteousness. And then you get to the promised son, Isaac. We all know the story of Isaac. The miracle. Abram's 99, Sarah's 90. She's very old. They're both way past years. Hebrews 11 calls that out. You've got another fourteen years to go, Mrs. Ross, before you have an Isaac and you're ready. And you might yeah, laughing. That's probably exactly how Sarah laughed. Like, you gotta be kidding me. Can you imagine? So, um, yeah. He goes through Isaac, and then he goes through the sons of Rebekah. The twins. And he says, Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. While they were yet in the womb, God stated that. I submit to you the shocking thing about that statement. It's not that God hates babies. Because mommy and daddy rattlesnake bring forth little baby rattlesnakes, right? They're whack we used to call them diapers and diapers. They're very cute. Oh, they're adorable. There's no such thing as an ugly baby. They're all very cute. They're just adorable. But man judges after the outward appearance. God sees the heart. He sees the heart And that's the heart of the problem. Esau have I hated. The shocking thing is that he says, I love Jacob, because everything you read about Jacob in the Old Testament, he's quite the scoundrel. He is quite the scoundrel We would expect it to say, Jacob have I hated, and Esau have I hated. That's what we'd expect it to find. But we don't. Romans 9 continues in verse 17. He then goes and addresses this business of Pharaoh. After having turned his attention to God's purpose of election and reprobation with the patriarchs, he then widens this aperture of the scope and goes out to look at the Egyptian world The Scripture saith unto Pharaoh, even for this same purpose have I raised thee up. In other words, God raised up this one particular Pharaoh on purpose Pharaoh didn't get to that throne because he was tall, handsome, smart, although those might have been some interesting attributes that the people admired. But God raised up Pharaoh. It was an appointment. He had to be on that throne when there was a 19-year-old boy in prison, or 20, however old he was, so that this boy could come to power. God says, For this same purpose have I raised thee up that I might show my power in thee. And that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. And indeed it was. Forty years later, Rahab the harlot tells the spies, Oh, we've heard what you did. We've heard the fame thereof. They heard it. in a day without telephones or texting. Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will be hardeneth. How does God harden a brick? How does God harden a heart? He pulls his hand of restraint back. With his hand is loving care, tenderness, softness. The patience of the Word of God and the Scriptures and the things of God and the meditation causes to be patient, peaceful, loving people. When that's removed. Become hateful, bitter, hardened. Have you ever seen a bitter, old, bitter, hardened person? They're just their faces perpetually bent into a scowl They're incorrigible. They're in a miserable lot. It just seems they cannot be satisfied. They cannot be made happy. It's horrible. Horrible. The passing of time doesn't produce good fruit. Passing scripture over your mind produces good fruit. That's where it comes from. We get to an illustration that uh the Apostle Paul gets from Jeremiah. He's quoting from the book of Jeremiah, I think it's around the 18th chapter, of the potter and the clay. I'm sure you've all seen videos these days of how clay is made. You get this big lump on a spinning pedestal and the Potter's got his hands out and rolled up in their little muddy and he's pushing and forming and it goes round and he digs in here and he does this Hath not the potter power over the clay of the same lump, by the way I'd submit to you that's the same rebellious lump of Not fine white refined uh kaolite, which is a very white clay that you make uh teacups, China teacups out of. Uh this is old plain you won't clay go out this mud pit I've got in my backyard. We're talking, you know, stuff you get Mexican clay pots out of for fifty cents at the store of the same lump to make one vessel unto honor. And another unto dishonor. In other words, God formed it unto dishonor. That was his purpose. I have no honorable purpose for you. I have no intentions to save you. I'm going to allow I'm creating you. You're made in my image, and you will serve a purpose. For my purpose, for my glory, you're going to be an eternal monument to my justice. What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long-suffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction? This is one of the most insightful passages in terms of how the doctrine of hell actually works. Hell is eternal damnation. It's not puff annihilationism. Because that phrase fitted for destruction implies that Upon Christ's return, he conforms his children into the image of Christ. It's a completed deal. It does not yet appear what we shall be like. But when he comes, we shall see him as he is. We're going to be like him. There's a change, will be quickened in the twinkling of an eye, in a moment. But for those who are raised from the dead not unto eternal life, but a resurrection and the damnation, they too will undergo a change. They too get a different body. They're getting a body that is fitted to destruction. That word fitted is used in the book of Mark to speak of the disciples who are on the shore mending their nets. mending their nets. They're being fitted for destruction. God will give them a body that can endure. The penalty, body and soul, and a Christless eternity in hell, fitted for destruction. God will endure with much long-suffering these vessels of wrath. Powerful passage. It ought to raise the hair on the back of your neck. Romans 11, 7 and 8. What then? Israel, speaking of the nation of Israel, has not obtained that which he seeketh for, but the election hath obtained it And the rest were blinded. Notice the distinction there? Israel has not obtained that which he seeks for. Eternal life. He didn't get it. But the election obtained it. He's talking about a different elect, isn't he? He's talking about those elect unto salvation, those who are in Christ, those who are children of Abraham by faith, as it says in Romans 4, not by bloodline descendancy. And the rest were blinded, according as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear until this day. You've rejected my Christ? Blinded. You're looking for a Messiah? Come on, shut your eyes off. You'll never be able to see him again. He came, you rejected him. Pastor preached on this recently in 2 Peter, as well as in Jude, same concept. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Oh my. Well, I'm out of time, I see. I've really shot over. There are some common objections. That's not fair. God is unjust. The answer is we can speak of injustice only if a man has a claim on God, meaning God owed the creature salvation, or even a chance at salvation But the situation is entirely different if all men have forfeited the blessings of God, which thing they did in Adam. Very different. God's not fair. He's totally fair. He's totally just to give you your due reward. This is from God's vantage point, not ours. We can't get into the business of knowing who God's elector. And don't even get into asking questions about Adam. He's under a much different set of circumstances than you and I were in. And in fact, he had a, our minds are way too ruined with sin, I think, to understand that properly. That's my opinion. The big banner on the back should say it all to you. God is perfectly just to cast all of us rebels into hell. It's only by his tender mercies that anybody is saved. Anton, would you close us in prayer? I apologize for going too late here. Father in heaven Thank you for uh giving us time this morning to look into your word for this doctrine, these uh teachings that you've given us. Of your grace, Lord, on your elect. and of reprobation for to the rest. And Lord, how we do trust you that indeed we all are deserving to go into your full wrath and yet how we do praise you that you've had mercy Lord on us and shown your sheep the light open their eyes. Please Lord Help us to uh may this teaching humble us and help us to serve you diligently, Lord. We praise you and you we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.