The next topic of the means of grace, which is the Lord's Supper. We've changed to doing quarterly Lord's Supper, and so it seemed to me to be fitting to have a study this morning to go over kind of the I don't want to say technical elements, but just what do we mean when we talk about the Lord's Supper? What is this? What are some different views that people have seen? and uh look at some mentions of it from the Lord in different parts of his ministry. So that's what we're going to touch on today. You do have a handout this morning and it will be helpful And unfortunately, if you're just watching this later, you'll have to do some flipping in your Bible. But there's three primary passages that we have, two from the gospel accounts of Matthew and Luke and one from 1 Corinthians, as I'm sure you Well know, it's one of the most oft-repeated sections of Scripture because churches tend to celebrate the Lord's Supper on a fairly regular basis. I haven't seen anything less than once a quarter And so you've heard this quite a lot. But I just want to draw attention to certain key words in this section of Scripture. The first is Matthew 26, beginning in verse 26. where the Lord Jesus is instituting it. It was the night of the Passover, which I find interesting, and there's a curious connection there. That at that sign that Passover sign that he was going to fulfill literally in his body, he then institutes a new covenantal uh uh uh sign here. So let's let's walk our way through it. Jesus took bread, blessed it, break it, gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. Now you'll notice I've got a footnote on that word body It's the same word body which shows up in Luke 22. 19. You break it saying, This is my body. And also in 1 Corinthians 11, he said, Take eat, this is my body. Why do I highlight that word? That's the Greek word soma. And it is nearly always rendered body. I don't think there's ever a time it's not, and it is nearly always used in a physical sense. And we'll discuss why that's important in a moment, but that's one of the words that will be strained at by some people who are trying to interpret what the Lord's Supper means in different ways. So he said, Take, eat, this is my body. Continuing Matthew 26, and he took the cup and gave thanks And gave it to them, and that word thanks is the Greek word eucharisto, that is to say grace or to give thanks before a meal. Maybe you've heard that word before. Where might have you heard that Greek word before? Eucharisto. It's in a different form slightly. The Eucharist? The Eucharist, yes. And this is where they get that term from. Some will describe the Lord's Supper as the Eucharist, or they will maybe refer to the one of the elements of it as the Eucharist. So that's where that comes from, that Greek word. Gave thanks. It's just the word thanks. He didn't he gave thanks to the Father. He gave the elements to the disciples. So it's interesting if you look at the context. He gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it Not meaning drink every ounce of it, but all of you drink of it. This is my blood of the New Testament. Now he introduces this word New Testament, which I find fascinating. The Lord Jesus calls it a New Testament. What he's doing has something to do with a New Testament as com as opposed to the old many times through Jesus' ministry. He'd make a reference to the new versus the old. Old wineskins, new wineskins Those are illustrations of the old man, the new man, the Apostle Paul would say. Blood of my the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. In Luke it says shed for you Uh and uh so there's some contrast there, the many and the you. Uh Luke pretty much says the same thing. He uh uh Both of them point out that the Lord uh is breaking the bread. Uh they are both pointing out, uh Luke points out a key phrase. He says, this do in remembrance of me. I really like pilgrim's wonderful table they had in front of the pulpit with an engraved wooden plaque, this do in remembrance of me. It was really quite a marvelous piece of church furniture. And then at the end he uh gives the same instruction about the cup. Then the Apostle Paul, in 1 Corinthians 11, recounts what he had received. He was not in that apostolic band. There were twelve disciples, including Judas, at the Lord's Supper. Luke is very clear that he was there. And lo and behold, the Apostle Paul was not. He was one born out of due season. He then says in 1 Corinthians 11, 23, I've received the Lord. That which I also delivered unto you. So he had received something, and now he is delivering it to them. So at this point, the Lord's Supper is something that's being carried on. Paul didn't learn it firsthand, he learned it secondhand, and now he's carrying it on. And he adds some interesting statements here He says, in the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, so he points out that this was the night of Jesus' betrayal And he says, three times broken for you this due in remembrance of me, and um or twice he says this, and then he says at verse 25, this due. in remembrance of me. So he keeps repeating that. So this is how the Lord's Supper is instituted, and I'd hit upon some key elements which I trust you're familiar with. Now Let's look at some wrong views. If you've been hearing in under the administration of a faithful church for some time, you've heard the right view and probably the right uses of the Lord's Supper. Most Protestant churches To a high degree get this one right. There are some wrong views, and let's talk about some of those wrong views. The first, as you're filling the blank, is the Roman Catholic view The Roman Catholic view is wrong because it teaches transubstantiation. Does anybody know what that 12-cylinder word means? Transubstantiation. I can barely even pronounce it right. That the substance of the bread and wine are literally changed into the body and blood of Christ. Right. that the uh wafer of bread and or cracker and the uh wine or the grape juice actually become the physical body and the physical blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh and so that's how you would fulfill it. Now Um that's uh uh there there's some problems with that view, and we're gonna talk about some of those problems. I see at least three problems. The first is that here the Lord Jesus, think about it now, he's standing before the disciples in the flesh. He did not offer them his flesh to cannibalize. He didn't actu why take the bread? Why not just take his finger and just pull it off and hand it to them? He he could have done that. He didn't do that. He wasn't offering them his flesh to cannibalize. That would just strike us as odd Number two, Scripture speaks of bread as bread even after the supposed change takes place. It still refers to it as bread in the institution of the Lord's Supper. So he doesn't say they then pass his body about, it says they would distribute the bread and they would take and eat of the bread. Third, and this is kind of the duh reason, if it Tastes like bread, looks like bread, smells like bread, tastes like bread. Hmm, it's probably bread. I uh will recount a rather gory uh uh uh story of my youth one time. I had uh As a young uh early teenager, I was, as young boys like to do, playing with fire. And I managed at one point to sincerely roast a piece of my own flesh. and I uh it it just seared the side of my thumb or something and it was just really mangled and I was trying to cool it off and I quick put it in my mouth and I bit a piece of it and I was like Well, this tastes different. Well, it wasn't like bread. Tasted like chicken actually, but anyway, we'll go there. Self cannibalism is not the way to go, I'm telling you. So if you burn your finger, your mouth is not the best place to cool it off, trust me. It uh just didn't work That's kind of gross, isn't it? What does that have to do with the Lord's Supper? Well, the Roman Catholic view would certainly have you to believe that that which you're obviously putting in your mouth and tastes very much like bread, which was purchased at the store and made as bread, is actually not changing. There could Be a very easy scientific experiment to take that back to the lap. Here a priest has blessed this bread and this wine Let's do some DNA analysis on it. And it's pretty, I don't know Marissa, is it hard to find hemoglobin cells under the microscope? You can probably use a high school microscope and just drip that uh grape juice or wine in there and say, well, whoa, look at this. You've got hum you've got red blood cells in there. No, you won't find them at all. So it doesn't even smack of anything uh reasonable. So transubstantiation just just doesn't work. Then there's the next view, and the next fill in the blank is the Lutheran view. Now, we will certainly give our brother Martin Luther a bit of a pass. He was hauling the truth of God locked up in the Roman Catholic libraries and archives out of the darkness and into the light and he was trying to correct an enormous number of wrongs that had existed at the same time. He was overthrowing a bunch of uh metaphysical, uh wild-eyed allegorical interpretations like transubstantiations. He was trying to haul the faithful out of that by a reasoned argument. And so there was a great appealed to returning to the original languages. And there was an interest in academic scholarship prior to that time Any old person could become a Catholic priest if you had enough money, if you had enough power, had enough pull, um you could get in for any old reason. Nothing's new under the sun. You find that sort of thing aff afflicting Israel of old. And he would make a big to-do about that word soma. Take eat this is my body. He would be pounding on the table. This is my soma. And of course by that he is meaning It means body. Well, lo and behold, if you look up that Greek word soma throughout the New Testament, in a great many instances it is to be understood as a literal physical body. I'd say in ninety, ninety-five percent of the references, it is referring to a physical body. He would raise a body from the dead. Uh the Apostle Paul uses it to refer to uh your body in 1 Corinthians 15. It's spoken of in many places and it is rare to find it used in a spiritual way. However, let's look at the problems for this In the reference to the bread, Jesus did not say that this accompanies my body, if in fact if it were an extension of himself. Now that's kind of a nuanced argument. But it doesn't say this accompanies my body or this is part of my body. It says this is my body. And the second problem, so Jesus isn't quite saying what Luther is teaching. The second part is that Jesus' physical body His humanity is not omnipresent. Because he would foot stomp about Soma, this is my body, he would say that Jesus is everywhere Right? God's omnipresent. So therefore he must be in the cracker and the juice. If he's everywhere present, why not? That was the argumentation he would give. That was one of the big reasons. Alright, now why is that a problem? How would you counter that? If someone says, well Jesus' body is every Jesus is everywhere present, and so of course he's in the the the cracker and the grape juice because he's present everywhere. How would you what comes to your mind is uh that being a problem. Anton, you look like you're forming a thought. Well it seems like it's the same issue as with the trans substantial Initiation. But um just that uh yeah, that that people are eating Christ's literal body and blood, even though he had a little bit further of an argument. Right, okay. If he is therefore in this build and juice or wine wine bread, he is also in the fried chicken And in the cabbage and everything else. Yeah, they would say, yep, mm-hmm. He's everywhere, because God's omnipresent. But but what that does is it gives makes the Lord's table of no significance. Oh no, they would say it's significant because the instituted it. Hold that thought though, because we're going to carry it a little further. Go ahead, Joey. Present spiritually but not physically. You got it. Jesus' body is not. His human body, his humanity, his physical body is not omnipresent. Martha was grieved because Jesus wasn't there. His body wasn't there. His spirit is omnipresent. Yes, this is part of the divine mystery of the Godhead, right? Jesus' physical body is not everywhere present, but in his in his uh uh uh spirit soul existence you could say in his uh eternal aspect and again we're talking about the Trinity we're getting to some difficult areas here he is omnipresent Gloria devil's advocate the person they could say that his spirit was in that bread. Mm-hmm. How how would that be tied? Well, they would reject that because they were saying that the Lord Jesus says this is my body. And so they're trying to push for the omnipresence of the body of Jesus, being in that bread. And then back to Joe's point, then that would mean Jesus' body is also in fried chicken, wonder bread, dunkin' donuts, fill in the blank, and therefore if I'm partaking of that, I'm partaking of the Lord Jesus, and then you go down a very nonsensical path. But Joey hit the key part of the And third point is that that word soma is not always used in a physical sense. For instance, you're gonna If you look down a little bit to the very bottom portion, you know the Lord Jesus in John 6 has a discourse that is very similar to this. The Lord speaks this way. For instance, in John 10, he says, I am the door. And you can look at that word door, and it would mean an entry gate with hinges and a lock. Well, Jesus wasn't a you know four by eight structure standing in front of them. He would also say, I am the vine. He's not a Wiry plant with, you know, strange leaves coming off of it and it needs to be strung up on a truss of some sort. So This is consistent with how Jesus speaks, and it's not unusual that he would speak that way. So that's the Lutheran view. The last view is Zwingli, Zwingli's view, Z-W-I-N-G-L-I. That's Mr. Zwingli. a powerful preacher and evangelist. His view of that is that Christ is not in the Lord's Supper. He took the opposite view. Forget this Roman Catholic view, you guys are trying to find Jesus in it. He's not in it at all. He would say, it's just a memorial. It's just a memorial. That's all it is. Jesus is not in those things. Don't even look there. Uh well there's a couple of problems with that as well. While I applaud the strategic approach to just bypass and jump over it entirely so that you avoid a whole bunch of nuanced arguments that are all based on a problematic foundation. Just leapfrog over it. And I you know I c I have some empathy for that sort of approach. However, in a memorial, there's no rules for a memorial. There are for the Lord's Supper. There are rules for the Lord's Supper. So there's all kinds of memorial statues. Washington, D. C. , I've been to a great many cities in America. And uh I haven't traveled internationally as much as Mrs. Ross has, but I can tell you that Washington, D. C. is somewhat unique for our uh preponderance of memorial statues. And that's all they are. They're just memorial statues. You go to the statue, you look, there's no rule for it, and boy, we've really broken the unspoken rules and boundaries of a measure of reverence respect. It seems like we'd rather spray paint them and tear them down But there's no official rules for the memorial, so there's something a little bit more than that in the Lord's Supper. 1 Corinthians 11, the apostles taking the church accord to task for failing to handle the Lord's Supper properly. So there are some rules involved. The second point, and this is what I want to spend a little more time with today, because I don't think I've ever heard this aspect of the Lord's Supper declared. And that is It lacks the concept of a seal. In other words, this is a divinely instituted sign. And as such, it has the aspect to it of a seal. We'll discuss that a little bit more when we get to the illustrations of it. And the third point is that if Christ is not in the Lord's Supper somehow, why are believers encouraged to do it at all? I mean if Jesus isn't somehow associated with the Lord's Supper, if he's totally devoid and absent from it, why would the Lord exhort his church to do that? You kind of get into the reasoning and the rationale and the questions, why Would we do that to begin with? God's commandments and directives are very reasonable. They fit if you spend a little bit of time and try to think about things in a correct biblical spiritual fashion. So Those are some wrong views. Now let's get into what the Lord's Supper is. All right? What the Lord's Supper is. Two things. It's a sign and it's a seal. And we'll talk about that. And I really want to spend a little bit of time on the seal. Because I think we all understand the first one that's your next blank underneath what is the Lord's Supper. It is a sign And the word sign means it has significance. You can hear that word sign in the very word itself. There is some deeper meaning being conveyed from the procedure, from the element. First Corinthians ten sixteen, we have some uh insight From the Apostle Paul into the significance of the elements. Alright? So he breaks it down for us in 1 Corinthians 10, 16. He says, The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the Communion of the blood of Christ. That word communion is the word quininea, which means fellowship. Fellowship. So he says this cup of blessing, it's the fellowship of the blood of Christ. You're communing with. I love that old English And someplace in the Old Testament, uh Abram would commune with so-and-so. They they they they spoke with each other. We talk about living in a community of people where we're close. Here it speaks the Lord's Supper. It is the communion, the community, the fellowship, the closeness of the blood of Christ. Second, he goes in 1 Corinthians 10, 16, the bread which we break, is it not the same word, koinania, communion, of the body of Christ, the bread, body, and blood, uh the communion of the blood of Christ. Alright, so Paul is giving significance to these elements. What is that? Well first of all, he talks about the fellowship of Christ's blood. What might that, what does that convey to you when we talk about the fellowship of Christ's blood? What is that speaking about insofar as believers are concerned? What does that convey to you? Isn't that amazing? You've been in the Lord's Supper for how many years? The application of that blood to my sin and my sin to that blood. Okay. The application of sin and blood together. Gloria's raising her hand. I'm sure she's got some good observations. Yes, Gloria, what'd you have? Oh, you were just scratching your head. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Picking on you sugar. I'm sorry. You're such a good Okay, yes, I'm not sure. I was thinking that passage which says we declare the Lord's death till he come. It we have fellowship with it. But also we like the time of communion is a very somber and meditative time considering that Christ took all our sins upon himself. He was made sin for us. Mm-hmm. And it's We like kind of undergrow some of that grief in a sense. We meditate on it. And uh No, you're hitting on some good themes and I want to tie those together and everything you said is correct. Let me kind of get to a central meeting that you can see how everything you said and what Joe was saying spring from that. Folks, we are united in his death. Romans 6 makes it clear that there is a union of the believer. of the electing of God in Christ. There is a union to him. There is a real union insofar as the eyes of heaven is concerned. So when it says that it is the communion, the fellowship of the blood of Christ, we all have an interest in that. Even as Christ shed his blood, it can be viewed that your blood likewise was shed. And the flip side is true because you partake of it, you are declaring as a profession that you are part of that. It's a kind of a two-way sign It says, I'm a part of it, and he's a part of me. We're united together. There is a union that occurs as a result of that. The um also the fellowship of Christ's body. Now talk to me about that. What does that convey to you when you partake of the bread? It talks about it's the fellowship, the communion, the fellowship of Christ's body. What does that What thoughts come to your mind when we say the fellowship of Christ's body? This one shouldn't be hard. The body of believers, okay. Expand on that some. Um well we're along with Christmas. Salvation this sign is indicative of how we are one with him and by extension the other body of the real Okay. Alright, so you're talking about the uh the the fellowship the body of believers, all right. And Christ. And of Christ, alright. Uh it it talks about the the communion of the body of Christ. Other ideas about the fellowship. And I'm using that word fellowship because I want to give it a different sense to you than perhaps you've commonly heard before. What's good about the fellowship of the body of Christ? What do you like about that? Put it that way. Yvonne, you look like you got a thoughts bubbling and formulating. The Philippians language, yeah. The fellowship of believers. We have fellowship one with another. That's what I think about. I think about the the believers that like to be around each other. You know, when you're partaking of bread, one of the most intimate things you can do with another human being is to invite them over to your house to have a meal. Just to share a meal with them. You don't invite your enemies over to sit and have a meal. You tend to want to have people to come over, oh please come and sit. And they invite you in and they offer you a piece of wonderful pie. What was that pie you had? Pumpkin pie That was fantastic that one day, whatever it was. I had two slices of it. That was spectacular. Yes, so just this fellowship of so that it's a testimony of the fellowship of the body of believers And these are not believers that all came from the same physical family and background. They are brought out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. So that's also There's also a mysterious element to that and that we can all partake of that because we are all having, we all have the same Savior. No, the Lord Jesus alluded to this idea about uh the uh the Lord's Supper very early in his ministry, this sign of the the uh the communion Look at the bottom of your handout. That's our next word. The Lord alluded to this sign. John 6. 48. You know this language. Just listen to it fresh again. Jesus says, I am that bread of life. He's comparing and contrasting himself to Moses and the manna that fell from heaven. It wasn't tree sap, it was manna from heaven. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof and not die. He repeats himself. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. So he underscores that as well If a man eat of this bread he shall live forever. I wonder what Luther would have done with that. Jesus says, take eat this as my body. He also says, I am the bread, and you eat this, you'll live forever, and yet We have countless thousands of people who have gone to the grave having partaken of a transubstantiated Lord's Supper. It didn't seem to allow them to their physical body to live forever. Again, too much focus on the physical And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. And indeed he did that. The Jews strove among himself, saying, How can this man give us his flesh? Verily, verily I say unto you, except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoso eats my flesh and drinks my blood hath eternal life. I will raise him up at the last day, for my flesh is meat indeed, my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me and I in him. Now does that phrase ring a bell to you? To dwell in him and for God to dwell in you? What where else does that phrase occur at? Think of John 15, Biden in Christ. Okay. Uh think about Ezekiel 36 or Ezekiel 11, 19, or Jeremiah 31, 34. I will be their God. And they shall be my people. I will dwell with them. They will dwell with me. It's all part of that language of the new covenant. Adam cast out from the presence of God. Adam rejected from the garden. Adam and Eve hauled away from the blessing, now in the new covenant, restored, brought back again. I will be their people. They shall be my God. An allusion again to that New Testament, to that new covenant promise that we were brought once again together with him. And then John 6. 58 concludes, Not as your fathers did, eat manna and are dead, but he that eats of this bread shall live forever. You know, there's another practical aspect to that as well, although that's an allusion to the Lord's Supper and certainly something physically that we would do as a sign. What's the most practical way, day in, day out, to eat the flesh of the Son of God, if I may use his language? To read his word, absolutely, because the word became flesh and dwelt among us. So are you eating his word? That's a very practical way. of understanding how to eat the Lord's flesh. So I think we can sense and fairly readily understand some of the s uh the significance, the signs of the Lord's Supper. Now on your back page, this is the part that I think is a little less A little less clear is that is the Lord's Supper is a covenantal seal. And it's prefigured in the Old Testament. It is a covenantal seal. Now You might struggle with that word seal a bit. I uh don't think of this in the terms of canning tomatoes. This is not the inward dwelling of the Holy Spirit that secures salvation unto an individual such that they never die. It is a seal in the sense that it is an authorized stamp. like a candle wax on the back and you take your ring and you imprint it or you go buy the cheap stickers and you put them on your envelope as well. That seals it. It's authorized. How do I know that that Maryland Department of State taxation and assessment thing I got in the mail which says my uh property value went up and therefore my taxes are going up. How do I know that I I'm not free to ignore it and throw it in the trash. Well, because it's got a state seal on it. It's kind of official. And that's the whole point of the Lord's Supper. It is a seal. It's official. This is what officially marks it, a visible sign That indicates to you this is real. No, you need to pay attention to this. It's a covenantal seal. That kind of covenantal seal was in fact prefigured in the Old Testament, in Exodus 24 and verse 8 You read this. Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words. Recall the language of the Lord Jesus when he says, This is my blood of the covenant. He said almost identical words. He says, this is my blood of the new covenant or the new testament, because that word testament and covenant are the same thing. So his blood is the blood of a new covenant, but in the Old Testament, Moses, sprinkling the blood on the people, said, Behold the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you concerning all these words. And This seal of the Lord's Supper does point to the greater blood in the covenant. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. It points to Jesus' greater blood. Hebrews 9, of course, is all about The differences from old covenant rituals, sacrifices, and signs, and New Testament realities. Hebrews 9. 19, when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, scarlet wolf, and hysp. Sprinkle both the book and all the people. Well we just read about that in Exodus 24. Saying, This is the blood of the Testament with God which God hath enjoined you. Later, the writer to the Hebrews in Hebrews 12. 24 says this: that you're common to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant and to the blood of sprinkling. Isn't that interesting? I'm not giving you the entire cup of grape juice this morning. We're not going to pour the whole can on you. You're going to get, as it were, a few drops in a small cup. So Jesus' blood is a covenantal seal, and therefore this sign is part of that seal. It is something that is pointing to it. You know, the Lord's Supper is not a badge of Christian profession. It is a personal pledge of the covenanted grace of God. And I think the concept of a pledge is perhaps a better way to look at this. Let me read to you something. This was read back in July or August of this year from the Heidelberg Catechism, uh, Burkholdt comments on the Lord's Supper this way. It says that these two aspects of the sacrament, namely as a sign and as a seal, are not independent of each other. The sacrament as a sign, or to put it differently, the sacrament with all that it signifies, constitutes a seal. The seal is attached to the things signified. And it is a pledge of the covenanted grace of God revealed in the sacrament. The Heidelberg Catechism says, this is question number 75. that Christ intends, quote, by these visible signs and pledges, there's that word pledge, to assure us that we are as really partakers of his true body and blood. through the working of the Holy Spirit, as we receive by the mouth of the body these holy tokens in remembrance of Him, and that all His sufferings And all of his obedience are as certainly ours as if we ourselves had in our own persons Suffered and made satisfaction to God for our sins. And that's why this pledge and this sign is so powerful. Because when you Partake of that. It is an indicator. It is a visible token of which you are assured and reminded again. Yes, my pledge to you, dear child, is as if though your body had been broken. Because mine was broken and given to you. You're a partaker of that. We are united together. Romans 6, there's excellent treatise. If you go look at the old timers, any of the Puritans who are worth their salt in theology You can read in Romans 6 the first four or five verses, the union of Christ with his believers. That is a glorious treatment. If you ever want to do an excellent little Summary study with your family, the union of believers in Christ, that we are united to Him. And that union is demonstrated in the Lord's Supper. What greater way to get closer to a person or to partake of them in this signifying manner? It's a pledge from God Almighty. You're the one that hung on that cross. Your blood was shed. That's what God saw. And as surely as Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, you're united in that resurrection as well. It's a glorious thought. Hope and trust that today you'll be able to uh consider that. Last point I want to make, I'm sorry I'm short on questions today. I'm already caulking up my audience. Last point I want to make today is an observation that I have not read from Burkhov. This is one that God blessed me with some time ago. I thought to share it with you now. And that the Lord's Supper recalls the past, but in fact it does remind us of the future. Both the Old Covenant sign, Passover, for instance, was instituted to ensure that history was not forgotten. So in Exodus 12, God said, I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, Exodus 12, 12, and I'm going to smite, and I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast Against all the gods of Egypt, I will execute judgment, I am the Lord, verse 14. This day shall be into you for a memorial You shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, you shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever. And so it was an enduring ordinance that would continue until God stopped it. That's kind of the sense that forever continues until something stops it. And What's he doing? It's a memorial. You're going to remember that I, the Lord God, brought you out. And so they would put this sign over their doorposts. That's how it was instituted. But what did it really do? It really pointed forward so that John the Baptist would come along and say, behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. He would be that sacrificial lamb. It was pointing towards a future reality of the coming of Christ and what he would do 1 Corinthians 12, that which I delivered unto you, the same night which is betrayed took bread. This do in remembrance, this doing remembrance. It was a memorial. You were ensuring history wasn't forgotten. But like Passover, it had a forward-looking aspect In 1 Corinthians 5. 7, the forward-looking aspect is clearly stated. He says, even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Now that's interesting because there it clearly connects him to that Passover. And it says, he is that Passover. It pointed to the Lamb of God. The Lord's Supper, just like Passover looking forward, also has a forward-looking aspect to it For instance, in Matthew 26 and verse 29, Jesus says, I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine. until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. This is the very next verse following the institution of the Lord's Supper. It hints at Another time when you will partake of him, uh of this supper, in a much greater way and a fuller way when he comes again. Yes. And when we take it with him in heaven, we will be chewing on his fingers or Well, funny you asked that question because Revelation 19 describes that further. Revelation 19 and verse 17 says, and I saw an angel standing in the sun. And he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together. Notice the gathering. Believers are gathered. To the supper of the great God, that you may eat the flesh of kings, of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses, them that sit on them, the flesh of all men, free and bond, small and great. There is a great supper coming. It's the consummation of all things. Christ is all in all. He fills all, and the sign expands and magnifies when you get to heaven. Now, it's all that Christ has conquered He's conquered it all. He says, come, you can partake of that. Come, you can devour all of that. Come, you're kings, you're conquerors, you reign now. Now it's your reign. There is a forward-looking aspect to it. And the Revelation speaks of that great supper of God. I find that very interesting. It's that same word supper. Same word. Are we physically going to be eating people? No, it's it's a it's a spiritual body. It's a different game game game ball game there. Anyway, those are some of my observations concerning that. Lastly, participation in the Lord's Supper. We will get to participation in baptism next week. Who was a rightful participant of it? We talked about mode the week before. But let's talk about participation in the Lord's Supper. The first of all is it is a profession of faith, and Victoria was talking about that. It's a profession of faith. 1 Corinthians 11, 26, the Apostle Paul says this, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. And that word show is ten times rendered preach. It's a declaration. It's a statement that you're making. You're declaring to the world, you're making a public declaration about the Lord's death, and again that forward aspect, till he come So the Lord's Supper doesn't stop at some point, as one otherwise normally faithful Bible teacher erroneously taught near the end of his ministry, that nope, you've got to get out of church, there's no more Lord's Supper, and none of that. No, that's wrong He says you're going to continue this till he comes. And it is a proclamation. It is a proclamation. Alright, so my notes on this is that because of his death, we're united to God, his son, his body, his covenant. There is a union. There's a union there. And this sacrament continues to the very end, and it reminds us again of Jesus' second coming. All right, so it's a profession of faith, number one, and number two, it requires worthy participation. Again, memorials don't have rules in and of themselves, just pure memorial. But a covenantal sign has a rule. I can't just go up to the gas pump at any gas station and put on there Montgomery County uh a stamp on there saying, yep, there are weights and measures, I think is the name of the agency that determines the state, Maryland State Department of Weights and Measures that make sure that when I pump a gallon of gas in that little dial flips to 1. 0 that I actually in fact have one gallon of gas in the car. I can't just put Vince's seal on there and make that to be the official standard. No, it has to be the right seal, and as a result, it has rules to it, and it requires worthy participation. And 1 Corinthians 11 talks about this. It says in 1 Corinthians 11, 27, Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily. shall be guilty. Ow, that's a pretty sharp statement. If you're participating in the Lord's Supper in an incorrect manner, it says you're guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. Well that's a pretty heavy duty. That's a lot of weight to bear. But let a man examine himself. Some have said, well, that means the elders have to examine him. I can't go with that. It says, let a man examine himself And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. Now he needs to be warned. Somebody's got to tell him, hey, you need to examine yourself. There has to be what we refer to in the ministry as a fence. There has to be a fence around the Lord's table. Not a high wall. Not no wall has to be a fence. Something that gives a warning. If any man eat unworthily, he's guilty of the body and blood. Because if he eats and drinks unworthily, he eats and drinks damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Uh Joe has come in. I believe uh Paul may have actually been pointing back to the Jews themselves, his blood be upon us and our children. children. And they they were accepting that guilt because of their rejection of Christ. And so unworthy partaking is actually accepting that guilt on yourself rather than than the symbol being truly is placed on them. Yes. Mm-hmm. There's yeah, there's several aspects to this I think that would play out. There's probably a couple ways of participating unworthy. Someone living in open sin. You have a man and a woman who are living together and they're unmarried. I don't believe we could serve in communion. I think we would have to warn them. No, that's that's that's a violation. Someone living in open sin, that would be a problem. If you and your conscience says, you know, I did something, I I violated the Spirit of God. He told me not to do a certain thing last night, my eyes lingered too long on something or whatever It might have been, you can say, uh this is I I can't I need to repent of these things. And so, yes, there is an a an exhortation to a worthy partaking. Penny, did you have your hand up or thoughts? Oh, okay. Now one last thing I would like to talk about here is about children. We are going to talk next week about the recipients of baptism and I will be discussing the uh baptism as it relates to children. And I believe it is right to baptize the children of believers. However They should partake of the Lord's Supper after they've come to an age of discretion where they are able to examine themselves. I don't believe the parent can examine on their behalf Uh and um uh but it's not something I believe that the um uh the the the minister should jump up and run to the pew and stop and hold back. a a parent from giving it to their child. But there should be some kind of a warning, some kind of an application, because the scripture says they need to be, they need to examine themselves. And so when they can come to an age of discretion where they can uh at a childlike level of faith in what obedience represents and what it indicates and means to them, they need to uh be aware of that, but I don't believe that they uh are refused that sign. They certainly weren't refused it in the Passover. The Passover, the whole household was to eat of it. And so there is a consistency that we find between the old and the new. Passover was bloody, this one is bloodless. Whether we're using wine or grape juice is of no consequence. The fact is it's not physical blood. Praise God. It's not a bloody sacrifice. It is a it's a uh a memorial, a sign with rules. All right I've run out of time. Ivana, would you close us in prayer, please? Thank you. Dear Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, Lord. that we have this memorial which you've given to us, Lord, to uh continually remind ourselves, Lord, of the the body that has been broken for us and the the blood that's been shed Lord for for your elect. And uh we pray, Lord, that uh whenever we approach unto it, Lord, we would do so worthily, examining ourselves, Lord. And uh We just pray, Lord, that uh you would uh bless us in our walks, Lord, and help us to uh continue to grow in your grace and and the knowledge of the truth. All this, Father, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.