Gracious Father, we do thank you and praise you for your goodness and your mercy to your people. We thank you, Lord, that we indeed are bought with a price we are not our own. Father, we thank you that we will celebrate the purchase of that through that great price today as we observe the Lord's table. As we do this in remembrance of you. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that the entrance to thy word giveth light. And Father, indeed, we need light, for we walk in a dark world. But O Lord, free us from the cares of this world, from the thoughts and lusts of other things. Turn our hearts to thee. And Lord, as we have prayed so many Sundays over so many years. O Father, may we be improved in grace. May we this day be made more like Christ and less like the old man that we shun. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, if you're able, as I read our call to worship. Reading from the fourth chapter of John, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him, a well of water. Springing up into everlasting life. Well, good morning everyone. We turn to our opening hymn. It's number 186 in your blue songbook. 186 is our opening hymn. When I surveyed the Wondrous Cross, I trust a familiar song to a great many of you, 186 I love the old Gregorian chants. There's just such a richness to the tone and the melodies. All four stanzas we sing. Well I survey one cross cross on The prince of morning my riches came for And for contempt on my Lord it is Lord and I should go save in my death of Christmas. My God all the things make that charge and revision. All make go down Twitter such love and song. Word all real. This guy Amen, amen. marvelous tune from Isaac Watts, something or country a tune our country was very familiar with back in the day. Well at this time we have our confessional reading from the Belgian Confession. Good morning. Always turn to the back of your bulletins. We'll be finishing up the reading on the 27th article of the Belgic Confession regarding the Catholic or the Universal Christian Church Christian, and what do you believe? Furthermore, this holy church is not confined, bound, or limited to a certain place or to certain persons But is spread and dispersed over the whole world, and yet is joined and united with heart and will, by the power of faith in one and the same Spirit. This one doctrinal point here refutes much error that many different sects bring about. As you read here that the church isn't confined to one place or to certain persons. And of course we know the big thing that uh sects and false groups will like to Uh a point that they stand on is that salvation only comes at our place here. You have to be one of us. might be based on their appearance or based on something that you do. I'm familiar with a group called black Hebrew Israelites which claim that only black individuals can be saved. If you're skin color is a certain melanin, then you're of the true Hebrews, you you may actually be saved. It's a twisting of certain scriptures and certain mindsets that uh goes against the actual gospel which says go to the ends of the earth preaching this gospel. And of course there's also Those that claim to be Jews of today and say, Well, the we're the special people of God, and you have to become like us Take up all of the ordinances of the Old Testament, and only in that way will you be close to God and do that which is right And the big one today is the Roman Catholic Church. They likewise see themselves as the one true church. And if you're going to be faithful, then you have to be in one of their parishes. You have to be under their pope That's the true and right way of following the Lord. While at the same time they mix uh true doctrine with a lot of much heresy They mix works being necessary with faith in order to be saved, going against the teaching of the scriptures. But the true Catholic Church, the true universal church is different. It consists of genuine believers that are born again. They can be from different countries. They can have different skin color. They may even be members of different churches. One of a member of a house church here, one of a member of a another house church there, but they hold to the foundational true doctrines, they all have one spirit. And uh if they are a member of a grossly unfaithful church, the Lord will in due time call them out. Even as he commanded us to not be unequally yoked, and what communion hath light with the darkness? But we see the true believers are united by something. It's not outward appearance or skin color or things of that nature, but we're united by the same spirit. And listen to this verse, 1 Corinthians 12, 13, for by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. True converts are born of God. They're placed into Christ's body. They're all a member of his body. And the Spirit of God dwells in each true individual that's within that church, that's within the true Catholic or universal church In Romans eight nine we read, But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his There isn't a distinction in the church that there's some individuals that have the Spirit of God and there's some that aren't. That the Lord's gonna save and bring people up to heaven and well some individuals are truly going to be filled with his spirit and some aren't. No, but actually if you're a member of Christ's body from that verse I just read, you're going to have the Spirit of God And the Spirit of God is going to be that which guides you. Because of the guidance of the Spirit of God, uh we see it's true what we read of in the confessional reading today, that we have the same heart, the same will, the same faith. Believers have the same affections. They have uh a similar love for the things of God, a love for his people. Al love for His Word, and even a tender conscience that's ready to repent and obey the things of God. And this is a good thing to ask yourself. Are you a part of that true Catholic Church of God? Are you just attending something that's called a church? Are you actually within the body of Christ, where are your your affections? Are you guided by the Spirit of God? And if you sense that, no, I actually don't. Well now's a good time to repent. to seek the Lord, to turn to Him, to be placed in that body of Christ. The last thing that I wanted to mention here from this confession, as we leave this topic of the Catholic Christian Church as that we're commanded to labor to keep the unity of the Spirit within the church Listen to Ephesians chapter 4. We read, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. It says, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There's things that other believers might do that will bother you. That might get under your skin. You don't appreciate it. You don't like something that somebody said. Well, when that happens, there's a choice you can make you can either walk in the flesh and do what the flesh desires and begin to gossip about that individual, begin to turn yourself from coming to church because you don't like what those people did or said. Or you can confront it, confront it in love, confront it in humbleness, in meekness, and seek and endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace, as the Scripture commands. And you know what Christ calls the church? Christ calls the church his bride. He has a love for her. Now, if you don't have a love for Christ the bride, how can you say that you love the Lord Jesus Christ himself? You have to love his people as well. And so we must remember this that the church is Christ's body. The church is Christ's bride. All true members are members of Christ's body. Thank you very much. Thank you, Anton. As he's speaking, I think of all kinds of comments I'd like to make. But it'd probably just distract from what I what he's already said. Uh thank you, brother. Well well said, well prepared And very much appreciated, very edifying for the body of Christ. Announcement time is afterwards, so I'm not getting into announcements, but today we do go to only memory care And I would like to encourage as many of you as can to come with us. But especially to pray. It's just been really impressed on me this week that um those folks are on death row. Mm. We we see someone one month and ask about them the next month and oh they they they passed. They're gone. And then there's others that two, three months ago we held very good conversations with them. And by the next time we see them, their ability to communicate is is largely gone. It's a memory care. These are folks whose minds are failing them. And so every time we go there, the first Sunday of each month, it is possibly the last opportunity that person will ever ha here have to hear the gospel. And so we need to really hold that ministry of Mission Bible Church up in prayer. Let us pray together. Oh gracious Father, we thank you for the multitude of your mercies. We thank you for the great blessings that you bestow on your people. Every one of us this morning woke up in a bed. None of us were sleeping in a cardboard box last night Every one of us this morning have eaten, or if we did not, it was because of our choice and not because of the lack of food. We came here today in faithful transportation. We are well clothed We have the health and strength to walk through the door. Lord, these are blessings from thee. And we thank you for them. And oh God, we rejoice in them. And Lord, as we were so clearly reminded and exhorted in the Sunday school hour today, Lord, you do use chastening. In love, you bring into the lives of your people that which is needful for the conforming of ourselves to the image of Christ. Lord, do thy perfect work in us. Make us to be that glorious church that is delightsome to the God of heaven. Father, we thank you for your blessings. And yet, Lord, no chastening for the present seemeth pleasant. And Lord, we do not say that every time we have difficulties, it is thy chastening. But Lord, we do pray, Father, deliver us from evil. And so, Lord, we we pray for the many of our congregation who are suffering physically, and many have suffered very, very long in the flesh. And Lord, we believe with all of our heart that all things do work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of Christ. And we understand that this life, which is but a vapor, This life, which is short, is only the training ground for eternity. And Lord, you are in the process of conforming us to the image of Christ. And so, Lord, we we pray that you would do your perfect w work, and yet we pray, O Lord, for relief from suffering. Father, we we have many in our congregation whose physical condition is grave, O Lord. Whose physical condition is very fragile. And Lord, we pray for healing. We thank you, Lord, for pharmaceutical products and for medical knowledge. But Father, our faith is in none of these. Lord, you are able to simply speak the word and heal. And so, Father, our faith is not defective, though it is nothing more than a grain of a mustard seed. Yet, Lord, our faith in thee is absolute that you are able to save, to heal, to strengthen To lift up again. And so, Father, we pray earnestly for those that are suffering in the body. Father, we pray for those that are suffering at heart. For Lord, this this world is full of cruel sorrows. This world is a place in the world ye shall have tribulation. And oh Lord, those tribulations come in all kinds of forms. And Lord, the tribulation of the spirit, the agony of the soul, the grief of the inner man weighs so heavily on our entire outlook on all things. But Father, you've told us that you will give to your people the peace of God that passeth understanding. We've told us that you will keep our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You've told us that you've not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And Father, you told Israel of old that their peace could have been like a river. And so, Father, give us that peace, we pray. Lord, we indeed consider the lilies of the field how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin And yet we're told that Solomon in all of his glory, all of his beauty, was not arrayed like one of these. And Lord, we do consider the birds of the air. We see them at this season gathering seeds and the hummingbirds flitting around the flowers. And Lord, we know that you provide for them. And Lord, we know and we believe that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. And so, Father, we pray, give us this day our daily bread. Oh Lord, we are coming up on our thank offering And before us is laid the opportunity to cast our bread upon the waters. To be a blessing to other ministries across the world and here. Lord, we pray that you would give to us that we might have to give abundantly. Lord, to the Philippines and to Jamaica and to the Trinitarian Bible Society, to teaching the word, to sermon audio Lord, help us to have the means to be able to support these ministries, Father. You have blessed us. May we be a blessing to others, we pray. And so, Father, in order for us to have to give to others, we call upon you to meet our needs and to give us this day our daily bread. Father, we thank you for the privilege that we will have this afternoon to go over to the Only Memory Care. And Lord, we believe in divine appointments, Father. You may have put some soul right there in these latter stages of life. simply and solely that they might hear the gospel. Lord, that places on us a fearsome responsibility But Lord, we can do nothing for the salvation of the soul, for salvation is of the Lord. So, Father, we will faithfully endeavor to preach thy word. And Lord, we pray that you would keep us out of the way of thy word. But that thy spirit may have free course and thy word may have free course and be glorified to the salvation of souls. Father, we thank you for those that are gathered here today. It is such a blessing to us to see those from far from us that are so much a part of us that worship with us week after week online. And Lord, it is a joy and a pleasure that you have safely brought them into our midst today. Bless them and bless us by their presence. And Lord, we do pray for our far-flung congregation. Lord, that great number. Dozen or more, Father, that live in areas where there is simply no faithful place of worship within range for them to be able to attend on the Lord's day But Father, you have given us the means in this day and age for them to worship with us. Lord, I wish every one of them could be here, could partake of the Lord's table today. But Father, we thank you for the means that you've given for them to be a part of our congregation and to worship with our congregation. Oh Lord, bless them richly today. Be with them. In their places of dispersal, for that they might know the fellowship of the brethren, and that they might know blessing from the Word of God. Father, bless us your people today. Oh Lord, we do love you. We do, O Father. But Lord, remember your questioning of the sinful failing Peter. And Peter could not confess, profess, that he had for you the love of which you deserve. And O Lord, we are like Peter. We cannot profess that we have an absolute solid devoted unfailing love of Christ But we thank you for those words of Peter which bring such peace to our hearts. Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Bless your people today, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm forty two for our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm forty-two in your Bibles, please rise. We will responsibly read all eleven verses, Psalm forty-two. To the chief musician, Maskil, for the sons of Korah. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night. While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul into thee. For I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God, with a voice of joy and praise, with the multitude that kept holy day Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan and of the Hermonites, from the hill of Mazar Deep calleth unto Deep at the noise of thy waterspouts. All thy ways and thy billows are gone over me Yes the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. I will say unto God of my rock. Why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with the sword in my bones. Mine enemies reproach me, while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? And altogether, why art thou cast down, O my soul And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my God. May the Lord add a rich blessing for the reading and hearing of his holy word. Providentially that happens to be a very good portion of scripture for the responsive reading. It's some excellent meditation if you've ever battled depression because the psalmist is having a discussion with himself. Why art thou cast down? She's ruminating and meditating on that and you might look at it again in times of deep despair. and meditate on that psalm. It's a very good one for that purpose. Our uh psalm for the uh mid or psalm uh uh or psalm that we sing today is an adaptation of psalm twenty-two number six in your blue song book. Number six, the tune of Park Street is a familiar tune, one of my favorite tunes, and uh trust the jewel Uh be richly blessed by it. We will sing the Amen at the end. All five stanzas number six. Oh, yeah, that is a bow. His glory tells, his praise proclaim, eat children of his chosen grace. Stand in on the Lord's face, standing in on the board's face The suffering one he has not spurned, go on to him for succinct From him he has not hid his face, but answered his request and grace But answered it is requesting grace Oh Lord, thy goodness makes me raise commit thy beautiful songs of praise in the I worship thee and may my God I worship thee and maybe. Hey, hey, hang on. Oh no. Am I singing the uh are we in something different? Yeah, we're s th we're not singing what's written. No excuses, we just keep playing with the flesh I was doing great. It sounded good, but it wasn't what was written. Um I I think maybe the tune is off. So we'll try a different one. Alright, once you go through uh For all the meekness will provide, thy shall be Maybe let's take the gorgeous I'm never ending raised as good. I'm never ending raises good. Sounds good. The Lord unvailing right just best, all generation shall God From age to age shall man be told and words no more does one. Oh I wonder the Lord has called Well it worked Thank you, thank you. Please be seated. The scriptural command is to make a joyful noise under the Lord. And also scripture mentions a loud noise, and there are references to melody and to harmony and so on. But you know folks the the marvelous thing about the singing the praise of the Lord is it's not about a beautiful voice. It's not In particular, though scripture mentions the instruments, not in particular about a well-tuned or even well-played instrument. But rather the instrument of praise is the heart. And um maybe I mentioned my father-in-law from the pulpit more than I should, and I'll lose my telling more than I should, but my father-in-law will tell you he he doesn't have a beautiful voice But he also belts it out to the Lord. Regardless of what the other people around think of as singing. And that's because God transformed his heart. Well turn with me in the Bible this morning, in your scriptures, to the tenth chapter of Luke, and verses thirty-eight through forty-two are going to be our consideration this morning. This is a passage that I've preached numerous times over the years, and it is such a blessing that every time we open God's Word and preach from the same passage, it's actually a different message. Because this book is indeed inexhaustible in its blessing to God's people. I'm going to be starting reading at verse 38 of chapter 10 of the book of Luke. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about much serving and came to him and said, Lord Dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her, therefore, that she help me And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now we pray that your Holy Spirit would open your word to our understanding. Open our hearts to receive thy truth. Father, bless thy word to thy people today. Father, there is much Confusion and distraction and things all around us in this world. But Lord, in this hour, may we be thy thy spirit freed from those things. that our hearts and minds may focus on thy word and hear the teaching of Christ. Lord, we read in the parable of the sower that the Birds of the air came to steal away the seed, and we know from the interpretation that you gave us of that parable that the bird is Satan who desires to steal away the seed that is sown in our hearts. Father, may you drive the bird of the air far from us today. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. A little bit of chronology or background. May we find Mary and Martha multiple times in the Gospels. So a little bit of chronology This passage in Luke chapter 10 is the first time that we are introduced to Mary and Martha. Even though in John's account and Mark's account it may seem to be confusing. But this is the first time that we find Mary and Martha. Then in Luke chapter 11, the next chapter of this book, we find the account of Lazarus having died and Jesus raising him from the dead. And then in John chapter 12, which is at the end of Christ's ministry, and at the week, six days before the Passover, we find that Mary comes with the box of ointment. And she opens the ointment and she anoints Jesus' feet and washes them with her hair. And that is the time when Judas objects and says, this ointment could have been sold for much money and given to the poor. So that's just a bit of chronology. We find in these uh few verses A great contrast between two sisters, and there's often great contrast between two sisters. They're alike. And yet they're different. They are one family, and yet there's often tensions between them. My mom had four sisters And my mom and her one sister just there was always conflict there and my grandfather's comment was, it's a shame those two ever met each other. Well they were sisters. But We we are we understand this conflict. We find here, first of all, that Mary chose the good part That's what the passage tells us. Mary made a conscious choice to sit at Jesus' feet. She looked at the circumstances, she looked at what was going on, and said, that's where I want to be That's what I need to do. This is what is important for me. She did not find that the good part was a burden. She did not find that the good part was an interruption of her day. She did not find that the good part messed up her schedule. She did not find that the good part was distasteful. She wanted to sit at Jesus' feet. You see, we dedicate time to the things we love. And we prioritize for ourselves that which is most important. Uh I know many of us work on salary and I work on salary as well. And we understand that when we're not necessarily on a time clock, that sometimes we'll say, I want to do this on Thursday. Therefore, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I'm going to work extra hours, and I'm going to be diligent that on Thursday I am free to attend this event or to visit with this family. We arrange our schedules to that which is important to us, that which has value. And I believe Mary is demonstrating this very thing. She chose the good part. She prioritized sitting at Jesus' feet. Christ told us where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. In Colossians 3, we're told to set our affections on things above. In 2 Peter 1, 5 were to add to our faith virtue. In 2 Peter 3, but grow in grace. And so we find that there was a priority, there was a conscious decision. to value the words of Christ above everything else. We can also say that Martha made a conscious decision. There was no prohibition over Martha also sitting at Jesus' feet. There were obviously other things to do. And even needful things Martha invites Jesus into her home. That was a pretty bold thing for a Jewish woman to do. The scribes and the Pharisees would not necessarily be pleased. Those around might I think, what is she doing? He's not really a prophet. He's an imposter. And so by inviting Jesus into her home, she was taking some risk. So Martha is trying to do a good thing. Martha is concerned with being a good host. Remember when Christ rebuked the Pharisee? He was invited to a Pharisee's home, and he said to the Pharisee, you didn't give me water to wash my feet. You didn't. You were not a good host. But Martha is being a good host. She is doing good works. She is doing very good things. And we find that Christ does not condemn Martha's work But rather, he does gently rebuke her. Look down at verse 41 and 42. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha. Martha. We've seen we've seen that repetition of names before in scripture, haven't we? And it it's it's kinda like today we calling our children by all by by their full name. You know You know, Jonathan Edwards, whatever. Uh we call him we understand what it means. Martha. Martha Thou art careful. Martha, you're filled with care and troubled about many things. Back up in the first verse, we read there that Martha was cumbered. It's actually in verse 40. Martha was cumbered about much service. She's cumbered. She's careful. She's troubled. And the things that she is pursuing can all be defined as good works. She's busy preparing a meal. But in verse 42, Jesus says to her, but one thing is needful. Well that's a very interesting word, isn't it? Because we know that foxes have dens and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. He needed a place to sleep for the night, and Mary was providing that for, or Martha was providing that for him. And She was preparing a meal for him. And remember, after the temptation in the wilderness, after 40 days and 40 nights, he was hungered. And when we find him sitting on the well of Samaria, he's hungry. So Martha is preparing a place for him to sleep, which he needed, and preparing a meal for him, which he needed. But Christ says to her, one thing is needful. Martha, what Mary is doing is more important than eating a meal. What Mary is doing is more important than a place to sleep. What Mary is doing is more important than being conscientious and industrious and hardworking. Mary hath chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her. One thing is needful. And so we find that Martha's, Martha makes a choice, Mary makes a choice. Mary's choice is declared by Jesus to be good. Martha's choice is not declared to be good. Christ does not say, Martha, you're making a good meal there. I can smell it coming from the kitchen. She doesn't say, Martha, that looks like a comfortable bed for me to lay my head on tonight. But rather he says one thing is needful. You see Martha's intent was to prepare a place for Christ, which seems to be a good thing, but Martha's result was that she interrupted the lesson. If you look there at the passage, Martha actually interrupts the teaching. But Martha um uh Verse thirty-eight thirty-nine. Here it is, this first verse forty four Pardon my eyes. But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. Martha comes in standing, but Mary is sitting. Martha comes in speaking, but Mary is listening. Martha comes in high, but Mary is low. And Martha's desire that Christ have a good meal and a place of sleep interrupts the lesson. She comes in when Christ speaks and she has something to say herself. And then she actually makes accusation against Christ. Don't you care? I am so busy working so hard, don't you care? And then she goes a step further. She's going to tell Christ what to do. Be my sister, my sister, to help me. And you know what happens in that time frame? Jesus stops speaking. And Mary's not the only one there listening. So Martha, with very good intentions, she ends up interrupting the service. With her comments. Martha tries to instruct Jesus, but Martha is the one who needs instruction. Martha is devoted to duty, but Mary is devoted to Christ. Martha is concerned with the body, but Mary is concerned with the soul. And so we could say that what Martha was doing was good, but Christ declares the hearing of his word to be the good part. That Mary hath chosen. You've heard me say my favorite verse so many times that you think I don't really have a favorite verse, but My absolute favorite verse of Scripture above all others is Psalm 27. 4. And it became my favorite verse, hallelujah, in junior high school. And has been so ever since. Psalm 27, 4. One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire at his temple. Folks, that's my favorite verse, but I can't say it's always true to my heart. Because my heart often desires many things. But oh, maybe there be one thing to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. That is what Mary chose. Above all the other things that had some degrees of importance, Mary chose to sit at Jesus' feet. And so, first of all. The good part was chosen. Secondly, the good part was good. The good part was good. When Christ said she's chosen the good part, he wasn't joking. It was good. When Christ said she's chosen the good part, he wasn't mistaken. It was good. It was the part that should be chosen. We find that Mary chose the part that was needful. I've already made mention of the fact that Christ needed a place of sleep and he needed a meal, and so did everyone else. But Christ doesn't say, Martha, these things are needful, but this is a greater need. He says one thing is needful. Remember the psalmist said, I love thy word more than my daily food? Thy word was found, words were found, and I did eat them. Remember Jesus on the well of Samaria The disciples said, Who's fed him? He says, My meat is the dew of the will of him that sent me. One thing is needful. That was good. That was the good part that was chosen. Mary chose what was needful. Martha was cumbered about with much serving. But listening to Christ is more important than serving Christ. Think about that. It is easy as a pastor, as a missionary, as a Sunday school teacher, to get so busy preaching and teaching others. That we don't take the time to listen to the Word of God. That we don't take the time to feed our own soul. And folks, we've seen a lot of Quote unquote pastors and preachers that I don't believe were ever saved in the first place fall into grievous sin. We've all witnessed that and the reproach it brings on Christ. But I have also known some men that I am sure were godly men, but they fell in their ministry. And I believe the problem was they didn't hide God's word. in their heart continually. It's not enough to hide it in your heart as a young person. You've got to keep hiding it in your heart every day. That I might not sin against thee. You see, there's many, many things that are necessary, that are good, that need to be accomplished, but one thing is needful for the soul. Because the things that Martha was concerned about were needful for the body, but had no relation to the soul whatsoever. And Christ directs the focus on what is needful for the soul, for what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? If he has a good meal and a good place to sleep, but he doesn't hear the word of God. And so one thing is needful Mary chose the needful part, and Mary chose the good part, the part that was good. Mary chose the good portion. That's literally what that word part in the Greek means. We find the word portion uh about a dozen times in the Old Testament, and it is glorious to find in Psalm seventy three, verse twenty six, My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion. Forever. There's actually two times in Psalm 119 and another time in Psalm 16 where God is referred to as the portion of his people. Mary chose the good portion, chose the good part. She chose Christ. She chose Christ. And folks, we can think of Cain and Abel. And I've often thought that when Cain brought the fruit of his labor, when Cain brought the fruit of the ground, He didn't bring bruised and rotten and overage fruit. He didn't bring, you know, we had big tomatoes this year, but we had some really misshapen tomatoes. Cain didn't bring misshapen tomatoes. But he did not bring an offering accept from God. And so Mary chose the good part. Mary chose to feed her soul rather than the feed Christ's body. And that's a very important lesson that we must learn. In Job 34, verse 4, let us choose to us judgment. Let us know among ourselves what is good. Let me read that verse again. Write down the reference if you take notes. Job 34, verse 4, let us choose to us judgment Let us know among ourselves what is good. To choose judgment is to be wise in the things we choose in our lives. And know what is good and what is bad. Know what is profitable to the soul and what is not profitable to the soul. Folks, I'll confess, when I get on the computer in the morning, it pops up news. And the temptation is always there to start reading the news. And there have been days when I started reading just a few little news clips and realized that a half an hour has gone and I had not yet started my devotions. I have not yet opened the Word of God. I have not yet fed my soul. Which is more important to hear from Christ or to hear from some wicked reporter. Amen. You see, it's all about, as I said before, the things we love or the things we make time for. The things that we view as important and valuable are the things we carve out of time in our day and our week to make sure this is not missed. And so it is here with Mary and Martha. Martha was about a good work, but Mary chose the good part. And so the part that she chose was truly good. I rinse in this verse earlier, but I'll give you the reference. It's in Jeremiah 15, verse 16. Thy words were found, and I did eat them. And thy word was unto the joy, unto me joy and rejoicing of my heart, for I am called by thy name, O Lord God of hosts. There would be another time to fix a meal for Jesus. He came to their house frequently. There would be another day to make up the bed. for Jesus. But this was the opportunity that she had to sit at Jesus' feet. You see, Mary chose the good part And Mary chose the needful part. But folks, Mary chose this part of discipleship. Throughout Scripture, the description and even the secular description of a disciple is one that sits at the feet. The Apostle Paul, Saul of Tarsus, was a disciple of Gamalia. He sat at the feet of Gamalia. That's where he learned Mary chose the place of discipleship. She chose to sit at Jesus' feet. It was a place of humility, it was a place of submission, and it was a place of learning. Wasn't that far more important than a tasty meal? You see, the one that she was preparing a meal for He was a better chef than she was. He could feed five thousand with a little boy's lunch. The one that she was making good food for could have turned bread into stones Stones and the bread. And he did turn water into wine. You see, the Lord really wasn't dependent on Martha to prepare that meal. But Mary was dependent on Christ for the word. Because he was the only source. It was the choice of discipleship. Remember the twelve apostles, deliberately not calling them disciples in this context, though they were disciples. The twelve apostles were arguing over who would sit on the right hand and who would sit on the left hand But Mary was content to sit at the feet. Isn't that beautiful? A beautiful comparison. Mary chose the good part Mary chose the needful part. Mary chose the part of discipleship. But folks, Mary chose the part that increased her faith. Turn over to John chapter eleven. I'm sorry. Yeah, John Chapter eleven. John chapter eleven is the raising of Lazarus from the dead. And I want to turn here. I'm going to going to Hit the tops of the waves on these verses, not read the whole passage, but but uh you you know the story. But let me start at verse 20 of John chapter 11 Christ has heard early in the chapter that Lazarus was sick, and then Christ tells the disciples that Lazarus is dead And look at verse 20. Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, but Mary sat still in the house. So both of them hear Jesus on the way. Mary is still sitting in the house, but Martha is running out to meet Jesus. Then saith Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. So she's sounding pretty good, isn't she? She's saying, you know, I I know that that you know God will answer your prayers Verse 23, Jesus said unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. When's Jesus talking about? Well, he's talking about a half an hour from now. Twenty four. Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Jesus saith unto her, that Jesus saith unto Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Martha, believest thou this Do you believe, Martha, that I am the resurrection and the life? And look what she answered. And she answered him, said, Yea, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which cometh into the world. Oh, she doesn't answer the question. Christ said, You believe on the resurrection and life. She said, I believe you're the Messiah. I believe you're a great prophet. Folks, I don't believe Martha's saved yet. She's almost there. She's not far from the kingdom. But folks, she's trying to get there by preparing meals, by preparing beds, and doing all manner of good works. But faith cometh by hearing. And while Mary is trying to work her way into the pleasures of Jesus Christ, Mary is listening to the words of Jesus Christ. For there is salvation. Faith does not come by making beds and preparing meals. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Drop down to verse thirty-two Mary arrives on the scene. And in verse 32, then Mary, then when Mary was come to Jesus, Sorry, I didn't read it right. Verse 32. Then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet. We don't read that about Martha, do we? Mary comes and she falls down at his feet, saying, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. She says the same thing that Martha said. If you had been here, my brother, you could have healed him. Both Martha and Mary speak the same words. They both believe that Jesus could have healed Lazarus that he not died. Only Mary falls at his feet, and only Mary truly understands who he is. Martha sees a great prophet. Mary sees the resurrection and the life. Verse thirty nine. Jesus said, Take away the stone Martha doesn't say Jesus says take away the stone. Mary doesn't say a word. Okay, take away the stone. I'm not going to interfere. Remember Martha interfered once before when Jesus was teaching? You know what Martha does again? She interrupts him. Jesus said, take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, said, Lord, by this time he stinketh. She does not believe. Mary doesn't say he stinks. Mary believes in the resurrection of the life. But Martha says, no, no, no, no, no, don't do that, don't do that. Bid her come save her serve. Once again, Martha is contradicting the word of Christ. Don't take away the stone. He stinks. Lord, what you're saying is not right. Mary says, Lord, whatever you say, go ahead. Folks, we're guilty of the same thing. Our brother mentioned in Sunday school, you know, chastening and trials. Something comes in our life and we say, Lord, this isn't right. It's just the way it should be. Martha, don't take away that stony stinks Mary silently says, Thy will be done. Whatever you want. Lord, by this time he stinketh, for he hath been dead four days. Jesus said unto her, that's to Martha. Said I not unto thee. Haven't I told you already, Martha? Said I not unto thee, that if thou wouldest believe, and that's why I believe she's not saved yet. That if thou wouldest believed, thou should have seen the glory of God. You see, she saw Christ as a prophet, as a promised one. But really no different than John the Baptist or Elijah or any of the other prophets that had come before. But if you believe, Martha, thou shalt see the glory of God. Martha believed that Jesus was the Messiah. Mary believed that Jesus was the resurrection and the life. Martha believed that Jesus could have healed Lazarus. Mary believed that Jesus could raise Lazarus. Lazarus. Martha believed that Jesus was a good one to have in her house. Mary believed that Jesus was a good one to have in her heart. Mary chose the good part. Mary chose to sit at the literal feet of Jesus. She would later anoint those same feet with oil before those same feet would be pierced with nails. Today, those same feet still bear the prints of the nails. And though those feet are not here on earth physically We sit at his feet and hear his words. And folks, I'm sure Martha knew much about the scriptures, but she never heard the voice of Christ. I shouldn't say never, you understand. Folks, there are many that have committed much scripture to memory and can quote it in volumes, but they've never come to believe in Jesus Christ, the resurrection and the life. They are busy spending their lives preparing good meals and comfortable beds. They're doing all kinds of wonderful works. But they need to sit at Jesus' feet. The good part that Martha had could be taken away. Her meal could burn in the pot. Her comfortable bed could turn up to have bed bugs. She could lose that reward. But the part that Mary chose could not be taken away. Mary hath chose the good part Which shall not be taken away from her. Folks, my home on earth may be humble and may be crumbling. and may need all manner of repair, but my good part will not be taken away. That's right. Because I have heard the words of Jesus Christ. And it has imparted to me eternal life that I could never get any other way. The good place that Mary chose could not be taken away. Folks, it doesn't matter where in the world we are We can sit at the feet of Jesus. Paul and Silas were at the feet of Jesus in prison. The good place would not be taken away. The feet of Jesus is the place of prayer and fellowship. It is the place where we abide with Him The place that she occupied could not be taken away. The word that she heard could not be taken away. You know, we've read of our brethren behind this the Iron Curtain, before the Iron Curtain came down, who were forbidden to have scripture And many of them were sent into prison and could not have a copy of the Word of God with them. But they had memorized Scripture and that word stayed in their heart. Folks, when when we go to Olni, there are folks there that are totally out from the world, but I'll begin to read a passage of scripture and they will recite it with me, even though they've never spoken a word in months. Because God's word is in their heart. The place she occupied could not be taken away from her, and the word she heard could not be taken away from her. No, it could not be beaten out of her by rods. And even the infirmities of the flesh cannot take away God's word hidden in the heart. The faith that she embraced could not be taken away. Her faith would not fail. Because she was in the Father's hand. And the peace that she knew could not be taken away Mary hath chosen the good part. Folks, there are many parts and many things that we may choose in this world and in this life Mary's work was not evil. It was good intended. But it wasn't well prioritized. And so we as the children of God must choose the good part. There is nothing more important than the Word of God. There is nothing more important than the assembly of the saints. There is nothing more important than sitting at the feet of Jesus Christ. There are many things that have value. But Mary chose the good part. May God give us grace to choose that good part. We're gonna have prayer. Did you want to go to him first or Turning our hearts to the Lord's table. Something was just a great blessing to me as I was preparing my heart for the Lord's table. I would urge upon you that when we are approaching, not not just when we're approaching the Lord's table, at all times, uh seek your heart with a candle, purify your heart. But just preparing for the Lord's table this week, I thought of the words of of David in Psalm fifty one. Psalm fifty one is David's prayer of repentance and confession after his great sin. And I'm going to read just a few verses there and then comment on one. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy merce, tender mercies, blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden parts thou shalt make me to know wisdom. That's a pretty good prayer of confession and repentance, isn't it? But then verse 7, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Folks, New Poland, fresh snow, is the whitest thing in all creation. There is nothing, there is no natural thing that is whiter than fresh, clean, fallen snow. There is nothing darker than the heart of man. There is nothing darker than my sin. But here the psalmist prays with confidence, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. God takes the darkest heart and makes it whiter and purer than anything in creation. Heavenly Father, as we partake of the Lord's table, may we do so in true repentance. In true confession of sin before the holiness of God. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's Paul records for us a beautiful account of the partaking of the Lord's table in the first book of Corinthians. For I received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body. which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. We often give the prayer of thanksgiving after the taking of bread, but Pastor Keith, could you thank the Lord for the bread before we take it for the sun? Father, we just consider uh what they did to Christ. Not a bone was broken, but The scripture says his face was more marred than any man. And we've all seen some pretty bad beings in boxing rings and elsewhere mobs uh tormenting and beating on people. Christ's face was marred more than any man, and he did this for us And we just thank you, Lord, that we have the bread here today to symbolize, pierced and burned in our hands to remind us of the tremendous torture he took from Roman soldiers. We just uh bless the Lord's name for what he's done uh in in his body for us. Take the bread with Thanksgiving. Now for the same manner he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. And Tom, would you give the prayer to the cup? Father in heaven, Lord, as we read in the scriptures about the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. We praise the O Lord that Christ's blood bloodshed. Help us, O Lord. To partake even of just uh drinking of the blood and sorrow and grief, mourning over our own sin. Yes. And yet also with great joy knowing that our sins are cleansed, are encouraged, are fully put away even as the East is from the West because of this great sacrifice, because of this mighty act that occurred on the cross over t slightly over two thousand years ago now. Help us to believe and rejoice greatly in our Savior. Thank you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Take the cup in remembrance of Christ. We turn now to our closing hymn, O the Deep, Deep Love of Jesus, number 453. If you're able to, please rise as we sing 453. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus. Indeed. Behold what memory of love the Father hath bestowed unto us. Number 453, we sing all three stanzas. That's all measure on the spring project. In his folders, over me all Around me is the current of my road making on work. To thy glory. Jesus spread his grace from Should show how he loves shaken. All them all his own seas watch. So death randas roll Jesus. Jesus. Yes me not to glory, glory. Please be seated.