Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Joshua, chapter 5. And once you have your place in Joshua chapter 5 Get ready to turn to Revelation chapter 19, because we're going to split our scripture reading this morning between Joshua chapter 5 And Revelation chapter 19. You'll also notice that there is an insert in your bulletin, and you want to keep that handy. Because I've given you a lot of complimentary scriptures this morning, and I've printed out most of those for you And I would encourage you to not just throw that away, but follow on it as we go through God's Word this morning, and then keep it for future reference to look over it and pray in the future. So if you have your place now in Joshua chapter 5, we'll begin there in verse 13 and read through the end of that chapter and then go to Revelation 19. Joshua chapter 5, verse 13. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho. that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold there stood a man over against him with a so his sword drawn in his hand And Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay, but as the captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and did worship, and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord's hosts said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoes from off thy foot. For the place whereupon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so. Now turn with me to the book of Revelation and the 19th chapter, and there I'll begin in verse 11 and again read through the end of the chapter. Revelation chapter nineteen and verse eleven And I saw heaven opened. And behold a white horse. And he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire. And on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood. And his name was called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying unto all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven Come and gather yourselves together under the supper of the great God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings. and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. And I saw the beast and the kings of earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that walked wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that received the mark of the beast And them that worshipped his image, these both were cast alive into the lake of fire, burning with brimstone. And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, with the sword proceeding out of his mouth. And all the fowls were filled with their flesh. Let's bow for prayer this morning. Our great God and Heavenly Father, we thank you that this is the very inspired Word of God. And not a jot or tittle will be lost. We thank you, Lord, that your word is one book. The Old Testament agrees with the New. There is never contradiction found. We thank you that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. We thank you that the very God who spoke the world's into being, that created all things, wrapped himself in human flesh, and was born in the manger of Bethlehem. We thank you that that same second person of the Trinity, who is indeed God Himself, was with His people in the wilderness. led them through the Red Sea, stood with them by Jerusal Jericho, and leads his people even to this day. We thank you, Lord, that you have delivered us from idols to worship and serve the great King. Bless your word to us this morning Grant us insight and understanding into the Word of God. And we'll depray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isn't God's word wonderful? Do you get goosebumps reading those two passages? Aren't they marvelous? Aren't they glorious? My family doesn't like it when I tell tales on them, but I was reading this passage aloud last night, and Penny said, I don't think I've ever heard you preach a prophetic message. I'm not a prophecy preacher. The word of God is its own prophetic message. And for us to take the Word of God and begin to try to form timelines and say this is how this is going to happen and I know all about this text is for us to presume into things that God has not revealed. These prophetic passages, we take them at faith value, and we believe every word that they say. But to try to tell you when they're going to happen in what order and what is symbols and what is reality, what is Literal, etc. It is the word of God. Let it stand on its own and believe it with all your heart. But in the Word of God, we find no contradiction. The Old Testament and the New Testament are in perfect agreement. We have this Bible of 66 books and multiple human authors And yet the human authors wrote nothing except what the Spirit of God told them to write And when they wrote what the Spirit of God told them to write, they wrote it exactly as the Spirit of God dictated it to them. And that truth is the foundation of everything that we believe. And if the foundations be destroyed, what shall the righteous do? And that is why we believe that we have a preserved Word of God. For faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And so certainly if the Word of God is the avenue by which God brings faith to man, God's going to protect that. It's pretty important. It is preserved. And so we thank the Lord for it. If you look at your sheet that I've passed out, you'll find that it begins with two passages, one under the title God is Love. And the other under the title, God is a man of war. In 1 John 4, and verse 7 and 8, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. But then in Exodus 15 and verse 3, the Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name Now, this would seem to some to be a contradiction. How can God be a God of love? How can Jesus Christ be the ultimate picture and demonstration of God's love? And yet, how can God also be a man of war? And yet there's no contradiction here, whatever. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The Word of God reveals And more specifically, Jesus Christ is revealed both to be a God of love and to be a God who is at war with his enemies. And we read there in Revelation about the angel standing in the sun and crying to the beasts, to the fowls of the air, Come, come feast, come to the great supper of the great king. Ah, we will be bidden to a supper, won't we? We are bidden to the married supper of the Lamb. But here the kings, the rulers, and their horses are the supper. They are the dinner. For the birds of the air. And as I was reading that passage again last night, uh a thought came to my mind, do you remember Goliath? Goliath called to David, Come and I'll feed you to the fowls of the air. And here God says to the wicked, Come, come, and you will be a food for the fowls of the air. Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ is the God of love And God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Christ loved the sheep. He loves the sheep so much that he laid down his life for the sheep. And greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for the sheep. And so Jesus Christ is indeed a God of love. But that's not the extent of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is also a God of judgment. He is a God of wrath. He called the evil religious leaders of his day serpents. Generation of vipers, white and sepulchres filled with dead man's bones. And so it is vitally important that we know God. But a lot of the world says they know God and all they know is the God they've created for themselves. The God they know is not the true God of Bible. The Bible. The Jesus they know is only this, oh, he loves everybody, and you must be okay. And people will go even far far to say, how could a loving God send a sinner to hell? But they're asking the wrong question. How could a righteous God let sin go unpunished? The wages of sin is death But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus loves his sheep. But he judges the goats. Jesus Christ laid down his life for the sheep, but he will pour out his wrath on the wolves. Jesus Christ brings peace to his own elect. But eternal judgment to the lost. God is love. But in saying that God is love, we dare not ignore the wrath of God. And the next thing you find on your sheet there is a series of verses that talk about knowing God. And I'm not going to read them in their entirety. But I've highlighted portions of them for you. They're in Daniel eleven and verse thirty two The people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits We need to know our God. And John 17, verse 3, that they may know the only true God See, a lot of people know a false God, that they may know the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom he has sent. There in 1 John chapter 5 and the middle of verse 20, that we may know him that is true. Jeremiah 9, verse 23 to 24, starting there in the middle of verse 24, that uh that he understandeth and knoweth me That I am the Lord. But let him the glory glory in this, verse twenty-four, that he understandeth and knoweth me. And it's given you also John eight, verse nine, neither know ye me Nor my father, if he had known me, he shouldn't have known my father also. It is of utmost importance that we know the true God. And so this morning, our emphasis on Jesus Christ is going to be on that other aspect of Christ, that aspect of judgment. Our God is a man of war. And so the first thing that we see here in your notes and in this text. These two texts together is that the Lord is a man of war. Jehovah is a man of war. And it's interesting there in that third verse of Exodus 15, which is on your notes there. That God would refer to himself as a man. Why did he not say Jehovah is a god of war? Why would he say Jehovah is a man of war? This is what we call an anthropomorphism. It's where uh A characteristic of God or a characteristic of man is given to something else. And we find it throughout Scripture. We find in Scripture talking about God's hands. But does God have hands like we have hands? Well, uh no, he doesn't. We talk about the eyes of the Lord in every place. Does that mean God has eyeballs like our eyeballs? No God has chosen in his word to explain himself to us in ways that we can understand. No man has seen God at any time. And yet here, beside the wall of Jericho, we find Joshua, and he sees a man. That man is Christ Jesus. It is Christ preincarnate. We know that because he accepts worship. And we find many times in Scripture where an angel appeared to a man, and the man started to worship the angel, and the angel says, No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm one of your brethren. But here, this man receives worship. And so God says that he is a man of war. He is explaining himself to us in a way that we can understand. But there's a little bit more in that 15th chapter of Exodus. When it says God is a man of war, it is a masculine term. And that word man that is used there, man of war, is also translated in other places husband It is not just a man, but it is a man who is caring, is the way that God expresses it. Our God is a caring God. He is a God who is involved. He's not a God far away, but He's a God who in Engages in warfare. And so we find that the only true God is a God of war. Now coming back there to Joshua chapter 5 and verse 13 It says, and it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood A man over against him with his sword drawn. First of all, note the posture that we find Jesus in here by the wall of Jericho. He is standing. He's ready for battle. Remember when Gideon took his army of thirty thousand down by the river to drink? And already he had said to those, if you're fearful, go on home And it's down to 10,000. And the 10,000 come down to the river to drink. And God says to him, Those that get down and drink straight from the water, send them home. But those that bring the water to their mouths, that are watchful, that are looking for the enemy, those are the ones to be in my army. And there was only 300 left Well here we find Christ at the wall of Jericho. He's not laying down sleeping. He's standing. He is ready for battle. He is ready for the defense of his people. And also we find not only his posture But we find the weapon. He has a sword. And the sword is not in the starboard The sword is in his hand. He is ready for battle. He's standing ready to fight against his enemies. And we hear so much today about oh Jesus Christ loves everybody. But that same Jesus Christ said to his disciples, if you don't have a sword, sell your coat and buy one. Sell your coat and buy one. And today he would probably say an AR fifteen. But yes, Jesus Christ is a God of love, but he is also a God of war. And that's what we find further here in the passage. Note the purpose that Christ was there by Jericho for. The question is asked in verse 13, art thou for us or our adversaries? Isn't that interesting? Joshua does not immediately recognize who this soldier is there by Jericho And Joshua, who probably himself, as the leader, as the commander, is walking around Jericho, surveying the walls, thinking, how are we going to breach these walls? How can we defeat this city? How can I lead my army? Do I need ladders? Do I need ropes? Do I need a ram? How am I going to defeat this city? These walls are high and thick. And suddenly he sees a soldier that he doesn't recognize. He knows his captains. He knows the leaders of his own army. And here's one he doesn't recognize. And he says to him Are you for us or for them? For very likely this soldier he seized could have come from inside the city To walk around and check his own walls and to prepare his own battle. Are you for us or for them? Jericho was straight shut up. The people were frightened. They were ready. They knew that the army of Israel was coming. He doesn't say I'm here for you. That's not what the answer is. He says nay. Neither. I'm not come here to fight for them. I'm come here to be your captain. Are you on our army or their army? I'm the captain. Neither. Why was he there? He was there to lead. He wasn't simply there to fight. He wasn't there as an observer. He wasn't there to defend. Jesus Christ was there to lead them in the battle. He was their commander. And if you remember back to our reading in Revelation chapter 19 and verse 14, and the armies which were in heaven followed him. The armies which were in heaven followed him. He was the leader. He was the captor, followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And we need to consider that word captain. And again, this is in your notes there. The word captain that is used there is a Hebrew word which also can mean chief of the slaughtermen. Or executioner. We find that word when Joseph is sold into the house of Potiphar, and it says that Potiphar was the captain of the guard. And the literal interpretation there in Genesis with Potiphar is that he was the chief executioner He was the chief of the slaughtermen. Now that that is not exactly what it's saying there in Joshua, but the word is used that way in another passage, and that's why I mentioned that This captain, as he describes himself at the wall of Jericho, is a man with a sword drawn, ready to kill somebody. This is a judgment. Why would Christ be at the wall of Jericho with a sword drawn, ready to kill somebody? Because of their wickedness. Because of their sin. Now Jesus Christ is the same yesterday. And today and forever. And so if we're truly going to know Jesus Christ, we need to know him in all of his aspects. Yes, he loves us, but he hates sin. He hates even my sin. He's the righteous God. The Septuagint, which is the uh Greek translation of the Old Testament uses this same word uh captain and uh if you take the Word that is translated captain in the Greek in the old in the Septuagint, and then bring that back to the New Testament. We find four interesting passages. And I've given you these in your notes as well. In Hebrews chapter 2 For it became him for whom all things, and by s sorry, let me read that verse again, get it right. For it became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons into glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. And in uh Acts chapter 3, verse 15, where it talks about they killed the Prince of Life. It's the same word, captain And again in Acts 5, the Prince and Savior is the same word, captain. And then in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, it's that same word, captain, that we find there. This is his office. This is what he does. This is how he operates. And so Jesus Christ was there to be their leader, the pre-incarnate Christ. But he's also there for the slaughter. He is there to execute judgment on his enemies. And if you look over to chapter 6 of Joshua and verse 17. And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord only to the Lord, there'll be a curse to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that he s we sent. And then down to verse twenty one And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, ox and sheep and ass with the edge of the sword. Where do you think Where do you think Joshua got those instructions? Remember we said that Joshua was surveying the walls, trying to figure out how am I going to defeat these walls? Do I need ropes? Do I need ladders? How are we going to do this? He meets the captain. What does the captain do? It gives orders. It gives orders. And we don't have a long dialogue here. The chapter ends. But how did they know to march around seven times? The captain told them to. How did they know that everything in the city was a curse? The captain told them so. How did they know that all the people were to be destroyed? The captain told them so And this is consistent with all we find. I've given you there the verse from Deuteronomy 60 1220, verse 16 That they're to destroy everything. When they went into the land, they're not to have any mercy. Uh Deuteronomy 20, verse 16. But the city but Um but of the cities of these people, which the Lord thy God doth give thee for an inheritance, thou shalt sit not thou shalt save alive nothing That breathe, breatheth. And in Deuteronomy 7 verse 20, they were to show them no mercy. And so Jesus Christ is there for the purpose of slaughter. Jehovah is a man of war. Our God is a God of love, but he's a God who will destroy the wicked. But the second thing we find from these two passages in comparison is that the true God will execute war. The true God is a God of war, and the true God will execute war. And for the rest of our time, we're going to be primarily in the Revelation passage. Excuse me. So turn that wasn't a coronavirus call, so turn over with me to Revelation chapter 19. And here again we find a glorious picture of Jesus Christ. We find the triumphant Christ. And picking up again there in verse 13 of Revelation chapter 19, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood. And his name was called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed with fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he might smite the nations. And he shall rule with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of the Almighty God. That's a God who is executing judgment. That is a God who is executing war. And I've given you in your notes so you won't have to turn to it the companion passage of Isaiah 63. So look there in your notes again at Isaiah 63, which is both history and prophecy in the same verse. Isaiah 63 and verse 1. Who is this that cometh from Edom with dyed garments of Boraza, this that is glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. So we have a question answered. Who is this that comes in these garments dipped in blood? It's I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. A second question, wherefore art thou red In thine apparel and in thy garments, like him that tried it, treadeth the line fat You see the correlation there? The comparison? In verse 15, you have the wine press, 15 of Chapter 19 of Revelation, in verse 2 of 63 of Isaiah, the wine fat. And here is the answer, verse 3. I have tread, trodden the winepress alone, and of the people there is none with me For I will tread them in my anger and trample them in my fury, and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain my raiment. In Revelation 19, we have Christ riding upon a white horse, and he's clothed in a garment dipped in blood, but it's not his. He's left the garment of blood behind. The garment, bloody garment he wears in Revelation 19 is a garment bloody with the blood of his enemies. Oh my friend, we need to know the true Christ, the whole Christ And we don't often talk about the Christ who is dipped in the bl his garment is dipped in the blood of his enemies You see, Christ is a God of love, but he's also a God of judgment. And it's beautiful to notice here that he is not red with his own blood, but with the blood of his enemies. But we continue in verse 4 of Isaiah 63. For the day of judgment is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemment is come. And I looked, and there was none to help me, and I wondered that there was none to uphold. Therefore mine own arm wrought salvation unto me, and my fury upheld it And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and I will make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring them down, bring down their strength to the earth. Notice here several things. First of all, our captain fights the battle for us. Praise God. Our captain fights the battle for us. How was it that they defeated Jericho? The walls fell down. Their defenses could not stand before Jehovah. The Lord fights for his people. In Exodus 14, verse 14, the Lord shall fight for you and ye shall hold your peace. Deuteronomy 20 3, verse 22, ye shall not fear them For the Lord your God shall fight for you. Deuteronomy twenty, verse four. For the Lord your God, he is he that goeth with you to fight for you against your enemies to save you Jesus Christ is not only our Savior, He is the captain of our salvation, He is the captain of the hosts of heaven. And he fights the battle for us. He fights on behalf of his people. We need not fear this world. We need not fear coronavirus. We need not fear the wrath of men. We need not fear when we're lied against. We need not fear when we've lost all the possessions this world could possibly give. Our captain fights for us. But notice secondly that our captain's garments are splattered with the blood of his enemies and our enemies. But the garments of the saints are white and clean. Look back to Revelation 19, verse 4. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses clothed in fine linen, white And clean. That's all in your notes there, and it's in your Bible as well. And so we have this glorious picture of Christ riding a white horse With a sword coming from his mouth. His garments are dipped in blood, but a verse later it says, And the saints are with him the armies of heaven, and their garments are white and clean His garments are splattered with the blood of the enemies. Our garments are white and clean. Isn't that glorious? Isn't that beautiful? Our captain will fight for us. Our captain is splattered with blood. but his people are clean. And so we find that the one true God is the God of war, and the one true God will execute war. He will carry the war forward. His garments are splattered. and ours are clean. But the third thing would have us to see from these passages is that the one true God will win the war. I believe this is on the back back page of your notes there. The one true God will win the war. You know, I've often thought I I love history And uh uh I've often thought about those men that died on the Arizona at the very entrance of the United States into World War II that never knew that we won. I've also thought about those men on the uh death march in the Philippines. that that died along the way and rather than being helped they were speared, they were shot, they were beheaded, they they died of exhaustion. in defeat that never knew never knew that uh we won in the end. Well, brethren, doesn't matter what defeat we may seem to have today, we win in the end. Paul was beheaded, but we win in the end. Stephen was stoned, but we win in the end. Latimer and Huss were burned at the stake. But we win in the end? Why? Because the same God that created the heavens and the earth, Jesus Christ. The same God who was there at the wall of Jericho, who wrestled with Abraham on the plain Who was born in a manger and who will ride a white horse with his garments dipped in blood? It's the same Jesus. And he's the same yesterday and today and forever. The people that do know their God. Shall be strong and do exploits. It is of utmost importance that we truly know our God, not the God the world wants to talk about. But that we know the true God of heaven. The world loves to talk about that passage that we find on the uh wall of the uh United Nations. The passage there is Isaiah 2. Excuse me. The passage there is Isaiah chapter 2, verse 4 They shall beat their swords in the ploughshares and their spears in the pruning hooks. But they don't read the whole over. Promise you I don't have crowdvirs. The whole verse says this, Isaiah 2 verse 4, and he shall judge among nations, and he shall rebuke many people. And they shall beat their swords in the ploughshares, and their spears in the pruning books. Nation shall not lift up the sword against nation, neither shall they rise, learn war any more They leave out the first part of the verse. The first part of the verse says God's going to judge the nations. And after God has judged the nations, then Right. There will be no more war because he will have won the war. And then there'll be no more need for the spear and the sword. But today we need our Second Amendment. We need our spear and our sword today because that day has not yet come. And I said I'm not a prophetic preacher. I'm not going to tell you when it's going to happen, but I can tell you it will happen because God's word. And of course they don't have on the wall of the United Nations um Joe chapter three verse ten which says beat your Yeah, beat your pruning hooks in the s in the swords and your plows in the swords. It's the other way around in the spears. Uh scripture gives both ways. But the one true God will win the war. We are on the winning side. Look again there at Revelation 19 and verse 15. Out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he might smite the nations. And he shall rule them with the rod of iron. And that word rule means he shall have dominion over them. He shall crush them. He shall defeat them He shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press in the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. Verse 16, and he and on his vesture hath a name, sorry, and on his vesture and on his thigh is writ a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords What's that mean, King of King? I mean he's he's king over every king of earth. He's Lord over every Lord of Earth. And I saw an angel standing in the sun And he cried with a loud voice, saying unto all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come, gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great King. And I made reference in our introductions, there's two suppers to come. There is the marriage of the Lamb When the bride of Christ, the church, will be called to the Mary to the Lamb, but there's another supper of God It's when God, through his angel, calls the fowls of the air to eat the slain. To eat the flesh of kings and of captains and of mighty men. Verse 19: And I saw the beast and the kings of earth. And their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that received the mark of the beast, and them that worship his image. These both were cast alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone. I don't claim to understand it, folks. I'm not going to try to explain it to you. I'm not going to say when it's going to happen or how it's going to happen, what, why, or wherefore. I'm just telling you that God's Word says it And the point is this our God wins in the end. Jehovah is a God of war. Jehovah will execute war, and Jehovah will win the war. That is what God reveals to us in His Word. And so in 1 Corinthians 15, verses 24 to 26, then cometh the end, when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father. When he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power, for he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet, and the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Revelation 20, verses 14 and 15. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Folks, we need to know our God. But Satan, the great deceiver, is a purveyor of false gods. And one of the false gods that is put forth today is a Jesus that is not the Christ. Is a Jesus that man wants? What do we read about the true Jesus He's despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, when we hid, as it were, our faces from him. You see, the world wants a Jesus, and the world talks about, oh, God loves you. But God's word says, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. God's word presents Jesus Christ as a God of love. But it also presents Jesus Christ as a God of wrath. And the two are not a contradiction. For God loves righteousness, and he loves those who are made righteous by his grace. But because God loves righteousness, he must therefore hate iniquity. He must therefore hate sin. And the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness and all ungodliness. The people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits. Do you know that God? Do you know the God who is both the God of love and the God of wrath? And you see, it is the grace of God that brings us to repentance. And some are saved so as by fire The wrath of God on sin is an element of God's mercy to drive us to Christ, to show us our own iniquity, to show us our state, to show us our need. of Christ. And so the true Christ of the Bible is a God of war. And a God of love. And there is no contradiction there. I would close with this final thought Which is taken from our response our from uh Psalm 24. I started to say a responsive reading. I started to have Psalm 24 as a responsive reading, and then we switched to 144 But in Psalm 24, verse 7 to 10, lift up your heads, so ye gates, and be lifted up ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is the king of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle. Who's it being referred to there in Psalm 24? It's Christ. But he's described as being mighty in battle. You see, that element is lost today. Mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Oh ye lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is the king of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. Ah, my friend, do you know the true Jesus? Do you know the Jesus Christ who is a Jesus Christ of love? But it's also the same Jesus Christ that threw the money changers out of the temple because he said, He made my father's house, a house of merchandise, a house of iniquity. Do you know him? Let us stand for prayer today.