Good morning, everyone. This morning we're going to look at Genesis 22 and the first 14 verses. The Gospel on Mount Moriah, marvelous picture of many gospel truths So turn with me now to Genesis chapter 22. I'm going to begin reading 1 through 14, and then we will pick this apart. Hear now the word of the Lord. Verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham. And he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. Notice the emphasis there. And get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said unto his young man, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went, both of them, together. We're in Genesis 22. We're now at verse 9. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes, well there's a lot of lifting up of the eyes in this passage, and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jirah, as it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be. There are so many types, shadows, figures, and metaphors in this account. We'll see if you can extract them all because I'm going to kind of march through passage at a time, uh not verse at a time, but I'm just going to take selective chunks and kind of draw us along through questions. First thing is that first verse, and that very first phrase after these things. Now these things were now in Genesis 22. Uh if as you recall, uh Isaac was that child of his old age at about the age of a hundred. The boy is obviously now old enough to walk on his own. and carries some stuff with him, uh the wood and so forth, and he's able to climb a mountain, so I don't take it as a toddler I take it this is a young fellow, perhaps somewhere between the age of twelve, thirteen, upwards to eighteen. He's a young lad. So Abraham's 118 years old, and boy, the trials just don't quit. But it does say after these things, which is interesting, because all of the past trials that Abraham had were refinements. They were hammering out and improving and strengthening his faith and testing him along the way, because this is a pretty heavy trial, as you would admit. Even so All of history was preparatory for God's perfect work, the cross of Jesus Christ. All of history was leading up to that grand work of the cross of Christ. Romans says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Due time. Galatians we looked at last week, when the fullness of time was come, there had to be a specific point in time. Why was God waiting? He was preparing. Things were preparing. It had to be at the right place, the right time. Christ had to be of the right lineage. He had to fulfill all the right prophecies. Everything God does is very perfect, very specific. We're impatient And of course what we do is very hasty, and it doesn't last very long. All I have to do to find work to do is walk around this house. I'll find something broken. Inside, outside, there will be right, Mrs. Ross. It doesn't take much. And then we get to where Abraham shows up. He shows up at Mount Moriah. Now here's my first question. Does anybody know the history of Mount Moriah? The history that would come, not up to this point. This is the first mention of Mount Moriah, but do you know the future uh in our perspective now history of Mount Moriah. What's significant about that particular mountain? Solomon built a temple there? That's exactly where the temple would be built at. When David had done something wrong and the Lord said, tell me now what will you have? And he gave him a choice, curtain A, curtain B, and curtain C, and he says, give me option C And uh there would be a pestilence there would be the plague of the Lord come upon the people. The angel of the Lord came, and that angel of the Lord stopped destroying when he got to the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, which was right there At Mount Moriah. So Mount Moriah is a famous mountain. It's where the angel of the Lord stopped the destruction in the days of David. It's where Solomon would later build the very temple. where uh Abraham would then uh where the very temple which would be built, this is the very place that Abraham is being taught to sacrifice his son. So even just in Mount Moriah alone, there's a great picture, an establishment of the fact that there's a great future for this particular mountain that's coming Very interesting. If you want to look that up, it's in 2 Chronicles chapter 3 and verse 1 is where you have the reference to Mount Moriah. Then he says in verse 2, and offer thine only begotten son. Alright, so what's the connection there? What's the connection to Christ there? This can't be hard, folks. This is a low ball question. Yes. His only son. Yeah. Yeah of course. The what's the sign that pops up? It used to pop up at nearly every football game, John three sixteen. Right? Uh speaking of the Lord saying and God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. There's a big emphasis of only begotten son. Interestingly enough, if you're using some counterfeit Bibles, that phrase begotten is just about ripped out of nearly every modern translation Why? Um I believe that there is a systemic attack against the Word of God. The um uh confessions make a point that Christ was begotten, not made. And the Aryan heresy says that Christ was made. And so when they and when Colossians lists him as the firstborn of every creature, that doesn't mean he was the first one to literally be physically born. It means he has the right of the firstborn. The firstborn, whether man or beast, had a specific role. It was either dedicated and devoted to the Lord or it was an inheritor of double blessings. It was a privileged position And so when it when it says Christ is the firstborn of every creature, it means he is the one from whom all of these types and shadows derive their native source and back to whom they point that he is that ultimate uh successor. So here, God is making a big deal, son of promise, the son whom he loves, and indeed none of us would second guess Abraham's love for his son And God is going to make it clear, I want you to take Isaac, not Ishmael. Isaac goes up, you know, the one that you really loved. Well that's where in a sense the uniqueness comes in. Thank you. That's where that comes in. Yes Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. And then we get to verses three and four, where Abraham has this three day journey. It seems that God likes to tell Abraham, just get started on a mission and they'll tell you the destination once you're there. Sounds like the way some people drive, I guess, you know. I uh have a funny story about that, but I'll have to tell you that later. If you were Abraham, what would you be thinking during those three days? Why? Oh sure. I should think. Yeah, why? God doesn't tell him. He just says go do it. This is not the first time God's told Abraham do something hard. Leave your family, but this has got to be really tough. What else do you think you might be thinking? I would be thinking uh that would give me the strength to trust you. Yeah, I can get through this. But one way or the other, give me the strength to do it. Give me the strength to do this, yeah. Why? What else? Is God breaking his promise? Is God breaking his promise? Right, yeah. The the promise was to his seed that there'd be a great multitude. So what's gonna happen here? Yes, some of these surely have crossed his mind If it be possible, let this cut pass, right? Yeah, if it be possible, let this cut pass, right? In Hebrews it says that he had faith that if God did take I think that he had power to raise them up again. So somewhere in the back of his mind he had to be thinking about how is God going to overcome this death to still fulfill his promise. Well the look at that verse in the next uh section here, but you're right. So he's He's got to be thinking and wondering about all these things. His mind has got to be processing. Victoria's pointing out the fact that uh God had promised a Messiah would come, that there that all families of the earth would be blessed through Abraham, and that uh it would be through his seed, that that would be the the heir. Uh and yet here's Isaac and God's now telling him to kill the boy Um yeah, there there's got to be a lot of conflicting information. Have you ever felt like God's put you between a rock and a hard place where it's not obvious which way to go? How many times? And it seems like um if I you know uh to use the worldly phrase um I'm damned if I do and I'm damned if I don't and and I don't really quite know which way to go And boy, you see an early example of that here. You know, um God uh is uh of course not interested in the outward appearance like our political process is, God's interested in the heart You know, what happens in the heart. He and he does things to reveal the counsels of men's hearts. And I believe he intentionally sets these kinds of structures and tests and trials up to flush up so that you would know what's in your heart. So that you would see. God already knows what's there, but he's flushing it out so that faith could flourish and you could begin to see and observe what's going on. Because like Penny said, even though he said he was gonna raise them up Can you still imagine what could be going through his mind knowing that he's gonna be a burnt offering? Yeah. Right, like even though he said he was gonna do it Steal. Yes, right. Well we ain't seen this before. This is something we haven't seen before. So he's got a really and you can see why Abraham's called the father of faith Because in spite of these things, you know, uh she staggered not at the promise of God. Right, there's all kinds of things here that that are just intense. What's also interesting I find in this three-day journey, we're in Genesis 22, now looking at verse 3. What's also interesting in this is that it was a three-day journey, and Abraham did not waver over the three days. Day one, it says he rose up early. He got to it. He got to move on. He wasn't, well, I'll sleep in, I'll Oh, let's pray the fleece says, Lord, do you really mean this? Did I really hear you right? You know my hearing's not right used to be, Lord. Now he didn't waver. He did not waver. The book of Malachi says, I am the Lord, I change not. Abraham didn't waver, he didn't change in his process. Aren't you glad God doesn't? In Numbers says, hath he said, speaking of God, and shall he not do it, or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? You know what Abraham committed to do, he actually carried out and did. And to me that's astounding. To make that three day walk, boy, I tell you, that's that's some spine right there. And he didn't keep telling him a lot of different things to encourage him on Don't worry about it, I'm gonna do it. I said I'm gonna do it. You know how we flee. You know, looking for little encouragement along to a blessed chairwork. A little roll of tulips to pop up along the way just to let you know you do it already. Well, getting over to Penny's concept here, look at verse five of Genesis 22. Why did Abraham say we will come back? Because he the uh he has some young men going with him to a point, but he gets to the mountain, the mount that God tells him And he says to the servants, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. We're going to come back. Why did Abraham say we're going to come back? Do you believe God? Yeah, flush that out more. So if he believed God, he's gonna go up or he's gonna kill his son and his son's gonna die. He doesn't believe he's gonna die. He doesn't believe he's gonna die If her dozzy Oh maybe he still raised him again. Go to Hebrews eleven seventeen to nineteen because this is I believe where um The writer of the book of Hebrews makes it clear to us what was going through Abraham's mind, and I believe is pulling from that particular phrase, we will go yonder and worship. Notice it was an act of worship, and come back again to you. Hebrews 11 and verse 17, by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son. There's that word, monogenaeus, only begotten son. Of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, so here reiterating the promise that God had given. Accounting, now this is what's going through Abraham's head. Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead. In other words, this boy's really gonna die. He's really gonna die. And Abraham's thinking he's really gonna die. He's, as it were, said, yep, he's going to die. God told me to kill him. God said, the promise is going to come. The only way he could reconcile those two together was to say, the boy will die and come alive again. That's the only way he could reconcile it. And he landed on that believing that, does my God have the ability to raise something up from the dead? He's seen God do a lot of things. He'd never seen proof of the resurrection before. He'd never seen that. From whence also he received him in a figure. That word figure is a parable. In other words, he said uh in principle Isaac died in his mind. It's uh the boy's gone and it's gonna happen. That's pretty astounding when you think about Abraham's uh statement. He came to that conclusion on that three-day journey So in two and a half days, in his mind, I know God said, Sarah's going to have a son. I know God made this promise. I know God has never failed in this promise. I know that these a hundred and I'm gonna say eighteen years of my life, he has never failed me, never done me wrong. And now I'm facing this this this crazy, impossible, and yet divinely Initiated trial, and the only way I can reconcile it is from human perspective, this ain't gonna work out. But I'm not dealing with the human, I'm dealing with God Almighty And God Almighty can do some really big things, and I need to step back and I need to think big. And he did He said, God's just gonna raise him up. Phenomenal faith. Phenomenal faith. Yes. Not only is my son gonna die, I have to kill him. Right. At your hand the father has to kill his son. And then thinking about Isaiah please the Lord lose him. It almost brings tears to your eyes. I can't even begin to enter into that thought. I can't even begin to enter into that. What father would dare want to raise his hand against his son Exactly what Abraham had to be thinking and yet what a picture God was. And he's trying to think how can I kill him quickly? Oh, how to be. I yes. It's horrific. It's horrific. That Psalm 53, it pleased the Father that crushed his friend. Yes. When I first saw that for the first time, I said This can't be. I don't what does what does this mean? I couldn't imagine that that would be part of the biblical narrative. Right. That it pleased the Father to crush Not only kill them but to crush them. Yes, like like crushing out grapes. That statement of Isaiah 53, let me help a little bit there. So uh There's two misconceptions that the world has because of that passage and one in Ezekiel as well, where the Lord says, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked that he should die. And the sense is we really don't want you to die. Oh please, please watch No, that's not the sense at all. That's not the sense at all. Um God is pleased, for instance, when Noah came off the ark and he offered burnt offerings and sacrifices, the Lord had a pleasing aroma It was pleasing to him. In other words, okay, my just law. Because remember God is the Word, the law of God made flesh and manifest. Right? That's who Jesus Christ is. And the law you have in this book is is a codified version of whom God is. It's all he chooses to reveal to us of him, and he's very consistent. So the law, think of God for a moment as the law. It demands justice, it demands satisfaction. All right, we even talk about um mortgage payments. You know, the the mortgage isn't satisfied until when How much? Oh, in full. Right. So when God says he has no pleasure in the death of the wicked, what he's saying is your death is un is incomplete It doesn't satisfy. It doesn't pay the price. There's no debt being paid there. But for the Son, the debt's been fully paid. That's the sense in which the satisfaction and the God is the of the God of the Bible is pleased. He's not happy about this. Don't think happy. We think blessed means happy. No. Blessed are you when men persecute you, revile you. I mean you're not really happy about that, but you're blessed. There's a difference So that's the sense of which Isaiah has it. That makes that there's there's a there's a satisfaction of the atonement, and only can God say of the Son the Lord Jesus Christ that his death was pleasing only your death and good. Right. Right. Or mine. When he first came I don't know y you I'm sure you remember it, but it talked about I was gonna say I'm pretty sure he doesn't but you remember 'cause you and I talked about it for a while and there was it it talked about how God crushes us. He takes us to things to mold us and he's his heavy hand is upon it and it crushes us. in order to to mold us to be who we are. Who we want us to be. Yes, right. And it's not and to be crushed. Yes, right. I remember. And you may not remember that. It was very intense. Well back to our text in Genesis twenty two. Yeah, oh I'm sorry. Yes, but I always just say I love that phrase in the hymn, My God is reconciled. Yes. Christ's sacrifice alone. wasn't the reconciliation. Yes, that's the pleasure of God for sure. Alright, verse six. It says Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering. And he laid it upon his Isaac, his son. Just like our Lord Jesus Christ, he also bore his cross, a wooden cross to mount uh to to Calvary's Mount. He too bore the wood. Just little details. There's nothing incidental or accidental in the Bible. John 19, and he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of the skull, excuse me, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha. Even Isaac bearing that wood. Think about it. You know, and uh we're going to look at Isaac in a moment here, but notice all the careful preparation here in verse six it says Uh Abraham took the wood, laid it upon Isaac his son, he took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and they both of them went together. All this I mean he's making complete preparation for all this stuff. Everything that is necessary to carry out What God commanded, He He took care of, and He did all that. Why all this careful preparation Hm. To make sure that uh Abraham's mind would not be changed. The more time went on, the more chance there was that perhaps he wouldn't be able to do it. Right. So he's he's gonna keep his mind square on the job and it's like, okay, I've I've really gotta stay on on point. Well would it be that In some sense he had to have a perfect sacrifice and that's when perfection had to come in even in the manner that it was done. Very good, that's right. Yeah, even the details of it. He had to have the wood, it was clean wood Because it had to be a burnt sacrifice, which implies a hot fire. You put a hot fire from sufficient amount of wood that's burnt and kindled and ready to go. And so You know, but this again, I believe, is um is very metaphoric. It really is pointing forward to a grand picture. Just as Abraham prepared the wood, the sharp knife, and the fire, God also prepared all of history for Jesus Christ. He prepared all of history. He definitely prepared it for the spreading of the gospel at a time when the Greek language had already been spread throughout the world and and the Romans had already beaten out and paved roads which to this day still remain A Roman road is like ten foot deep, folks. It's not this shallow six inches of asphalt we pour down. Roman roads were deep. We read in Acts 2. 23 Him being delivered by the Determinate Counsel and Foreknowledge of God have ye taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. And two chapters later Peter repeats this concept of a truth against thy holy child Jesus whom thou hast anointed Both Herod, Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. God had, through his determined counsel, structured and arranged and aligned things such that this would lead to the cross of Christ. What is stunning to me, folks. Just take the point of a promised seed. Just take the point of Christ being born in Bethlehem, of a virgin, and of a specific Davidic line, of a royal line. Uh uh all of the pro at a specific time, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, uh nor lawgiver till Shiloh come. All of these promises that lined up and pointed to it You know, I nobody held a gun to my head when I got married to Angela. I was quite happy, quite pleased, you know, wanted that to occur. Same thing with uh nearly every wedding I know of And subsequent ones and subsequent and subsequent and subsequent and yet at the very end God says, This is who's coming out. You see how God's will superintends and oversees our will so imperceptibly. Absolutely. Imperceptibly. He guides and structures. You know, the God of the Bible controls a lot in this universe by determining the day of your death and and the day of your birth and the day of your death. I've often wondered if Hitler had been born ten years later, would he have really risen to power? Or if he had died sooner. How the whole course of history had changed. Or Martin Luther. Pick any famous person the day they were born because they were the prime and the peak of their life. when certain things happened. Uh who was that great uh it was Alexander the Great. Now that's how we remember his name. Never lost a battle. Young kid, basically. Yeah, 30 years old, went ripping all the way as far as Iran, just in Iraq, just tearing up and conquering properties. And he gets back, he's on vacation, and a mosquito Pito kills him. Right. Mm-hmm. That's right. As he's on vacation. Are you kidding me? If that isn't divine, I don't know what is. And you read the book of Daniel, and you see there it is. But you know, in a sense it's that way in all of our lives. We just we had a conversation yesterday. Remember we mentioned it about God takes people out of our life and he brings people in. And we never had a cruel man of these people. You know? Somebody we might have known for three years, then all of a sudden they're out. Yep. And somebody we never knew comes in. Yep. That's right. And when you really look at your life, that's everybody's life. How we live. We don't know what he's gonna do Who he's gonna bring in, who he's gonna take out for whatever reason. Yep. So all we need is in my opinion is follow him. Yes. That's the only thing I don't try to come up with any schemes or how something should go, because I had no clue at the time. When God does something, something that who would have a thought. I know one thing I have learned If I can think it up, God's not gonna use it. That's the way I feel. I feel like if I can think of a way up to do a certain thing That's not what I'm saying. Right. Right, right, right. Just label the plan A and put an X through it, just put it on the show. And many times the most important and significant moments of our lives Don't seem important or significant at the time. Right. You know, just like the disciples, they remembered that they had done these things unto him after the resurrection. You know, at the time the Lord leads you through a circumstance And you look back and say, on I being in the way the Lord let me. Yeah, right. That's right. That's right. Mm-hmm. That's right. Back in verse 6, notice it says, and again I'm going to pick on certain phrases here. In verse 6, the latter part, it says, uh, no, we're in general. Genesis 22, 6. Yep, Jack Genesis. And they went, both of them together. Now this is speaking of Abraham and Isaac, both going up. What's significant about only these two going up into the mountain? What spiritual pointers do you think we can glean from that? I don't think they'd want anybody else's input. Very good. Okay. Yeah. This is about the father and the son. Okay. Keep going. The father and the son. Alright, the father and the son are the only two going up to do what? To make the sacrifice. To make a sacrifice, which is a picture of what? The cross. Picture of the cross, which did what for us? Paid for sins. Paid for our sins. Yeah. Paid for our sins is known by another word that begins with an A. Atonement. The Father and the Son were both involved in the atonement. In a sense you are. He alone is hanging on the cross as as we will see for a minute with Isaac. But the Father and the Son are involved in the work of redemption. As it were, it's a family deal. It's a divinely family deal. Servants can't help. Servants are left at the base of the mountain. You remember in the temple it says you'll not put your tool upon certain things. You take stones that are as they are in the field, you bring them and you set them in there. We're not going to hear this loud noise and clangin' in the work uh clangin' of noise in the temple And so it is with your atonement. You don't put your hand to it. You're at best you're a servant. You're you're not in you're not involved in this deal. You can't enter into that. You know, there's some Parts, I don't know certain transactions. I try to make relevant statements, but I do know there are certain steps in the construction and the building process where I don't have a hand in it When I submit all my plans to the permitting department, they make those decisions. I can't show up there knocking the door, hell let me help you with this. Uh they're not going to want my help. They don't need my help and it's and it's not applicable. Get away You have nothing to say about this. You're going to get a yes or no answer at the back end with perhaps a list of recommendations. Second Corinthians 5 19 says this to wit, that is to know, that God was in Christ God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself. You see, it was a father and son activity. They were both involved. And then Isaac asked the awesome question in verse 7. Where is the Lamb? I mean you kinda think it's a little late for him to ask this question. You might have started that question off on the s on the get-go, you know, uh so you want me to bring a lamb along, Dad? Uh but he doesn't ask, which is interesting. Why would Isaac ask that question? Probably just occurred to him Just a curtain. He has seen sacrifices his whole life and knew He's saying sacrifices. Yeah, and what was why why do you see all these sacrifices? What what what meaneth these things I'm sure his father had taught him. Yep, what he teach you. Okay, yes. Without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sins. And where would he have come up with that? Because this is long before Moses comes along at Mount Mount Sinai. Where was any Where was the family record of any kind of offerings made? Where where'd that start? Yes, Adam and Eve. God what did God do to to clothe them? So that's gonna be an Skin of an animal. The animal just say, oh here I got a pair of set of skin uh the extra this extra set of skin for ya. The animal died. Gabriel and I were squirrel hunting recently, and I don't think we've ever skinned an animal yet that w wasn't a bloody exercise. We wear gloves just so the beast and knock off the fleas and everything else that comes off that fur. But um it's a bloody exercise. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. That's why he asked the question, where is the lamb? It's got to be blood. Well, then we find the gospel plain and simple in verse 8. My son, God will provide himself a lamb. It's interesting Many modern translations will remove the word himself and simply say God will provide a lamb, which to a degree is correct, but it's much more clear when you say it says God will provide himself. A laugh. Because that's rich in meaning. That's that's Hebrew is like the broad brush strokes of paint and color without the sharp lines. And Greek is the black and white vector drawing with sharp lines and pencils. And you put the two together and you get Greek clarity. Ah, that's the trees, that's you know. But before it's just broad stroke brushes, it's very uh emotional the way the Hebrew language is. So when it says God will provide himself, that word provide shows up later in Jyreph, Jehovah, Jyrah, God will provide. That word provide also means see All throughout here you saw Abraham look lifted up his eyes and saw the place. He lifted up his eyes and he saw. It also can be rendered God will see himself a lamb. Both are correct. Both nuances and senses are there. So there's the sense that the Lord will provide himself as the Lamb. John 1. 29. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world, as John the Baptist pointed to Jesus Christ. Also it means the Lord will provide for himself a lamb. He will provide for himself. He will be the one to make that provision. Romans 3, all have sinned come short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. And I want to comment on that word propitiation, and I want to comment on it every time I come across it in the Bible. It is not the word expiation. It's propitiation. There is a huge fundamental difference between the two. Huge difference. Expiation does mean you settled the debt, you cast away the wrath. I used to describe it one way, I'm going to kind of change it a little bit more clearly. Um, if you go down the freeway and you're driving like a maniac and you're upset and you're just shooting people. on the side of the road, you're just shooting people, driving uh and just killing people and all that. You and then police are chasing after you and you shooting back at them and you go c you know, I'm trying to show that you add up a whole raft of of legal uh crimes for which you're gonna have to answer before a judge. And you go before that judge. And somehow you can produce a sacrifice. You're gonna do something to satisfy that debt. And after you've paid your dues, extensive jail time or you know whatever it costs to get a really good attorney, you're going to pay something. As soon as that debt has been paid, you have expiated the debt. The the uh judge is says, yep, it's paid for, and the uh criminal uh has now paid his debt according to the eyes of the law, all has been paid, he's he's set free. That's expiation God set forth Christ as a propitiation. Now what does that mean? What that means is the debt is paid in such a manner. that now the offended party is very, very, very favorably disposed to you. Imagine you are able to now pay off that debt in the court in such a manner That the judge and the prosecuting attorney and the bailiff and the court system is ecstatic. They want to name a building after you. They want to put your picture on the on the wall, as in the Hall of Fame, as a wonderful, great person, as a tremendous benefactor to the city. What kind of an offering and a payment would that be? to make the offended party so forwardly disposed and inclined towards you. And you see that's what you have in the death of Jesus Christ. It not only paid the debt But in that payment process it made you far more favorable in the eyes, so much that he has made you meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and light. That's Christ's atonement. It's a far bigger, deeper picture than you could imagine. It's not just fire insurance. That's a stupid analogy. That is a stupid analogy. It's nowhere close to that. That cuts the gospel short, big time. God will provide himself a lamb. The Lord will provide, or he will see to it, that the redemption for all of his sheep is in fact accomplished So that statement of Abraham's is is loaded and you can meditate on that for quite some time. Well now we turn our attention here, verse 9, to Isaac on the altar, and then we're going to look at 10 through 13, and then we'll try to wrap it up with verse 14 here. The clock's beating on me, so I want to get moving here. How many people were on the altar? Two. You said two, which two? Nobody on the altar was it. At first well at first there was nobody, right? But in verse nine we went from two to none. bracketed these choices very nicely, Mrs. Ross. Let's see if maybe even Yvonne can pick the right number in this case here. Sorry, Yvonne. My hat is off. IO and some chocolate at least How many are on the altar? Only one. Only one. Only one. Isaac was alone on the on the altar, and even so Christ went alone on the cross. who being the brightness of his glory in the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had, by himself, purged our sins. By himself, no servant, no extra help, one individual The right individual. I'm not even passing that out like that because when we talk about propitiation, I don't think people realize propitiation is Christ. We always gotta these gotta be the centerpiece of our propitiation. Yes. See without him it is no bookage. There is no other choice. There's no other possibility in that thing. I guess my point is that's gotta be Up in light. Yes. Height is the propitiation. The heath of him. And that word propitious, be propitious to me is what the uh Publican cries out when he would not lift so much his eyes up into heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, Uh uh Lord be propitious to me. That word be merciful is the word propitious. The uh it's a loaded phrase what that publican says, and Christ says, I tell you this man went to his house justified rather than the other because he wanted a propitiation and there was only one option, and so he wanted the right thing. Christ. That's right. And his atonement. So Isaac's on the altar. But you know, we've talked about Abraham and his obedience, but behold the obedience of Isaac in all of this. He really obeyed his father. He was exceptionally obedient. Behold the obedience of Isaac. Because he didn't know what was going to happen. I mean what it he's on the altar. Yeah. And he knows what and like uh Penny pointed out, he knows what happens on the altar. Right, right. This wasn't hard to figure out. Right, right. And even so our Lord It says he was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Behold, Isaac didn't throw a temper tantrum up there I'm sure he was stronger than his father. He probably could have kicked and beaten his pulled his way off and and and escaped. He could have. Right. I don't doubt it a bit. It in in in a sense it shows that he had a lot of conf a lot of uh Faith as well. His father. Yes. Meaning Abraham he had a lot of saying, Well, Dad, this is my dad. If I can do that, it's gotta be the right thing for me to do. Sure. He as do regardless of what it looked like, yes. He trusted his father as Abraham trusted his father. Yes. Yes. Does that have anything to do with um when we read in the New Testament says unless we be like Little children. Yes, yes. Yes. Little children, if anything, are trusting. Yeah. So we see his obedience, uh it it it really it really stands out. Now there's an interesting point here. Look at the ram. At this point, the uh The type in the figure changes a bit because Abraham lifts up his eyes and there's this ram caught uh by his horns in the thicket And so now what we have now is that Isaac is spared and the ram is now put on the altar. So now the the the the type the figure changes a bit now Isaac now becomes a picture of the believers we are taken off of that what should have fallen upon us according to the commandment of God watch it now What should have happened according to the commandment of God specifically named on Isaac, he is removed and a substitute is put in his place. You see, so now that ram is a picture of Jesus Christ. Isaac carried that picture for away. You can't take any metaphor or parable about Christ and make it walk on all four legs. It won't go all the way. Only Christ fits the bill, suit the nuts, right? I don't know where I got that phrase from. But anyway, only Christ fits the bill. So Isaac here now is a picture of the believers. Christ was delivered for our offenses. He was raised for our justification. And so now we have a substitute, a ram. Now, this is a somebody pointed this out years ago, and I thought it was really a neat point. What is the significance about the ram being caught in a thicket by his horns? It says it. Again, there's nothing incidental or accidental. Ram caught in the thicket by his horns. It's very specific about that. So let's parcel it out. Um talk to me about horns. What's the big deal about horns? Symbol of strength. Symbol of strength, but this k this if I've spoken any earthly things, understand not how we understand speaking to uh heavenly things. Let's keep it on the earthly level for a minute. Alright, heart of the wood. Horns are pretty hard. They're pretty tough, aren't they? He's caught by his horns in a thicket. What's the thicket? Like a wave of Yeah. Yeah. Do you have thickets in your lawn? Typically not. They're typically full of thorns. Right. You think of thorn bushes? I think of thorn bushes, right? You can't get away. Can't get away from it. Now, the ram was caught by his horns, and thus his flesh was not torn. Therefore He was an unblemished ram. Because I will not offer to the Lord that which is torn of beasts and so forth. It's blemished. So God provided an unblemished ram. I think that's spectacular. I think that's just spectacular. Caught in the thicket, the thicket that should have caught us, our web of lies and our deception and all that, to the horns, as you've mentioned, the symbol of strength that just grabbed it. But with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. So even the ram typifies Jesus Christ in that sense, because he's caught by his horns, by his own horns. Abraham didn't put him there. He got there. Ram's been up a mountain plenty of times. Have you ever seen mountain goats? They can cry they can climb and Walk on something ridiculously steep places where they find toeholes and they walk across the side of it like Bigfoot. It's just amazing how they can move across such a steep. And then in verse 14 he calls it Jehovah Jirah. Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jirah, because it says, Only in the mount of the Lord of heaven itself is your salvation seen with the eyes of faith. Only in heaven is it provided. And we see this in Hebrews 9, and I'll have you turn there. This will be a last passage, Hebrews 9 and verses, um I'm going to jump right to verse 24. Actually I'll start in verse eleven and twelve, Hebrews nine, eleven. But Christ being common high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle A greater tabernacle, more perfect, not Jerusalem, a greater tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us And he makes it clear what that holy place is that he entered into. If you skip to verse 24, he says this. Christ is not entered into holy places made with hands. which are the figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. By Abraham And Isaac, entering into a mount, unseen by the eyes of the servants, is also a picture of the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. He offered his blood and that atonement, that full payment, he met the throne of God at God's justice throne in heaven itself, and that's where he appeared on our behalf. Yes, we see him on the cross And he's dead for three days and risen again. But he's entered in there, that's where the atonement is made. That's where the satisfaction is seen. It's seen in heaven. It's not what you see, it's what God sees. If God sees it, he's satisfied. And then the word comes, I have seen the offering, I'm satisfied. We just have to believe it. Amazing account. Amazing account here in Genesis 22. Alright, well let's wrap it up. Yvonne, would you mind closing us in prayer? Thank you.