Open in your Bibles with me today to the 14th chapter of Matthew's Gospel And we're going to begin our scripture reading at verse 22 of Matthew chapter 14, and I'll read down through the 33rd verse. Matthew chapter fourteen, beginning with verse twenty-two And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him under the other side while he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come, he was there alone But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit. And they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid us come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith Wherefore didst thou doubt? And when they were come into the ship the wind ceased, and they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth Thou art the Son of God. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's word together this morning. Our great God and our Heavenly Father, we thank you that we cannot flee from thy presence, nor can we depart from thy spirit. We thank you, Lord, that the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. We thank you, Father, that there are no circumstances in the lives of your children that are not under your sovereign control. and under your ordination. Father, this morning, as we look at this passage, may we learn to rely on you more faithfully May you forgive us for our fearfulness. May you forgive us for our lack of faith. May you forgive us, Lord, for our doubt. O Lord, may we your people have confidence in thee. But even when the winds are contrary, even when it seems that the circumstances that surround us are out of control and are not for our benefit. May we see from thy word this day, that you are in control, and that all things are working together for good to those that love you, and to those who are the called according to your purpose. And above all, may we truly see that you are God. The winds and the waves of the sea obey your voice. The winds and the waves of our daily lives, obey the voice of our great Master. Bless your word, bless your truth to our hearts this day. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This fourteenth chapter begins with the account of the beheading of John the Baptist. John the Baptist has been beheaded, and now Herod is fearful, for he hears of the mighty works that Jesus is doing, and he questions, is this John come back from the dead? And then in verses 13 through 21 of this chapter, we find Christ having compassion on a great multitude as he is teaching. And as the day wears on and gets into the end of the day, the people are in a desert place. There is no place for them to acquire food for themselves. And the disciples are Ready to send the multitude away, and Jesus says, No, I'll take care of them, I'll feed them. And all they have are five loaves and two fishes And Jesus takes the five loaves and two fishes and feeds five thousand men, and there are twelve baskets left over. And that brings us to this 22nd verse, which says, straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship. The first thing we would notice from this passage is that Christ sent his disciples out into the sea that had contrary waves. That word constrained there that is used in verse 22 is used both in the account here in Matthew and also in Mark's account of this event It's not a word that is a suggestion or is a request. It's not Christ saying, well, fellas, why don't you do this? Rather, this is a command. He constrains them to get into the ship. It's a word that indicates force. It's not a word that's used frequently in our New Testament. It's found nine times, I believe it is, in the in the original. It's often translated as compelled rather than constrained. And in Acts 26, when Paul is recounting His treatment of the church before his conversion, Paul says that he compelled them to blaspheme. And that compel that Paul uses there in Matthew 26 is the same word, constrain. Now Paul didn't say, hey, why don't you blaspheme? Rather, he ordered the Christians, you blaspheme, or you will be killed yourselves, you will be stoned, you will be cast in the prison. And so, when we find that Christ constrained his disciples to get into the ship, he is giving them An order. He's giving them a command, a directive. You get in the boat and you go to the other side before. I'll follow later. But you go now. Christ, Jesus Christ, is the greatest meteorologist that ever lived. Our weather forecasters can make some kind of guess, and sometimes they're right, and sometimes they're wrong But Christ knew what was happening. The storms on the Sea of Galilee, we understand, come up very quickly and often without warning. But Jesus Christ knew all about the storm. And yet he constrained his disciples to go in to this storm. He had knowledge of the storm, he had the power to prevent the storm. We find when uh he and Peter get into the boat, the wind cease We find in the other account where he had been sleeping in the back of the boat, and he rises up and he says, Peace be still. And the winds of the waves obey his voice. Jesus had knowledge of the contrary winds before he sent his disciples in. Jesus could have prevented the contrary winds after he sent them in. And if nothing else, he could have said, hey fellas, get into the boat, go to the other side, and by the way, on your way over, the winds will be contrary. You're going to have some trouble here, but go anyway. But Jesus Christ did not choose to do any of those things. He was fully aware of the impending storm, and yet he sent them anyway. But also we notice that he did not send the disciples away, but rather he says there, go before. onto the other side. He was coming. You go ahead to the other side. I'll catch up later. How like fearful children we begin to doubt when we can't see our master. How like fearful children when it's dark around us and we don't see the Lord close by We begin to fear. But that very day, here in this thirteenth chapter, we find the multitudes coming to Christ and He heals them That very day, they had seen the little boys' lunch, the five loaves, and the two fishes, and what are these among so many? Just before getting into the ship, these disciples had been engaged in the task of gathering up twelve baskets full of food left over from the lunch that was to feed a little boy. And yet we find how quickly they began to doubt, how quickly they began to fear. And I would have us notice also. That the disciples here are not getting into a ship in rebellion. When Jonah was caught in a storm in a ship. He knew immediately the cause. He knew that he was in rebellion against Jehovah God, and the storm was his fault. And he tells the sailors there, Jonah does, Cast me over, because I am fleeing from God. But here these disciples had done no wrong. These disciples had obeyed the command of Christ. He had constrained them to get into the boat. And now the winds are contrary. Now what they had anticipated would be smooth sailing. What they had anticipated would be an uneventful crossing of the sea has turned into a great trial and a great turmoil, and they have toiled all night. Why is this happening to me? What did I do to deserve this? Why do bad things happen to good people? Where is God? In the middle of all my trouble. And yet, we find that Christ knew that they were in the storm. Christ knew all about what was happening. Go back to the passage there in verse 23. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when even was come, he was there alone, but the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the winds were contrary He knew exactly where they were. And I'm going to go to the Mark passage now. You may want to turn there in Mark chapter 6. When Mark gives the account of this same event in Mark 6 and 47, and when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea. And he was alone on the land, and he saw them toiling and rowing, for the winds were contrary unto them. Okay, let's get the picture here. Christ is alone. He's on the land. He's on the mountain and he's praying And he saw them toiling and rowing. Now the Sea of Galilee is about thirteen miles long and eight miles wide. It's not that he could look out and oh there they are, I see the ship. But rather, Christ is on the mountain, he's alone praying, and yet he still sees them. He still knows exactly where they are He still knows exactly what is happening. It has not escaped his attention that his disciples are in a boat in the middle of the night and the winds are contrary. Ah, how often we want to say, where is God and all my problems? He's right here. He knows exactly what is happening The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ear is open to their cry. Whither shall I go from thy presence? We cannot escape the eyes of God. God's eyes are upon us. And that passage I started to quote there in Psalm 139 And verse nine, if I take the winds of the morning and dwell in the uttermost part of the sea, even there thine hands shall lead me And thy right hand shall hold me. Jesus knew exactly where these disciples were. He knew exactly what was happening. And We find that when he comes to them, he walks right up to the boat. And think about that. This is a big sea, 13 miles long, eight miles wide. If Christ had been fifty yards from them, in the dark, in the storm, they would not have seen him If he had been 25 yards from them, they may not have seen him. If you've ever been on the water in the dark without electric running lights like a boat would have today, you can't see much If Christ had crossed at any other point, they would not have seen him. But he knew exactly where they were. And he walked right up to the boat. And consider what Jesus is doing while they're rowing against contrary waves. He's praying. Jesus is on the mountain and he's praying and I believe he was praying for these poor disciples who he has sent out into contrary waves, knowing their weaknesses, knowing their physical fatigue, knowing their lack of faith He's in the mountain and he's praying for them. Just as Christ said to Peter, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you. And Paul said in Romans 8, that he that searcheth the heart knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he ever maketh intercession for us. And in Hebrews, wherefore we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with our infirmities, but was all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin, he ever lives, we read in Hebrews seven twenty-five to make intercession for us. Christ was praying for these disciples. But we find also That not only did he know where they were in the storm, Christ came to them in their storm. He came to them for their comfort. In verse 25, and in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them. Notice it says it was the fourth watch of the night. It's an interesting study to to uh go through scripture and trace the fourth watch of the night. This would have been between three AM and six AM in the morning. Now think about what's happened here. The disciples have been on the mountain all day long as Jesus is teaching. He has been healing multitudes. It's gotten well into the evening and everyone is hungry. Jesus takes the five loaves and the two fishes and he blesses them and he breaks them and what does he do? He gives them to the disciples to distribute. So at the end of a long day, when the disciples are tired to begin with, now they have the job of distributing food to 5,000 people. And after they've distributed the food to 5,000 people, 5,000 men, plus women and children, now They go all through this multitude and they gather up twelve baskets full of fragments left over. Then they get into the ship. They've rowed all night. Now it is between 3 a. m. and 6 a. m. in the next morning. These fellows haven't slept for a while. These disciples are tired. They are sleep-deprived. They are exhausted. They have come to the end of themselves and now they feel like they're all alone. Doesn't that sound familiar? Oh, how when we're tired, when we have labored and labored and labored and the rest we anticipated has not come that has not been smooth sailing like we thought it would be. We obeyed the master. We got in the ship. We went out into the sea and things just haven't worked out the way we thought they would and we're tired and we're exhausted. Oh, how we begin to fear and to doubt that Christ comes to them in the storm. He knew where they were, he was praying for them, and he comes right to them. The psalmist said, In my distress, I cried unto the Lord and he heard me. For in the time of trouble he shall hide thee in his pavilion, in the secret of his tabernacle he shall hide me, and he shall set me upon a rock. But do you know what happens here When Christ shows up in the middle of their storm, in the middle of the contrary waves, they don't even recognize him. He comes walking on the water and that crowd, it's a spirit. Oh no, they're afraid. The very one which should bring them peace and comfort, but they're afraid of him, just as as we find Joshua beside the wall of Jericho asking the pre-incarnate Jesus, are you for them or are you for us? Just as Mary Magdalene in the garden. Where have you taken him? Where is he? Just like the wit men on the road to Emmaus, and we had thought that he should be the one that would deliver us You see, Christ has never left us in our storm. Christ is always there when the winds are contrary. He's promised never to leave us or forsake us. But oh, how blind are our faithless eyes to his presence. Oh, how when he is working and moving for our benefit, for our good, for our instruction. how often we fail to even recognize his presence. He was there. He was coming to them on the storm. But they did not reconcile recognize him. We find also that Christ was not troubled by the storm. Oh, the things that make us have so much fear and so much dread and are such a worry to us. Remember before in uh Mark 4 when these disciples had been in a storm and Jesus was asleep. He was in the back of the boat. Different storm than this one. But in that one, he was in the back of the boat. And he was asleep. And they come to him and say, Carest thou not that we perish. And he wakes up and says, peace be still. Hush, you waves. Peace be still. And there was a great calm. These disciples have been rowing all night and they're continuing to row because the winds are contrary. But Jesus isn't bothered by the storm. He's just walking along. He's walking upon the water. It should not surprise us that he's walking on the water. He made water. He's the one who made the seas He's the one who caused the flood to go across the whole earth. He's the one who turned the waters of Egypt into blood. He's the one who parted the Red Sea that the disciple could go the The Israelites could go across. He's the one who brought water out of the rock to provide water for his people in the wilderness. He's the one who made an axe head to swim. He's the one who turned water into wine. He's the one who turned the waters of Egypt into blood. He controls the winds and the waves. He controls the seas. And so it should not have surprised them that Jesus would be walking on the water. But when they see him, they cry out in fear as a spirit. They're afraid. Jesus Christ was not troubled by the storm that troubled the disciples, and he's not troubled by the things that trouble us. The storms and the contrary winds of our lives, the things we fear and the things we dread so much, they are not a worry to our Lord. And therefore, they should not be a worry to us either, for he controls them all. We find also in the passage, particularly in Mark's account, that He would have walked on right by. Let me read that to you from Mark 6 and verse 48. And when he saw them toiling and rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them And about the fourth march of the night he cometh unto them, walking on the sea, and would have passed them by. Here, Jesus comes, he's walking on the sea, he's walking right beside their boat, and he would have just kept on going Think about that. I uh if we saw a friend in danger or a friend in need, we would naturally stop to help them, wouldn't we? Uh if we saw a a friend with a flat tire, we would pull off behind them. Hey, do you need a hand? Can I help you? Can I watch for cars coming if nothing else? Until you get the tire replaced But Jesus understood that they were not in danger. They thought they were. But they were in no danger at all. He was going before them. He knew about the storm. He knew they would make it to the other side. He was not concerned, even though they were. And so he would have walked on right by them. And I'll never forget I was uh scuba diving on the north coast of Jamaica years ago, and uh we had gotten back to the boat and the one dive master that was diving with us took off his uh buoyancy compensator and his tank, he kept his mask, his fins, and his weight belt, he put his air supply in the boat, and then he went back in the water And I was still in the water watching him and he had his weight belt on, so he sank right to the bottom in 70 foot of water And I look down in the water and he is on the bottom, just laying there, on the bottom of the ocean. Now I was a rescue diver. I had rescue training and I Immediately jumped into rescue mode and I called to the captain of the boat. He's lying on the bottom. He's lying on the bottom. I'm going down to Gim And the captain said, no, no, no, no, no, leave him alone, leave him alone. I said, no, he doesn't have a tank, he doesn't have he's lying on the bottom And the captain said, he's okay. He's okay. He'll be back. He'll be back. Now, I saw a man in danger, and I was ready to go rescue him. The captain of the boat said, no, he's okay. You see, the captain knew the full story. That man, his name was Rainier, he was Cuban. He was working in Jamaica as a dive master for a while, but he was a competition free diver. And he had been in world championship free diving and he was practicing. And later I dove with him different times and learned that he could hold his breath for almost five minutes underwater. I didn't know the full story, so I was ready to try to help him. But the captain of the boat knew, no, he's safe. He's fine. Now that's what we find here with Jesus. He knew the disciples. He knew what was happening. He could control the storm. And he's just going to walk right on by. Because he knew the beginning from the end. He knew they would make it to shore. He's the Alpha and the Omega. He knew the full story. But the disciples did not. Jesus was ready to walk past them because the disciples were absolutely safe There was no harm that could come to them, even though the winds were contrary. They were under the care of the Master. He was going to the other side. They were to come. It wouldn't have made any difference to Jesus if he had got there first or they got there first. He said them before, and he said he would meet them on the other side, and he was going To meet them on the other side. They were fearful, but they were safe. And Jesus knew that they were safe. But we find here that Jesus comforted them in their storm. Jesus comforted them. Look at verse 27 of Matthew 14. And straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. What a sermon that is. What a message that is. It doesn't need man to comment on it. Be in good cheer. It is I. Be not afraid. Who else stay in need? Who else is going to help you? Don't be afraid. It's I. Be of good cheer. Be of good cheer. It is I. Be not afraid. What an amazing statement of reassurance and comfort that is. You see the same Jesus that said Be of good cheer, it is I be not afraid. That word is the ch is the the assurance of the child of God every day. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee All things work together for good to those that love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose, and so it follows that great peace Have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend thee. Paul said in Philippians 4, verses 6 and 7, Be careful for nothing. In other words, be filled with care by nothing. Don't let things trouble you Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Ah, but we dare not be too hard on these disciples, because oh how quickly We begin to fear when the winds and the waves are contrary to us, when things don't work out according to our plan or our schedule or our understanding of circumstances How quickly we begin to doubt. May God teach us to be filled with care for nothing, but rather to cast all of our care upon Him, for He careth for us. William Cooper, the poet, the hymn writer, a man who suffered greatly with depression and discouragement. But was a great saint of God and a glorious hymn writer wrote these words. God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rides upon the storm. Deep in unfathomable minds of never failing skill, He treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take, the clouds, ye so much dread, are big with mercy, and shall break in blessings on your head Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make it plain. But we find also that Christ tested his disciples in the storm. He tested them. He tried them. He refined them. He taught them in the storm. Look at verses 28 through 31 of Matthew 14. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me! And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him, and said unto him O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? I love Peter. Peter had such great desire to serve the Lord, to to be everything that Christ expected him to be. Peter was so quick to rush into situations where he shouldn't be. Peter, I believe the Lord may have sent this boisterous wind and these contrary waves just for the purpose of teaching dear Peter. Christ tested the disciples in the storm. He refined their faith. And again, think about the context. They've just seen Christ healing multitudes. They've just seen 5,000 men, plus women and children, fed with the little boy's lunch. And now they find themselves in trouble. The cause of Peter's fear, he saw the winds. The effect of Peter's fear, he began to sink. The cure for Peter's fear, he cried out to the Lord. Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. As the children of God, yes, some of there are times when we're fearful. Yes, there are times when it seems like all the circumstances of our life are wrong and Everything is going against us, the winds that we expected to be smooth sailing now are contrary. We've been working for the master all day long. It's the fourth watch of the night. It's between three and six in the morning. We haven't had any sleep. But God is there, and God is with us, and God is ready to help us when we cry out to Him. Peter saw the winds and began to sink, and he cried out to the Lord. The psalmist said in Psalm 34 and verse 4, I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. And that's the last thing you'd have is the sea. Christ tested the disciples there in the sea, and he delivered them from the storm. He is able to deliver. Verses 32 and 33 And when they were coming to the ship, the wind ceased. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, thou art the Son of God. And we can look at this and say, fellas, are you just now figuring this out? You've seen all these miracles? You've seen the mighty works of the Lord? Are you just now figuring out? that he's the son of God, and yet how slow of heart we are to believe And how Christ sometimes will have to send us into contrary waves, yea, even command us. constrain us, compel us to go into circumstances and situations that he knows all about, that he knows are going to be difficult that he knows are going to make us fearful, that he knows he will deliver us from. Ah, how God sends us sometimes into contrary waves That he might teach us to trust in him. That he might teach us that he indeed is the Son of God. Christ delivered the disciples and taught them a valuable lesson through the contrary waves. Christ told us in Matthew 10 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. But the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear ye not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. Oh my friend, how fearful we can be with the contrary ways of our lives! But just as Joseph said to his brothers, ye meant this to me for evil, but God meant it for good. He's in control of all of it. And I will conclude with one more verse from Job 5, verses 19 and 20. He shall deliver thee in six troubles. Yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee. In famine he shall redeem thee from death. and in war from the power of the sword. We see a lot of troubling things around us today. The ways around us are contrary, but our God is able to deliver, and our God is in the process of delivering. And though it seems like we're all alone, Christ sees us rowing against contrary waves. And though it seems like he walks right past and doesn't pay us any mind. Yet he knows we will reach the safe harbor, and so he cares for his children. What a great and mighty God we serve. May we learn to trust him always. Let us pray.