Turn with me to Second Samuel chapter eight this morning. 2 Samuel chapter 8 deals with a list of battles that King David was involved with fighting for Israel. trying to recover some of the land that God had granted to Israel that had been held by other nations. And so as we read through these battles, it might like be like listing uh the battles in the First or Second World War or Civil War and unless you're really excited about the Civil War you might not want to hear about men Assis and Gettysburg and Antietam and Sharpsburg and so forth. And so if you're not reading some things of the Lord, you might not enjoy the reading of this either. I hope that um that we however do find something in it that will Bless us today, each and every one of us. So beginning at 2 Samuel chapter 8 and verse 1, and after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines and subdued them. And David took Bethegamah out of the hand of the Philistines. Bethegamah was the capital of the land of the Philistines. It's actually called Gath elsewhere in the Chronicles. And then he smote Moab, verse 2, and measured them with a line, casting him down the ground, even with two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And what David did here is he took all the captives of the Moabs and he lined them up. He said, make three lines. They made three lines, not knowing which line meant anything. You're in front line, back line, and middle line, and then David executed two of the lines So that I guess if you'd known which line he was going to save, you might have got into that line. And so the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts. David smote also Hadezer, the son of Rabab, king of Zobah. He was one of the kings of Syria. And as he went to recover the border at the river of the Euphrates, and that's up there on Syria And it was a Syria actually is a part of a land that belongs to Israel. To this day it still belongs to Syria, not to Israel. But uh he went after that land on his day and did capture it And first four David took from him a thousand chariots and seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen. So they had a large army, and yet he defeated them. And then David hooed all the chariot horses but reserved them for a hundred chariots. So he didn't kill off all the chariot horses, but he did kill off a number of them. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to secure Hadiazar, king of Zobah, here's the other king, the king in Damascus. David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men, or more Syrians he killed. And then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David. And he brought gifts, and the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. Oh, can you imagine how many shields of gold? That was a rich country. And from Bethah and from Barothai cities of Hedeazar, King David took exceeding much brass, as well as the gold shields. And when Toy, king of Hamath, heard that David had smitten all the hosts of Adieazar, then Toy sent Joham his son unto King David to salute him and to bless him because he had fought against Hadezer and smitten him. For Hadezer had wars with Troy And Joaham brought with him vessels of silver and vessels of gold and vessels of brass. So some were happy with David's conquest. Some were happy that they'd killed off their enemies as well. And this is the case of the King here, Toy. Which also says in verse eleven, David did dedicate on the Lord. That is all the vessels and gold that were brought, and the brass and silver that were brought by Toy, and also captured by the That the Philistines held and the Moabites held, he bought all that gold and silver, it says in verse eleven, and dedicated it unto the Lord. With the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued. Of Syria and of Moab, of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of the Amalekites, and the spoil of Hadezer, son of Rabab, king of Zobah. And verse 13, David gat him a name when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of Salt, being 18,000 men that he slew there. And he put garrisons in Edom. Through all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants. And the Lord preserved David whithersover he went. And David reigned over all Israel, and David executed judgment and justice unto all his people. We won't read the rest of that, but just list some of those that he put in places of authority as he executed his government. And as we look at these verses 1 through 15 this morning, let me remind you that this morning I'm not necessarily doing these verses in consecutive order. So when you hear about 20 minutes in the message, and now let us look at verse 2 That doesn't mean we have about three hours to go. Alright? Just prepare you for that. Now as we look at this, I'm titled message Christian Combat or Christian Warfare. And that's what we find is going on here with David. And I want you to see there, he says, David smote the Philistines in verse 1. He smote the Moabites in verse 2. He smote the Syrians in verse 5. He subdued the Ammonites and Amalachites in verse 12, and the Edomites in verse 14, and David reigned in verse 15. See, we got to the whole chapter that quick already. Well, not quite. But when you look at this, you see it's a large list of enemies that David had. It's a large list of battles that he was involved with. And as we look at all his long lists, you know, taking place about 3,000 years ago, you have to be asking yourself, what is there here for me? Well at least that's what I ask myself. What is there here that that applies to me? Why should I be interested in in this Surely there must be some profit in it for our souls because every portion of Scripture is there for a purpose. It's there for a reason. And so I looked at the commentators and they said pretty much the same, what is there here for us? And uh so I I hope I found some things as prayed about it, looked at these verses, that we'll find there are some things there for us. David's battles were numerous, and are not our struggles numerous as well, coming in from all directions, do they not? David was confronted on every side. If we look at the where these battles took place, uh the Philistines are off to the west and down to the south. The Syrians were up in the north and the Edomites were to the east. He was surrounded. And today we see the saints worldwide. We also seem to be confronted on every side, compassed about us, Revelation 29 says, as if it were the end times. We look about us today And we see Christians assaulted and murdered and put to death and crucified all over the world. And we find ourselves much like David in a combative society and having to deal with this. The followers of Christ today are not only martyred by the Sunnis and the Shiite terrorists, but we're also afflicted today. By the Sodomites, the Transvestites. So we have the Ammonites, uh Moabites, the Hittites, but we also today have the Sodomites, the Transvestites, the abortion rights, the animal rights And the government parasites and I can go on and on. We are surrounded, are we not? Encompassed all about. And I animal rights, what's that one all about? Well For those of you who aren't aware of the animal rights out there, they now believe that animals should have the right to vote. Wow. I wonder if they have to give proof of age. I don't know how it's gonna work. But they can't read, they can't write, uh, they can't talk. They're like dead people. So why should they be allowed to vote in Maryland? That's not a good argument, is it? The dead people do vote in many estates around this country. But these are the things we're surrounded with. We are not today lacking for enemies as Christians, are we? We're not lacking for foes. In fact, what it seems that we are short on are victories today. The foes are there for the battles, but we seem short on the victories. And so the scripture tells us we should fight the good fight of faith, 1 Timothy 6. 12. It's not so essential that we win a particular battle, but it is essential that we fight the good faith of fight. And we are to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 2 Timothy 2 3. Some people don't like to hear about the fighting fundamentalists or the church militant or the church triumphant. But as I look through the scriptures Old and New Testament, we are to be soldiers for Christ. We are to be conducted. We are to fight the good fight of faith. We are to be uh not worry weary of the warfare that we are to partake in. Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Galatians 6 9. So I I say to you this morning, what do you instruct a young Christian who's just gotten saved? What do you tell him lies ahead for him? In the years ahead of his life as a Christian, as he grows in grace and knowledge of the Lord, what do you prepare him for? What should he expect in the days ahead? We ought to tell a young Christian who's newly saved that he ought to expect some fiery trials. That would be true. Not a rose garden, not the Garden of Eden, that's gone. But he ought to expect some fiery trials. He ought to expect some demonic assaults upon himself, some demonic aggression in his life, some demonic ambushes. And then expecting all of this that he, as it says in Ephesians 6 In our responsive reading this morning, she'll put on the whole armor of God and stand against the wiles of the devil For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, I know that, and but against principalities and powers and the rulers of darkness in this world, and spiritual witness in high places. Like Ephesians six, eleven and twelve. I realize our warfare is a spiritual warfare. But this does not mean that the warfare of the spiritual does not take on some physical aspects for the Christian I think the Muslim jihadist is a satanic spiritual embodiment, but it's a physical warfare, isn't it? If you think that our warfare is totally spiritual, without any kind of a physical aspect to it, uh you are wrong and you ought to look at the Christian combat that we perceive not only in David's life here But in the life of Job, did not that spiritual warfare of Satan going up and talking to God in heaven and saying, Have you considered your my servant Job? And Satan says, I sure have, as I went east to west and north to south, I've considered him And you got a hedge of it, but let me go after him physically. Let me go after his body. Let me go after his family. Let me have war with the household of Job, and we'll see if he's still blesses you or curses you. So there is in fact, although we wrestle not against flesh and blood, there is a physical aspect to our spiritual warfare. Job certainly understands that. He understood that, as did Joshua crossing over the Jordan River and meeting the enemy in Jericho and in the city of Ai and so forth, the Canaanites And the Jebusites that Joshua had to confront, the Moabites that Moses had to confront. There is a physical warfare as well. Gideon saw it. The Apostle Paul saw it as he was dragged from prison to prison and handcuffed. And tormented and tortured and beaten with rods and stone. Don't tell the Apostle Paul he's laid under a pile of rocks. Boy, Paul, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, do we? Oh, yes, Paul knew we wrestle against flesh and blood as well. And sometimes when you look around us and say, is this a satanic attack or what? We got a young woman here in the church that Fell off a horse recently, broke her ribs, fractured vertebrae, fractured the scapula, and this morning I've talked to her, and now she's got shingles. I mean sometimes Satan just kicks you while you're down. And you don't see that as a satanic attack when things physically come against you? If Job's boils and sores on his body were from Satan, why cannot shingles Or chickenpox or measles or whatever thing torments us physically. Consider it. Look into the spiritual aspect of where from whence cometh these things. Sometimes right from the pits of hell. And not because Job is doing anything wrong, or not because Joshua is doing anything wrong, but because Satan hates the image of God. Christ our Savior. I I believe that probably the worst of what he went through is not just dying physically on the cross and and discouraging uh by the Roman soldier, but I think there was a satanic attack at Gaulba That we can't envision we will never know. But there was also the physical, wasn't there? He shed his blood for our sins on that cross That we might have our sins cleansed and that we might have eternal life in heaven. But there was a physical aspect to it. We perhaps concentrate more on the physical aspect of the crucifix of Christ than we do on the satanic aspects of it. But when you read the Psalms, you see the satanic aspects in the Psalms as well. And so we sit here this morning, and we've got our struggles. We have our trials, fiery trials We watch others going through them if we're not going through them. And we have to say, as the writer of Hebrews 12, 4 says, You have not yet resisted on the blood, striving against He says you have not yet resisted unto blood. But the implication is for some of you the day will come when you will have to resist unto blood striving against sin. You will take a position or stand against sin in society or within or within some area of your realm of your life and it will cost you your life And we know in the first century of the church that there were Christians who were dragged into the Colosseums of Rome because they would not bow down to another God named Caesar. They struggle against sin to the shedding of their blood. You find the same thing in the days of the Reformation under Martin Luther and John Knox and and Calvin and Zwingli and the others that some of them Zwingli he he fought against the the satanic doctrines of the church of his day and he shed his blood in battle And so there are some of us who may may have to resist onto blood, striving against sin. It may come to some of us. We know in our daytime it has come to some that live under communism in Cuba, in China, in Russia. They have strove against the sin of a government that told you you could not bow your knee to the Lord Jesus Christ, you could not read the Holy Scriptures if you were caught with scriptures. In some of these countries, in Saudi Arabia, today, if you're caught bringing the scripture into Saudi Arabia, they take the Bible out of your hands and they shred it in front of you, right at the airport. And some just disappeared, are never heard from or seen again. And so you have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin, Hebrews 12, 4. But we, some of us will Some of us may resist onto blood under communism, Islamic domination, or infiltration, or Perhaps at San Bernardino. In fact, we know there was one fellow at San Bernardino when the two jihadist terrorists went in there and mowed down all those people. There was a couple of Christians in there. People attested to that. They shed their blood. Because they had a testimony and they were targeted along with the others, but specifically targeted. Remember the young girl Rachel in Columbus Heights and Columbine High School? She was specific specifically Targeted by those two pits. They had her on her knees in front of a gun at her forehead and they said, Rachel, do you still believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, your personal Savior? And she said, Yes, I do. they blew her head off. There are those who resist unto blood. Even in our day and age, we know some of the stories Satan's demonic forces, as I read the scriptures, have never taken a vacation We get vacations sometimes, don't we? They have never taken a vacation. I don't find anywhere in scripture the demons of hell from the pit. I don't find a place where they retire As they get old. I don't find a place where they where they seem to mellow out with age and are not as nasty. The demons are demons to the day they go back into the abyss Back into the hell, back into the lake of fire. They have not mellowed, they never will mellow in their hatred for the image of God. And we are made in God's image The parakeet is not, the antelope are not, the cattle are not on a thousand hills. It's only man that is made in the image of God. been tossed out of heaven. At the very least he can strike at those who remind him of God. He hates the image of God. That's why he hates us. They hate God so much they'll assault us physically, the demonic world, and spiritually, and especially if Christ dwells in our hearts Oh, does he hate that? You see, the the devil doesn't know necessarily uh who will become a Christian or or who's a part of the elect, the chosen of God, but he knows that we all look like God. We're made in the image of God. He hates all of us. But when he comes across one who has Christ dwelling in their heart, we read that in Ephesians three and seventeen, Christ dwells in your heart, he hates those who are Christlike more than any other creature on this earth And so, what would I tell you, as I said here, how would you instruct a young Christian? What should he expect in the days ahead when he's freshly born again and enlightened and excited by the scriptures? He ought to expect some demonic assaults. Therefore be ye steadfast, all is abounding in the work of the Lord, 1 Corinthians 15 and 58. We need to be steadfast because on the whole, most men and nations. Fight against the Lord and his anointed. Psalm 2 and verse 2. It says the kings of the earth gather together against the Lord and His anointed. anointed. And we are his anointed if we're saved. That's what the word Christian or Christos means, the anointed. And of course in that verse is talking specifically about Christ, the anointed, and then all of those he anoints with The Holy Spirit. In the end, Christ will win out. He will establish himself. And when you look at how will Christ establish himself, it's not just some spiritual thing that he will do. He will establish himself through physical combat. We read of that. The Lord shall come and consume and destroy with the brightness of his coming. 2 Thessalonians 2 verses 8 through 10. And it says there shall be the blood of the enemy shall rise up to the horses' bridles 11, 14, and 10. I want you to note that those who follow the devil, those are the devil's crowd, those those creatures who are made in the image of God but yet have aligned themselves with Satan, aligned themselves with Lucifer, aligned themselves with the devil, that their defeat will not be a bloodless coup. When Christ returns, he will slaughter them and the blood will rise up the bridle of the horses. And yes, I take that literal. It will not be a bloodless coup and it will be a physical battle. Christ will impose his rule over them with a rod of iron. Revelation 2 and 20 twenty seven. And if you don't think well I think Christ he loves everybody, he's so warm and gentle and meek and mild rod of iron. Are you sure you read that verse right? Uh maybe that's taken out of contest. I just can't imagine that the Jesus would take a rod of iron while he took some cords and he braided them together and drove the money changers out Do you believe that one? And it says you have but a rod of wire. That's just how can you do that? Surely that that verse must mean something else. It's just there in Revelation 2, right? No, it's also Revelation 12. 5. He'll take a rod of iron. Well, okay, twice. No, it's also Revelation 19. 50. He'll take a rod of iron. Oh, it's not the Jesus I've been taught about in Sunday school. Well, then change Sunday schools There is combat coming from the heavens, physical, in an action against the devil and his crowd. It's real And if you're in the wrong crowd, if you're in the ungodly crowd, you're going to pay. Your blood's going to be shed They will willingly submit to his rod to the King of Kings, just as David here with the Philistines and the Malachites and the Moabites, they submit And so we find here in verse 2, when David smote the Moabites Some if you just are reading through as we have in these first two chapters in 2 Samuel, you you say, um, why do you kill the Moabites? I mean When when David is being chased by his by King Saul, and David is up in the caves, uh uh you know, and then Gab is uh David's out in the wilderness and he's running for his life and he's got his wives with him and And his children with him, and his mother and his father are with him, because if Saul can capture his mother and father, and he say, David, come back to Jerusalem. I got your mother and father here I know you don't want anything to happen to them. So what did David do? He took his mother and father with him. And he's he's running up and down the mountains and they've they've got some age on them. He says, I've got a s I've got to hide them somewhere. I've got to stash them somewhere. And he goes to the king of the Moabites and says, Would you please take care of my mother and my father? King Saul just wants to kill me and he wants to kill my whole family And the king of the Moabites said, sure, we can take care of him. Why would the king take care of David? He hated King Saul, the king of Israel, so much that the king of the Moabites would love anybody that King Saul, hated. So he he takes his parents in. He protects them. Protects David's parents. We read about that in 1 Samuel 22, verses 3 and 4. So here are these Moabites. They have protected David's mother and father. They've done him quite a favor. So what's going on here? Why is David smiting the Moabites like they're a bunch of Philistines? Why would he do that? Because historically, the Moabites were the sworn enemies of the Israelites. Historically In fact God had even told him that that that there would be water would be ri would rise up in the book of numbers and would smite the corners of the Moabites and here is David and he is smiting the corners of the Moabites He's fulfilling scripture by doing this. He see they have been the sworn enemy of the Israelites, and perhaps you remember back in Numbers twenty-four, verses four and six. How the king of the Moabites hired Balaam to do what? To curse Israel. Remember that? Him riding on the jackass, and the jackass saw the angel and didn't want to carry him out there to curse the Israelites, and he's beaten on the jackass, and the jackass finally speaks. Some people call that a miracle. I remember one of the uh I was faith here this morning. I don't see her. No, Faith. Oh okay. Faith uh she went to a Bible college and her professor told her that that was foolish. Animals can't talk. You can't believe the Bible. I mean if it says that the jackass spoke He said, see that just proves the Bible is ridiculous. The Bible is full of myths and fairy. You can't trust it. He said, preachers can't speak. I told her, go back in there tomorrow. Morning and ask him if he believes the serpent in the garden spoke. Another creature. No creatures can't speak. Ask him if the angels in heaven who came down and talked to Mary, you're creatures, right? Uh, did everybody talk to Mary and Joseph? Can they speak? Oh, you can't believe an angel deed. I mean, creatures can't speak Then ask the professor, then why is he talking? He's a creature too. Creatures can speak, regardless of what the Bible professor tells you. That was Messiah College, up in Philadelphia, by the way, the Bible instructor. So we have here uh this idea of smiting the Moabites because they were enemies. They had cursed Israel in Numbers 22. And then when they said, I can't curse him, I can't curse him, but he was directed to do so. We said, I'll tell you what we can do. We can take the Moabite daughters, they're very attractive, they're very pretty, and let's intermingle them with the Israelite young men And see if we can get some to intermarry and and then the Israelites will kind of become Moabites, and the Moabites will become a little bit of Israelites, and we can combine our gods with their gods. And that worked They begin to intermarry with the ungodly or with the idolatrous, the daughters of Moab in chapter 25 of Numbers. They seduce the sons of Israel and entice them to worship their gods. Even David's son, we find later on, Solomon. Even David's son, Solomon, built a high place to commosh the God. of the Moabites. It worked. And so there was a reason. David probably thought, I I don't want my son to get involved in these Moabites. I've seen what other Israelites have done. I've got to stop these Moabites. And he said he smote the corners of the Moabites. He probably should have killed them all. But he didn't. There was at least one little cutie left over there that caught the eye of Solomon. And he married her and built altars to the boy of God So David knew how much they hated Israel. And yet David smote the Moabites. Though they'd done a favor for him in hiding his mother and his father. You know what goes deeper than that? They had hid his mother and his father from King Saul. You'd think David would kind of back off and say, I'm not gonna do anything to the Moabites, I owe him something. But he smites them. And bear in mind when he smote the Moabites, who is King David's great-grandmother? Ruth, the Moabites. When David smote the Moabites, he was killing kin. He was attacking family. He was going after those of his own flesh. Wow. Our greatest war for some time is confronting our own families. Our greatest warforce sometimes is confronting the sin of our own flesh or our own flesh and blood We talk about what's going on out in the world, all the horrible things they're doing, and there's some horrible things I can listen today, you know the the locker room and the bathroom laws are being passed in the different states where boys are allowed to go into girls' locker rooms If they feel like a girl that day. And there's some crazy stuff going out there. And we're so upset about abortion, and we're also upset about all these different laws that are passed. Well, I'm going to tell you something, as much as we need to fight them and speak out against the sin in our society On to blood if necessary, as much as we fear all that, the worst thing that can happen is sin within your own flesh if it's not confronted That'll really destroy you. What's going on there might destroy society, but the sin in your own flesh that will destroy your own soul. Have you ever confronted the sin that you found within your own family? families within your own body? Have you ever confronted your own sin nature Faith will not flourish where sin is not confronted and subdued. People say, I want to grow in grace in the eye of the Lord. I want to be more spiritual. Great. Then turn and look within and confront the sins in your own life. If you want to grow. If one you know has confessed Christ as their personal Savior, but they're still living an ungodly and an unholy life then they are not if it's living an on godly an open on godly and sinful life, they are not saved. If you're sitting this morning and you think as Jimmy Swaggard, some decade or more ago, a couple decades ago. He claimed he was a born-again Christian. He had a double dose of the Holy Ghost. He could speak in tongues, by the way. I used to watch him on TV speak in tongues He was just quoting stuff from Greek that he got at seminary. He wasn't speaking in tongues. He'd learned that. He'd studied that. But he said he had the double dose of the Holy Ghost, so he had the Holy Spirit with him, and you ought to listen to him and you ought to follow him. And every Tuesday he was meeting a prostitute in the hotel room just Down the road. He said he was saved. He professed he was saved. He could quote Bible verses, but he had sinned that he didn't confront in his own life, and he wasn't a saved man at that point. I don't know if he's saved today And if you've got sin in your life, you're not confronting it, I'm not saying you're going to live a perfect life. I'm not saying you won't do things wrong once. In a while. But I mean, if you've got sin that is reigning and has you captive and rules over you every day of your life, you just can't get rid of it, and you don't really want to get rid of it, and you love it You're not saved. Living an unholy life. In fact, the scripture talks about those who claim To be saved, it says they have a form of godliness, there's an appearance, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. 23:5. In other words, they they they make this declaration that they're saved But they're they d they deny the power thereof because if they're really saved, the power of the Holy Spirit ought to be cleaning up their act. In fact, from the day you're saved until the day you die and go to be with the Lord, your act should you the sanctification process should be apparent I mean we'll never reach total sanctification. We'll never re reach a total sinless life, but there ought to be some progress. We ought to be able to look back on the day we profess Christ as our personal Savior and see we're different from what we were a year ago or five years ago or ten years ago. People say, well, I'm still a babe in Christ. I'm gonna tell you something. If you're still a babe in Christ after 20 years, wow, you got a problem. Commanded to lay aside the sin that thus so easily beset us. Now, I don't know which sin so easily besets you. But you know. And that's the first one you need to go after And it shouldn't be that difficult to get rid of those sins that are so out there for everyone to see and observe if you're really a Christian. I had a filthy mouth. I could cuss and swear twenty words in a row with only maybe an N or a But or a the in between it. I was startled the construction workers, everybody thought I had a gift In less than twenty four hours after getting saved, I smashed my thumb with a hammer on the job that morning. Dropped the hammer and I started yelling and it sounded like this. Oh, oh, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, woo hoo hoo! Wow! And the whole place stopped. And as startled as they were that I wasn't swearing, I stopped and I thought Those words just they can't come out anymore. Oh friend, if you're saved, things change. Especially the sin that so easily beset us. They go There's some startling changes in your life that people will re and it wasn't long after that, someone during a lunch hour, sitting around the lunch table, and someone says to me, How come you never swear? I was new on that job. They didn't know me, but they recognized I never swear. Everybody swears in construction site. And he wished he hadn't asked that question, because I spent the next fifteen minutes telling everybody the table how the Lord of God a hold of my tongue and my life and my soul Lay aside the sin that's also easy to set you. If you're really saved, you'll do that. Looking under Jesus as the author and the things of our faith who endured the cross. Hebrews 12, verses 1 and 2. The lust of our flesh is far greater danger to our soul than any of the vile world and the things they'll toss at us. You think the vile world is so bad that you know you think the vile world is worse than the sins that are within your own soul, in your own heart? The things you're so you you think the vile world is so bad? If a vile world was so bad, the Lord Jesus Christ wouldn't have given us a great commission to go into all the world and preach the gospel of Christ. You see, the contamination of the world, it's bad, but there's nothing worse than our own eternal sin nature if we don't defeat it and pray for the Holy Ghost to give us victory over the sins that so deasily Beset us. The garden of our heart must be weeded, friend. The garden of our heart must be weeded and cleared out by the Holy Spirit in order to produce the fruits of the Spirit. If sin reigns in our flesh, it will suffocate our soul. We need to weed the garden of our heart, and then the fruits of the Spirit come, we'll know because we'll see the fruit of the Spirit's in us: love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Gentleness, goodness, and faith, Galatians 5 and 22. There will be a change. Do people see a change in you? Wherefore, putting away lying speak every man truth with his neighborhood. Have you put away lying? Let in the steal steal no more. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, and be ye kind one to another and tender-hearted. Are you kind one to another? And tenderhearted? Forgiving them as Christ forgave you? Ephesians 4. twenty-five. Are you tender hearted and kind? I'm not talking about being tender hearted and kind towards that cute puppy dog at the pet store. That's easy Are you tenderhearted and kind to your elderly parents? Or you just want to pull the bug on? Are you tender and kind to your blockhead of a husband? Are you tender and kind to your wife who's got all the credit cards? And you are you tender and kind? Kind. Hey, I've been around Christians long enough, and you know what I know? It's a challenge to be tender and kind to other Christians. Some Christians, boy, they're not very sanctified, and boy, they're hard to live with, and boy They're as bad as me sometimes, I think. I know it's but we're supposed to be kind and tenderhearted to one another. Are you? You're saved Shock the world. They see you being kind and tender-hearted to someone who nobody else wants to be kind and tender-hearted to. Love your enemies. That's a challenge. Does any of this describe your heart, kind and tender hearted and love and full of joy? Goodness and long suffering? Peace? Does that describe your heart David had such a heart. We hear he had such a heart. And so in verse 11, David did dedicate on the Lord the silver and the gold of all the nations he subdued. And he subdued a lot of nations, and they were rich nations. Shields made of gold, it says here, and vessels of silver and gold and brass. He took all the silver and the gold. He could have been as rich as Donald Trump. Or richer He could have been as rich as Caesar, but he sought rather to glorify God. Caesar sought to glorify himself But David sought to glorify the Lord. And he gave the silver and the gold, it says in these verses, of all the nations for the purchase of material to build the temple. Wow. Where one's giving tells how they're living. I didn't make that up. That's another preacher I heard on the radio this week. Well, where is your giving tells how you're living Let me make that real practical for you folks. You're dating somebody We got some folks here that are still dating, not married, looking around. You start getting serious with them? Ask to see their checkbook. Boy, you might be surprised where some of the money's going And you'll also be surprised sometimes at where the money's not going. You'll learn more in five minutes looking into their checkbook than you probably learned in the last five dates you've had with them. We know where David's giving was. He took all the silver and gold that he captured. It was his. He could have bought horses and chariots and beautiful homes and summer homes and short homes on the shore somewhere I mean but he gave it all for the temple of God. What are you doing with your silver and gold? How dedicated should you be the Lord Jesus? Jesus Christ, who purchased with his own blood our souls, and he preserves them all the way into eternity. How how dedicated are you? Young people, look at the checkbook of the one you're thinking about marrying, to see where his silver and gold is going. The Lord preserved David, we read here. And so David, through all those battles, preserved. I mean he was in the David wasn't one of those kings that sat up on a hill and and guided and directed and observed how the battle was going, you know. David got in the midst of it. He got into the heat of it If you want to know where he was, you just listen for the largest part of the battle, the noisy sex of the battle, and that's where David was And yet God preserves him. It says in verse 6, and then again in verse 14. The verse is repeated twice. And the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. King David in the hottest areas of the battle, not a distant observer, and yet God was able to observe him in the hottest section of the battle, time after time after time. And our King of kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, he's going to go into the house of Babylon when he returns also. And he's going to come in conquering and going forth to conquer, it says in Revelation 6:2. And he will preserve his sheep. God is able to preserve his sheep. In the days of David, He'll preserve His sheep to the very end. God is able to preserve our souls. If we are saved, we won't lose our salvation. If we are saved, He'll preserve us And there are ample examples of God preserving people even today in the flesh. People get cured of diseases they thought they were Mr. Gilpin had been charged by Bloody Mary with sedition and she wanted him Burned at the stake in London. And so Mr. Gilpin is captured, and his captives are being rather rough with him. They've got him, you know, shackled, and they're pushing him and they're prodding him, and he falls down and he breaks his leg And now he's in great deal of pain. They're trying to make him walk in a broken leg, and things are much slower. Well, Mr. Gilpin, ha ha, broken leg, and you're going to be burned at the stake uh sometime today or tomorrow. And then they're they're marching along and they say, What do you think about that broken leg? How's God taking care of you? Is God preserving you, Mr. Gilpin? And Mr. Gilpin says, All things work for the good of them that love the Lord. And they laughed and laughed And laughed. And delayed by the broken leg, they finally arrive in the city of London and they hear the bells tolling. And they say, What's the tolling? They say, Oh, haven't you heard? Bloody Mary has died. Mr. Gilpin, you're free to go. Wow. A broken leg preserved him. All things were for the good of them that love the Lord. Truly God has preserved. You look at what God can God preserves the jellyfish. They've fossilized jelly. How do you preserve jelly? Through thousands of years. He preserved this jelly, fossilized the jellyfish. God preserved the jellyfish. God preserved Jezebel's ring. Who cares about Jezebel's ring? But it's preserved. It's in the antiquities. They found it. I mean, he's preserved Jezebel's ring. He preserved Caiaphas the high priest's bones. They found his sarcophagus, the bone box, the one who crucified Christ The one who cursed and spit upon the Lord Jesus Christ. His bones have been preserved until this day. Smithsonian here a couple years ago. I mean if God can preserve the jellyfish and Jezebel's ring and Caiaphas's bones, can he not preserve his holy word and those who love the incarnate word, the Lord Jesus Christ? Of course he can preserve it. of us. And he will if you love his son. All the way to the end. And the end is coming, friend, for this world. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you are a God that takes a personal interest in your sheep. You love David and you not an arrow, not a not a spike, not a not a sword, not a dagger. Took out the life of David. You preserved him, dying of old age, on his bed. Oh Lord, he took care of Mr. Gilpin. Father we know you'll take care of us. We're sheep. We stumble. We grow weary. But Lord give us the strength Hold on to the truth, lift up the truth, stand by the truth, and in the end we will prove that you have preserved us as well. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.