I'm going to read this morning from the book of Genesis, chapter 6, and we'll actually pick up our reading in the fifth verse of Genesis chapter 6. Verse 5 of Genesis 6. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation. And Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth and said, Behold, it is corrupt. All flesh hath corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. And behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make thee an ark of gopher wood. Room shalt thou make in the ark, and thou shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. And this is the fashion whereof thou shalt make it of. The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. A window shalt thou make in the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above, and a door of the and the door of the ark shall be set in the side thereof, with lower second and third stories shalt thou make it. And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of water upon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under the heaven And everything that is in the earth shall die but with thee. Will I establish my covenant And thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy son's wife with thee. And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them alive with thee. They shall be made male and female. There we'll end our reading this morning. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that the Word, the book before us is the Word of God. It is inspired of thee. It has been provided to us, preserved by the Holy Spirit, in the promise that not one jot or one tittle shall pass From thy law. We thank you for this. Father, this morning, this book before us is precious. This book before us is rich. And yet, Father, this book is simply a book, except that your Spirit opened it to our hearts. Many men read this book, and it means nothing to them. them. But O God, as we read with the voice of the Spirit, interpreting, directing And opening our eyes, opening our ears, then there is great blessing. Just as Christ said, Blessed are your ears, for they hear. And your eyes for they see. We're open our ears today. Open our eyes. Open our hearts. Open your word unto us. For endure ye deed, Lord, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. May your word profit our souls this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have a front and back insert in your Bible there that is titled The Three Arcs. And uh this is sort of the introduction. We're going to look more specifically this morning at the Ark of Noah. But I'd like to briefly do an overview, and you know sometimes my brief overviews or anything but brief. But I'd like to briefly do an overview of the three arcs that we find in Scripture. The Ark of Noah, the Ark of Moses. and the Ark of God. The word ark simply means a box-like container. There's nothing particularly special about this term ark. It is a box-like container. It is a Container designed to hold certain things built for a specific purpose. The Ark of Noah. Noah's Ark was made of gopher wood. It was made strong enough to withstand the storm. The um marine architects tell us that the dimensions of the Ark are perfect for withstanding strong seas. By its length and its breadth and its height, it is a vessel that will not be top-heavy, that will roll over in a wave. It will not be so long that it will break its back going across the crest of a wave. Its broadness, its height in every way, it is perfectly suited to rough seas. Now how did that happen? I don't believe that Noah had ever seen a boat. Noah had no cause for a boat. He was not a fisherman. He was a farmer. He was a tiller of the ground. God gave specific instructions. 300 cubits by 50 cubits by 30 cubits. Approximately 450 foot by 70 foot by 45 foot. The arc in Kentucky is 510 by 85 by 51. They use a little bit different calculation, but it's very close to life size, but regardless of the size, the proportions were perfect. It was strong enough to withstand. the storm. It was pitched within and without it with pitch. We'll say more about that later. It was built large enough to protect everyone who was to enter. Think about that. It was built large enough to protect everyone who was to enter. There was not one animal turned away. Because there wasn't space. There was not one human who should have entered the ark that did not. And I would say to you, my dear friends, thank God that today you are in the Ark. For not one of us deserves to be in the Ark. The ark was made perfectly sized to contain all that were to be. therein. We'll consider more about the Ark of Noah in our message this morning. The Ark of Moses, and I've given you the scriptures here in your handout. So I don't have to have to turn. I want you to have these with you to review throughout the week. But in Exodus chapter 1, verse 22, and then spilling over into chapter 2. And Pharaoh, Exodus 122, and Pharaoh charged all the people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Remember Herod sending out the decree to kill all the boys under two years old? Isn't it interesting how the Word of God all fits together? Chapter 2 verse 1. And there went a man of the house of Levi and took a wife of the daughters of Levi. And the woman conceived and bare a son, and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime, and with pitch and put the child therein and she laid it in the flags by the river's bank. The ark of Moses was made of Bull rushes. Bull rushes are not a strong wood like gopher or like shit. Bull rushes are very fragile. Bullrushes are essentially the cattails that we see in this region of the world. And yet, woven together, they could be made into a boat. And even today, they take bulrushes and weave them into baskets and can even make round boats that can float out of bulrushes today. It was only built strong enough to float among the flags on the border of the river This ark could not withstand a storm. And yet there was a storm against this ark as well. It was the storm Of the wrath of Pharaoh who said, kill all the babies. But it was built just strong enough. Further, this arc of bull rushes was built to perfect size. If it were built large, the current would have gotten a hold of it and drawn it out of the bull rushes. But being small, the bull rushes were able to hold it in the flags, were able to hold it in the flags. Position. It was just large enough to house a tiny little baby But that one infant in the Ark of Bull Rushes was elect of God. Just as all who entered the Ark of Noah were elect of God. Moses was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world to be a child of God. And even more, just as Jeremiah was chosen by God for specific ministry before he was born, and just as every one of you are chosen to specific ministry before the foundation of the world. So this infant Was to leave the children of God from bondage, but it took a little arc of bull rushes to fulfill the eternal plan and purpose of God What a glorious little ark this is. Further, God had marked this child out. Look there in verse 2. Chapter 2 and verse 2, it's in your notes there. And the woman conceived and bare a son, and when she saw him, that he was a goodly child. She hit in three months. What would have happened if Moses had been born with some form of deformity? Would she have risked her life to save the child? We find here in scripture that Moses was not just average looking. He was above average. How did that happen? How did the genes and the chromosomes come together to make this child in some way to stand out? A mother loves her child and we we use the expression a face that only a mother could love. We understand what that means. And yet this child in some way overshowed other children She saw that he was a goodly child. The term goodly means well-favored of men, but it also means well-favored of God. He was a child that was good. Our term goodly, do you understand where the term goodly comes from? It comes from godly Just as we say goodbye, goodbye literally means God bleed be with ye. God bless you This was a child that was well favored before God. He was divinely beautiful. He was beautiful to the Lord. More than just his physical appearance, this baby that was to be preserved in a in an arc of bull rushes among the flags of the river. He was divinely beautiful. And God said, all the boys are being thrown in the river, but I want that one. And so God put a mark on him that he might be preserved And you have there in your notes that in Acts 7, verse 20, when Stephen is giving his testimony, Stephen describes Moses as being exceedingly fair, which literally means fair to God. This baby was beautiful to God. The wrath of man could not have this baby. And on the second page of your notes there, the Ark of Moses was daubed within and without with slime and with pitch. This is a Tory petroleum-based material that probably would not have been available to Noah. Do you ever think about that? Where do our petroleums and our tars come from? Well, the scientists would tell us it takes millions and millions of years to make petroleum. But we know scientifically, regardless of what the science so-called says, that great pressures can create uh things in a very short time. The great pressures of the weight of the water of the flood, water is very, very heavy. A single gallon of water weighs seven and three quarter pounds. It is very heavy. Pressing it down upon the earth created all the petroleums that we have today. And so Moses' mother takes some of that slime and that pitch and she covers the ark within and without. We'll say more about that covering when we consider But then thirdly, we come to the Ark of God. And I've given you there in your notes a selection of verses from Exodus chapter 25, and I'll read them quickly. You'll notice there's there's gaps where we're skipping over verses. Exodus twenty-five and verse ten in the in the handout you have. And they shall make an ark of shittim wood. Two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold within and without. We have one ark covered in pitch, another in pitch and slime, but this one is covered within and without, with pure Gold. No. No impurities. Nothing there but purities found. Within and without shalt thou overlay it, and thou shalt make a crown of gold round about. And then down to verse 16 of chapter 25 And thou shalt put into the ark of the testimony. And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold. Two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. And then down to verse 21. And thou shalt put the mercy seat above the ark. And in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. And there will I meet with thee. And I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, and from between the cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony. of all things which I shall give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. The ark of God, the ark of the covenant of God. It is made of shitim wood. Sinnam wood is a kind of wood in the acacia family. It is a very durable wood. It's a very Hard wood. It's a wood that has great beauty in its grain. It's very valuable. We find siddam wood used throughout the tabernacle. Upon the top of this ark is the mercy seat. It's interesting to compare that as well, for Noah's Ark had one window in the top. What was the window in the top of Noah's Ark used for? Well he put out the dove. Well what happened with the dove? It was communication The window was for communication. The dove comes back the first time with nothing. It comes back the second time and it has a branch and it the third time it does not return. It was for communication. What was the purpose of the mercy seat? It was communication. Here God will communicate upon the ark. He will talk with his people The mercy seat where God would meet with God. The Ark of the Covenant was made just large enough to contain the law, to contain the pot of manna, and to contain Contain the rod of air. It was not some huge thing with lots of empty space. It was not something too small. The Ark of Moses contained a little baby elect of God. The Ark of Noah contained Noah and his family to keep men alive. The Ark of the Covenant contained the law of God. It is our rule of living. It contained the pot of manna, that which preserved life. It contained the rod of God that showed his power and his strength. The ark was just perfect in size, overlaid with gold. It's interesting to compare these Arcs. The Ark of Noah was durable enough to preserve life in the flood. The Ark of Moses was fragile, but designed to preserve life in the river. The Ark of God was more durable than them all. In 2 Chronicles chapter 36, when Nebuchadnezzar carried away the treasures of the temple, no mention is made of the mark of the ark of God. The Ark of God would have been the most valuable item. Remember the Philistines. Thought it was a good luck charm and they tried it it didn't work out for them very well. There was plagues upon them. And yet when it's among the people of God there's blessing they carry in the battle. Wouldn't Nebuchadnezzar want this ark? But in scriptures where there's the inventory of the items that Nebuchadnezzar takes from the ark or from the temple, the ark, is not found. Interesting, in Revelation 11, verse 19, John records, And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in the temple the Ark of the Testament. And there were lightnings and voices and thunderings and earthquake and hail. Now, we have to be careful here, because we do not know for sure that John saw the ark that was built by the children of Israel in the Old Testament. in heaven. It may be the same ark. But John was seeing in a vision the same purpose. Because here in Revelation 11 we find God in fellowship with With man. Here we find the word of God fulfilled. Here we find the fulfillment of God's promise to provide, just as the pot of manna, God provided life. In Jesus Christ. And in the book of Revelation, we find the rod, God's rule and authority over all things. And so whether or not it is the literal ark that was built by the craftsmen in Moses in Moses' day or whether it is a figurative ark, it matters not, for the truth is the same. We find the Ark of the Covenant there in the holy place of God God now communing with his people. The broken law was contained within the ark, and yet God did not see the broken law because the blood of the sacrifice was sprinkled on the mercy seat. And so the eternal ark of the covenant, where God meets with man, eternally with his people, and which contains the eternal. Word of God. You see, the Ark of the Covenant was strong enough to preserve the law. We have broken that law. And yet, God. has preserved it on our behalf through Christ, who was tempted in all parts, like as we are, yet without law, without sin. The one who said, if you offend in one point, you're guilty of all, he offended in none. He kept the law and he sprinkled his Now that's a long introduction, I realize, to Genesis chapter But I think to really understand what we learn from Noah's Ark, we have to understand the coordination between Scripture and scripture. Returning to Genesis chapter six and verse five, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination or the thought of his heart was only evil continually. This must have been written in January of 2020. This ancient book is up to date. Amen. It sounds like our own day. God saw the wickedness of man. Look at verse 11. And the earth also was corrupt before God. Look at verse twelve. And God looked upon the earth. Look at verse thirteen. And God said unto Noah, All flesh the end of all flesh is come before me. You see there four times in the first portion of this chapter that God is observing. God sees what has happened. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Jeremiah said in Jeremiah sixteen and verse seventeen, For mine eyes for God said through Jeremiah, Mine eyes are upon thy ways. They are not hid from my face, neither is there iniquity hid from mine eyes. Oh, how men try to hide themselves from God And how the people of Noah's day thought God doesn't know, God doesn't see. I read recently that in the state of Maryland there's an average of 83 babies aborted. a day. The city of Baltimore has one of the highest abortion rates in the nation. Close to twenty-five percent of all pregnancies in Baltimore and in abortion. And people stand on a stage with an idol in their hand and are so glad to They're baby to get ahead. And people say God does not see, God does not know. God saw the wickedness of God. Man. And God said, I'm going to destroy them all. There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. I will destroy them all. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And you know, my friend, we don't find anything about the righteousness of Noah. listed before we find that statement that he found grace. Why was Noah righteous and upright in his generation? Because he knew you better. Because he was just smarter than everybody else, and he said no. Because he was he was just such a good person. No. Grace, Grace And grace alone. What separates me from the worst sinner on earth Nothing. I am the worst sinner on earth. Paul said, chiefest of sinners. I'm the chief of sin. Chief of sinners. Nothing separates me of my flesh. And so why do I not have their judgment? Grace. Saved by grace alone. This is all my plea. Noah Found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Why did we see that Moses was spared? Because God, in his sovereign wisdom, made him a goodly child. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. In second chronicles sixteen and verse nine, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself. Strong on behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Psalm 34, verse 15, the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous And his ear is open to their cry. 1 Peter 3, verse 12, the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ear is open to their prayer. And we find that throughout Scripture. We find Elijah, and I've told you many times before, Elijah's one of my favorite Bible characters, and yet they're all my favorites. Because they all have so much to teach us. But Elijah is running from Jezebel. He runs into the wilderness where Jezebel can't see him. And God says, What dost thou hear, Elijah? God knew where he was. He couldn't run from God. The same God that fed him with the ravens by the brook The same God that calls the barrel of meal not to run out and the cruise of oil not to run out. God knew exactly where he was. And then there's Jonah. Jonah is the rebellious missionary. I know a little bit about being a rebellious missionary. Jonah. He hears God's command and he flees. And it says there in Jonah chapter 3, 1 verse 3, from the presence of God. And he goes down into a ship from the presence of God. God not know where Jonah was. God saw Jonah sleeping in the bottom of the ship and he sent a storm. And God sent a whale. My father used to say, how many of you believe that Jonah swallowed that whale? And people would always raise their hand. And he would say, Well, if the Bible said that Jonah swallowed the whale, I would believe that too, but the Bible says the whale swallowed Jonah But God sent a great fish. And now Jonah is the belly of the great fish. Now certainly he's out of the presence of God. But God heard his prayer from the belly of the fish. And God gave that fish a mighty case of indigestion. And again the quote from my father, Dad said a a wicked preacher will make anything sick. And the fish vomits out Jonah. Dry land. God stole him. God knew exactly where he was. But then one more illustration: Hagar. We don't think of Hagar as being righteous. And yet I believe that Hagar was a true believer in Jehovah. She had been brought into the family of Jehovah. Of Abraham. Terrible circumstances. She would have been perfectly happy and willing to have remained Sarah's handmaid, and serving her faithfully. But Sarah, seeing that she was barren, and not having enough faith in God to believe that God would answer his promise G Sarah tells Abraham, here, take Hagar. Hagar conceives, and so the battle begins between Hagar flees into the wilderness from her mistress Sarah. And in Genesis 16 and verse 13, and she called on the name of the Lord that spake unto her, Thou God. Seest me. For she said, I have also here looked after him that seeth me. Hagar had that testimony when she fled from Sarah, thou God See us be. God sees his people. God saw the wickedness of man, that it was great on the earth But Noah found grace where? In the eyes of the Lord. We sing that old gospel song, No Never Alone, No Never Alone. He promised never to leave. Me, no, never alone. Behold, I am with thee whithersoever thou goest. God saw Noah. We find in this ark of Noah. A beautiful foreshadowing of the salvation that we find in Jesus Christ. God looked upon man and he wondered That there was no intercessor. All the way back in the Garden of Eden, God had declared that in the day thou eat thereof Thou shalt surely die. The same condemnation that we find in the story of Noah, because man had corrupted himself, we find in the Garden of Eden For when there was only two human beings on earth, they had corrupted themselves. They were worthy of death. They had broken God's law. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And all men die because of sin. But all the way back there in the ark in the garden, God ordained a substitute. God ordained to save a few. And so God said, I will put in the between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his head. And so we find that this Ark of Noah was ordained by God. In Genesis 6 and verse 13, we find that God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me. What's the exception there in Genesis 6:13? The end of all flesh God doesn't put an exception there. But then he says, build an ark. I'm going to make a way for you. I'm going to make a way of escape. How shall we escape? If we neglect so great salvation. Make thee an ark of gopher wood. And in J in Hebrews chapter eleven, the Greek Hall of Fame of Faith we looked at a few weeks ago. By faith, Noah being warned of God. Being warned of God of things not yet seen, move with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. by which he condemned the world and became the heir of righteousness which is by faith. Noah was a man who, when he was warned of God, was moved with fear. How many times have you shared the gospel with someone and warned them of the wrath of God? And the response was a chunk. You warned them of the wrath to come and their response was a smirk or a sarcastic comment. But oh how glorious it is when someone is warned of the wrath to come and they fear. For you see, no man will fear at that warning except the man that is warned of God. I may warn the multitudes. And they will laugh. But oh, how glorious when God warns the soul, just as he warned Noah, they will flee to the ark. And there. They will find salvation. God decreed the end of all flesh was come before him. But Noah was ordained to salvation God decreed in the Garden of Eden that all flesh would die, but God ordained a Savior And so God ordained the Ark of Noah to be the means of salvation of his own people, and God ordained his own son to be. the means of our salvation. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. But not only did God ordain this ark of Noah, just as Christ was ordained, a body thou hast prepared me, But we find that the Ark of Noah was made of earthly materials. You know, God could have used many means to save Noah. God could have sent angels to deliver him, just as he sent angels to Sodom to deliver Lot. God could have caused a little area of the earth to be protected from the flood. God could have put Moses on or no Noah up on top of a mountain and not let the water come quite to him. God could have used all kinds of means To protect Noah. But this was the one God ordained, making an ark of gopher wood. Gopher wood is only mentioned in Genesis 6. It's the only place we find it. Different from all other wood. There was only one virgin born. It's different from every other human being and yet fully human being. He was born in a body that was of this earth. God used earthly means for the salvation of Noah and his family. And God used an earthly body for the salvation of his people. Isn't it glorious? That the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word became more glorious than He'd ever been before Isn't that what we would expect? But it's not what the Word of God says. And the word became flesh. And dwelt among us. A spirit hath not flesh and blood, as ye see me have. It was the seed of the woman. The word became flesh. The creator became the creature. He was made like unto his others in all points, yet without sin. How glorious Christ came made of earthly materials, just as the ark was made of gopher wood And so when Christ was ready to leave this world, leave this earth, make himself a sacrifice, and he wanted to give us a memorial, what was the memorial he gave us? Well he took bread Earthly. From seeds. And he took the fruit of the vine from the grapes, earthly. And he said, This is my body. Take This is my blood, drink ye all of it. And it remained earthly. It did not become, and when we partake of the Lord's table, it does not become the actual, literal blood and body of Christ. It remains earthly. Folks, keep that in mind, because that's a great heresy in our day. It remains earthly, and it was earthly to begin with. But it's made of earthly things. Gopher wood. It's interesting that gopher is a wood that cannot be destroyed by worms. I have a great big great big hardwood tree in my backyard. It's a beautiful tree that my family has enjoyed and some of you have been at my house at picnics under that beautiful tree and It's been there longer than I've been alive. I played around it as a child. It was a goalpost for soccer when I was a kid, and it's it's been through a lot. But I was walking around it yesterday and there's worms eating part of it It's part of it's dying. Part of it's going to have to be cut away because it's it's dying. But gopher was a wood that could not be destroyed by work Job said, though after this body worms destroy my flesh, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Quoting was exactly there. But Christ would not be eaten of worms. The manna in the wilderness, which was such a glorious picture of Christ himself. But what happened? What happened if the children of Israel went out and they gathered for two days? Well, we read in scripture that the worms. We get a worms You see, Christ was made of earthly materials just as the ark was made of gopher wood, but the gopher wood was a wood that could not be eaten by worms. specific wood that God ordained. Christ's body would never be eaten of the worms, even though Job's wood and Job's would be reconstituted. Not Christ. Christ. Gopher wood was also a wood that was very durable from rot. Thou wilt not suffer thy holy one to see corruption. His body would never rot in the grave. Ah, ordained of God. But then we find that this ark of Noah was to be covered with pitch. And this is not new to us. We know this. What does pitch mean? Well, literally it's a covering or an atonement. The ark was covered with this pitch within and without. And what was the purpose of the pitch? Waterproof. Waterproof. It was to keep the water out, and what was the water but the judgment of God? And so the ark was pitched within and without, was pitched, that it might be impervious to the judgment of God. And the judgment of God beat upon that ark, but it could not get in. It could not find entrance. The ark rode above the storm. And oh my friend, Jesus Christ is my ark. He is covered with the righteousness of God as with pits, just as the Ark of the Covenant was covered with pure gold, so he is my righteousness, and I in him. Am a sinner, and yet I in him am protected from the wrath of God, for not a drop of God's wrath can enter therein. Why? Because of the covering, because of the atonement of Christ, I am protected. And though the world drowns in the flood. Though every living creature in whom is the breath of life is destroyed. It's pointed out a man wants to die. After this, the judgment. And though their souls will continue in hell, they live in eternal death. It's not a contradiction. For death is separation. From God. The death of the body is separation from breath. The death of eternal life is death separated from God forever. They are separated from God. I don't want to get too far into that doctrine, but remember in the garden, man was created for fellowship with God. When Adam sinned, the fellowship with God, he was separated from God. Those that live in hell forever live in eternal separation from God. They live in torment. And so Eternal death comes upon man. But the wrath of God does not abide on me, and it cannot enter in, because I am covered in the atonement. of Christ. The ark was covered with pitch, and the judgment of God is spared from me. But not only was the Ark of Noah ordained of God and made of earthly materials as Christ was ordained of God and made in flesh, the Ark of Noah was the only Place of safety. Climb a tree. Where is a high mountain? Swim a little. They all They all died. Except for those souls in the army There was only one door in that ark. And I agree that God shut the door. God was the doorkeeper. And when God shut the door, Noah could not open it Ah, we can speculate all kinds of things about his neighbors clamoring at the side and calling to him. But this we know for sure, God. Shut the door. Those inside the ark were saved. Those outside the ark Perished. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby ye must be saved. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. There was only one door. Only one way in. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me But then we find that the ark was born up above the storm of the judgment of God. Turn over to chapter 7 of Genesis. Genesis chapter 7 and verse 10. And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were upon the earth. In the six-hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, and the seventeenth day of the month, the same day, were all the fountains of the great deep broken up And the windows of heaven were opened, and then verse one of Genesis chapter eight, and God remembered Noah and every living thing and the cattle that was with him in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth and the w the waters the swayed. What happened to the ark? It floated. It floated. And another verse that I meant to read and miss it somewhere there talks about the ark was borne up on the waters. You see, God's judgment covered the earth, but the ark rode above the judgment. The storm beat on it. The ark was thoroughly wet on the outside and thoroughly dry. I don't believe they had billiards pumps. It didn't leak. So the ark bore the storm of judgment. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken of God, smitten and Afflicted. And so Christ bore the wrath of God. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me All the wrath of God, which I deserved, is poured out on Christ. And just as Noah in the ark was spared the wrath of the storm, so I was spared the wrath of the God, wrath of God. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the sun shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. John 6. 36. And in the passage I alluded to that I didn't read a moment ago, turn one over to chapter 7 and verse 17. Chapter 7 of Genesis, verse 17, and the flood was forty days upon the earth, and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lifted up above. the earth. And what did Christ say? If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men to me. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the serpent And so in Scripture we find these three arcs. Each arc for a specific purpose. Each arc perfectly fitted for the purpose. Each arc perfectly sized to house that which is contained Each ark perfect in the work it did. Not one of the arcs failed in the work that was set before it. But really we could say there's a fourth arc in Scripture. And the fourth ark is Christ Himself. There's only one way into this ark. It is through Christ. There is only one covering for this ark. It is the atonement. There is only one purpose in this ark to save His people from his sins. We don't find that Jesus is told to come as a great miracle worker, though he did. We don't come that he's come to come to do anything else but to save His people when there's sin, to give his life a ransom for many. I am in the ark. Where is your children? Adults? Women, are you in the ark? Are you in the ark? Do you know that Jesus Christ has saved your son? soul from sin for all eternity. Do you know that God has shut the door? Do you know that the atonement surrounds you and the The wrath of God shall never come to end. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? How shall we escape if we Neglect so great salvation. What a stand for prayer