In Jamaica frequently, uh if we sang a particularly blessed hymn, we would repeat the chorus a second time. Uh that's one that bears repeating. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain, but he washed it white as snow. What glorious truth. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 5, and if you notice in your uh In your uh bulletin it says Matthew chapter five and six. Don't worry, we're not going to try to preach all of Matthew chapter five and six this morning. And actually The Sermon on the Mount goes into chapter 7. But we're going to focus this morning on righteousness in the Sermon on the Mount. When something is mentioned repeatedly, we have to stop and think that must be important And in this Sermon on the Mount, as we call it, Christ makes four very distinct references to righteousness. That kind of sounds like an I believe that the theme here is not blessedness, but is righteousness. And so I'm going to read the first 20 verses of this fifth chapter to get us into the chapter and begin our introduction. And then may the Lord direct us in his word. If you have your place now, Matthew chapter five, and I'll start reading in verse one. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted For righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake, rejoice and be full. Be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you Ye are the salt of the earth, but as salt hath lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid, neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your Your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be called great, in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Heaven. Let us pray. Father, now as we approach your holy word today, we recognize that the understanding of your word is not a matter of intellect. Or professional training of some sort, or of wise minds But rather, Lord, the understanding of the Word of God is available to the uneducated. The understanding of the Word of God is available to little children because the understanding of the Word of God is that which your Spirit imparts to us. It is the directing of our hearts in the Word of God. And so Christ even said, Suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, such as the kingdom of heaven. Lord, may we come before your holy word this day as little children Not coming in man's wisdom or man's philosophy, but rather may we approach your word humbly. Waiting upon thy Spirit to direct and teach us. Edify us, your people, today, we pray, in the Word of God. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The first thing I would have us to note as we approach this Sermon on the Mount is the audience. And we tend to think of the Sermon on the Mount as being preached But if you look closely at the context, it says there in the verse one, and seeing the multitude He went up into a mountain. In other words, Christ sees the multitude and he leaves the multitude up behind and goes up into the mountain. The vast crowd that is here, they can't all follow him into the mountain. So he seized the mountain, or seized the multitude, and went up into the mountain, and when it was he was set, his disciples came unto them, and he opened his mouth and taught them saying. And so the context of the Sermon on the Mount is not that it is preached to the skeptics, not that it is preached to the unbelieving multitude, but rather he comes apart from the multitude with the disciples. And it's a much smaller group that he is addressing here. He's not addressing the scribes and the Pharisees who are self-righteous. And one of the references to righteousness we will see here that is, except your righteousness, except Exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye can noise enter in. And so the audience here is an audience of disciples. And who are or what are disciples? Well, the basic meaning of disciple is a student or a learner. It is someone who earnestly desires to hear what the teacher has to say. It's not someone who just happened along and heard, hey, last time. He fed the people. So I want a free lunch as the feeding of the five thousand or the feeding of the four thousand. It's not some people that says, hey, you know what? We might see something fantastic. We might see a miracle. Let's go see what this guy's going to say No, rather, this smaller group that Christ is addressing, they're disciples. This is the first reference to disciples. in the New Testament and it's actually the second reference to disciples in the entire scriptures. The first is in Isaiah 816, which was one of the references that I read in our call to worship this morning. That's why I chose that call to worship worship. But this disciple means a learner. It is a student. It is not the average man on the street, but rather these are those who really want to hear what he has to say. They don't care if their stomach's growling And they're not there to see something fantastic, but rather they want truth And those are the ones that Christ addresses. Now this passage is commonly called the Beatitudes because in this first part of chapter five we find this list of blessings. The word beatitude. Beatude is not a biblical word. We do not find beatitudes in Scripture. But it is an apt word because it means a blessing. And that's what they're seeking. They're seeking a blessing. This word blessed basically means happy or satisfied. Now think about that briefly. What is the world seeking for? Happiness. Satisfaction. Fulfillment. Oh if I just get this or if I just look this way or if I have that, or if I recognize here, I will be happy. And yet as uh Oliver B. Green used to say, all the devil's apples have worms, it never gives you what you expect it to give you. All the things Of this world fail to fulfill their promise. But here, Christ is talking not to the world, but to disciples, and he said, if you truly want to be blessed, if you truly want to be happy, if you truly want to be safe. Satisfied and live at peace, this is the way. And yet, as we're going to see, one of the ways we live at peace is persecution Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. And so in verse 5, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. In verse 10, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. sake. 520 for I say unto you, except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no wise enter therein into the into the kingdom of heaven. And then in chapter six verse thirty three, but seek ye first the kingdom of God, and he So that's the the very uh rapid outline that we're going to follow today. These four references to righteousness in the Sermon on the Mount. Blessed are they which do hopefully. Hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Happy is the man who hungers and thirst after righteousness Ah, think about what the world hungers and thirst after. Think what the American dream, as we call it, really means. Oh, you're going to be wealthy, you're going to have a beautiful family, you're going to have a beautiful car, you're going to have a beauti No house, you're to be well respected in your community and you're going to have a good job. And that's the kind of thing that the world and our American society hungers and thirst after. And yet how many people are committing suicide? Yeah, wooden died from COVID. You see, the world is seeking happiness in the wrong place But blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. How many of you have dogs? I see some hands. Would your dogs rather have meat or salad? Now I know some dogs that if you give them a piece of lettuce, they'll chew on it because they see humans eating it and think it must be good A lion doesn't want a salad, he wants meat. A dog doesn't want a salad, he wants meat. Why? Because it is his nature So to desire. The nature of man does not hunger and thirst after righteousness. Righteousness are the total opposite. As we were driving down the day, my wife was mentioning that Pennsylvania is pushing towards the legalization of recreational marijuana. And they're saying, look at all this money that we can make by taxing it. You see, the world is satisfied with the or is seeking things of the flesh to satisfy them. But the things of the flesh never satisfy. But blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness For they shall have a little bit. No. They shall be filled I would submit to you first of all that the right those that hunger and thirst after righteousness are blessed by the simple nature of what they hunger and thirst after. Because the one who truly hungers and thirst after righteousness, his very hunger and thirst demonstrate that something has happened. That his hunger and thirst for the world has been replaced. With a godly appetite, which is not natural. A man hungering and thirsting after righteousness is like a lion hungering and thirsting after a salad. It's against his nature. And so blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness because God has done something in their heart. You see, a dead man is not hungry at all. And a sick man has no appetite. But here, Christ taking his disciples away from the skeptics and away from those looking for something fantastic and away from those who just want a free meal is saying. Saying to them, listen, if you truly want to be blessed blessed, hunger and thirst after righteousness, may the God, man, change your heart From the heart of man to a new heart, and that's what God promised, isn't it? I'll take away the stony heart out of your flesh. I'll take away the study heart and give you a heart of flesh. And so these people are blessed because God has given them a spiritual hunger and a spiritual thirst. And he will fill it. But there is more here in this, because if we look closely at the passage, to hunger and thirst after righteousness is not just a hunger and thirst after an idea. We can think of the idea of righteousness, and we can begin to give that idea all kinds of qualifications. Well, righteousness is going to church. Or righteousness is reading the Word of God. Or righteousness is not kicking the cow. Righteous, you know, we can deal with all kinds of things that we define as righteousness. But what to the believer is true righteousness? I would submit to you, my friends, that the hunger and thirst after righteousness is the hunger and thirst after Christ. For Christ is our righteousness. And he has made to us righteousness and sanctification and redemption. And as we saw in our covenant reading this morning, there is no righteousness apart from him. And the only righteousness we claim is not our own righteousness, but rather we claim the righteousness of Christ for For I am ungodly, and I will hunger and thirst for anything but Christ, except that Christ has transformed me. Except that He has plucked me as a brand from the burning. me into that which I could not make myself, no matter how hard I tried. He has transformed my soul And having given me a hunger and thirst for him, he will fill that hunger and thirst with himself. What's the old hymn say? Long I had thirsted for a drink from some school stream, which I thought would quench my longing Hallelujah. I have found him. And so the first thing that we find in this sermon related to righteousness Is that blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are those which hunger and thirst after Christ. Blessed are those who are true disciples, who are willing to follow him up to the mountain. When the multitude has stayed on the plain because they hunger and thirst after him, they're blessed, and he's going to fill their longing. He satisfies. He satisfies. And so blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. But I would submit to you that there's more still. Because hunger and thirst after righteousness. Is not to desire a snack. There are times when I'm a little bit hungry and a snack will do. But you see, of those that truly hunger and thirst after Righteousness are consumed with hunger. They are starving. And it's interesting that this word that is used here for blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness was found in the previous word. chapter and chapter four. Look across your page to chapter four and verse two. Matthew four and verse two, and when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward and hungered. I should say so. He has fasted forty days and forty nights, and he's hungry. He's not seeking a snack. And when Christ here says, blessed are they which do hunger, he uses the same word. that was used of him after fasting forty days and forty nights. My friend, these that are hungry and thirsting after righteousness are not interested in the snack. They are starving to death. And what in that description of the true child of God. If I have not Christ. I have nothing. And if I have nothing but Christ, I have everything. Well, may we truly say, take the world, but give me Jesus. And so they hunger and thirst after righteousness. In Psalm 63, verses 1 and 2, David says, Oh, that um oh thou art my God, early will I seek thee, my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is, to see thy power and thy glory so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary There's the testimony of a man who truly hungers and thirsts after righteousness, and the righteousness for which he hungers and thirsts is Christ. But then we come to verses ten through twelve of the chapter. And Christ has been talking about those that are blessed. And We think of blessings as having nice things. We think of blessings as being those things which naturally satisfy our human desires. But in verse 10, we find: blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And I believe we can carefully and prayerfully and yet correctly say, Blessed are they which are persecuted for Christ's sake. Mm hmm. Because he is our righteousness. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil falsely against you. Why? For my sake. You see why? I'm putting Christ there in verse 10. Verse 11, or verse 12. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Blessed are they which are persecuted. For righteousness, Sat. Blessed are those which are persecuted for Christ. We prayed this morning during our opening prayer for the persecuted church. And I would submit to you that we know nothing of persecution. How many of you have been disowned by your family for being here today? Oh, maybe your family isn't happy that you're a Christian Maybe your family isn't pleased, but I don't think any of you have been actually kicked out of the house for believing in Christ. How many of you have bloody backs this morning? How many of you are chained to a wall this morning? We really know nothing of persecution. And yet All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall persecution. And I know from talking with many of you that we bear the scars. We bear the scars of the service of Jesus Christ. And how easy it is to begin to complain about the scars and complain about the treatment and and I'm as guilty is as anyone and so I preach to myself that we can get so self-centered and say, Lord, it shouldn't be this way. Lord it's not fair. Lord it didn't work out the way I thought it was going to. It didn't happen the way it should have happened to. And yet we find very clearly in this sermon in the list of blessings. Blessed are they which are persecuted for my sake. And look back over to chapter 10 of Matthew, a few pages from where you are there in chapter 5. Matthew 10 and verse 25. I'll give you a moment to turn because this is a, start say it's an important passage. Which passage of scripture is not important, but it it's one I want to get it implanted in our hearts and minds. Matthew 10, 25, it is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his master. Lord, if they have called the master of the house of Beelzebab How much more shall they call them of his household? In other words, if they called Christ of the house of Beelzebub, how much more are they going to call us, year of the devil? You're not doing God's work. You're not doing God's work right. There's nothing in your preaching. Well, if there's nothing in my preaching, hallelujah. There shouldn't be anything in my preaching. Because everything is in the Word of God. And if you're looking for a man's preaching, you're looking in the wrong place. Look into the Word. The Word. The Word. Blessed are ye which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. That goes against everything we think about blessing, doesn't it? It goes against everything we think about happiness and satisfaction and contentment. But it's enough for the disciple to be as his Lord Turn over to Luke chapter six, the sixth chapter of Luke. And there in verse 22. Blessed are Ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company. I used to I used to look at this verse the wrong way. I read it too quickly, and I thought, when they separate from your company, other words when men leave. you. But that's not what it says. It says, when they shall separate you from their company, they kick you out and shall reproach you and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. And notice again, it's for my sake. For righteousness' sake, for the Son of Man's sake, rejoice in that day and leap for joy. For behold, your ward is great in heaven. For in like manner did they unto your father did the f the they did their fathers unto the prophets. Turn to one more and then we'll move on. Turn to first Peter chapter four. First Peter chapter four. And there we're going to start in verse twelve and read down through A few verses. 1 Peter chapter 4. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake, persecuted for Christ's sake. 1 Peter 4, verse 12. But think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. Huh. Isn't that interesting? When things don't go our way, we think, oh, this is weird. This is this is strange. How how did this calamity happen? Well, no, don't think it's strange. But rejoice There it is again, but rejoice in so much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering Okay, there it is again. The righteousness for which we suffer is Christ's righteousness. The one for whom we suffer, it is Christ. Rejoice as much as you are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad. Verse thirteen, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified, Christ is glorified. But let it none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other man's matters. Think about that. Think about that. I'm not in jail. I'm not accused of murder. I'm not accused of some evil in this world. I'm a servant of the Most High God. And if the only accusations that can bring against me are accusations about my relationship with Jesus Christ, hallelujah, because I'm like Daniel. Because they could not find thought with Daniel, except concerning his God. Isn't it beautiful how it all fits together? Indeed, blessed are they, happy are they, satisfied are they, fulfilled are they? Which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. I wouldn't want to be accused of murder. But hallelujah if I'm accused of being a follower of Jesus Christ. How much better is my state. Verse nineteen of that chapter of first Peter four Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit their keeping of their souls unto him in well doing as unto a faithful creator. And we could go on and talk about Peter in prison, or Paul in prison, singing at midnight. And Paul said to Timothy in Second Timothy two and verse twelve, Yea and all All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Let's move on to the third one. In chapter five and verse twenty of Matthew, I'll give you a moment to turn back there since I've had you flipping. your pages this morning, Matthew chapter 5 and verse 20. And here the theme of the message continues in righteousness, but he takes a little bit different approach to it now, a little bit different slant. He's been talking about blessed are they which And thirst for it, blessed are they which are persecuted for it. Verse 20 of chapter 5: For I say unto you that except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and pharaohs. Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Wow, that's a pretty high bar. Who were the most righteous people of the day? Well, the scribes and Pharisees. were doctors of the law. Uh the Pharisees were the religious ones who would walk to the other side of the street when they saw a sinner coming along because they didn't want to be within six feet of a sinner. And I said six feet deliberately because We talk about so we talk about social distancing. They were spiritual distancing. Yeah, and they wore their spiritual masks so they wouldn't get you know the sin of COVID, I guess They had all this outward show of religion. But notice he doesn't say, accept your religion, exceed the religion of the scribes and Pharisees. He says, except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Let's uh talk for a moment about that word exceed. It's a fascinating word. It's used some 30 times in our New Testament. Except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. I just added this to my notes this morning. Let me share with you some of the times that that word ex that translated here, exceed, is used. In Matthew fourteen verse twenty, and they did all eat and were filled, and they took up the fragments that remain twelve baskets full. That word remained of the feeding of the five thousand is the same word exceed. And then again in Luke nineteen. or nine in verse seven, which is again the feeding of the five thousand, the fragments that remained, it's the same word exceed. And then in John 6 and verse 12, again, the fragments that remained is the word exceed. That's the feeding of the 5,000. But But then in Matthew 15, the feeding of the 4,000, when seven baskets were left over, it says, and there shall have abundance. And it's the same word exceed. In the parable, I'm sorry, in the feet of the five thousand it was the word left, and they should have it was left seven baskets. In the parable, the talents, when they take away the talent from the one who had one and give it to the one who had ten. And it says that he may have abundance. It's the word exceed. In the parable of the prodigal son, when the prodigal son comes to himself, when he says, My father's servants have bread enough and to spare. It's the word exceed the same word. And then Paul's testimony in Philippians four verse twelve, when Paul said, I know both how to be abased and how to Abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. This word exceed is that same word which is used there in multiple passages. Passages. What does it mean for my righteousness to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, to abound more than theirs? Well, again, my friend, I would turn us to Christ. Because the scribes and the Pharisees, they had religion that they called righteousness, but they had no righteousness at all. You see, all our righteousnesses are as filthy Rags. All the righteousness that I could do, it's obnoxious to God I thank God that I'm not as other men. I fast twice in the week. I pray. I give alms to the poor. I thank you that I'm not as this. Publican. No, so it didn't say Republican, it said publican. But draud said that the publican, the tax collector, went down to his house justified. You see, my righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, because my righteousness is not my own. But rather, my righteousness is the same righteousness we've seen. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst for Christ, for they shall be filled. Blessed are they which are persecuted for Christ, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are Are they whose righteousness is Christ? For that righteousness alone exceeds the righteousness of these doctors of the law. And so we won't expound the whole passage, but let me give you just briefly, if you look at verse 21 of Matthew 5, for you've heard it's been said of them of the old time, thou shalt not kill, but I say to the yeah, whosoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger of the judgment. And then verse 27 and 28, you've heard that of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. Verse 28, whosoever looketh. And verse 33 and 34, you've heard it been said of old time, thou shalt not perswear thyself. But I stand to you, square not alone, neither by heaven or throne. And God shows them, Christ shows them, that the righteousness he's speaking of is far exceeding anything that the scribes and Pharisees do. But it's not by works of righteousness that we've done. And the main thing Christ is showing them there is that if you kill a man, that's murder, but if you hate him, that's murder as well. If you commit physical adultery, that's adultery. But if you look on a woman, what is Christ teaching there? It's a matter of the heart. more than a matter of the actions. And so, how do I receive this righteousness which is Christ? If thou shalt believe in thine heart the Lord Jesus, thou shalt be saved. And so my righteousness is greater than even the righteousness of scribes and Pharisees, and the kingdom of heaven is mine. Why? Not because I of myself am righteous, but because he is made to me. Sanctification and righteousness. He is my righteousness. What glorious truth. What peace we can find there. In verse forty eight of Matthew five he says, Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven, is perfect. Our time is rushing along, so let me move on. Turn over to to first Timothy. Let's go to this other passage. I'm I'm skipping by a lot of passages that we could could enter into. Let's turn briefly to 1 Timothy chapter 1. I think I said 5 a moment ago. 1 Timothy chapter 1 and we'll start in verse 5. And there Paul says the young temptation, now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience and of faith unfeigned. For which are from which some having squirr summing having s from which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain janglings kind of like tinkling brass and symb uh sounding symbols if I had not charity. They turned to vain janglings. That's what the scribes and the Pharisees had done. They had to count all their list of righteousness, but it was all vain janglings. Desiring be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. But we know that the law is good if a man use it lawfully. Knowing this, that the law was not made for the righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murders of fathers. Murthers of mothers, manslayers, for whoremongers, for them that defile themselves of mankind, for men stealers, for liars, and so on. You see, all these things that the Pharisees were stacking up as they are lost. Law and their righteousness were vain, but we have Christ. The final time in this sermon of Christ that we find righteousness is found in chapter 6 and verse 1. Verse 33. I mentioned earlier that the Sermon on the Mount, the sermon actually covers from five, six, and part of seven. But in verse nineteen of Matthew six Lay not up yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where neither moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steel. I'm sorry, I'm in the wrong verse. 33. Verse 33 is the verse that we I meant to start with. 633, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Seek the kingdom of God and the righteousness which is of Christ, and all these things shall be added unto you. And he goes through the chapter here, Lenuptious hellth treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after Christ. For as we look at verses twenty-four, no man can serve two masters. We serve Christ, not the things of this world. Verse 25, take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink. Behold the thousands The air, verse 26. Behold the lilies of the field, verse 28. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Remember we said that the world is seeking happiness in happiness. Houses and homes and families and cars and jobs and positions But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, the righteousness of Christ, and all these things shall be added unto you. No, Christians don't live in the fanciest houses in the best homes. But we live in the protection of God, and we have our needs provided. He provides for us day by day. And so may God give us grace. To hunger and thirst for Christ. May God give us grace to rejoice in our identification with His sufferings. May God give us grace to seek first His kingdom and His righteousness. And thereby may God give us grace to be filled with His righteousness. Righteousness, not our own righteousness, but the righteousness which is his alone. What a glorious truth we have. What a glorious pathway. The true and lasting left is blessedness. Let us stand for prayer.