Turn with me to your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of John in the 13th chapter. I mentioned Abrill Events earlier. How glorious it is, how the Sunday school lesson this morning dovetails right into the passage we're going to consider. And then our reading from the canons of Dort again emphasizes the same theme I'm going to be reading from the Gospel of John, chapter 13. I would love to read the whole chapter, but there's but for time's sake I'm going to read verses one through seventeen, but then we will touch on a few verses later in the chapter as well. If you have your place now, the Gospel of John, the 13th chapter, and I'll begin our scripture reading with the first verse of the chapter. Now, before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world He loved them unto the end. And supper being ended, the devil having put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself. After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter, and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith unto him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and ye are all clean, but not all For he knew who should betray him. Therefore he said, Ye are not all clean. So after that he had washed their feet, And had taken his garments, and was set down again. He saith unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me Master and Lord. And ye say well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also do wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. Neither is he that is set great sent greater than he that has sent him. If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now we pray that you would open thy word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive thy word. Expound truth unto us this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. We have often been amused by that phrase, the beatings will continue until morale improves. And uh sometimes I feel like I preach a lot of messages that are sort of brow beating. I tend to get loud and speak with a very bold voice. And uh I have learned over the years that some people find that to be intimidating. And I don't mean to ever be intimidating. But this message this morning I hope will be upbeat. I hope it will be encouraging. And if my voice gets loud, it's not because I'm angry, it's because I rejoice at the truth in front of us. Because it's hard to preach from this book in a calm, quiet voice. Now, I was told by one of the teenagers in Jamaica many years ago that my throat couldn't preach. And by that they meant I was not loud enough. And I chuckled at it because I tried to cut back on the loudness sometimes rather than being loud. But I still don't say this. This is a message about love, folks. This is a message about the glorious love of God for his people. And there's so much in these verses that's exciting. And I had eight points, and I discarded five of them Because there's just not time to to touch on it all. So I have three points this morning That I hope we'll be able to meditate on and focus on and by God's grace be blessed thereby The first thing that I would point out to you about the love of God, the love of Christ in this passage, is that it is an eternal love. Look with me there at the first verse. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto his Father, Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them to the end. having loved them. And I'm not going to go deep into the linguistics here. But this word that's used twice there in the verse, having loved them, he loved them. It's an aorist active indicative in the Greek. An aorist. There is no English. There is no English way to express the Greek aorist. We just don't have it in our language The best way to describe the heiress is something with a history, but continues forever. It continues indefinitely. Having loved, he loved. His love didn't begin this night. His love didn't begin for me when I was born on this earth. His love for me is from eternity past before any ability to describe And it continues for eternity future. It's an eternal love. And if I could find any illustration to try to describe it, it would be this. I loved my children before they were born. And they were already my children before they departed from the womb. They were my seed. They were my children. And I love them. I I know firsthand that there are some among us this morning that have grieved Grievously over a miscarriage, over a child that never came to breathe the air, that was never brought to birth But they're still our children. And I would also say to you that we love our children before they're conceived. What young girl has not looked forward to the day that she would be a mother? A young man that is somehow injured and will not be able to have children grieves over that. Now That's not a great illustration because you cannot truly illustrate what we have here. But God didn't start loving me when I was conceived in my mother's womb. We find in Scripture that I have loved you with an everlasting love And that word everlasting means from antiquity and forever. God told Jeremiah, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nation. We were chosen in Christ when? Before the foundation of the world. You see, before God created the earth, he knew that in 1963 in time I would be born. And before he created the world, he elected me. He chose me. He ordained me. He knew me. And though I am not the prophet Jeremiah, and I make no comparison there, but just as God called Jeremiah Before he formed him in the belly of his mother, God ordained that I be a preacher of righteousness. God ordained that brother Vince be called out of all the things of this world to teach and to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. God ordained that Brother Keith Would teach and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And God ordained that every one of you that has passed out a gospel track would pass out that track as a witness. And a testimony of Jesus Christ. You see, folks, the love that Christ is talking about here Is a love that is past, present, and future. Having loved them. He loved them to the end. Now folks, think about the setting here. This is just before the Passover. What is going to happen with Peter in a few hours? He's going to deny his Lord. Did Christ stop loving Peter when he denied? No. No. Within a few hours, the disciples are going to run and flee. Only John will be standing there at the cross. Did Christ stop loving them? In a few days, Thomas is going to doubt the resurrection. Did Christ stop loving him? Did you sin this week? Did Christ stop loving you? Folks, this love is an eternal love. It's a love that began before the world was created. And it is a love that will carry us through all eternity. And God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son to come and die for me. And to come and die for you. In Psalm 37, 28, one of the verses we read there this morning, for the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. They are preserved forever. But the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. Folks, this is a love that is an eternal love. It is a love that began before the foundation of the world and will continue forever. In Proverbs 17, 17, a friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. A friend loveth at all times, he is our friend. A brother is born for hard times. Oh, how Christ carries his people through the hard times. If we didn't know the Lord, what would we do? 1 Corinthians 13, charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity never faileth, verses 4 and verse 8. Song of Solomon eight verse seven Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it. If a man would give all his sub the substance of his house for love, it would utterly be contempt. In other words, if a man gave everything he possessed for love, everything he profess would be would be contempt. It would be contemptible. It would have no John fifteen nine, as the Father hath loved us, so have I loved you. As the Father hath loved me, Christ says. John fifteen nine As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. Romans eight thirty-five Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or apparel or sword. Romans 8, verse 38. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor heights Nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. What's left out of that passage, folks? There's nothing. Here Christ, knowing that he's going to return to his Father Knowing that his disciples are just about ready to go through one of the greatest crises that could ever be imagined. He loves them And having loved them from all eternity past, he loves them for all eternity yet to come. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? I'm sure every one of us, thinking back through your lifetime, Can recall a friend that has betrayed you. Think of someone that at one time they said, I love you. And then later, their love turned to hatred. They have despised and rejected rejected you. They have betrayed your trust. Judas is here when Christ is speaking these words. When Christ is saying, I've loved you with an everlasting or when Christ is saying or we read, having loved them, he loved them in the end, Judas is in the midst. And folks, as we're going to see a little bit later, I don't think Judas was included in this love. That's right. But Judas called Christ friend. In Matthew 26, 50, Jesus said to him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Do you betray me with a kiss? But Christ's love isn't like that. Judas would have said, I love Jesus early in the three and a half years. But now he's the betrayer. But folks, Jesus Christ will never betray you. He will never break your trust The first thing we see is that this is an eternal love. But secondly, I would point out to you that this love of Christ is an exemplary love. It is an exemplary love, an example of love. Look again at the passage down to verse 12 and following. After he had washed their feet, verse 12 of John 13, and taken his garment, and was set down again. He said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you. Do you have any idea what this is? Peter, you didn't want me to wash your feet, and I told you if I don't wash your feet, you have no problem with me. Do you understand the illustration of the gospel? The example of what price is doing. You know, salesmen will send out what they call a salesman sample. And it's just a little taste of what's to come. That's what the washing of the disciples' feet was. It was an example, it was an illustration, it was a picture. You can even say that the washing of their feet was a parable for all the gospel. Look with me closely at the passage. He says, we find here, first of all That Christ humbles himself before the disciples. He was the King of kings. He was the creator God. He was God in human flesh. And yet, what did he do? He laid aside his garment. Christ is before the disciples, and he takes off his clothes and wraps himself in a towel. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God? But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was clothed in the likeness of man. Do you see this is the incarnation he's showing them He's showing them that the God of glory, the God of all eternity, has laid aside his godness and wrapped himself in a human towel. And then what does he do in that form? He takes water and he washes their feet. The washing of water by the word. And he comes to Peter and he, Peter, you're not going to wash my feet. Peter, you must be born again. Peter, I have to wash you. Oh Lord, wash me all over. No, Peter, just your feet for now. Just your feet for now. What do our feet picture? Our feet is where we trample through this world and sin again and again and again And the washing of the feet in those days had to be done again and again and again. It was once for all time, and yet we still continue in sin. In heaven will be washed all over. But for now, Peter, just your feet and you're cleansed before God. And after he washes their feet, what's he do? He takes the towel. He takes the emblem of his human flesh and he dries their feet with the flesh. This is my body. Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared for me. And then he sets aside the Tao. And he takes his garment again. And what does the passage say? Christ says he knew he was afraid to return to his father. And when he puts his garment back on, he sits down. And what did he do? He went and he's seated at the right hand of God the Father. Peter, do you know what I'm showing you? Peter, do you see the glorious picture of the gospel of Jesus Christ? What an example of love. But Jesus Christ, who spoke the world into being, laid aside his godness, took upon himself human form. And then stoop to wash my sinful feet. To wash my sinful soul. And though I still stumble and my feet still walk upon this earth, I am clean withal. Because of the glory's love. His love's exemplary. But then Christ says to the disciples, I've washed your feet. Now wash one another's feet. Go and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ with your washed feet. Go and humble yourself before the world. Live in humility before the world. Be the servant of the elect. That they too might be brought into this glorious grace. And Psalm one o four, verses one and two. Bless the Lord o my soul. O Lord my God, Thou art very great. Thou art clothed with honor and majesty, who covers thyself with light as a garment, who stretches out the heavens as a curtain. Can you imagine giving up that for a Tao? And then by that body. Wiping the filth away from the feet of your people Oh folks, God's love is an eternal love. And it is the greatest example of love that we can ever have. Husbands, love your wives. even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. But that brings me to our third point, folks. God's love is an eternal love. God's love is an exemplary love. God's love is an exclusive love. It's an exclusive love Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. Let's take that verse and compare it to the free will salvation that's commonly preached today. Husbands love your wives just like you love every other woman in the world. And just like you would give yourself for every other woman in the world that you might clothe and feed and provide for every other woman in the world. Well no. Husbands love your li wives as Christ loved the church. Has Christ loved the elect? As Christ loved his own. You see, if you try to say that Christ loved everybody, then that verse makes no sense whatsoever. But no, it's an eternal love, an exemplary love, and an exclusive love. And so if you look again there at that first verse Now, before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that the hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto his Father. having loved his own. Doesn't say having loved all twelve It says, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them to the end. Verse 2, supper being ended, the devil having put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. You see the next phrase, having loved his own, and then there's Judas. There's twelve present, but eleven are over here, and one is over there. There's an exc exclusivity demonstrated here. Judith Hart was under the power and control of Satan. The devil having put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. This Simon, of course, is not Simon Peter. It's a different have a multitude of assignments, a different Peter. Peter was not Judah's father. But remember When Christ addressed Peter by his name Simon, and Christ said to Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have thee, that he may sift thee as wheat, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, feed thy brethren. Christ told Peter, Peter, Satan wanted you, and I prayed for you, and he could not have you. Why didn't Jesus pray for Judas? Think about it. If Christ could pray for Peter and Satan couldn't have Peter, why didn't Jesus pray for Judas? But it's very clear that Satan got him. Satan has him. There's an exclusivity. In the love that is expressed in this passage. And we find this dichotomy throughout the passage. In verse 13. Or chapter 13, verse 10. And you're going to see a seesaw here, okay? Buckle your seat belts, put on your helmets. Let me go through part of this passage. Verses 10 and 11. Jesus saith unto him, that's the Peter, He that is washed needeth not to sit not to wash sorry, let me get the verse right. Jesus saith to him, He that is washed is not saved to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and ye are clean, but not all. For he knew who should betray him. Therefore he said, You're not all clean. You see, he's talking to you to Peter. Peter, all you need is to wash your feet, but you're not all clean. Verse 17. If ye know these things, happy are ye if you do them. Verse 18, I speak not of you all. Okay, if you know these things, you're happy if you do them, but I'm not talking about all of you. You see the division here. I speak not of you all, for I know whom I've chosen. But that the scripture may be fulfilled, he that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. You see, there's eleven to one here, folks. And then go down to verse twenty and twenty-one. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that receiveth whomsoever I have sent, receiveth me, and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that has sent me. When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in his spirit and testified and said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. You see the seesaw here. If you believe in me, you believe in him that has sent me If you receive me, you receive him that has sent me, but one of you is going to betray me. One of you hasn't received me, and hasn't received the Father either. Verse 30. Having then uh uh uh uh he then having received the sup went out and it was night Therefore, when he, it's talking about Judas, when he was gone, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. When does Jesus say, now is the Son of Man glorified? When Judas is gone. Judas leaves and Jesus says, now I'm glorified. Now he's gone. Yes, he's going to betray me, but now. Now. See folks, this is an exclusive love. There are eleven that are loved here. And one who could have been spared if God had ordained to spare him, but that the scripture might be fulfilled. The devil was allowed to have have him. Turn over to chapter seventeen, just three chapters from where you are. Chapter seventeen. And verse 1, I've got some dots here, which means I'm starting partway in the verse, so you'll have to pick up with your eyes where we are in verse 1 of John 17. Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son may also glorify thee, as thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life To as many as thou hast given him. You see the division there Drop down to verse nine. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me uh given me, for they are thine. Verse 24, Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that I may be that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me. For thou hast loved me from the foundation of the world, that they may behold what? My glory. What did Christ say after Judas was gone? Now. Now I'm glorified. Now you see my glory. Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. Hosea 1 verse 11, when Israel was a child, then I loved him and called my son out of Egypt. Why did God live love Egypt Israel but send plagues on Egypt? Could not God have spared Israel by saving Pharaoh? Certainly. But Pharaoh is called a man. Uh what is uh I just my mind just lost the phrase. Um that I might show my power in him, God says. That I called up Pharaoh, that he might show his power in him Mm-hmm. That he might demonstrate his wrath. And I have in my notes Solomon as well, and I won't go through all of it, but we we know that Uh well let me. Let's we got time. Um turn back to the first Sam second Samuel twelve, verse twenty-four with me. Turn back to Second Samuel twelve, verse twenty four. Second Samuel twelve, twenty-four, and David comforted Bathsheba his wife. And went in unto her and lay with her, and she bare a son, and he, that's David, called his name Solomon, for the Lord. Loved him. Okay, we know the story. David sinned with Bathsheba, their first child dies Now another son is born, and when this son is born, David calls this son Solomon, because David declares that the Lord, that Jehovah, has loved him. Do you know the connection there? Turn with me to 1 Chronicles 22. 1 Chronicles 22. And I'm going to read verses 7 through 10. If you can't find it, just listen along. I'll read it for you. But 1 Chronicles 22. Verse 7 to 10. And David said to Solomon, My son As for me, it was in my mind to build an house unto the name of the Lord my God. But the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and hast made great wars. Thou shalt not build an house under my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight. Behold, a son shall be born to thee. You know what's significant about this? 1 Chronicles 22 takes place between 10, 15, and 20 years before 2 Samuel chapter 2. Let me say it again. Chronologically, 1 Chronicles 22 is 15 to 20 years before 2 Samuel chapter 12. In 2 Samuel 12, David has a son, and David says, I'm going to name this son Solomon because the Lord loves this son. Continue reading. Verse nine of 1 Chronicles 22. Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest And I will give him rest from all his enemies round about him, for his name shall be Solomon 15 to 20 years before Solomon's born, David is told by God, I'm going to give you a child, it'll be a child of rest. His name is Solomon. And then look what it says. Lost my place. Um for his name shall be Solomon and I will give him peace and quietness unto Israel in his days He shall build a house for my name, and he shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever. 15 to 20 years before Solomon is born, before David has ever met Bathsheba God tells David, you're going to have a son, you're going to name him Solomon, I will be his father, he will be my son, and he will be a reign of peace. 15 and 20 years later, Solomon's born. David names him Solomon because Jehovah told him to. And he names it Solomon because God loved him. What about the child of Bathsheba that died? What about Absalom? What about the others? Folks, you see the exclusivity here. Maybe I've taken a rabbit trail too far down the path. But folks, the love of God is eternal. Oh, hallelujah. I am a wicked sinner. I deserve wrath and judgment. But before Christ spoke the world into existence, he knew all about me and he loved me from eternity past, and he saved me in his time, and he called me to his service, and he will love me for all eternity. God's love. is endless. It's eternal. God's love is exemplary. Greater love has no man than this Then a man lay down his life for his friends. What greater love is there but to lay aside all glory and wrap yourself in a towel for friends? Folks, this love is exclusive. This love is the love which Christ has for his church. It's the love which he has for his people. Cherish it. Rejoice in it. Take heart, though the world around us is raging. Yet we are loved by the eternal God. And as we saw there in our called our responsive reading this morning, God loveth his saints. But the wicked shall be cut off. Take heart and rejoice, you beloved of the Father. That's right. Let us stand for prayer. Lord, your love for us is unimaginable. Lord, just as Peter, we say, No, Lord, no, Lord, but your grace is irresistible We thank you for your truth. Bless it to our hearts this day. May we rejoice in the love of our God. In Jesus' name. Amen.