15th verse, and it's only part of the sentence, so I'm going to read the whole sentence. We're only going to cover this one today, Hebrews chapter 12. Verse 15 and 16 says this Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. Now next week we'll talk about Esau, because sixteen and seventeen talk about him, so we're just going to cover him as a as a devoted topic. This week we're going to look at one verse, and it's verse 15, and the key phrase here is lest any. We're going to look at both of the two lest any's. In other words, we don't want something to happen That's described here. So I have an opening discussion question, and we did have an answer from folks online. Though we generally live in an open and free society at least if you're here in the States, other countries enjoy those privileges as well. Yet sometimes an individual member of an organization, you don't have to think political, it can just be a company. It could be a a group uh that you're a member of. And some individual commits an act that results in widespread repercussions, right Now considering your life's observations, what you've experienced in life or you've seen happen during your lifetime Considering that, what were some of the worst impacts to an organization that were triggered by the foolish acts of one individual? And I'll start with our brother from Arizona who pointed out Jeffrey Skilling of Enron, who in two thousand manipulated the energy prices right at the time when California deregulated its electricity and it really drove a huge crisis for two years and it eventually ended in the termination of the company. Uh him and his uh COO, I believe it was, Jeff Faustal, winding up in prison. So notorious was the event that even my daughter studied that when she was going through in college in her business degree is, here's an example of what you don't do. Um my uh mother, I asked her about this yesterday. She said, well, one of the worst she's seen was Madeline Murray O'Hare arguing her case to the Supreme Court to remove prayer and Bible from the school system. That obviously had very large, widespread impacts. Those are bigger than what I was kind of thinking of, but maybe you had some thoughts as well. What are some examples of someone in an organization that it just had such a widespread impact I know you know of a bunch. No, I'm not even going there. Okay. Um one one personal one that made a big impression on me I was the was the goalkeeper for the team of Harvard Christian School when we were in a tournament and uh I was a six foot one big you know Hulkin senior And this other guy on the guy on the other team was not much more than four foot high. And um the ball was kicked and I you know, pick the ball up. It wasn't even really called a save. We just came back to me. And this little guy comes running up to me and stops three inches from me like he's, you know, and I'm looking at his little squirt. So I just took the ball and just kind of Pushed him and he fell over backwards. Of course I was called for the foul and it was in the penalty box, and so the other team scored a goal on a penalty kick So the whole team suffered because, you know, I thought I'm gonna teach this little sport a lesson. I knew better, it was foolish, it was there was no reason to do it, but my foolish act affected the entire team. That's a good example. Sometimes you see colossal mistakes in a sports event where you're it's not an individual effort, it's a team effort. So yeah, it's a nice self-deprecated example. Other examples of things you've seen where the impacts of of one person just have great repercussions. I I the one thing that I thought about was the uh pulling out of the troops out of Afghanistan. The uh decision to just go ahead and make that quick jump and then you saw a lot of calamity going on right afterwards. Yeah, the United States decision to pull out of Afghanistan so hastily and to cede an airport which was hard fought, hard won. In fact, I knew one of the uh uh Marines who helped take that uh was one was the first uh plane and um uh deployed He was told to secure the airport and he thought somebody else was already there. No, he was the first one to s secure the airport taking small arms fires. Um he was uh uh big hulking fellow. But um yeah, uh it's interesting in the military when mistakes are made by generals. They're not called mistakes uh in the Army Academy or Air Force Academy or the the war colleges, they call them errors of judgment. You never say a general made a mistake, he made an error in judgment. I can give you another one that very nearly turned into a global disaster in Korea. When the Carpenter started pushing back and got closer and closer and closer to China, if he had pushed just that tiny bit further, China would have got involved and would have been moved war It was we were they say that, you know, the Bay of Pigs was and Cuba was the closest we ever got to a war war. Really it was Korea with MacArthur to five orders and keeping pushing further to North Korea, uh we were about that far from global conflict. Hmm Hm. Yeah, there are very interesting periods in warfare where, you know, politics by other means occurs and uh can change the course of history. And there's a lot of things like that that have happened. Well, I'm sure we can think of other examples as well. But I just want to get your mind to thinking down that path, how the errors of one can have widespread repercussions So our context here of Hebrews 12. 15, as I've looked at it and studied it throughout the week, I came up with a title called Church Killers. Church killers. You want to know how to kill a church? Pay attention. This is a very good way to do it. You know We we're in a context here and even verse 15 is in the middle of a sentence uh that actually began in the 14th verse, which has to do with following peace and pursuing holiness as a work of a heart, and that heart That heart work is something the great physician can do. But just because the great physician does it, no different than if you have a diagnosis of a atrial fibrillation or some other issues of the heart where you need to see somebody who has some experience dealing with it, and that would be a cardiac surgeon, a cardiologist, and you go to somebody else Well, how do you avail yourself of the Lord's aid to help your heart? Well, those are called the means of grace. A very excellent summary of that is in the Westminster Confession of Faith, the shorter catechism, number 88, but I'll just boil it down to you for one verse. Go to Acts chapter 2 and verse 42. If you look at Acts 2. 42, we're talking about the means of grace. We're talking about how to Pursue this business of following peace and pursuing holiness with the Lord, without which no man shall see the Lord And we read this verse in Acts 2 and verse 42. It speaks about the early New Testament church. It's just a thumbnail sketch of the activities. It says they continued steadfastly. they being the assembled church, in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread and prayers. So if you want to check in with the great cardiologist of your soul, you continue in the apostles' doctrine, you need to understand good doctrine, good sound Bible teaching. Not what the FBI refers to as Bible babble. People who are confused and don't know how to handle the word or right, these sects and cults that take over places and really lead people to harm. The Apostles' Doctrine, Fellowship. You need to be in a ship with a bunch of the same fellows in it. That's fellowship. In breaking of bread, some have viewed that as communion, some have just viewed it as commu uh as communal meals, and in prayers, you pray the Lord, you beg him, you ask him, open my understanding, help me with this thing Those are the quick thumbnail sketch of the means of grace, because I'm really not going to focus on that in this verse. I just want to remind us of the context. It says you follow this, you do these things, lest, and then you get to this word lest. In fact, if you go back to Hebrews 12, You'll see the word last three times. It's in verse 15 twice. Lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up. Verse 16. lest there be any fornicator. You want to do those things, you want to pursue these means of grace, you need to be under sound teaching, so that these other things don't happen. And we're going to look at those things. It says, we follow diligently lest we fail of the grace of God. What strikes you as odd about that phrase? To fail of the grace of God? Is there anything that strikes you odd about that? How can we? How can we if we know the Lord, how can we fail of God's grace? He freely gives it. Yeah, grace is the free gift of God. How is it that somebody can fail of grace? Does that in fact mean uh uh uh that that somebody could lose their salvation? Well it appears that failing the grace of God is a real possibility in scriptures. This is one place that talks about it. You find in Galatians 5. 4, you don't have to turn there. The Apostle Paul says, Christ has become of no effect if you are justified by the law. You are fallen from grace. There's another place in 2 Corinthians 6. 1, the apostle says, We beseech you also that you receive not the grace of God in vain. There can be a vain reception of the grace of God. But Ms. Penny asked the very real question that causes us to wonder, you know, does it mean we can lose our salvation? Is there really a possibility of that? How does this really happen? What do we mean to fail with the grace of God? How can How can God's grace be something that can slip away? Well, it turns out that there is And a a um uh let's go to 2 Peter 2. I'll just let the scriptures describe it to you. 2 Peter chapter 2 And verse 20. If you go to the book of Revelation and back up about four or five pages, you'll be at 2 Peter 2. 2 Peter 2 is what I refer to as God's glossary of false prophets. And in 2 Peter 2. 20, he says this. It says, if after they, this is speaking about reprobates, people who are not saved, if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world Through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome. It seems that they were with Christ, but they're oh they're overcome They're entangled in the pollutions of the world again. It says the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than after they have known it to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them. But it has happened unto them, according to the true proverb, the dog is turned to his own vomit again And the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. And I want to focus on that last animal example given, because it's a quote from the Old Testament. The sow, you know what that is, a pig that was washed, a washed pig, has returned to its wallowing in the mire. Even children know that pigs are muddy and dirty. They like to go and they like to be in the mud. That's just the nature. And I can talk physically why that is. They they're the they they can't tolerate the heat very well. And so the mud helps to protect their skin from getting burned and it removes the heat. And so they love the mud because it keeps them cool. Because after all they're quite fat. Yeah. I had some pork belly this morning. It works really good sliced up on the on the on the pan. Maybe you smelled a little bit of bacon in here before you came in. But it was a pig that was washed, and if you recall, there were two types of beasts in the Old Testament. The pig, would it be considered a clean or an unclean animal? It was definitely unclean. In fact, that's one chief way archaeologists know they're digging either in a Canaanite camp or an Israeli ancient Jewish camp because the Jewish camps had a complete absence of pig bones. But all throughout the Levantine area They loved pig, and you would find pig bones in those encampments. If they found those, nope, it's not Jewish. Just guaranteed. Well, who said it was unclean? Well, God said it was unclean, and you can read about it in Deuteronomy 14. In Deuteronomy 14, it speaks about two different types of beasts, the clean and the unclean. And the distinguishment of those was that the clean beasts would chew the cud and they had a split hoof. This would be cows. This would be deer, as an example. And then there would be the unclean animal. Maybe they would chew the cud, but they didn't have a split hoof, like a camel. Or they uh would not chew the cud, but they did have a split hoof. And there were examples given. Those were considered unclean. Our scripture here in 2 Peter says it has happened to them, according to the true proverb, the sow that was washed is back in the mire. Peter saw a vision from heaven of unclean animals that said, Arise, kill and eat. When we're talking about pictures in the Old Testament of these animals, the clean and the unclean, John Bunyan made a stellar observation. And he said that the unclean animals that chewed the cud and had a split book, both together, were those who walked the walk and talked the talk. That's why they were clean. You could see that both aspects of the mouth and of the foot was that of a clean animal. But there are those who seem to be very nice. They have Christian principles, but You'll never hear, thus saith the Lord, come out of their mouth. When a conversation about the Bible comes up, they just don't have anything to offer. They'll just sit there and be very silent and quiet about it. Or there are those who talk a good talk In fact, they can be quite religious. Jesus said of the Pharisees, the scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat, therefore whatsoever they bid you observe and do, that observe and do, but do not after their works, for their works they do to be seen. If men in other places said they're like whited sepulchres and inwardly full of dead men's bones. My point here is that these are these are people that seem to be saved but are not. They seem to have it together, but are not. And that's the warning, because you and I can't see hearts. Only God can see hearts. We can see outward experiences and things that people do. We can hear what people say You know, this is a good lesson for young ladies too. You really need to be careful when you're considering a man as a spouse for life, or a young man considering a woman as a spouse for life, the walk and the talk better match. And There may be strengths in one area, but if it's not in both, I'm sorry, unclean. Unclean. Avoid at all costs. You know this word fail, does any man fail of the grace of God is is interesting as well. You ladies know this word, phail, it's the Greek word hysteros. If you go to an obstetrician, some t some ladies, for various reasons, will elect to have and a hysterectomy. And when they've had that, it removes their uterus, so they can no longer bear fruit. And that's the sense here. If you hystere, hystereo of the grace of God, you fail to be able to produce fruit for the grace of God. That's the sense of this word. It's come right over into our English language. You don't want to lose the possibility of bearing fruit. And that happens Not externally but internally. Jesus said either make the tree good and what his fruit good or else make the tree evil and his fruit corrupt. A tree is known by his fruit. You can't just tie an apple on and say it's a it's an apple tree. It doesn't work. So if it fails to produce fruit, that's probably because it's not a fruit tree, and that's how you can fail the grace of God. We're gonna explore this a little bit more, please. Yeah, being hysterical is the is the failure in self-control. That's very interesting, uh, because I did a little research. I wasn't going to bring that up, but um it's even crazier than that That word hysterical does come over in our language as well. The Greeks used it because they thought if a woman was beginning to go crazy is because there is a movement of the womb of the uterus, therefore they would hysterectomy it, get rid of it so that they would remove her hysteria. This is the same this is the same medical profession that said he's not acting right, so let's give him a frontal lobotomy, right? Thankfully we've moved past that and hopefully we're advancing beyond other areas. Root of bitterness. Let's talk about this root of bitterness. He says you don't want to fail the gr grace of God and you don't want to have a root of Now that is a very distinct phrase that definitely ties back to the Old Testament. So turn with me now to the book of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 29. Again, the book of Hebrews is written to Jews who had become Christians. And in Deuteronomy 29, Moses was speaking to the people Prior to them going into the Promised Land. He is speaking to these Jews who had received the covenant of God These would have been children under the age of 20 who had come out of Egypt. And he's going to repeat certain things to them. I'm going to read 14 through 20, but I really want to focus on verse 18. So when we get to 18, kind of perk up a little bit Deuteronomy 29, 14, we read this. Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath. But with him that standeth here with us this day before the Lord our God, and also with him that is not here with us today. For you know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the nations which you passed by, and you have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them Lest there should be, notice that lest, lest there should be among you man or woman or family or tribe whose heart turneth away this day from the Lord our God to go and serve the gods of these nations, lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood, and that word gall is the word bitter. The New King James renders it lest there be a root bearing bitterness in wormwood. That's the same concept. And it cometh to pass, when he heareth the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the imagination of my heart to add drunkenness to thirst. The Lord will not spare him. But then the anger of the Lord and his jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him, and the Lord shall blot out his name from under heaven. I find it interesting because Moses is addressing the Jews that are then present, but he says, and also them that are not here with us. If you're a Christian, you're a Jew circumcised in heart, according to the Apostle Paul, so this is also written to you. And on the basis of our passage in Hebrews 12. 15, it also applies. You don't want a root of bitterness. Well, what is that root of bitterness? Hebrews warns against the bitterness lest many be defiled, and that defile has to do with staining with another color. Uh we used to have a silly little phrase with our kids when they were young and they were getting older and they began to and we're talking with infants and they're still in diapers and uh They begin to eat real food and and you discover some foods they don't particularly like. It makes them gassy and and uh you have an explosive diaper and we call, well you've just defiled all your clothes. It went everywhere. uh business meetings I would always tuck my tie in my shirt because the salsa is going to defile the tie. It's just irremovable. You know, others can detect it in this defilement. But the problem is in this defilement, others will detect it and follow along. So there's a particular sin here that's in view, or sins, that defile an individual. It can be from the heart of one person, it can spill over, and it can affect a great many other people. You know, in Deuteronomy, God connected this root of bitterness with returning to pagan gods. Why do you suppose he made that kind of connection? A root of bitterness and a returning to pagan gods. Oh I have a question about like doesn't say that the nobody can flux fluck you from my hand, God? That person is saved? Yeah, that's a good question. And we'll get to that in a minute. We'll get to that in a minute, because that's not where I'm going right now and I'll go off on a rabbit trail and I'll probably forget where I'm at. But I'll talk to that in a moment. Yes it does say that. But like 2 Peter 2 pointed out, the sow that was washed has returned to her wallowing in the mire. They were washed because they received the knowledge of the gospel, but they were never saved. People can come to a logical conclusion about the doctrines of grace. Pharisees could talk about the law of God all day long. They appeared to be righteous, appeared to be. But they were really never saved. That's the thumbnail answer to that, real quick. So why does he connect a root of bitterness to a returning to pagan gods? I would think that uh just very plainly, if you're bitter against your current condition or where the Lord has you, you should turn away from him and think, well, let me go and seek out after another dog. This one isn't helping me. I don't like the current condition. Yes, exactly right. And that does fit with our context, doesn't it? Hebrews 11 was about the hall of faith, how a great many people maintained faith in spite of the hardships they were in. You know, you can't be a foreign missionary expecting it to be a breeze. Oh, I'll be a missionary to Jamaica. That'll be fun and bright and sunny. Everything will be wonderful. Oh no, it can be very, very hard, very, very difficult. That's not a cakewalk by any stretch of the imagination It's difficult. Home missions is difficult. Any kind of work for the Lord is difficult. It's going to be met with hardship. And so therefore, because of that When the going gets tough, some hearts get tougher and just turn away, as Anton mentioned. You know, the bitterness in view, I think, is a bitterness against the way It's a bitterness against the law of God. It's a bitterness against God Himself. You can become bitter at God. Why is he doing this to me? This isn't fair. I should be treated better If he's a good God, why is he letting this bad thing happen to me? Do you think those thoughts can come up in the hearts of some people? Yeah, they can. But it's a filter. God is sifting the nations. And one way he sifts, one way he runs his sieve over the sons of men is a little bit of hardship. Wasn't that The devil's poke at Job? Sure he worships you. Of course he serves you. You've hedged him about, you've given him a great amount. Of course he serves you. He hasn't had any difficulty Go ahead, just touch his flesh. He'll curse you to your face. Job's wife threw her in the towel pretty quick. It didn't even touch her. It touched her indirectly just from seeing what had happened I guess it did hit her directly. She lost her children as well. Was that enough to turn Job away? No. Was he grieved? You bet. Was he deeply affected? Obviously. But it didn't turn him back. So how do we know Job was the real deal? Because he stuck with the Lord through, as we would say, thick and thin, through the hard and the good These days, marriage vows are made. I'm not quite sure what kind of vow the unbeliever makes when they get married. A very humorous Example was given to me from Pastor Decker, not well of Pastor Decker through uh Pastor Dave Lewis Uh we were s talking when three years ago when Gloria was getting married, and uh we were just speaking about marriage related things and he said one of the most interesting things you ever heard in a marriage. Pastor Decker was marrying some guy and uh he uh turned to the bride to give her uh her vows and when you got to the park you agreed to submit and obey she says oh no oh no right there dress audience Day of the wedding, oh no, not him. Without missing the beat he turned to the groom, you okay with that? The groom said, sure. He says, okay, so we proceeded right on So she she she excluded that part of the vow right away. Don't cut the cake yet. Great, don't cut the cake yet. I'm not sure what people vow, but I know what I vowed Because it said in sickness and in health, richer or poorer. And you think you're beautiful, lovely, bride, and you're handsome. Nice. I don't want to throw on too many accolades because you know you'll know I'm lying about myself. Groom You never think that they might go broke or lose their job. You never think that they might fall into a grievous disease that you're going to deal with for 20 years. You just don't really consider that as a possibility at that time. You know, when God saves you, he likens it to a marriage. You're espoused to Jesus Christ. This is a mighty long espousal. Because we're getting cleaned up. So that we're not going to stand up there and say, me submit to him? Oh no, that's not part of the deal. God's not going to have that. And so do you think there's a temptation to want to turn back? Yes, there is You know, turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 because the Apostle Paul gives a very extensive record of the kinds of things that people Will do and can experience that can result in a negative outcome. In 1 Corinthians 10, I think he gives a very good explanation of what constitutes a root of bitterness. And listen to this example that he gives here in 1 Corinthians 10. I'm going to read through verse 11. Moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant. I don't want you to be ignorant. How that all of our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea. We're all baptized under Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ But with many of them, God was not well pleased. For they were overthrown in the wilderness. 1 Corinthians, that's in the New Testament, by the way. Now these things were our examples to the intent we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Number one. Lusting. Number two, neither be ye idolaters as were some of them, as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Idolatry. That's number two. Number three, neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day 23,000 people. One day. Item number three, fornication. Number four, neither let us tempt Christ, if some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. That's kind of standing there and shaking your finger in God's face or asking him, Can you really provide? Verse 10, neither murmur ye, if some of them also murmured and were destroyed of the destroyer. Murmuring. Murmuring is generally not loud. It's also not something that many other people hear. They may. Especially since gossip is one of our favorite sins as humans. We drink iniquity like water. Now all these things happened unto them for examples. And they are written for what? Our admonition. That stuff in the Old Testament, folks, is for you. That's for you. That's for you. It's written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. We're in that last era that I'll use another term from some others, our last dispensation. This is it. This is the end of time. There's been a lot of prophets, but God has spoken to us in these last days, Hebrews 1, by His Son He's not sending another prophet. He sent the greatest prophet, the prophet, the Lord Jesus, his son. There's nothing that's coming. Verse 12. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. Lest he fall. He thinks he stands. There are those who are deceived and deceiving. They've deceived themselves into thinking that they're fine. There can be a deception that reaches to the soul that says, I'm really a child of God, as you read in Deuteronomy. He says, I'll have peace, even though I want to add thirst to drunkenness and walk after the imagination of my own own heart. I can go do this thing, because God will forgive me. To be presumptuous about the grace of God, I've heard my wife has heard someone report to her when confronted with an adulterous remarriage She shouldn't have been divorced to begin with. She shouldn't have been seeing this guy across the street a year before the divorce occurred. So that the kids had pictures of him around a Christmas tree at that time of the year. Daddy didn't know about it. Dads are always the last ones to know, or the wife And she says, well, if it's a sin, God will forgive me of it. That's presumption. God will not forgive that. That's presumption. You don't go tripsing, traipsi into it, saying, well, God will forgive it Lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness set sin. Because you know what happens? Some sins, idolatry, fornication, murmuring. All of those things are toxic to the body of Christ. They're visible, they're a stain, they're evident. Others see it, and it encourages them to murmur, it encourages them to turn away, it encourages them to go from The God of grace. Grace is freeing, yes. But it doesn't mean you're free to do as He hasn't delivered you to commit these abominations. You've not been delivered. You've been delivered from sin to serve him in righteousness. That's there's the difference. And so I believe that's a big reason why we have these exhortations, lest these things happen so that the body of Christ isn't hit with a cancer. Yes, brother. Um so I think I wanted to ask a question in I was thinking about repentance and how and that example you gave. The presumption this sounds like when you're presuming in grace you're not focused on repentance. So 'cause I I guess obviously I wasn't trying to make an excuse for it, but I was thinking of David, King David, and how Well like he he did sin and he did fall. But I guess the difference in the example that you gave once you just like, Oh, he'll forgive me of my sins as opposed to the David who got on his knee and repented and said, You know, God has sinned against me and how the grace is there but some people are kind of or peop people just tr try to use that as an excuse to to live in sin as opposed to Amen. Very well said. Yeah, very that's very that's nicely said, and David's a good example. If I could go back and maybe not emphasize my point too strongly. The only unpardonable sin is blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. And I'm not going to unravel that at the moment. But thumbnail sketch is to ascribe the works of Christ to the devil And if you're worried you've committed it, you probably have it. The key is repentance, as you point out, right? We are ever repentant. All sin is willful sin. I want the sin. That's just simply how it operates. But there is a stern warning in here to not fail of the grace of God. There's a stern warning for self-examination. Am I really in the faith? There's a stern warning for these things because As I introduced, that even in the world, an individual can do something that has widespread effect. And it turns out in Christianity that there can be a tremendously widespread effect to the negative, to the contrary, for those who fail of the grace of God. One example that comes to mind, and then we're going to talk about diligent following in the remaining five minutes, because that's the antidote, was the days of the early Christian church around 300 A. D. The church struggled with the confessors and the tradatories of the traitors. Because this was a time when the Roman Caesar wanted to stamp out the Christians and the Empire. Because they were atheists. They didn't have all the gods like the Romans did. They only had one God. They were atheists, which is an interesting accusation these days. So when the soldiers would knock on the door, here, offer a pinch of incense to Caesar, sign this piece of paper, hang it in your house, and that was as far as it went. That if you did that, you could keep your business, you could keep operating everything, you could keep going to church. They didn't care. It was just a stupid do-nothing formality Kind of like a lot of laws that Maryland makes, but I digress. There were the traders who said, yeah, I didn't believe it, but I just did it anyway There are those who said, oh no, I'm not going to pinch incense and off to say Caesar is God. I can't say that. That would be to deny my Lord. Well, they might lose their house, their children might be sold into slavery, and they might lose their business. That would be the extreme event. At a minimum they'd lose their business or have to pay higher taxes to sell at the marketplace Something would impact them. Now imagine these types of brethren coming into church on Sunday. One's the traitor. They denied. The other lost a lot and were faithful. And this caused a stir and a conflict in the church. And it was a great source of consternation. It was tremendously troubling, and rightfully so should it have been. That's one example. Another is Polycarp, when he was brought to the theater. An eighty-six year old man. To be burned at the stake before others, if he would only recant and not accept Christ. The audience loved bloodlust. They loved that sport. They loved to see the the uh Christians burned and eaten alive by beasts. They really had a lust for blood sports But after the death of Polycarp, when he just willingly stood there and allowed himself to be burned, and he wasn't struggling or fighting back, and he was praying and so forth, that the crowd had such a deep distaste in their mouth for it That he was the last one burned at the state for hundreds of years. The the mood of the auditorium and the whole theater was such that This is wrong. We don't want to do this. And it totally stemmed the tide. His death removed By him laying down his life, it removed persecution from a tremendous number of other saints. So one faithful Christian can do a lot of good. But a little bit of unfaithfulness, particularly in these areas, can go the wrong way. Well, what's the antidote? None of us want to stumble into this We don't want to walk into this thing and it says looking diligently, following diligently, diligently. You know what's interesting I Joe and I are word nuts. We like etymologies, the genesis of words. That word diligently is the same root word for an overseer, a bishop. An episcopus, an episcopus, an overseer, kind of like a church administrator. I know a little something about that. You kind of pay diligent attention to lots of little things. You know, the finances, what's the weekly things going, okay, the time of month, are there any bills coming in or going out or what do I need the bills always go out, excuse me. Are there any Yeah, is there insurance coming up that's due? Is there It's an oversight, and it relates to this duty, and he says you have to be an overseer of your soul You have to be a diligent overseer of your soul. Some people spend more time figuring out what their next automobile is going to be before they figure out who their next spouse is going to be Next, you notice that there seems to be a habit and a pattern, the new every two, like Elizabeth Taylor, if you remember her. Proverbs 4. 23, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. There's a diligent oversight. How? Through the means of grace, hearing the word of God. One of the best commendations I've heard concerning marital counseling was from our pastor who said, you know, counseling begins in the pulpit, meaning you're there on a regular basis and you're hearing it. A little carving here, a little dusting here. Isn't it true, Freddie? If you deal with the problems when they're small, they're so easy to deal with. Just take care of it, right? Jeffrey, if you're in a house, you got some water underneath the counter Don't assume it's splashed down from the sink. Go look. Maybe there's something leaking underneath. Better fix it while it's small. You know, the tires went a little flat. Let's check it out. Maybe it's got a nail in it before I have a blowout on the road. When they're small When they're small, you can deal with these things. They're not hard. But if you're lazy I went by the field of the lazy, the house of the slothful. It was all grown over with thorns. All I have to do to let this house run down is do nothing. Do nothing, it'll fall down. Examine yourselves, whether you be in the faith, prove your own selves, know you not your own selves How that Jesus Christ is in you. Except you be reprobates. A reprobate is someone who's never saved. They think they are. They testify to others. Other people may think they are. Other faithful Christians may think they are And yet they never were. You know, this is not the first time we've heard this in Hebrews, and I'll close with this. It says in chapter two, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard, lest at any time we let them slip. We've heard that before. Chapter three. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. Again, heart issue in departing from the living God. Departing from the living God to what? Idols. That's the only other option There is no other living God to turn to. Chapter 4. Therefore let us fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of this. That's another way of saying failing in the grace of God Let us labor to enter that rest lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. And so to prevent lethal toxicity to the church body, because we are being connected. Boy, this is really Impressing deeply upon me in the book of Hebrews as a connected body, how we each individually are. Does require diligence. It does require uplifting, encouraging each and every one, because we don't want any one of us to become toxic. And we all want to be whole in Christ. So that's the exhortation for today, and I hope it's it's helpful. Yes. If I just comment uh again on the question we were talking about earlier, you know, uh shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid, how shall they that are dead to sin? Someone who says, Well God will forgive me, they're not dead to sin. They they've never been regenerated in the first place. Right. That's the sad truth. Yeah, it is. They were washed south. They got washed through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior You know. They were close enough to the gospel to benefit from its outliers. Yes. But not close enough to the gospel to be saved. Yeah, absolutely. Anton? Anton, could you close them for? Yeah, please. Father in heaven, we look to you. Thank you, Lord, that you've um preserved your word and given it to us that we could read. Oh Lord, help us not to just be hearers of your word, deceiving our own selves, but be doers of it, O Lord. And indeed to uh to look at our own estate diligently and and guard our our heart all diligence over test, please uh Help us indeed to examine ourselves, see if there be any wicked way in us and lead us in the way of blasting. Work in us, O Lord, to conform us to the image of our Savior. Help us to be Help us to not be conformed to the image of this dark world. Pray that you even bless the gathering going forth, O Lord. Preaching of your word. We ask it all in Christ.