Quite the scramble this morning, but that's alright. Say uh always good to see the people of God. I'm going to read to you our section that we are dealing with in the book of Hebrews today, Hebrews, the 9th chapter, and I'm going to read 18 to 22. Hebrews chapter 9. We're going to go from verses 18 to 22. Hear now the word of the Lord. Whereupon neither of the first testament was dedicated without blood. For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people According to the law, speaking about his time at Mount Sinai, we'll take a look at that. He took the blood of calves and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined, charged, commanded unto you. Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry. And almost all things are by the law Purged with blood. And without the shedding of blood is no remission. Thus ends the reading of that portion of Scripture. I uh am not unfamiliar with the book of Hebrews. I've been through it many a time, and I'm continually impressed that when you go back through something, even though you may be familiar with it, to look at it carefully again. One thing that stands out to us in verse 19 is the list of all these little details Sometimes the Bible does record little details and they're there not accidentally or incidentally There are no cigarette butts on the crime scene of God's survey of things. All little details are important. And it's always good to look at those and to examine each one and to think, now why would the divine divinely inspired penmen include these things. It was written to Hebrews, to Jews, and whoever wrote this was very familiar. I say whoever wrote it. Ultimately God moved the individual to write this. There's no question about that But there are these purification rituals that are involved here. We're going to look at those elements. We're going to look at the stated the how they were applied, and then we're going to come to see what they uh what they eventually came to mean and what they were initially intended to point to in their instance, how it was applied And we're going to find two things. That one, it has something to do with baptism, with purging, with purification. Baptism is a purification. And it has something to do with sealing a covenant. The reformers referred to things known as signs and seals. There was a sign that went on, typically, and then there was a seal. It wasn't just a memorial, it was something significant. Jesus said that his uh take the cup, drink it. This is my blood of the New Testament. His shed blood is a thing which initiates through the death of the testator, the new So let's look at this these rituals. And I'm going to focus on four things. The blood, there's a mention of blood. Mentioned specifically of water. Did you see that? He took the blood of calves and goats with water He also mentions water. He then talks about scarlet. He brings that in. Scarlet's just a color. It could be a dye used to color typically wool. And hyssop. Maybe some of you may or may not know what hyssop is, but hopefully by the end of today you will. So we're going to look at those, not necessarily in that order, and then we're going to look at the realities and then the connection to the covenant. So let's get started. Um blood was frequently used to purge holy vessels and the various ministers within the whole tabernacle complex. This is a summary statement that is being made in Hebrews 9. The first reference occurs in Exodus 24. It's in your bulletin in the center portion. We read about this dedication of the old covenant. It says in Exodus 24, verse 4, Moses wrote all the words of the Lord. So it's talking about what he had written. He captured all of the commandments of God. And then in verse 5 it says he offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen. So here's these animals that were slain. And as they were slain, their blood would have been captured in a basin. And then you read what happens next. Verse 6. Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins. and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar. Now that would seem rather disquieting to us today, but this was what God had commanded. Take the blood of this animal Sprinkle it on the altar. Then he goes on. Verse 6. He took the book of the covenant. Now this was expensive material. He didn't run down to staples and buy a sheet of a ream of paper. This would have been typically on vellum, which was made of animal skins. We also know that the Uh ten commandments came down from the mountain written on tables of stone. So he had tables of stone. He would have had vellum because he was writing all the other commandments. And by the way, ignore the biblical minimalist who said Moses didn't know how to write or there wasn't even language back in those days. Oh no, there's plenty of evidence that in fact there was language. Moses was an excellent author, and I commend to you uh what's the fellow's name, Gabriel uh Timothy Mahoney, who talks about the Moses Controversy. That's an excellent DVD. If you don't have it, I recommend you download it, purchase it, you can watch it. Every place but YouTube, you do have to pay for it. It's worth your ten dollars to see. Moses wrote a book, and it says he took the book, he read it in the audience of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has said we will do and be obedient And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words. So Moses also sprinkles the people with the blood. Now we'll see exactly how he does that because there would have been upwards of around a million, maybe as many as two million individuals that were there at the foot of Mount Sinai, which is where this is occurring. How do you sprinkle with blood that many people? Hint, hyssop, hyssop. We also find about blood sprinkling, because I'm talking about blood now, so we're going to conclude with that, and then when we get to hyssop, I'll remind you some about that. In Exodus 29 and verse 21, we continue reading, you shall take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil. And sprinkle it upon Aaron, upon his garments, and upon his sons, upon the garments of his sons with him, he shall be hallowed. Hallowed is a word meaning to make holy. We celebr celebrate uh I don't, but some celebrate Halloween. It was a mangling of the word which means all uh all hallows eve. All holy e that was a celebration on the day of the Reformation of all the martyred saints which the world perverted to make it into ghosts and ghouls and that sort of thing. So that's that word hallowed. It means it made holy. It was a holy thing, the blood of the martyrs, the saints, of those who had gone before, given their life, paid the ultimate sacrifice to advance the cause of the gospel. Well, here The blood and the oil is sprinkled upon Aaron, his sons, and his garments. They were consecrated. They were hallowed to that office that was the rite of entrance, if you will. That had to happen You also read in Leviticus when you get to the Levitical Code, and again, all of these references are inside of your bulletin. Leviticus 16, 14, he shall take the blood of the bullock and sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward. Inside the tabernacle complex was a holy place. And then you entered into that, and then there was a holy of holy place, also known as the holy of holies. It had the tabernacle. Uh excuse me. Inside that tabernacle it had the Ark of the Covenant, the tables of stone inside of this holy box. Made of all gold, staves in the side to be picked up and moved around. It would have been heavy But he was to sprinkle with his finger on that mercy seat that was the top of that golden box, if you will. Verse 18, a few verses later of Leviticus 16, he shall go out. unto the altar that is before the Lord and make an atonement for it. Even the very altars, this is now outside the Holy of Holies, where burnt offerings occurred. Even the very altar had to be hallowed, had to be consecrated. You shall take of the blood of the bullock, the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about. The altar would have had these little protrusions that stuck up on the side whereby they would strap the animal down as it was being sacrificed, so it's not thrashing around. This is what God required. He required a lot of death and a lot of blood. This is what made it holy. Our God is holy. He demands payment for sins. Attended a funeral yesterday It's a grave thing. It's a serious thing. Every time I've gone to a funeral and I look at that body in the casket, something's different. It's a real, no-kidding, dead body. You can't miss that. Something has departed. Something is left. And all I can think of is God is not mocked. The wages of sin, in fact, is death. God's not kidding. And he does come upon you, and he will visit you. And he sends plenty of warnings along the way. And so here God said blood had to be shed. So you see all of this blood being used in the Old Testament. The Old Testament was a very bloody thing. It was a very uh daily ritual that required the sacrifice of plenty of animals. We also find water was used. There's an explicit reference to that in the number in the book of Numbers, Numbers 8-7 Thus shalt thou do unto them to cleanse, it's speaking about the Levites, sprinkle water of purifying upon them. Let them shave. all their flesh, and let them wash their clothes and so make themselves clean. So here there's this thing called a water of purifying. They would be sprinkled with that. Now I asked the question earlier, so how in the world would Moses have sprinkled all these people? Have you ever stood in a large crowd? The largest crowd I've ever been in maybe was at a stadium where there was some event going on and there were 30, 40, 50,000 people. That would have been A fraction of what was there at the foot of Mount Sinai. There was a lot of people. How does he sprinkle all these people? Well, it turns out that you use hyssop Hyssop is a thing that grows naturally. Chinese know about this, they have a different term for it, and it is a type of a sponge, a natural sponge. You could soak that hiss up in the bloody mixture and you begin to fling it. You begin to fling it and the little drops are hitting people You find, for instance, in Exodus 12 before the Passover in Egypt, Exodus 12, 22, the very night of the Passover you find, you shall take a bunch of hyssop. Dip it in the blood that's in the basin and strike the lentil and the two sideposts with the blood that is in the basin. If you recall, if you're familiar with Jewish history, the Passover required the death of the firstborn, the firstborn beast of the field or whatever. And anybody who had such an animal was to sacrifice it, take its blood, and you were to strike the doorposts on the outside of your house, and you were to stay in, because that night the Lord would pass over. If he saw the blood On the doorposts you would pass over. If your house didn't have blood on the outside, maybe the wife complained, you want to do what? You want to mess up my awnings? You want to oh that's ugly. No, don't do that Well, then she would pay with her firstborn son, and the firstborn of the animal, and the firstborn of every individual throughout Egypt who failed to put blood on their doorposts died. God gaining the victory over the gods of the Egyptians, even Pharaoh's own firstborn son. And so that was a glorious picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is our Passover. And he sees the blood if we're in him, if we have found him to be our savior, and he will pass over us So hyssop was used, and in fact, sprinkled water from hyssop was used to cleanse one who touched the dead body. It's featured prominently there as well. You find that in the book of Numbers, Numbers 19. You'll notice I'm jumping around a lot because it's just referring to these different elements. Blood, water, piss up. Here in Numbers 19, we read this, Whosoever touches one slain with the sword in the open fields, or a dead body, or the bone of a man, or a grave. Shall be unclean seven days. You know, there's a lot of wisdom to that. One of the problems that a lot of these grave robbers face is they go into these Ancient tombs and they dig it out, lo and behold, they contract the very virus that killed that individual. That virus is still alive and active. It is still on the bones Of the dead individuals. You don't want to go messing around in boneyards, folks. The virus can survive and in fact does and in fact has killed individuals. He says, You're unclean if you touch it. What's the solution? Verse 17 For an unclean person, they shall take of the ashes of the burnt heifer for purification of sin, and running water shall be put thereunto in a vessel A clean person shall take hyssop, dip it in water, sprinkle it upon the tent, upon all the vessels, upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched a bone, slain, dead or a grave, the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean the third day and the seventh day. There's a lot of ceremonial significance, but there's also medical significance to this. You know, ashes are basically a form of carbonized material And perhaps you have heard of taking these pills that are uh I'm gonna fail to remember the name. Uh it's it's it's basically uh the the the the burnt part of a wood. Activated charcoal, thank you. You use it in your water filters. Some people take it. It turns out that that is an excellent um vessel for absorbing things. It's a great collector. And mixed with water, if there are any remnants on you, it would start to clean it away. It would pull it away from you. So there was Medical significance, but there was also spiritual significance. And that's mostly what I'm here to talk about today. Yeah, that's what that's what the filter is in my big picture. Absolutely. Absolutely. So we've talked about blood and the water. We've talked about the hyssop used to sprinkle the people, sprinkle the lentils Now what about Scarlet? Well that's interesting because in everything we've read so far, you never hear scarlet. In fact The only reference I could find to scarlet being used in these purification rituals, that's what we're talking about here, is in reference to the day of the cleansing of a leper. Leprosy was the cancer of their day. It was slow moving. It would slowly but surely take over that person so that fingers ears, nose, part body parts would just simply begin to fall off until they finally wasted away. It was horrible. It was a contractible disease. You didn't want to be near a leper. But There was an assessment that the priests could do to look at an individual to see whether or not they were cleansed of their leprosy. And there's only one individual I know of in the scriptures that faced that. And the Lord Jesus healed him and said, Go to the priest and you show yourself to him for a testimony. Well, if he was in fact healed from his leprosy, then this part of Scripture, this ancient book of The book of Leviticus would be found by the priest. I mean, he'd never, it was a very rare thing for a leopard to heal, and he would find this portion, Leviticus 14. It says, this shall be the law of the leprechaun the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought into the priest. Verse 3, the priest shall look, verse 4, the priest shall command to take for him that is to be cleansed two birds alive and clean. Cedar wood and scarlet and hyssop. This is the first time we have scarlet mentioned in the cleansing. Alright Hyssop we talked about, blood, animals we understand. One of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water. As for the living bird, he shall take it, the cedar wood, the scarlet, the hyssop Shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water, and shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed, From the leprosy, seven times shall pronounce him clean and shall let the living bird loose. There's a tremendous amount of symbolism going on there It's really fascinating. I really don't have time to get into that per se today. But I just want to point out that Scarlet is the only place mentioned is in the cleansing of a leper To be cleansed with scarlet basically meant you were healed of the worst kind of disease possible. Scarlet was reserved for the worst of the diseases It was it was the most hideous. If you had scarlet applied, and again I'm not going to get into some of that other than to say if you had scarlet applied, this was serious business. You had been healed of a very significant disease. So we've covered these purification rituals. Now, these were not pagan rituals that somebody on a Polynesian island, hot and tot in Africa, Somebody from the Western Zoo dynasty thousands of years ago came up with and said, Oh, let's do this. This sounds interesting, to appease the gods. No, no, no, no, no. The Lord God of the Bible does things on purpose and for a reason, and he does so because he is reflecting spiritual teachings and the spiritual teachings consistently and always point to his work, his son, his ministry, his testament. It's all about Jesus Christ somehow, some way, some shape, some form, some fashion. You are going to get married. I've used this illustration a million times, and I'm going to keep beating it because I think it's a good drum. And you send out wedding invitations. You give it location You give the bridal colors. The bride's very particular what color she's going to pick. The audience is in particular view. They establish a place, a then you form the registry, all this stuff, and they pack all this information, they send it out Is that the marriage? Is that envelope the marriage? It's just an invitation. It's pointing to things, things to come. It has promises in it. It has pictures. It has links and illustrations. It's not the marriage. In fact, after the marriage occurs, that invitation can be thrown away, and no damage is done It all pointed to something greater, and even so it was in the Old Testament. It was a grand picture pointing to the marriage to come, our marriage with the Lord Jesus Christ So we find that Hebrews 9-9 in fact tells us that these are spiritual realities. He says Speaking of the tabernacle that was standing, he says it was a figure for the time then present. It was a figure, not word figure, it was a word parable. It was a historical parable. So sprinkling of blood and of water came to represent, it was revealed more clearly over time, that it represents a purification of the soul. For instance, listen to Isaiah, this classic portion of Scripture speaking about the coming of the Messiah in Isaiah 52, 13. Behold. My servant, and I probably should have capitalized that, he's speaking about the Christ, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. As many were astonished at thee, his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of man. The Lord Jesus, as he had faced The trial before Pilate, Pontius Pilate, he was beaten. Pilate allowed him to be beaten. He was punched Of course, uh Caiaphas the high priest and his soldiers did the same. He was absolutely, he was whipped, he was scourged He was a bloody, dare I say, dripping mess. It says his visage was marred more than any man. He was absolutely beat to a pulp. Here it is, Isaiah calling it out. It continues. It says, so, meaning in this manner, in like fashion. Shall he sprinkle many nations? His blood will sprinkle many nations. His blood upon the cross shall be applied to many nations. People of all kindred, tribe, and tongue. A variety of people. That's what it came to represent. That sprinkling of his blood. He was bloody from the beatings Ezekiel picks up on it and speaks to those in captivity of Ezekiel 36, 25. Here God speaking through the prophet says, Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean From all your filthiness and from all your idols will I cleanse you. This wasn't some leftover viruses that needed to be removed from the flesh. This was a much deeper cleansing that was required. It was a cleansing of the soul. God says, a new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you. This is the kind of cleansing that God had in view. There had to be a new heart. You have to have a spiritual heart transplant. The old heart, the old man, the old ways, the old interests have got to disappear. They're like a virus. They're like leprosy. Isn't that strange? You would think that if we had our senses about us, you'd want to be free of a virus. You'd want to be free of leprosy. You would think that we could rightly assess that when I have some kind of physical disease, then I want to be free from it. What kind of a person is that who is physically sick and likes it that way? And wants to stay physically sick. They enjoy being sick. They think it's great. You would say the person's mad. There's something not right in his head. There are some senses that are missing. And I say to you, my friends, I don't mean to offend people, but spiritually speaking, that's how we are by nature. We like our spiritual sickness. We're interested in that spiritual disease. We like our spiritual leprosy. We think it is success. We think it's going in the right direction. And God says, no, I need to give you a new heart. In the parable of the prodigal son, who had great riches and comfort in his father's house. And he said, Father, give me my portion of the inheritance. And he went to a, joined himself to a citizen of a far country. And it says that he wasted his substance. What a beautiful word to use. It was more than his pocketbook His reputation, his honor, strength, wasted his substance with riotous living, consumed it, just consumed. He was sick with the disease. And the scripture says as he was feeding hogs, the hog trough university. And it says he came to his senses and said, in my father's house, in my father's house. As much bread. My servants are treated better there than I am here. I will return and go to my Father in heaven, saying I've sinned against heaven and against thee. Make me as one of thy hired servants. He had a new heart. He had a new heart. And that's what Ezekiel is talking about here. And Jesus' death was an atonement. It fulfilled all the purification requirements to enter into heaven. Those were symbols. They pointed to something far deeper, a disease far greater and far more significant. What I find fascinating is the literal fulfillment that God has for even these physical Spirit these little rituals. Notice what it says of Jesus' death on the cross. John records that the soldiers with a spear pierced Jesus' side And it says, forth words they came out, blood and water. Blood and water Now, medically, yes, it pierced the myocardium around the heart where there's a little bit of water there, and that would have been the thing that came out. Yes, he was dead. He didn't swoon. Muslims have the swoon theory. They say, well, Judas was on the cross. Oh no, no, no, no, no. There are extra secular, there are secular, extra-biblical records of Christ's crucifixion on the cross You can't get around it. He really was dead. You would say, why would somebody want to change that? Because they don't want to hear about the resurrection. Because to have a resurrection, Jim, you've got to have a dead body. And there was a dead body. The Lord Jesus definitely died. Forthwith there came blood and water. John, the same one who spoke there, Who was the author, the human author in John 19, wrote this in 1 John 5, 6. Speaking of the Lord Jesus says, This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ. Not by water only, but by water and by blood. You see, Jesus cleanses us both by his word and his blood. That's the water. That's the blood. And that's what John is focusing on. Water and blood, cleansing, purification. You've got to have it. And frankly, as I began to look in this study more and more, I began to realize, providentially, because we're having a baptism today That the book of Hebrews is explaining Christian baptism. That's what this is all talking about. Why you would say I would make that connection? Because it uses the word purging, doesn't use the word baptize. Oh no, it's talking about the very same thing Look at Hebrews 1. 3. It says, when he had by himself purged our sins. When did that happen? On the cross. What is baptism a picture of? The purging of sins. He said it earlier in Hebrews 9. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works? to serve the living God. So purging has something to do with atonement. Hebrews 9. 22, all things are purged by blood. Without the shedding of blood there is no remission. It has to do with atonement. There's a connection there. You can't get around it. It's using the word purge. Go to the book of John chapter 3. You say, Vince, I still don't see the connection. I don't have this in your handout. This is a uh bonus track This is a most instructive passage for your Baptist friends in John 3. 25, that there is a distinct connection about purification and baptism. It occurs in John 3 and verse 25. It says there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about Purifying, about purification. So they came, they're coming to Jesus, and they have a question about purification. They're actually coming to John. John was known as the baptizer, John the Baptist. By the way, he was an Old Testament prophet. He lived before the cross. He was the last of the Old Testament prophets. Jesus himself indicated as such. So the baptism he did would have been informed by the Old Testament. So they have a question about purifying, and they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, unto whom thou bearest witness, behold the same what? Baptizeth, and all men come to him. That's their question. Their question is about baptism. Oh no, but it says they had a question about purification. That's because they're the same. There's a connection. It's a connection to purification And that's what Hebrews is dealing with. It's using it in Old Testament terms. Also, this idea of being purged was figuratively used by David himself. In Psalm 51, David says, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Again, this cleansing for sin, this washing away of sins, all of that came from that Old Testament language And so I would point out that David is not asking for a better scrubby. He needs his soul and his conscience cleaned. He has a guilty conscience. That's one of the effects of a purging, of a cleansing, of God's baptism is upon the heart. You know, we can skip ahead to Hebrews 10, 22. Hebrews 10. 22 it says, Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Yes, the mind, the body, the soul, all of God's people are cleansed when the Lord Jesus Christ cleanses you. It's a complete package deal. It's wonderful. Now that deep scarlet wool, that deep red, matching the blood color, that just came to indicate a rescue from the worst possible calamity. It came to indicate the greatest salvation you can imagine. And that was featured in none other than Rahab the harlot, when her city Of Jericho was moments before destruction, the very following day or so when the Jews would come and surround and march the city seven times and the walls came a tumbling down. That she feared what God was going to do. Through those Jews, through those soldiers, those men of God, to whom Sihon, king of uh of uh uh of uh uh Ab, king of Sihon, and Bashin uh uh king of uh Heshbah, I forget the two horrible kings. They were conquered. She even knew about the crossing of the Red Sea. She says our hearts melt as soon as we heard you're coming our way. They thought they would have come through the Gaza Strip. Oh no, they were coming through Jordan over the Jordan River from east to west. And that was the first town they're going to knock out. Very thickly walled city. Kathleen Kenyon, biblical archaeologist, excavated there in the 30s, had some tremendous discoveries. She had all the observational data. The observations were spot on correct that the walls fell outward. They found pots with grain in them because it came during harvest time. There was a fire burn layer there indicating the city had been burned down. And there was complete destruction. There was one part of the wall standing. Yeah, I wonder what house that was. Because Rahab negotiated with the spies saying, please spare me and my father's house. And the spy said, yep, you got it. Here's the condition. You hang this scarlet thread out the window. This scarlet rope. Had to be something divisible. It wasn't a sewing thread. You hang it out the window. Scarlet, scarlet. Didn't have time to sacrifice an animal and put blood on the doorposts. So put this scarlet thread out the window, and you'll be spared. And our life are yours if any of our men do anything to you. And she was fared. And she became one who would fall in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. Scarlet became known as a rescue. We saw that color, if scarlet was applied. It was a it was a leper that was cleansed. It was the ultimate salvation. Rahab was facing the ultimate catastrophe. Her city, her family, her life. It was ridiculously catastrophic, and yet hanging that scarlet out. That came to represent the strongest salvation you can imagine. So my conclusion here on this aspect is that these purification rituals which include New Testament baptism, it all reflects it, involve physical elements, folks, they're merely symbolic. They're symbolic. The right itself doesn't change the individual The sprinkling of blood on the individual didn't change them. But it did reflect their relationship by way of a covenant It did reflect their relationship to the death of the testator that we read about earlier in Hebrews. That a covenant, a testament is not in force until a testator dies. And so these purification rituals have two components. We've talked about the aspect of the signs And I trust you picked up one or two of the signs. But it also had to do with a seal, because it initiated He was the death of the testator. It confirmed, it inaugurated, if you will, the New Testament. It made all of the terms and conditions fulfilled and the promises to be of force. That is what kicked it in. Sprinkled blood. Used to purify and cleanse is a symbol of the covenant, the Lord Jesus said in the Lord's Supper. This is the blood of the Testament. That was his language in Luke 22. All three gospel accounts, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, all record that language. This is my blood shed for you, which is in the New Testament. Drink ye all of it. Now in the Old Testament, the covenantal symbol was circumcision. It was a bloody symbol. A lot of blood It was icky. I can't imagine being a priest around all that blood. Mother, it would drive you and me nuts. How do you ever clean the place? And God says, no, no, no, it's the blood that cleans the place. And you go, oh, okay, well I guess so My mother's the queen of queen, in case you don't know. The queen of queen, I said that right, I think so. In the New Testament, the symbol is water baptism. Because now the principal element is water. And the water that we hold forth is the word of life. That's the symbol that we have now. Jesus died once, no more blood is required. To shed blood would be wrong. For me to send out wedding invitations for my daughter and son-in-law's wedding would be wrong. It would be wrong to send out. I would be directing people to the wrong place at the wrong time. It would be incorrect. They're already married. There's no reason to send out those invitations anymore. The done deal. Likewise, Jesus Christ died on the cross. No more blood's required. Jesus' blood is the reality. It enforces the promises of the new covenant to kick into effect. We talked about that at length. You say, what does that have to do with what we're talking about here? Because Verse 16 of Hebrews 9, where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. A testament is a force after men are dead. It's of no strength while the testator lives And then he goes on to talk about Moses dedicated verse 20. This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you. It's talking about dedicating a testament. And so it's a seal to that same thing. That's exactly what it does. Today, providentially, I'm covering Anton, this section of scripture. I didn't forcefeit anything. We just happen to be in this part of Hebrews 9. And we will have a baptism today of an infant. It indicates external covenantal membership, because it is applied externally, because it is a symbol. He has a relationship to the covenant. I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after. Abraham will be a God to uh Abraham's God is a God to all families of the earth. God normally deals with families He says, I will take you one of a city and two of a family. There's a higher percentage, typically, in the household of the elect for God to send his sheep. Praise God, he doesn't limit it to that. And only Christ-sprinkled blood can bring an individual into salvation through the preaching of the word. I close with Ephesians 5. 26, which I don't have in your handout because I ran out of room. Ephesians 5. 26, where we read this. Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church, gave himself for it. Speaking of the church, that he, Christ might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing water of the Word. That's what washes. Again, that heart reality that sinks in So this is the curious formulation, if you will, of all these rituals of the Old Testament and how that carries forward into the New. I find it very instructive. I trust it was helpful to you. If you want more information about Christian baptism, you can go to the church's website and just search for the word baptism. There have been lessons on household baptisms, the case for infant baptism and so forth. A lot of that material has already been covered, and I'm not going to sort of repeat it here. Pastor Joe, would you close us a prayer, please? Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, for your mercy upon us. For Lord, you have graciously sprinkled the blood of Christ upon our hearts. And you have cleansed us with that precious blood. We thank you for it. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the glorious scriptures that were presented to us today. Indeed, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. We thank you. And Father, pray that you would cause these scriptures not to simply be heard and forgotten, but may your spirit remind our hearts of them constantly and may you plant them deeply within our hearts. Lord, that we might uh meditate on them. Uh we thank you, Father, for the teaching. We thank you, Lord, for uh you providing your servant to bring it forth, and we thank you, Lord, for the um glorious prosperity of thy word that it will not return void. And so Father we thank you for for hearing it and pray you bless it to our hearts. Lord now prepare us for the worship service this day And we pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.