Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the second chapter of the Gospel as recorded for us under inspiration by John. John chapter 2, and I will take our scripture reading beginning with verse 12 and reading through verse 22. John chapter two, and beginning with the twelfth verse. In the first portion of John chapter 2, we have the account of the marriage at Canaan. And Christ turning the water into wine when the master of the feast had run out of wine And in verse 12, we read the words after this, in other words, after the marriage at Canaan. After this, he went down to Capernaum. He and his mother and his brethren and his disciples, and they continued there not many days. And the Jews' Passover was at hand And Jesus went up to Jerusalem and found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changers of money sitting. And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen, and poured out the changer's money, and overthrew the tables. And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence, make not my father's house an house of merchandise And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign showest thou us unto us? seeing thou doest these things. Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and thou wilt rear it up in three days. But he spake of the temple of his body. When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said unto them, and they believed the scriptures and the words which Jesus had said. Let us bell briefly for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for this very familiar and yet very profound portion of thy word. Father, this day, may you impress your truth upon us. May we rejoice in the truth of our Saviour. May we rejoice in His zeal for the house of the Lord. And O Lord, may we too Have great zeal for the cleansing of the temple of the Most High God. Bless these truths to our hearts, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. It was the time of the Passover. The Passover is prominent in the life of Christ. We first find him at the time of the Passover as a 12-year-old in the temple. We find this first Passover of his ministry. The baptism of John was taking place approximately six months before the marriage of Canaan. And we find him at this point getting ready to enter into three years of ministry, three and a half years of ministry total, counting the time from his baptism. All this in fulfillment of the prophecy of Daniel, where in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 26 and following we read these things, and after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off but not for himself. And the people of the prince shall come and destroy the city and the sanctuary, and the end thereof shall be with a flood, and to the end of the war's desolation are determined. And he shall confirm the covenant with them, with many, for one week. And in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease. Three and a half years were determined, and after three and a half years, Messiah would be cut off, but not for himself. Messiah was indeed cut off, but not for any sin that he had, for he had no sin. But Messiah was cut off for my sin. Messiah was cut off for the sins of the elect. And so the sacrifice ceased. Why would it be that the sacrifice which had been perpetual would cease? The sacrifice ceased because Christ was the sacrifice. And so it took a Gentile king to come along and finally slam the door on the Jewish sacrifice. The veil of their temple was rent from top to bottom anyway They could no longer keep the impurities out of their temple at the crucifixion. But at this point, we find Christ coming in. And he comes at the time of the Passover and enters into the temple of Jerusalem, and he finds it thoroughly polluted. He finds it full of corruption. And so in our passage this morning we find the first Passover of the ministry of Christ. And there will be another Passover in his ministry, but it will be the Passover of the Passion Week. It will be the Passover of the week of his death. And so here in John chapter 2, we have recorded Christ cleansing the temple at the very outset of his ministry And in Matthew 21, Mark 11, and Luke 19, we'll find Christ again cleansing the temple. But that is at the end of his ministry. It is shortly before in the week of his crucifixion. So first of all, as we begin to consider this passage before us, let's talk about the temple. We find that Christ enters into the temple. This is the physical temple in Jerusalem. It is what is called the second temple, or Zerubel's temple, it's called sometimes. The first temple was built by Solomon with building materials that had been stored and prepared by David, his father. That temple was destroyed. And we read in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah about the destruction of the walls of Jerusalem, the gates being burned with fire in the temple And we find that they came in and they rebuilt the temple. That is the temple that is being spoken of. And yet it didn't take forty-six years for them to rebuild the temple. And so why do we find the Jews later on objecting Forty-six years was this temple in building. Well Herod had come along and did a major renovation because the temple was continually falling into disrepair. And Herod's renovation took 46 years. And so the scriptures are true. This first temple, or second temple, is the temple into which Christ entered It was to be a house of prayer. It was to be a place of worship. It was to be a place of devotion. It was to be a place of sacrifice. And yet when Christ enters in, he finds goats and sheep, doves, and money changers, and he drives them out. But there is more involved here with this temple. For Christ says to them They want a sign, of course. What sign do you show us? And Christ says, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Christ was talking about his body. And so the second temple, not second physical temple, but the temple we consider here is not simply the building that was in Jerusalem at that time, but it was the temple of the body. of Christ. The Jews wanted a sign there in verse 18. And of course remember in Matthew 12, uh Christ says in verse 38, or sorry I'm getting ahead of myself there. In in Matthew twelve, certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would have a sign of thee. But he answered and said to them an evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, there shall no sign be given but the sign of Jonas. For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the be whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. What was the sign that Christ gave them? The exact same sign that he's giving to them here. Destroy this temple, and in three days I'll rise it raise it up. The sign was the sign of his death, burial, and resurrection. He said there in Matthew 12, 29 that an evil generation, that's a generation that's lacking faith. An evil and adulterous generation, that's a generation committing spiritual adultery, those who should have been worshiping Jehovah and Jehovah alone. had created for them a false God in the name of Jehovah, and it had become a God of merchandise. For they were more concerned about what they could gain, just as in the days of Eli when his sons made a special hook to pull out the best meat from the sacrifice. So the priesthood has become thoroughly polluted and the house of God, which was so glorious at the dedication of Solomon that the priest could not enter for the glory of the Lord in Second Chronicles It's become a den of thieves. If you look down to verse 19, we find the great prophecy, destroy this temple, and in three days I will rise it up And it says that the disciples, they remembered the scriptures. Remember in Psalm 16 and verse 10, Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. And so we have the physical temple into which Christ entered, and we have the temple of his body. But the temple also is described in Scripture as being the church. As being the body of believers. In 1 Corinthians 12, now are ye the body of Christ and members in particular. And in Colossians 1:18, he is the head of the body, which is the church. There is no purpose for a temple in Jerusalem today. And there can be no purpose for a temple in Jerusalem because the worship has ceased, the sacrifice is done. Today, the Church of Jesus Christ, the body in which we meet, is indeed the dwelling of Christ. Where is the house that you will build me? Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool. We cannot build a house in which to contain our God. But he dwells in the church, and there will be no third temple in Jerusalem, or if man may erect a temple in Jerusalem, God will have none of it. It will not be the place of his abode. And so there was a physical temple and there was the temple of Christ's body, and there is the temple of the church today. My friend, we find in 1 Corinthians 16, or 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19, that the individual believer is indeed the temple of God. And we read these verses in our call to worship this morning, 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own. For ye are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. And again in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 16, know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy. Which temple ye are? We find there that the Spirit of God dwells within us. Heaven is his throne. Earth is his footstool. Where is the house that you will build him? God does not dwell in a house made of clay or of flesh and blood. But when God makes a man a new creature, that new creature, that new creation becomes the temple of the Holy Ghost. And so again, Paul in 2 Corinthians 6 says, What agreement at the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. For God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. So we have this glorious lesson taught to us, folks. And the best commentary on scripture is scripture The best way to understand the Word of God is to compare Scripture with Scripture. And we find Christ coming into a building in Jerusalem to teach us a great lesson. He made a scourge and he drove out the money changers. And then he told us that he was the true temple. And then we find that the church is the temple and that our bodies are the temple. But there was a great problem. The temple was polluted. So we find here the temple, but now let us consider the money changers. Or more specifically, let's call them the merchants. And I'd like you to turn with me to the book of Zechariah. The end of your Old Testament, Zechariah and then Malachi. If you can't find Zechariah, turn to Matthew. Then flip back just a few pages, you'll find Malachi, and then before that you'll find Zechariah. Zechariah chapter 14. And I'm going to read several verses there to get the context so you understand what is the nature of this 14th chapter of Zechariah, and then we're going to land down on verse 21. I'll give you a moment to turn. It's one of those books that's a little bit harder to find. You don't turn to Zechariah often. But Zechariah, the 14th chapter. And if you look at the first verse, it says, Behold, the day of the Lord cometh. What do we know when we find the language, the day of the Lord? It's prophetic language. It is language talking about events that are to come. That's a key phrase of Scripture. He's speaking in prophetic language, the day of the Lord cometh. Look at verse 4. And his feet, that's the feet of Messiah, and his feet shall stand in that day upon the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem, on the east, and on and the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west, and there shall be a great valley, and half the mountain shall we remove toward the north, and half the mountain toward the south. Now, God certainly can split mountains. He divided the Red Sea. If he could split water, what's the variety of splitting mountains? And yet this passage is prophetic. It is symbolic language. God certainly can Open up Mount St. Helens and make valleys in a moment. He made the Grand Canyon in the few days of the receding flood, not over millions of years. And so if God would ordain to literally split the mountain of Alice, he certainly could. It would be in his prerogative. But it does not do harm to Scripture to view this as symbolic. For his feet have already stood on the Mount of Olives. And when his feet stood on the Mount of Olives, there was a great division that took place. And in that day, in the day that he stood on the mountain of Olives, a division was made among men, just as surely as a mountain dividing to the east and to the west. For because of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, because of his passion, all mankind is divided into two categories, saved and unsaved. Mm-hmm. Elect and non-elect. And so if you if you still wait for a splitting in the mountain of olives, that's fine. But I don't believe it's absolutely necessary for the fulfillment of Scripture. And we'll leave that piece right there. Look down to verse 8. And it shall be in that day, more prophetic language, that living water shall go out of Jerusalem, half of them toward the former sea, and half of them toward the hinder sea, in summer and in winter shall it be. Do we have to wait for some future date for living waters to flow from Jerusalem, or have living waters already flown from Jerusalem because of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ? And to we who were saved by that death build death burial resurrection, out of our bellies flow rivers of living water in the spring, the summer At all times the living water flows today, the water of life. Verse 9. And the Lord shall be king over all the earth. In that day shall there be one Lord, and his name one In other words, we have in this passage the beginning of the kingdom age. Now at this point, you're saying, Pastor, what's this all have to do with the cleansing of the temple? Hang on just a second. Because if you look down the verses 20 and 21, Verse 20, in that day shall there be upon the bells of the horses holiness unto the Lord, and the pots in the Lord's house The pots in the Lord's temple shall be like the bowls before the altars. In other words, purity will be restored. Okay, verse 21. Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto the Lord of hosts. The pollution is removed. And they shall sacrifice, and all they that sacrifice shall come and take of them and seeth in them in that day. There shall be no more Canaanite in the house of the Lord. Now, that word Canaanite's where we've been heading through this chapter There shall be no more Canaanite in the house of the Lord. The word Canaanite in the Hebrew is also the word merchant. It is the merchant. In fact, Young's literal translation translates this passage, Zechariah 14, 21, and there is no merchant anymore in the house of Jehovah. The commerce is run out. And if you remember the story of Leviathan in Job 41, 6, Job says there, our God says to Job, Shall the companions make A banquet of him, that's of Leviathan. Shall they make a banquet of him? Shall they part him among the merchants? In other words, they're going to cut up Leviathan and sell him in the market like beef and and pork and chicken to the merchants, and it's that same word, Canaanites. Now, why is that important? Go back with me to John 2 in verse 16. In John 2 in verse 16, Christ said unto them that sold the doves, take these things hence. Make not my father's house a house of merchandise. And the Greek word here, merchandise corresponds exactly back to the Hebrew word Canaanites. Make not my father's house a house of Canaanites. It was more than just they were selling in the temple. They had made the house of Jehovah a house of Canaanites. And the Malachites and the Moabites, the fathers of the Canaanites, were not to enter into the congregation of the Lord to the tenth generation. There was no salvation for them. They had no place there. The scribes and Pharisees were very accepting. The scribes and Pharisees had no issue with what was taking place in the temple. In fact, I would venture to say they probably were getting their chip on the side. The priests were getting their piece of the merchandise. They were getting their commission. They were essentially renting out the house of God. So we find here a grievous thing. That the unbelievers, the Canaanites, the pollution had been brought into the house of God. Remember I referred back to Chronicles at the dedication of the temple, that the glory of the Lord was so great on the temple that the priests could not enter in But here it's polluted. Now, what does that teach us? Well, first of all, the temple of Jerusalem was polluted. It had become a house of merchandise. It had become a place of great pollution. In John 2, verse 15, and when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out. Christ did not tolerate a one. And so remember we have four temples. We have the physical temple of Jerusalem. It's polluted. But folks, it is so glorious to realize that the other temple, the second temple, is the body of Christ. And there was no pollution there. There was no sin in him. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like as we are yet without sin. And so the sinless temple comes into the polluted temple, and what does he do? He cleanses it He removes the pollution from it. Oh, it's a glorious picture here. Because the scribes and Pharisees had no power nor authority to cleanse that temple. They were part of the problem. They were sinners. But the sinless one could enter into that temple and make a scourge and drive them all out. It was his father's house It wasn't their father's house, because Christ said to them, You have your father the devil, and unless your father you would do. But it was his father's house, and he alone could make it holy. And so, for such an high priest becomes us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, and separated for sinners who needeth not daily as those priests to offer sacrifices first for his own sin. For he had none. In him was no sin at all. But remember also that the picture here of the temple was a picture of the church. And oh how quickly the body of Christ becomes a house of merchandise. We don't have yard sales. Any church that needs a yard sale to pay their pastor needs to quit. Okay. We have nothing for sale. We have everything to give. And by the grace of God, we have never passed an offering plate in this church. Never once. We don't even have ushers. We don't pass a plate. You all know where it is, and the Lord lays it on your hearts to give abundantly. You see, God's house is not a house of merchandise. That's right. Freely you receive, freely give. Come unto me, all ye that labor and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Come by milk and honey without price And yet, how quickly the earthly body of Christ becomes a house of merchandise It becomes polluted by commerce. It comes polluted by false doctrines. It becomes polluted by personalities. It becomes polluted by false scriptures. It becomes polluted by all manner of evil that it has no place in the house of the Lord. 1 Corinthians 5, Paul says to Corinth, it is commonly reported that there is fornication among you. And the Spirit says to the church of Pergamus, I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there those that hold the doctrine of Balaam. Can you imagine that? The church of Pergamos had the doctrine of Balaam. And the church of Thyratyra had a woman, Jezebel, who claimed to be a prophetess, and they suffered her. They allowed her to teach false doctrine. Folks, it must be a regular process that the physical church, the body of Jesus Christ, needs to be cleansed. We need to examine it. We need to make sure that we are indeed the body of Christ in every aspect and not simply in name. And so there was a need for the cleansing of the physical temple of Jerusalem because the Canaanites, the merchants, were there. Hallelujah, there was no need for cleansing in Christ, for he had no sin, but he took his our sin upon him. And there was a need for the cleansing of the church itself. Judgment must begin at the house of the Lord. But oh folks, how we individual believers who are the temple of Jesus Christ And the temple of the Holy Spirit need the continual washing of water by the Word. Oh, that we could say we're pure. Oh, that we could say we are righteous. But my friend, when you find a Christian that says, I'm righteous, you've just found a liar. For there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. And any righteousness that is found in any believer is only of Christ, and not at all of the believer. I believe that every earnest believer can identify with the Apostle Paul For Paul said in Romans 7, verse 18, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not For the good that I would, I do not, and the evil I would not that I do, oh wretched man that I am, verse 24. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Folks, Christ made a scourge and he drove out all the money changers. And oh how we need daily to make a scourge. And 1 Corinthians 9 verse 27, again the Apostle Paul under inspiration said says, but I keep my body under and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. And in Romans 6:11, likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. that you should obey it in the lust thereof. 1 Thessalonians 5, 23 and 24, and the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he who calleth you, who will also do it. And though friend friends, though we desire and though we must endeavor to cleanse our temple daily, we recognize that we can't cleanse the temple. any more than the scribes and Pharisees and the priests could have cleansed the temple in Jerusalem. Oh God, cleanse me. For Lord, I have a sin problem and I can do nothing about it. Yes, I resist the devil. Yes, I do not give place to the devil by thy grace. But you're the only one who can cleanse it. Lord, make a scourge and drive the Canaanites out of my heart. That's right. And so we find a great lesson from the temple And then a great lesson from the merchants. But folks, let us consider the cleansing. First of all, we find in verse 14 And uh Christ enters into the temple. Let me start at verse at verse 13. And the Jews' Passover was at hand, and Jesus went up. to Jerusalem and found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changes of money sitting. He found the evil. He found out the evil. The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can Know it. You see, my friend, my heart and your heart can be brimming over with money changers and merchants, and we not even know it And so we must pray with Christ in Psalm one hundred thirty-nine Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Christ went into the temple and he found the evil. Oh, may Christ come into our congregation and find the evil. May he come in my heart and search me with a candle. that he might find out the evil. But not only did Christ discover the evil, Christ devised the weapon to drive it out. We find in verse fifteen, and when he had made a scourge of small squords. And isn't it interesting that his back would be beaten with a scourge very similar to the one he made for my cleansing? But Christ devised a weapon against the evil. And friends, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty. But mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. God can pull down the stronghold of the Canaanites in my heart. God can drive the merchandise out of your heart. God can drive out the money changers and overturn their tables. And so we find that he discovered the evil and he devised a weapon against it. And then Christ drove them out. And I've already emphasized this, but if you look at verse 15. And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out. All out. You know what the problem is with me cleansing myself? I keep a few. That's the problem with the believer cleansing himself. We keep a few. But Christ drove them all out. The old hymn just came to my mind, um, Whiter than snow, whiter than snow, now wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Cast out every break break down every idol, cast out every stain. Now wash me every float. And I shall be whiter than snow Christ drove them all out. He did not leave a one. Oh, may he make a weapon and drive them out. And then Christ made it very difficult for them to return. He overthrew their tables and he spilled all their money. Can you imagine Can you imagine these money changers? That's mine, that's why the fight starts. That was mine, that was my coin. Well it doesn't have your name on it. You know, and they're they're scrambling all over the floor for the He made it very difficult for them to return And you see, when I drive out the money changers from my heart, it's pretty easy for them to return. May Christ make a scourge and drive the money changers out of my temple. And make it very hard for them to return. Neither give place to the devil. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, Romans 13, 14, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh. To fulfill it in the lust thereof. But you realize that, and I alluded to this in our beginning, Christ didn't just drive out the money changers once. For John II takes place immediately following the marriage at Canaan, and he drives out the money changers. But in Matthew 21, Mark 11, and Luke 19, we find Christ doing the same thing again at the Passover three years later. In Matthew 21, verse 12 to 13, and Jesus went into the temple of God and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers in the seat of them that sold doves. And said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves. You know what, the cleansing of the temple didn't happen just once It had to happen again. And folks, so it is with the church. And so it is with the believer. The body of Christ must be cleansed again and again. And so must this temple. Christ died for our sins once. And we are not to continue in sin. How should they that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And yet, folks, we have to confess as believers that I must die daily because I sin daily. And so from this passage, let us understand, first of all, the glorious nature of the true body of Christ, which had no sin. For he who knew no sin became sin for us. And may we from this passage commit our hearts to purity before our God. O Lord, make a scourge and drive out my Canaanites Let us stand for prayer. Oh Lord, the old hymn says, Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. And Lord, we confess before you that though we desire to live in righteousness and holiness before you, while we live in these bodies of flesh, we are subject to temptation. And Lord, we are to resist the devil that he may flee from us. And yet, Lord, our hearts are deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. And so, Father, we confess before you that try our best, we still fail before you But O Lord, this morning it is our earnest plea that day by day you would make a scourge of conscience and drive the sin from our hearts. O Lord, help us to live for Thee in righteousness. Help us to live for Thee in earnest devotion. And O Father, we pray, even so come, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen.