Your evils with good deeds you won't stand. And he had to bear that animal skin on his hand so that once Jacob felt him he could tell, oh yes, this this is Esau, because that's who Jacob was looking to bless. And yet he adds something new. And Father, we pray that you would bless each that stands in the pulpit here, or that brings a devotional on Wednesday night, that participates in this ministry. And Lord, I pray that even there we might be able to establish a fellowship that would be a furtherance of the kingdom of God and bring glory to thy name. When Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world My mouth shall praise our Thank you, thank you. But when you find this description of the tabernacle, it doesn't go from the outside in. But the description begins with the Ark because it's all about the Ark. Look again at the passage there in verses thirteen and fourteen of Exodus forty. Verse 8, bring his sons and put coats upon them. And remember, the purpose of the altar was the fellowship. But we're actually singing number two twenty-three in your Trinity Hymn book. And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. Might be half of his for the throne my shorty stands Before the throne my shorty stands My name is written His whole revealing love, his precious blood to flee, his blood tone for every waste, his blood tone. uh theologically correct rendition to it. So by the obedience of one, that's Christ, shall many be made righteous. The Lord is pleased in Christ. We should, alas, be consumed. Add some works unto what you've done. Or, hey, let me do something else. We have a lot of folks that are not with us in person today who would be, but uh have been suffering some very significant uh physical difficulties and setbacks. But we do pray for our dear brother who was seeing the doctor this week about some intense shoulder and back pain. whether you would give him relief from pain, follow that he would be able to uh get from the earthly physicians some very informative information. Uh Father, we pray that you would grant her healing, or that you would strengthen her body. And Father, we pray that you would bless and intercede on his behalf. And Father, we pray that they would be able to install uh a trace that would be a a benefit to him and not a hindrance. And Father, we pray that you would be with Him, Father. And Lord, that they would truly be numbered among thine own elect. May you protect us from the adversary of the devil who walks about as a roaring lion. of the gospel going across the nation and across the world. And so, Father, may your word go forth abundantly through the ministry of Mission Bible Church, through the ministry of Holding Fast. Lord, we pray for Dr. And so, Father, I pray that you would bless us with true revival. I very much like the tune to this. And so, Father, may your people that are gathered here today partake of that same fruit. Some preachers paint landscapes and others paint portraits. And so keep that in mind that Moses here in the description of the tabernacle is a picture and a foreshadowing of Jesus Christ and what Christ would do. And you come into the vestibule and here's the vestibule and you go from the vestibule. The the court of the congregation where you find the table of showbread, you find the the uh candlestick, I don't like to call it a menorah, you find the candlestick, and you find the altar of incense, and then there's the veil, and then the ark. From between the cherubims which are upon the ark. It mentions the altar, but then it says there in verse 6, and the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and thou shalt set the labor between the tent of the congregation and the altar. When we explain to people our faith, we begin with Jesus and work out. Stood before the throne and before the lamb clothed with white robes Folks, they have a robe on, they have a miter on their head, the only exposed flesh is their hands and their feet The helmet of salvation, the crown of life is on our heads, but still our hands and our feet are exposed. And just like Lot, we vex our righteous soul in seeing and hearing, our hands and our feet are exposed. I've given you an example. Ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. And give your life for the life of the world. And yet are very much a part of us. All our race, yes. Uh it's because it speaks about his blood atoned for every race. In Matthew 3. Even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. He cares about Christ's obedience. His mind was fully on blessing Esau. Yeah. tarnishing the picture. will popularly look to Mary and other saints to aid in salvation, but no. And uh there's even confusion that's been pushed by uh John Piper in the recent years where he says, yes, you need Christ for initial salvation, but then if you want final salvation, you have to work for it. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law. Father, bless your people this day. And Lord, we thank you that you are able to heal. and a treatment plan. And Lord, then their son-in-law is grievously afflicted. Lord, we pray about the tracheotomy and the uh difficulties that he has suffered in relation to that. Father, we thank you that within this small congregation you have given us a goodly number of men that are able to stand and proclaim thy truth. Through the ministry of the website of the church. Father, we pray for our poor nation, for the United States. We find in your words that the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. And Father, we pray that the heart of our President in the hand of the Lord will be moved just as the heart of Cyrus was moved for the blessing of the people of God. He loved them unto the end. Simon's son to betray him. After that he poureth water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel, wherewith he was girded. What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also washed one another's feet. My transgressions now wash me make me door within clean so cleanse me from my sin. We writer and soul can hold all the bad judgment. Verses one through fifteen. And thou shalt set up the court round about, and the hanging and hang up the hangings at the court of the gate. And thou shalt take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is therein, and shalt hollow it, and all the vessels thereof, and it shall be holy. and his sons under the door of the tabernacle of the congregation and wash them with water And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. For their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations. Father, may your word be clear and plain to your people. To me, Lord, over many months, Father. O Lord, your word has told us that the husband that laboreth must first be partakers of the fruit. And you gave the command to your, oh Lord, humble us, chosen preachers to feed your sheep. And Christ himself declared that my words are not mine, but what the Father has told me, that is what Christ speaks. And Jesus was the one sent from God who has come to seek and to save that which was lost. We know that Jesus received from his father the law and fulfilled it on behalf of the people We know that Moses instituted the first Passover there in Egypt and gave us the beautiful picture of the Passover lamb and told the people to put the blood on the top and the two sides of the door. And we know that Jesus Christ is the Paschal Lamb. There is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And Jesus Christ has established a royal priesthood. A theology that preaches Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save is a correct theology. The sacrifice and the tent. And so the altar as you come in is the first thing you encounter. Are Aaron and his sons washing themselves, or is Moses washing Aaron and his sons? water. And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with and anoint him and sanctify him, and thou shalt bring his sons and clothe them. And he helps the clot he puts the clothing on the king. Revelation chapter seven, verse nine, um, and before the Lamb uh let me read the whole verse, after that beheld, and lo a great multitude that no man can number, of all nations and kindred, and peoples, and tongues. Now, why is it that the altar and then the labor and then the congregation? I know we're getting long in this. to wash withal, and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein. Aaron and his sons have already been washed from head to toe. But they still have to stop and wash their hands. We have been washed by Jesus Christ. And he is cleansed, ceremonial clean every wit. Having been washed in the blood of the Lamb and clothed in those robes, but as long as we walk in this world, our feet are sticking out. For they shall be filled. And O Lord, we thank you that hungering and thirsting for righteousness is inseparable from hungering and thirsting for Christ, for He is our righteousness. And he that believeth on me shall never thirst. For every race and strength goes now not through grace by fleeting wood events. No longer here with confidence I now drawn up with confidence I now drawn on the humbling ourselves before Him and acknowledging ourselves to be such as we really are. And verily, if we should appear before God, relying on ourselves or on any other creature, though ever so little, we should, alas, be consumed. not through man at all, that a sinner can be justified before the Lord. And we see that all throughout the history of mankind going back to the garden. But he tells them to depart from me. But who is God really pleased with? And in Romans 5, 18 and 19 we read about that. the righteousness of Christ in order to bless you. Let us go to prayer because we know the great physician who is so much greater than the physicians of earth. Imagine Jacob coming uh imagine Esau coming to uh or yes sorry, Jacob coming to his uh father, Isaac. If you're adding anything else that would throw off what's going on there, and you probably wouldn't have received the blessing. We must not come before the Lord with anything other than the obedience of Christ. Father, we do pray for our dear sister who has endured a stroke and a fall as a result of the stroke And yet has been an example of the believers through her patient suffering, has been a blessing to many through her wise counsel. for the glory of God and the enjoyment of the people of God is unable to be with us today. who has been a uh encouragement through her sharing of scriptures. This is such a glorious privilege that you've given us to be here to worship together. Then cometh he to Simon Peter, and Peter said unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Jesus saith unto him, He that is washed needeth not state to wash his feet, but he is clean every whip. So after he had washed their feet and taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, The tune of Ajolon. Oh God, say God, please thy wisdom kill my heart, make me pure thy grace with so. Precious God, my water renew, make my spirit right and true, cast me not away from thee. I like good blessings. And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the veil. And thou shalt bring in the table, and set it in order the things that are to be set in order upon it. And thou shalt bring in the candlestick and light the lamps thereof. All my kill dream look, and my tongue shall sing my love, touch my silent lands, O Lord, and before the ark of the testimony, and put the hangings of the door to the tabernacle. before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering and all his vessels, and sanctify the altar, and it shall be an altar most holy. And thou shalt anoint the laborer and his foot and sanctify it. Bless thy word to the hearts of thy people. And thou shalt bring his sons and clothe them with coats, and thou shalt anoint them as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office. And so, Father, may that blessing be efficiently by thy Spirit conveyed to thy people. But I feel that I need to be focusing sometimes on minute details. And Lord, the pastor can only feed the sheep when the pastor first has been brought to green pastures and still waters. was threatened in his very life and had to be hidden from the Egyptians. Joseph and Mary took the child to Egypt. We know that Moses was the mediator between God and the people. And Jesus Christ has washed us in his own blood. to someone before they see it, and then they lead the prospective buyer through the house in a step by step. where God would meet with men. And Jesus Christ is our high priest. And thou, that's Moses, and thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons under the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them. All creation was created for what? And man was kicked out of the garden. And to refer back to Exodus 29, where God was giving the instruction to Moses, let me read the verse there in Exodus 29. But according to his mercy, he saved us with a washing of water by the Word. Verse 5, thou shalt take the garments and put upon Aaron the coat and robe him with the ephod. The next thing I'd have you to notice from the passage is that their priesthood was a perpetual priesthood. Priest, every time they went into the court, had to wash, but they don't wash their whole body. the door of the tabernacle. Or when they come near the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the Lord, so they shall wash their hands and their feet that they die not. And it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him, and to his seed throughout all their generations. It's found in verse 8, where Peter says, If I wash, Christ says, if I wash thee not. washed, needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every wit uh every wit. That word wash there, the first one, wa needeth not but to wash, is the word nipto. say to wash is the word luo. Needed not to wash, but the second wash is the wash that's used when they bathe the body for burial. But folks, Romans chapter 1, or Revelation chapter 1, verse 5, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and first begotten of the dead. It's the washing of a dead body where it says Jesus has washed us from our sins. But then there's a third one, for there we find in verse 10 again. And so Christ says to Peter, He that's just had the common wash of his whole body, he that's taken a bath, saves not but to wash his feet, the washing of a dead body. his feet, but is clean every whit. And so we find Luo, the washing of a dead body, Nipto, the common washing of our hands, and Katharos, the catharsis. Luo with kathros, our bodies washed with pure water. So after he had washed their feet and taken his garments and was set down again, he saith unto them, Know ye what I have done. you or to you. May I stop at the labor because if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us. If I then be your ma Lord and Master, sorry, if I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. For I've given you an example that you should do as I have done. In Jesus' name. Receive on Calvary, they for a special prayer, they strongly plead for me, for give him. Though it's a Wesley tune, it was uh redeemed by the man who compiled this particular songbook. Uh run around time. Relying and resting upon the obedience of Christ crucified alone, which becomes ours when we believe in him And Psalm 130 verse 3 says, If thou Lord shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? He was interested and he had his mindset on blessing Esau. But Jacob was preparing to bless. Lord, the Lady of the House is not present in the room with us at this moment. My family and I will be traveling over the next two weeks. And Lord, as the old hymn says, to serve this present age, Lord, thy purpose is for us to be faithful witnesses to the Sodom in which we dwell. So Father, bless our nation with revival, bless our nation with peace, bless our nation with continued freedom of religion. Know ye what I have done to you. And the last chapter of the book, chapter 40, and I'm going to read verses 1 through 15. Father, overcome the stumbling of human lips as we consider these matters. And we know that Moses was the one sent from God to deliver God's elect from Egypt. Okay, English majors, English teacher, who is active? And thou shalt anoint them as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office, for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations. And so Christ here says, I can cleanse that for you, Peter. Feed my sheep. Tune number 177 is our closing song beneath the cross of Jesus. And therefore everyone must pray with David, O Lord, enter not into judgment with thy servant, for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. And uh the Roman Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox will will uh add in that perversion to this teaching. spared in life through a heart attack just a few weeks ago. timely ordained by the Spirit of God as a salve of healing to hurting souls. For whom we pray, Lord, that are connected to the congregation, who the state of their soul is uncertain, Father, who who Faithful witnesses in the Nineveh to which we travel. And ye are clean, but not at all. My transgressions I confess We may guilt my soul unquest I have On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. And so I hope you keep the washing of the disciples' feet in mind, because that is where we will go for the conclusion of the message this morning. is for us a foreshadowing, a picture, a type of Jesus Christ Himself. No put that punishment on me. Jesus Christ is our meeting place with God, and Jesus Christ is the very center of our faith. If you look back there again to verse 12 of Exodus 40, and remembering that Moses here is a picture of Christ. Moses, the picture of Christ, is active. But not only do we find that Moses is the one that washes Aaron and his sons, not Aaron and his sons washing themselves, but we find that Moses also dresses them. Clothe them. But Jesus Christ did. Verse 6 and 7. And feet therein. But clothed rather in a garment of righteousness, a white garment. before they enter in. Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not, but thou shalt know all hereafter. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. And ye are clean, but not all. And the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins with his own blood, and it's that other washed. And we read of Tabitha there in Acts 9, the godly lady who was washed for her burial, and it's this word. Folks, there's more. I have cleansed you. I'm not that kind of a priest. It's a beautiful picture. when we come to this table. May we worship you in spirit and in truth, for we find that you seek such a people to worship you. I'm reading two verses from the sixth chapter of John. Without presuming to trust in anything in ourselves or in any merit of ours bring the conscience of fear, terror, and dread without following the example of our first father, Adam, who trembling, attempted to cover himself with big leaves. And we uh if you think about the Old Testament picture of when Isaac was preparing to bless his son, he was preparing to bless Esau. Father, we have a long list of those that are connected to our congregation that are battling with cancer. May indeed still be on the road to Damascus. Once you've located John thirteen in your Bibles, please rise. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. in that I desire the responsive reading in many cases to be the second scripture reading of the message. Consider this. The description of the tabernacle begins with the very center of the tabernacle. Ark of the Covenant. Folks, when I was saved, I was washed head to toe. But still, when they're going in, there must be a washing of the hands and feet. Hebrews ten twenty-two. How much more we need to examine ourselves, Lord, I'm sorry that my hands and my feet are sticking out of my robe of righteousness. Verse 13, ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am A glorious Savior. We will sing all three stances. I need to walk no such right. We thank you for Mission Bible Church. Believer, Christian, and what do you believe? This is sufficient to cover all our iniquities and to give us confidence in approaching to God. Arriving with anything in addition to Christ will leave you destroyed. Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you for the great privilege we have to call you our Father, to come before you in prayer. We'll just read the first fifteen verses of John 13. I often have a very structured outline that all rhymes or that all has a keyword that is alliterated. And how glorious God would have destroyed mankind, but Jesus Christ is the mediator. The second thing I would have you to notice, which which to my heart is glorious, and in your bulletin you do have a diagram of the tabernacle, just to give you a little bit of idea And so the description of the tabernacle here begins with the ark. But sin destroyed all that. Opposite of the way we would have written the account. Isaiah 61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. We are sacri saved by the completed sacrifice of Christ, but there's still a labor. Stop at the labor daily and wash your hands and your feet. I've already cleansed you. Lord, you know what I did 30 years ago. What is a catharsis? Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The things of this world that stick to us. Take the bread and thanksgiving for the body of Christ. Believing that you are indeed that bread of life, that you are that bread given by the Father, which has come down. Our Lord, we thank you that you gave your life a ransom for many, that you shed your blood for the remission of my sin. Well this morning we're going to look at the portion B of Article 23 from the Belgic Confession regarding wherein our justification before God consists. This article is quite clear. The only way that a sinner can be justified in God's sight is because they're bearing the obedience or that righteousness of Christ, not their own. He riseth from supper and laid aside his garments and took a towel and burdened himself It begins there, and then it talks about the table, the showbread, and the and the candlestick and the altar of incense, which are closest to the the And so, the description here, the first thing is that Moses typifies Christ, and the second thing is that the description of the of the tabernacle begins with the ark and works out in expanding circles. In Exodus 29 or 28, we find that the garments of Moses, Aaron, and his sons was for glory and for beauty. Verse number 10 is going to be our key, but verse number 6. Now thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor and not suffer sin upon him. Lord, this morning may you free the hearts and minds of your people from all the chaos and concerns of this world. Well Lord, this morning we will partake of the Lord's table, the remembrance of Christ. But um yeah, Christ denies those even we we read of in the scripture, those that come on that last day, saying, Lord, Lord, haven't we done many wonderful works in thy name? But rather I want to go through the order of the tabernacle devotionally. God made the rocks and the hills, the firmament declares his glory, the heavens declares his glory, and the firm shows his handiwork. Yes, Moses is washing Aaron and his sons. And Peter says, Lord, wash me all over. For give they cry, forgive them, oh give they cry, let that ransom sin. Let thy spirit dwell in me, thy salvation joy for Seth make thy willing. It's not just this verse that tells us that it is Moses that is washing Aaron and his sons, but throughout the account we find Moses, I'm sorry that was it But before they go in, those have to be washed. Take the cup with Thanksgiving. We've got to pray, folks. But man alone was created to fellowship with God. We'll see the labor a little bit later. The altar is the place of salvation. Just their hands and their feet. But then the second Christ uses a different word. You also know what needs to be confessed before I'm ready to take the Lord's table. And so let a man examine himself. May God lead us daily to the labor for cleansing. But rather Jesus Christ has put on me the robe of righteousness. performed the sacrifice and the Old Testament believer was saved future by the sacrifice of Christ It's a one-time anointing for the priesthood. Folks, this is glorious that the Spirit of God will bring it to your hearts. I've already accomplished that. Iron sharp as iron. Elliot and this ministry here in the United States. Keep that in mind. Ah, folks, how many believers carry the guilt of sins that were washed between the altar and the door of the tabernacle? Consider that Jesus thanked his Father for the bread. So they made it too universal. And the whole thing to thy place, I can guess my judge and just speech with my mercy. But the first thing I would point out to you that we must consider when we consider the ordering of the tabernacle here in this 40th chapter of Exodus is that Moses And folks, we're coming to the Lord's table. Let my son try more rejoice and in women hear thy voice from my setting so I 17, we read of the Lord voicing up his voice, the Father, and says, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Turn to our sermon psalm in our blue hymnal number four hundred and fifteen. Open your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Exodus, the second book of your Bible, second book of the Old Testament. When you describe a house, you walk up the house and oh here's the front door and there's a door and there's steps and there's shrubbery. So Christ said he that is washed, he that's been cleansed, needs not save to wash. Look to the spiritual well-being of the brethren and so fulfill the law of Christ. And the cup. Well I must have been reading the book of Revelation when I saw the hymn number because the hymn number is 223, but I typed in 666 in your in your handout, so I'm not quite sure how that happened Before I enter into the court, into thy courts forever. Blessed are the sanctified in heart, for they shall see God. Not for you, to you. Now you need to be a cleanser of the brethren. Rise, my soul arise, shake off thy guilty fears, the pleasure. So we find that they are washed before they come to the labor That's just tarnishing what God has required, what He's looking for. Exodus 30, verse 17. The choosing of the responsive reading is in many cases very strategic Stay with me because it's beautiful. Amen. He doesn't just have the appearance of Esau, but then he adds in a little dance, or he says, Hey father, I also got you this gold bar Let me add. But Lord, we call upon the great physician to give him freedom from pain and to strengthen and help. Take care of the brethren. It's used four times throughout this hymnal. Number 415, it's adaptation of Psalm 51. Our bodies washed with catharossing water, with pure water. 223 in your Trinity songbook, Arise My Soul, Arise. And then verse 7, and thou shalt set the labor between the tent of the congregation and the altar. We'll come back to it. He cares about seeing that. Because we find in Matthew 5, verse 8, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. He's not pleased with their attempts, with their efforts to be justified And suffer being ended, the devil having put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot And then it talks about in verse 6 the burnt offering. We know what a valet does for a king. And so let us have a moment of silent prayer at the labor. He's pleased uh uh uh about what Christ has done. And there, before we enter into the worship, we stop every time. Who is who does he care to see? We find this in the book of Exodus, chapter 25, and verse 22. And thou shalt set the burnt offering, the altar of the burnt offering, before All of the glory in the believer is justification goes to God alone. Yes, Christ helps us, but then you have to do something yourself. It says there in the first verse that the Lord spake unto Moses Exodus chapter thirty, and I'll start reading in verse seventeen. Peter says, oh Lord, wash me all over. And so we stand before God in robes of pure white. And I won't belabor the point, but we find that we are to examine ourselves. Libinicus nineteen seventeen, thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart, for thou shalt And Lord, we're here this morning because we hunger and thirst for righteousness. That would throw uh that would throw off Isaac. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God. The labor is out of place in the picture He was kicked out of the place where he would meet with God. We have been clothed by Jesus Christ, but we still walk in this world Father, bless these ends. I did not clothe myself in the garments of righteousness, but Christ has clothed me. A catharsis is a cleansing. We thank you that you took a body for us. Why would we sing a lie to our God? For he knew who should betray him. Do you know what I've done to you? We thank you in Jesus' name. Your your iniquities the Lord will lay against you and and none will stand there Hang on to that thought. Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies Bless us this day. We shouldn't try to add any works into what Christ has done, into Christ's obedience. Ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am Let's vow for prayer. Verse 20 there of Exodus 30. He that is saved, Peter, needs not but to wash his feet You're my child, but you're walking in the world. When he sees you, he must see that you're in Christ. Aaron and his sons are not washing themselves. And let me peep pick up the reading in John thirteen and verse number six. Folks, do we really know what he's done to us? Our dear Lord Jesus Christ, we do all partake of thee. We thank you, Lord, that we can cast all our burdens upon you for you care for us. Sinners that shall learn from me and return, oh God, to thee, Savior all In fact, let's go ahead and turn to John at this point. Wouldn't want to be either. Uh and instead uh it put in a more correct uh Lord, sisters and brothers and other relatives, Father. He is our mediator through whom we communicate with God. We thank you for the sweet fellowship that we enjoy both here and those with whom we fellowship that are far removed from us. And so the way that Jacob received the blessing instead of Esau was that he had to come dressed in the garments of Esau. Father, we thank you that you know all of the situations, all of the concerns, before we even bring them to you. That is what Moses does here. For God to fellowship with man. Then cometh he to Simon Peter. Now it's not the word to loose. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Thou shalt also make a labor of brass, and his foot also of brass. Peter, all you need is your feet We're going to go immediately into the Lord's table. The cup represents, of course, the blood of Jesus Christ. It says, Therefore as by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to condemnation. And Lord, I pray that you would continue to clear the pneumonia from his lungs Verse 9, thou shalt gird. Lord, I pray that that blessing might be conveyed to thy people. The primary cleansing has been accomplished and is not repeated. He that is wash, nipto, needeth not say to wash And so these priests, we are priests of God, have been saved at the altar. And Lord, may you strengthen him. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for He hath clothed me with the garment of salvation, He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness That's the only thing that can justify a man That's right. Thank you, brother. We don't have a king in this nation, even though some may make that accusation. Bring great honor and glory to the name of thy Son. And we are that priesthood in Christ. We are saved by the altar. It is a forever anointing. We know that Moses received from God the law and gave it to the people. And he shed his own blood on the cross for his people. Now, folks, think what's happening the night of the crucifixion when Jesus Christ washes their feet. By the electronic means that you've given to us today, this is how the day and or day which you have ordained us to minister in Lord, I rejoice in the blessing that the concepts, the thoughts that are on my heart this morning have been I'm sure our real estate agents have done this describing a property And we come to Galatians 6, verses 1 and 2. Bless our brother there in the Philippines. We are rich in the things of this world and poor in the things of Christ. You've taken care of that one. Father, we I pray that you would bless the congregation in Belize with whi whom I desire to worship. You see, this is different than the complete washing. Father be with him as he goes through therapy. Father, I pray that you would bless and protect, keep us in health, keep us in safety. They stand between the altar and the door of the tabernacle. If you ever pray that, wash me all over. And I like what the article pointed out today. Faithful witnesses in the marketplace and in the synagogues and in the temples And wash them. And for folks, that's the Greek word katharos. And his wife, Rebecca, knew it, and even uh his son, Jacob knew it. And folk, Jesus Christ is our ark. He is the one that is washing. And so it is that God must perceive you bearing Be with her, O Lord. Now, folks, those are just a few of the foreshadowings of Christ in the life of Moses. And Peter, if I don't cleanse that, you have no part with me. There's no priest on earth that can forgive your sins. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. Father, we pray for those that are traveling. And thou shalt set the labor between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein. For he knew who should betray him. And therefore we always hold fast this foundation, ascribing all the glory to God And I'll leave you with Galatians two sixteen. And Christ says, no, no, no. The Lord's only interested in Christ. Lord, bless the leaders that you've given to us. One more thing, and we'll proceed to the Lord's table. Uh and the original had it for uh all men or something to that effect. Therefore said he, ye are not all clean. Father, bless now thy word to my heart as I endeavor to proclaim it. And when God declared that he would destroy the people, Moses said, no, don't destroy the people. And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments. Folks, we have been robed in a robe of righteousness, and I did not put it on myself. Let a man examine himself. And Father, may you continue to bless Mission Bible Church. It's a Greek homonym. Glorify yourself within your people. May you bless her with health and strength. And so when God would destroy all men, Christ said, no. It is upon the ark that God meets with his people. A valet clothes the king. God is pleased with Christ, his son I tend to paint the large landscape. And that Jesus Christ at his birth was threatened by Rome and had to be hidden among the Egyptians. And so man was broke fellowship with God was broken. And we thank you that there remains a labor for the people of God. And so it's quite all right to fix a hymn and to refine it over time. They are cleansed at the door of the tabernacle. One hundred and seventy seven is our closing song. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. Oh man, oh man, please be seated. This is the most popular one. And if you don't know the tune, you'll pick it up real quick after it starts. And then you encounter the laborer, and then you encounter In Exodus 40, verse 15. Very good, thank you, brother. Folks, as we walk through this world, we are clothed in the robe of righteousness. Peter said unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet It doesn't begin outside the gate. And before the fall, that's exactly what we find. You have to attain and earn it. And so we're going to try to consider the tabernacle and focus mostly on the labor, the place of washing. And only the priest could enter into the Holy of Holies to communicate with God. We saw Adam and Eve try to cover themselves up with fig leaves after sinning, after transgressing before the Lord. He's pleased in his son and in his son's work. And thou shalt bring Aaron And Father, we pray that you would shine a great light of thy salvation upon them Look where it begins there in verse 3. And clothed, not in the clothes that I wore outside the tabernacle. Peter, you don't get it yet, but you're going to understand later. It is the common word to wash your hands and your face. We thank you that there is cleansing in Christ. Upon the cross Jesus, my life might stand. And Father, her dear husband, who is usually here playing music And Lord, his dear wife, who has suffered so much. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this Holy Lord. You see, the Ark was the place The third item that we have to notice in this is the washing of Aaron and his sons. Folks, I'm saved forever. And Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus saith unto them, He that is washed needh not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit. Christ says those whose body had been washed, Aaron and his sons, were washed. But Christ says to Peter there in verse 12 of John 13. That indeed his righteousness was imputed upon you. Of course the Roman Catholics Well, as you well know, we have uh much to pray for within our congregation. Father, be with him tomorrow as he will be having a uh hand and wrist surgery. Oh Lord, for many, many years she has carried little cards or sent little cards upon which were scripture passages 177 is our closing song He would be thoroughly confused. Moses, bring Aaron and his sons and wash them. Be careful. And Lord, my soul has partaken of the fruit of thy word. Moses established the priesthood here in the Old Testament. Now, this is not at the labor, though. The first one is found there where Four hundred and fifteen. 29, 6, thou shalt put upon him the mitre upon his head And when they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water that they die not. And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense Not by works which we have done. Jesus Christ has washed us with his truth. For as by one man's disobedience, that's Adam, many were made sinners Now before the feast of the Passover Those that are clean need not to wash. It's two Greek words that that sound the same but they're different words. Do we really grasp a hold of that? It said that if we should appear before God relying on ourselves or on any other creature, though ever so little And that's what the Lord's looking for. Our brother in Arizona, I believe, is hitting the road again soon. Bless our several brethren in Jamaica that we have fellowship with. You begin with Jesus, not with heaven. Father, we find in thy word, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Father, may uh the the bleeding be stopped, we pray. Folks, the altar is salvation. John 13. To keep yourself there, to add to what's there. You also know what needs to be taken care of in the labor this morning. Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared for me. It says knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ And again in Exodus 29 Folks, I did not wash myself from my sins, and I could not. But then in verse 10, Jesus said unto him, He that is We close our services today with our closing Good morning. But those things do not communicate. But Lord, you also know what I did this morning. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. Father, we pray that you would bless and that you would strengthen Continue to strengthen his body. Here we read, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering Father, we find in your word that you lead us to green pastures and still waters. But we find that they still pass by the altar to the laborer. Folks, in verse number 10, actually throughout the passage, but in verse number 10, we find three different words for wash. Folks, I can't forgive your sins. And of course there's other will mix up and say, well yes, you must believe on Christ, but then But then it talks about in verse 7 the labor which is between the altar of the A theology that preaches you want to go to heaven is a mistaken theology But we have an obligation to one another, don't we? God's not pleased by man's works or by man's attempts to justify themselves. And Brother Bence and I have often talked that some We know that Moses as an infant God made the animals, but the animals don't fellowship with God. And then verse 13, thou shalt put upon them the holy garments. Christ says, I've already done that for you, Peter. So it is, God will not accept anything but the righteousness of Christ We thank you, Lord, as our brother prayed during the men's prayer time of the for the privilege we have And we find that the Look at it. There will I meet with them and commune with them or with thee from above the mercy seat. Look down to verse 15. Those are that which stick out of our robe of righteousness Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a thought You can remain seated as we pray. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. Truly, if you try to come before the Lord outweighing Jesus answered and said unto him They were washed head to toe, and then they were clothed. Jesus saith unto, He that is washed, Nipto, needeth not save to wash Luo Oh Father, forgive us for That just adds confusion to the whole process Lord, we call upon you for your healing. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We thank you for that sacrifice. If you'll note down at the bottom, if you still have the hymn book open, it says stanza 2, line 5, altered. Father, bless be with his wife as well. We are saved by the sacrifice. Folks, there's so much more here in the washing of the feet than we've ever considered. And altogether He picks out the clothing for the king. What did Christ tell Peter to do? Bear ye one another's burdens, wash ye one another's feet It's through Christ and it's What's going on? Katharos. But folks, between the altar and the door where we enter into eternity, there stands the labor. God be merciful to me. And we will sing all four stanzas. Let us pray. Oh Father, bless her this morning as well. We find Adam and Eve walking with God in the cool of the garden. For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands But every time I enter in And we pray this in Jesus' name. If any man eat this bread, he shall live forever. It goes from the inside out. The cleansing of the priest was once for all, but the cleansing of the hands was every time they enter in. Remember Christ is a picture of Moses the picture of Christ. Arise, my soul, arise. I don't have that this morning. Moses washed Aaron and his sons. Thou shalt put the ark of the testimony and cover the ark with a veil. They are clothed already with spotless robes. But then there's more. He's pleased only with Christ's obedience, not with man's vain efforts This is taking place before they come in. They do not need again to be completely washed. Peter, I've already saved you. All he's looking to see is Esau and that meal prepared for him Lord, this is such an oasis of rest. I'm a priest of God forever. To be cleansed before me, all you need is your hands and your feet. Amen Please turn to John chapter thirteen for our responsive reading. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. It's both there in the same verse. In Jesus' name. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. It's much more of a for all the all the human race or race. And when Christ said, no part, it's fellowship. He's not looking for anything else And Lord, you've done that for my soul in this passage. It's the fruit root of our English catharsis That's just We'll sing all six stanzas plus the Amen. It's the word that we read that the Pharisees would not eat unless they had washed their hands. Please turn to the back of your bulletin Oh Lord, how much we miss his presence with us. Turn with me to Exodus chapter 30 He holds me for his child. There is the promise that if these children would keep silence, the rocks would cry out. Father, bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts this day. Exodus chapter 40. All they need is their hands and their feet. A different word that doesn't come out in our English. So I just point that out to you and uh hope you appreciate that. Father we thank you that your angel encampeth aroundabout. For me to enter sea. They knew that it was Esau that Amen. I think you could take my sweat. Amen. Look at verse 12. And then Father, our dear brother who uh was And you guessed it. Amen. The Old Testament priests. Father, we have those who Amen. Save their feet. Father, may you strengthen. Our bodies, the common bathing. Lord, I want to enter in, but I've got to leave this in the labor. They're already clothed in their white garments. Destroy me and my house instead. Father, may you strengthen us Amen. That word pure in heart is Catharos. Your person. I have washed you. Father, strengthen them. I can No