Turn to Mark chapter one. We're reading verses nine through thirteen. You might want to stick your bulletin in Matthew chapter 3 and 4. That was our responsive reading. They do tie together. We'll be looking back and forth. Matthew and Mark. It's the same story with different details. But that we as we begin this morning, Mark chapter 1, verses 9 through 13. And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized of John in the Jordan. And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the spirit like a dove descending upon him. And there came a voice from heaven saying, Thou art my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan, and was with the wild beasts. And the angels ministered unto him. Mark's a bit more abbreviated, as we saw in the responsive reading. But it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee. As it says in verse 9, he was baptized of John in the Jordan. Now, John and he were cousins. If you were to look at Luke chapter 1 and verse 33, Elizabeth and Mary were cousins. In fact, when they had some experiences that were very similar. When Elizabeth found out she would be with child, she was visited by the angel Gabriel. And when Mary found out she was gonna be with child, she was visited with the angel Gabriel. So John and the Lord Jesus Christ were cousins and these conversations about the angel Gabriel were probably very familiar to both John and the Lord Jesus Christ. They probably knew each other over the years. We're going to find here that John was over thirty years of age by now and Christ as well, thirty or thereabout And so these men knew each other. They'd spent thirty years, probably during the Passover at the temple together and other special high religious holidays and so forth, and they must have discussed So they're not total strangers. Now we find here as we read last week that John was baptizing, and we'll see it in Matthew 3. 11 if you want to have your finger there. To look at that as well. In Matthew 3. 11, that John was baptizing with water unto repentance. And as Christ comes in in Matthew 3 and 14 in our responsive reading this morning, John forbade him. He said, I have need to be baptized of you, and you come to be baptized of me. What is going on here? Why would you do this? And in Matthew 15, Christ said, It becometh us to fulfill all righteousness Now I know we've all been taught and we've all learned and there's probably something to that when preachers say that Christ was identifying with fallen man when he came to be baptized. But that's not what he says here In fact, I can't find anywhere it actually says Christ came to identify with fallen man. What I do find is John not wanting to baptize him, and why should he? Christ has no sin And John was beginning to comprehend that. In fact, very shortly he'll say, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. So here's Christ coming to him. And John, not quite sure if he's the Messiah or not But he he realized that this is he's been raised around him for thirty years. He knows that he is different. No charges have been brought against Jesus as a teenager For throwing rocks at somebody's windows of somebody's house, or for stealing somebody's bike, or any He knows he is so different. Why else would Gabriel the angel come and it be pronounced and announced and surely among Elizabeth and Mary and John? He had been told he was virgin born. This doesn't happen in a vacuum. So when Christ comes to be baptized and then John says, whoa, I need to be baptized of you with your Holy Spirit. You don't need to be baptized of me. And Christ says it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness, Matthew three and fifteen. And if you go to Matthew five and seventeen, what was it to fulfill all righteousness? It says in Matthew 5. 17, it was to fulfill the law. Christ said, I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfill the law. John, you must baptize me to fulfill all righteousness or to fulfill the law. Okay, here's where it gets a little meaty, a little deep. I want you to put on your Yarmaka hats for a second, alright? I want you to stop thinking like a Gentile. I want you to start thinking like a Jew An Israelite. In fact, I want you to start thinking like a Lev because John the Baptist is a Levite. If you go back in the scripture, Luke 1, verse 5 and 9, you discover that John the Baptist's father was named Zacharias And where was Zacharias when the angel Gabriel came to him? He was in the temple, and he was burning incense The only people allowed to burn incense according to 1 Chronicle 23 and 13 are those of the Arionic tribe. And that those of the Arionic tribe, Levites, yes, but Levites of the Arionic tribe, only these priests. Could go into the temple and burn the incense. John the Baptist's father is a Levite of the Arionic tribe. In fact, it says in Luke 1, verse 5 and 9, that Elizabeth was also of the Arionic tribe. They were dying the wool, Levites he was allowed to go in the temple and burn incense. No other Levite of any other group, Moses had sons, but they could not go in and burn It all came down to Aaron's sons. Moses' sons could not burn the incense in the temple. You had to be a Levite of Aaron, Moses' brother. And Elizabeth was of that line, and so was Zacharias. So the first thing we want you to note is this What tribe does John the Baptist come from? Levi. He is a Lev. What has he been taught? His father has taught him that someday he will go in the temple and he will burn incense. He will be like the high priest of Israel. But there was other things he was taught as well. And while you're Yamakazaran and you're thinking like a Jew, like an Israelite, I want you to think like an Arionic Levite, because that's what John the Baptist was. He's told here by Christ Suffer to be so now that we fulfill all righteousness. Christ is reminding John that we must come we must comply with the Mosaic laws Prior to my entering into the ministry. John, you entered the ministry six months ago. If you read the scriptures, Elizabeth was six months pregnant when Mary found out that she was pregnant. as he goes to visit Elizabeth. They're only six months apart. Six months prior to Christ's baptism, John the Baptist had to be baptized as well. The Mosaic Law declares that. And there's two requirements to enter in the ministry of the Lord. And John had entered the ministry of the Lord, not as a priest in the temple burning incense. He'd entered the ministry of the Lord as a priest crying in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Messiah. And so he knew what Christ was saying, suffer to be so now that all righteousness be fulfilled. And there were two requirements And this is why Christ came. Numbers four and chapter Numbers four and verse forty-four, you must be thirty years of age, everyone that it's to do the service of the ministry. You must be 30 years of age. And in Luke 3, 21 through 23, we learn that guess what? It says when Christ was baptized by John, he was about the age of 30. Why wasn't Christ at about the age of twenty-nine, twenty-eight, twenty-five? What? Christ he only ministers for three years, and he's crucified, dead and buried, and then resurrected Well why didn't he start at 25 or 21 or 18? Because the Mosaic Law said he had to be 30 years of age. Why do we hear about John the Baptist in the wilderness preaching? And teaching and baptizing just a few months earlier. Why didn't John the Baptist start when he was twenty-one? I mean he was filled with the Holy Spirit in his mother's womb. Why didn't John the Baptist start earlier? Because the book of Numbers says chapter 4 and 47. You have to be 30 years of age to enter into the service of the ministry of the Lord. So now you know why Christ is coming. He's 30. John the Baptist turned 36 months earlier. John the Baptist, he has waited until he's 30 as Christ has waited. And there's a second requirement When you enter the ministry of the Lord, and that's also in the book of Numbers. And by the way, a Levite of the Arionic tribe, John the Baptist, do you think he knew the Mosaic books pretty well? I mean his father's training him up to be what? To burn incense in the temple of the Lord. He knows the Mosaic book better than anyone, any Gentile, probably alive today. In fact, what was this said of John? By Christ. No man born of woman is greater than John. He knew the Mosaic law, didn't he? He waited until he was 30. First requirement. Second requirement. We find in Numbers chapter 8, we won't read it all today, but verses 6 through 11. And it says here that the priests were to be anointed. We read that in Numbers 3 3. They were to be anointed, and in Numbers 8, 6 through 11, and thus shall you do unto them. The priest going into the priesthood, before he could go in the temple and burn the incense, before he can minister before the congregation Uh we find Numbers 3, 3 he had to be anointed. And how is he anointed? Thus shall you do unto them. Numbers 8, 6 through 11. Thus shall you do unto them. You shall sprinkle water of purifying upon them that they may execute the service of the Lord. So John the Baptist had been sprinkled before he could enter into the ministry of the Lord to be the voice shouting in the universe in the Now Christ comes to be baptized of John. John says, Whoa, I I suspect that you may be our Messiah, the sinless one, the one the Lamb will take away the sin of the world I need to be baptized you. Christ says, No, suffer now, John, that all righteousness be fulfilled. I too am entering in the priesthood. The priesthood of the milk kills the dead And that that preceded the Levite priesthood, but yet still requirement. Any priest, whether it's a Makilsedec priesthood or a Levite priesthood, we don't want to break the Mosaic Law. I need to come to you and be Sprinkled before I enter into my ministry. The third requirement, which I didn't even have written down here, is that when you were baptized or when you were sprinkled to enter in the ministry of the Lord, had to be thirty, had to be sprinkled, and had to be sprinkled by someone of the Arionic Levite priesthood. John was of the Arionic Levite priesthood. He couldn't just go up to any uh any Levite From the tribe of Gersham, you know, Moses' son, he had to go to a Levite of the tribe of Aaron, and that was John the Baptist. They are fulfilling all righteousness here. John must sprinkle Christ For that's what Levites did in John's day. If we read Hebrews 9, 10 through 21, we find that the Arionic priesthood, they sprinkled the priest They sprinkled the unclean. They sprinkled the book of Moses. They sprinkled all the people. They sprinkled the tabernacle. They sprinkled the vessels. That's all Oh John knew was sprinkle sprinkle sprinkle Christ, when he was baptized, was sprinkled. I'm not saying people weren't immersed in the New Testament, but I'm saying that the Lord Jesus Christ was sprinkled. He was called the anointed one. Numbers 3. 23, you're to anoint those going into the priesthood. He was the anointed one, the sprinkled one. The Christos means to be anointed. And so they fulfilled all righteousness right down to the very drop of water that fell upon Christ. Every jot every tittle. And immediately verse 10. Straightway coming up out of the water, and yes he was in the water, I can take you some of these gunpowder falls, you can go down the water. You go down the riverbank, you go into the water, you might just stand at your knees, feels kinda good, kinda cool, and then he's sprinkled That's what the Levites did. But immediately coming up out of the water, up out of the riverbank, Jesus in the book of John, chapter 1, 32 through 34, that John the Baptist saw the heavens opened. He saw the heavens open. It wasn't just a typical, oh, the clouds parted, what a sunny day it was. The heavens were open. All commentators agree that the heavens were cut asunder beyond the planets, beyond the stars. beyond the universe, beyond the spaceship hubble, they cut the heavens, were open, and they could see heaven. And they looked into the heavens. And this has happened another time in the days of Stephen, when Stephen was being stoned and he was preaching. And the Pharisees and the scribes, they hate him so much that they were gnashing on their teeth. And it wasn't until a point when Stephen says, I looked and I saw the heavens open and the glory of God and Jesus standing on the right hand of God and said, Behold, I see the heavens open, Stephen says, and the Son of Man standing in the right hand of God. This doesn't happen too often And they ran upon Stephen and they stoned him and killed him. Because he declared that the heavens were open, planets, stars, everything shoved aside, and there's a glimpse And John says he saw that. In John chapter 132, John the Baptist said he saw that. And I suspect the people standing there that they also saw it Oh pilgrim, will you someday see that same heaven? Hmm. At the moment of your death, is that what you will see? The heaven. opened, the angels bearing you up. What will you see at the moment of your death? Think about that Or will you see the abyss and the pit of hell open before you? Think about what you'll see At the moment of your death. We know what John saw, and probably the people there at the Jordan that day. We also know what he heard, verse 11, a voice from heaven saying, Thou art my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Find anybody on the street, anybody in this church, anybody in another church, and tell me that God is well pleased with any of us We're sinners. We're pathetic, filthy sinners who He has shown mercy to, abundance of mercy to. But none of us can say, I am well pleased. I know God is well pleased with me. But God says here that this is one in whom he is well pleased. Oh, when John heard that, he must have thought this has Got to be the Lamb of God. This voice came out of heaven telling him, this is him, my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. John the Baptist must have been moving from dead center off to this has got to be the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. And when when the voice from heaven, the voice of God, the sovereign God, the God, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, when he makes this declaration, thou art my beloved son, there is a higher, more infinite love for you to receive possible You might want your children to love you, your grandchildren to love you, your mom and dad to love you, your cousins will love you, everybody will love you. But boy, what you really want is God to love you. There isn't a higher love, or clearer, or a purer love than the love of God. Oh, what he will do for his beloved children. Because he loves them. What do those who love you do for your children? You love your children. You do things for your children because you love them. You spoil them sometimes. Now you may not think that God spoils you, but when you stop and consider what every soul ever born on this earth deserves, you are spoiled the day he saves you. You've got something you didn't deserve, you couldn't work for, couldn't earn. In fact, you deserve the abyss, didn't you, the pit But God bestowed his love upon us. There's no more infinite love, no more eternal love, no greater love than that which he bestowed upon us, and to stamp his seal of his love upon us. He sends his son to die, a horrible, vicious crucifixion, to prove that he would give us anything. Search the universe, search the Milky Way, search the entire Send out the hobble as far as you want to look for something you'd love to have. The most precious thing out there is the Lord Jesus Christ. And he was sent to die for you. There's nothing left to gain. There's nothing left to get. I mean we may still call on God and ask him for one thing or another all the time But we've already got the most precious thing we could ever have. In fact, to think that God won't give us other things when we pray is ridiculous. If He's already given you the Kat's Meow, as some people would call it, if He's already given you the most precious gift If you come to someone's house and he takes the painting off the world worth five million dollars and hands it to you, is there any question if you ask him that cardio piece salt shake on the table if you could have that too? That he would say no? God has given you the ultimate gift. And we ought to pray and let him know our needs because they're minuscule in comparison to what he's already given. So the voice from heaven saying, Thou art my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased, and John the Baptist heard God's word. Has God's word spoken to your heart today? Or someday before? I mean have you heard God's word? I don't mean it came to the the wood of the ceiling, but when you're reading his word, does it speak to your heart? Because John the Baptist stood there and some of those are and the words from heaven spoke to their hearts. heart that Christ was the beloved. Do you believe that? I mean your heart, not up here. In fact Do you believe all this? I stood one day with an old I think it was an NI ID Bible. I started to rip the pages out. That the commentator said didn't belong there. Of course you lose half of the last chapter of Mark, I ripped that. I did this up at Up at Bible camp a couple years ago. Books just kept getting thinner and thinner and I got down to something like this. About half the size of my Bible. Oh Friend, you need to believe it all. It needs to speak your whole heart. Has God's word spoken in your heart? And in verse 12, immediately after the heavens were opened and God said to this my beloved son, immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. From the waters of the Jordan to the wilderness, from his baptism to his temptation. At their spiritual high, a humbling, hostile habitation filled with beasts, we read here. From the smiles of the Heavenly Father. The wiles, from the smiles to the wiles of the devil. Ephesians 6 and 11 Christian, how often do your circumstances change? And how quickly do they change? I submit to that some of us know that our circumstances sometimes can change. In a snap of our fingers. Like climate change. We have things in our life, in our environment, it changed so quickly. You can be laughing and rejoicing and a phone call comes in You can be laughing and rejoicing and a police officer shows up on your front doorstep. You can be laughing and rejoicing and someone plows through an intersection and collides with you. Like climate change, our environment can change so quickly. Here's Christ is at the Jordan. It's a hallelujah moment. It's a high. Father is speaking to him. The people are hearing it. It's a moment of great rejoicing, and immediately he's in a wilderness with the beasts of the wilderness So he's in the wilderness. We read in verse thirteen. Oh we're not done with the message. We're about to jump back to Matthew. to go into more depth with it. But he's in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan. When you're tempted of Satan, the scripture tells us that means there will be thorns in your flesh when you're tempted of Satan. Second Corinthians 12 and 7 says thorns and buffetings. In Ephesians 6, when your attempt to save and there will be fiery darts, and here in verse thirteen there will be wild beasts, and we know from the scriptures, you go through the Old Testament, almost two-thirds of the scriptures, or rather two-thirds of the scriptures, but two-thirds of the Old Testament books. Mention the lions in the wilderness of Israel. And so you've got lions and jackals and ahinas to torment and afflict the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's just a few of what the destroyer, that's what he's called, Satan, Exodus 12 and 23. That's just that's just a few few of the tools of the sadistic Satan, what he has in his toolkit to bring upon us. By the way, this temptation of Christ for 40 days, it wasn't in the Garden of Eden, Genesis 2. 15, where the first Adam was The temptation of Christ wasn't the Garden of Eden with a help. He was alone. Anyone here like being alone? Some of you will experience that loneliness when you lose your spouse. Some of you will experience that loneliness if you ever lose a child. It doesn't matter if you're in a crowd. It doesn't matter if you're at work with people around you. There is a loneliness when you are without your loved ones. And he is now without the Father who called him his beloved. Christ it says, go to Matthew chapter two. We read that this morning, a responsible reading. We'll spend the rest of the time there. In Matthew, that is. Matthew chapter 4 and verse 2. He fasted forty days and nights. You know the Muslims talk about Ramadan and they're going to fast for thirty days, but their fasting is only from the sunup to sundown. They eat. They can eat just before sunup, they can eat right after sundown, but Christ fasted forty days and forty days Nights. It's a miraculous thing. No one could survive that. That got the attention of Satan. No man can go out into a desert, into a wilderness, and and the beasts not attack him and maul him and destroy him. That's a miracle itself as well But how can a man go for 40 days and 40 nights without eating? And Satan is watching this. Oh. Is he watching this Watching you too. Oh yes, he is. If not, he, his demons, he's got myriads of them. They're watching you. They're looking for you when you are weakest. When you're more open to being attacked. And Satan comes in. There's three temptations here. He comes in with these three temptations. He says, command these stones be made bread. Matthew chapter 4 and verse 3. Stay in Matthew chapter 4 with me. Command these stones be made bread. You know, when he he says that to Adam in the garden, look, there's some fruit on this tree. You know, Eve's already eaten of it. It didn't hurt her, it's fine. He's not hungry. But the temptation of Christ, Christ is hungry. He is both God and man. He is hungry. But he doesn't have our sin nature. He was tempted because he was hungry. His stomach was rumming and growling and rolling. You could hear the juice was flowing in his intestines. He was hungry. He was tempted as all men are tempted, but without a sin nature. He was not so inclined, though he felt the pains of hunger And Satan says, command these stones be made bread, because God hasn't provided for you, Jesus. You've been out here 40 days now. Where's the food? Shouldn't he be sending you something? Should he be giving you something? Doesn't he hear your stomach groaming? Doesn't he hear that? Does he know you're hungry? Haven't you been praying to him? Where's the answers He said, what is it with God? I think God is thoughtless, he's saying here. I think God is isn't as good as you thought he was, isn't as kind as he thought he was. So why don't you ask, why don't you turn the rocks into bread Because God's really not thinking about you. God, he's suggesting just isn't enough. Now you say, well, what's the temptation in turning the stones into bread? You know something? That wouldn't have been tempting for me. You know why? Because I can't do it. I can't do it. But the devil knew that Christ could do it. But there was no bread there. It was tempting. He was hungry. I want you. If you walk with nothing else this morning, walk with us. A man may be in want of bread But know ye this, he's still loved of God. There may be things you want, there may be things you really need, and you're not getting them, but I want you to know you're still loved of God. 40 days without bread, 40 days without food. But there's no question that he loved his son. We may be without bread, we may be without water, we may be without comfort, we may not be with we may be without that job promotion, we may be without a Lot of things that we want and maybe that we need But God, and you must notice, we are beloved of God, even though we are in want. Many are not content with what God has given them. They want more. God just hasn't given them enough yet. They play the lottery, they rob, mug, or steal from somebody else. It's better to starve to death than to live by sin. It is better to starve to death than to live by sin. God knows that this wouldn't be a trial for you. you and me, because we can't turn the stones into bread. But God knows and the devil knows that Christ can. So God knows what trial is best suited for us and for Christ. He knows what is best suited for uh Dale Price. He knows what's best suited for Matt McHenry. He knows what is the trial that's best. We'll go through different trials, folks. Why are our trials all different? Because God knows which trial is best suited for us And turning stones into bread would not be a trial for us. And so Matthew records here. This trial, best suited for Christ, and it is to strengthen him. And our trials are also to strengthen us, to strengthen our prayer life, and to glorify God. Our trials are for those reasons. They will strengthen us. They will increase our prayer life. How many here have had a struggle? Come on. Put a hand up. How many of you have had a struggle? Did it improve your prayer life? Yeah. Brought you closer to God and when you came out of it you gave God the glory, didn't you? Matthew records three temptations, and Christ responds with all three temptations. It is written. Matthew 4, 4, Matthew 4, 7, and Matthew 4. 10. He responds to the devil, it is written. I want you to note a couple things here. First off, the Lord Jesus Christ. has an exalted view of the scriptures. He refers to the scriptures. In fact, to the Mosaic writings He refers to Moses' writings. Well people make fun of the writings of Moses, don't they? Yet that's where Christ went all three times the book of Deuteronomy. He has an exalted view of scriptures. Many of the people today translating the Bible into different perversions, they haven't an exalted view of scripture. They just got a job and it pays pretty well But Christ had an exalted view of Scripture. How exalted was his view? This is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the second part of the Trinity. He could have just turned and looked at Satan and without quoting scripture could have baffled him and befalled him with his own universal intelligence You wouldn't want to get in a debate with the Lord Jesus Christ, the Pharisees tried it when he was only twelve, and they lost Jesus Christ is beyond all human, all created intelligence. He didn't need scripture to baffle and to toss Satan back on his heels and win the argument. He could have said a myriad of things and Satan would have been bebuddled. So why does he go to the scriptures? Because he wants us to know that we have access to them and we should go to them too. This idea of, you know, when we talk about abortion, and people say, well, you know, it now has the sonograms, and we prove its life, and then we go through all this scientific stuff. Just quote the scriptures. Thou shalt not kill. Satan can't take the scriptures. He has no response for the scriptures. Christ has the mind of God and yet he uses scripture. And we, if we have the minds of God, if we love the Lord God, know he loves us. Just go to the scriptures. Not even Satan, who has known these scriptures for about 4,000 years, not even Satan for all these thousands of years can respond effectively against them, and neither can the liberals Neither can the ungodly, the atheist, the agnostic. They have no response to the scriptures So he says, man doth not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Matthew 4:4. A quote from Deuteronomy 8. three. There's not a better response than Scripture. So how very cruel is it in this day and age? If the best response for what we're running into in our life is the scriptures, how cruel is it When this this nation is systematically suppressing the access to scripture. When they're from in our in our school systems for one, in our colleges, in the courtrooms, they system Lawyers aren't allowed to say, I want the jury to consider that this man, he murdered this individual, and that he did it contrary to the word of God, thou shalt not kill. They've had people released from prison and and tossed out the whole verdict of guilty because they quoted the scriptures in the courtroom. This nation is systematically Suppressing access to the scriptures, suppressing the use of the scriptures, suppressing the prominence of the scriptures. This nation no longer, those in power to rule, no longer have a high view, an exalted view of scripture. Why? Because the Word of God is quick The Word of God is powerful. The Word of God is sharper than a two-edged sword. The Word of God that can pierce asunder a soul and a spirit. Satan's a spirit. It'll pierce. Him. And the word of God is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Hebrews 4:12. And from you You give a scripture versus someone about abortion or gay marriage or whatever you want, all the different issues that are out there in this world today. They just cringe because it goes to their heart, it hits them I've had them say, I don't want to hear scripture. Of course they don't. Because it reaches them deeper. What a weapon we've got in the scriptures. What a weapon we've got. And I ask you this morning as I say it again that we have a nation here In fact, nations all around the world, systematically suppressing the access of scripture, usage of scripture, the promise and the exaltation of scripture. We're running against it. What a weapon we've got. What? What do you think is behind the spiritual disarming of our nation? It's satanic. The spirit, if we're worried about the Second Amendment, we got something bigger to worry about. The disarming of us spiritually. The second temptation Take them to the pinnacle of the temple in Jerusalem. The devil says, Cast thyself down, for it is written. Oh, now we've got the devil quote in scripture. He says, For it is written, he shall give his angels charge concerning thee. They shall bear thee up. Matthew 4, 1 through 6. You read that whole section. If you read it closely and you go back to where he's quoting it, comes from Psalm 91, verses 11 and 12. Do you know what he did? He cut a little piece out. You know, we don't need the whole verse. You know, some of these verses, some of these higher critics think, well, that verse, uh, I don't know if that was really part of the original Do you know how much they really want to cut out of the Bible to hire critics? They believe that Mark is a shorter gospel and all the other gospels are longer, Matthew, Luke, and John. You know what they think? They think that Matthew, Luke, and John took the liberty to expound upon and elaborate and to lengthen the Gospel of Mark. Gospel of Mark will say, yeah, that's That's God's word pretty much, but boy the other three, they just on the lark, they just added stuff to make it a little more interesting. You you almost get rid of Matthew, Luke, and John if you talk to the higher critics Anything that's outside of Mark was probably added by man. That's what some of them say. And here Not satisfied with that. We've got the devil, Satan. He quotes this verse in Psalm 91, 11, and 12, but he leaves out something very important. Yes, God will give his angels charge over thee, over the Christ. The part he leaves out is in all thy ways, or in the ways of God. Christ said, I came to fulfill the law. He said, Yeah, if you if you're fulfilling the law, if you're walking in the ways of God, he said, I come to do my Father's will. And if he's doing his father's will, he'll be in the way. And he's only promised that the angels will take care of him when he's in the ways. And he takes that out of the Psalms He removes that as if you can do whatever you want, Jesus. You can do whatever you want, contrary to God's will, contrary to God's law, whatever you want, the angel will take care of you. Yes, some people think that way. I'm safe, I'm okay, no matter what I do, God loves me, He'll take care of me, He'll forgive me. Yeah, he'll punish you too. And you might you might fall and get hurt. Because you were drinking and drunk and you fell down. I thought God would take care of me, even when I'm out of the way. But that's not what the promise says. Satan has removed a portion of that scripture. That Christ might tempt God to use his power. Haphazardly. Oh worse than that. Oh Lord, saying just go out there and and just jump off this pinnacle and and got a save. He wants Christ to ask God to just haphazardly do a miracle. And worse than that, Satan wants him to ask God to do something at the whim of Satan. Satan wants to see this. That's tempting God. And Christ quotes the scripture back and says, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Taking that verse out made a big difference to it. Just a section of that verse. That's why Moses says in Deuteronomy you shall not Add to, neither diminish from my word. That's diminishing God's word. And again, Jeremiah, diminish not a word. He took out three or four words here. But it says, diminish not a word. Be careful the translations you read. You know, some of them they could be reading, I know that in Luke you'll be reading one of the chapters there, it'll be verses thirteen, fourteen, sixteen. It just drops fifteen If you're not looking real close, you won't see, whoa, what happened to fifteen? It's not there. And down some little note they'll give you a reason why they took it out. Diminish not a word Satan had a head full of scriptures. Have you known people like that? You have a head full of scriptures, but his heart is full of hate for God's word. That's why the scripture says we're to hide God's word in our head? No. Hide God's word on our lips? No, hide God's word in our heart. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Can you say that? That you hid his word in your heart. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. The third temptation, as we find it here, was when the devil showed him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them and said, All thy that thy see I will give thee if thou wilt worship me. He takes him up on the top of a mountain. He says, look around you. There's the kingdoms of China, the kingdoms of Russia, the kingdoms of the United States I mean he's showing him all his power, all his glory, all his diadems, all his crowns, all his terrors. And all I want from you, and it's all yours, is one genuflect Just one moment of worship. And there are people who've thought about this and they prayed to the devil for what they wanted and they're willing to genuflect. And the shocking thing is they said And here he's offering Christ all of this And Christ says he wouldn't genuflect before him, he wouldn't worship him. Christ says, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God. In him only shall thou serve. Matthew 4:10. Also it's so Deuteronomy 6 and 13. Satan couldn't give him all his stuff anyway. And guess what? It's all Christ anyway. And guess what? What he was offering him It's going to perish as soon as Christ comes back. Satan must have been baffled. He had been dealing with humanity for 6,000 years. He was used to winning. He was used to winning big. He was used to winning frequently. I mean the scoreboard for him is probably 5 billion to 1. In fact, that's what it was This is the first time he's been defeated. He's going against mankind, tempting them and seeing them fall left and right from the days of Adam up to the days of Christ. He had never lost. He must have been baffled. And he was baffled at every turn, at all three temptations. Pilgrim, do you believe that Satan might offer you some possessions? He will. But he won't offer you possessions without problems. He won't offer you chairs that aren't lined with thorns and troubles and terrors and tears. Oh, he'll offer you stuff. And when you get it, you'll find out that it will rust and corrupt and perish. And most of it even before Christ returns. Whereas Christ promises believers an eternal heavenly inheritance, and often where there's a happy conclusion as here For it says the angels ministered unto Christ after the forty days of temptation. He'd have to turn the stones into bread. You know, if he'd done that, been no reason to send them angels to minister on him. It says the angels ministered unto him. And I want to encourage this morning, pilgrims, yeah, there's going to be struggles out there. But there is an angelic ending There is a fantastic climate change coming for all of us. If we love the Lord, you will love the climate change, the environmental change that's in store for us. And yes, angels will minister unto us as they carry us off to heaven. Remember the story of Lazarus? Our lives have a happy ending if we believe. And the shed blood of Christ covering our sins. Let's pray. Father, we love to you this morning. And we're so grateful for the book of Mark. This short book has mountains and mountains. Of spiritual food in it. May we find a blessing in it as we go through it. May it strengthen us. May it encourage us. May our prayer life grow in the reading and the hearing of His Word. And someday may we see the heavens opened and Christ shouting out to us as we enter through the open heavens, well done. Good and faithful servant. Oh Lord. May that be our happy ending, our angelic ending. And it's in Christ's name our Redeemer, our Savior, our King, priest. And Prophet, we pray. Amen.