We're at the eleventh verse of the tenth chapter of Hebrews, and it may seem to you like we've been slogging our way through some of the stuff that seems to be repetitive and the like. And uh this is actually In some respects, this could actually be considered the end of the chapter, and then we move on to the next, but it's not the division of the chapters were placed later. But let's read this section of Scripture. I'm going to read it for us here in Hebrews chapter 10. We're going to begin in verse 11. We'll bring that up for you, those of you online. And just to say those online, hello Matt and Beth, and uh uh good to see. And hear from Candace from time to time as well as uh Miss Patty. And uh and if you're watching us from Washington State, um uh drop us a line, let us know how you found out about us and what you think and what we can do to maybe improve her ministry to you because we're We know you're out there, but we're kind of curious. Hebrews chapter 10. I'm going to begin now in verse 11. Hear now the word of the Lord. I'm just going to go through verse 14. Hebrews 10 11. And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified And that's our section for today. Well, I trust you had a little bit of time to review the Sunday school discussion question I had one in mind and I changed it, but I will use the one I had in mind a little later, Lord Willing today, if I manage the time right. You are the attorney I don't care if you want to be the defending or prosecuting attorney, and the case doesn't matter. But it's a criminal case. You're the attorney You have presented your evidence, you have made your strong arguments, you've gone through all of the motions necessary, the pretrial motions, all of the uh Hearing of the testimony. And now the defense, or in this case the prosecution, has rested their case. It's now time for closing arguments. First of all, do you know what closing arguments are? Maybe some of you have seen trials on TV or the like. What would be your approach to develop a good closing argument? Well, I feel that I need to know whether it's a murder case or a theft. I don't think that I can do anything until I know what kind of a case it is. So, um The uh uh pick which one you'd like. Let's say it's a murder case. Now this is your closing argument now. What's your approach? You've already laid out all your evidence, whether it's theft or murder. Now you've got to do a closing argument. What's your approach to developing that? I would pick out the things in the trial that I think stand out that will make people want to uh vote the way I want them to vote. All right, you would select the things that select the mountains Not the prairies, but the mountains and the evidence. Okay, very good. Yes. Select the things that really stand out. Okay. Um okay, uh anybody else? What would be your approach I would probably try to use deductive reasoning as much as possible, try and focus on the on the strong points. I might use analogies to help say it's it's similar to this, to try and convince people Just part of how to connect the dots for them. Alright, connecting the dots, deductive reasoning. Uh that sounds good. Okay, any other thoughts? Highlight the good and minimize the negative Yeah, highlight the good and minimize the negative. Yeah, that's very interesting, particularly for the defense. You don't want to uh r remind them of that. Um How much what would your approach be in terms of how much time you want this to take? What in your opinion, what's a good closing argument? One that uh i i is is 10, 15, 20, 30 minutes long, or 30 seconds long, somewhere in between. What's what would be your approach? What would you want to achieve If your argument's strong, a very brief summation, folks, this is it. Very plain and simple. Alright, very brief summation of the arguments? Closing arguments is usually the only time lawyers will engage in arguments they try to reserve it for that specific spot. So I would I would try to answer counterarguments. I would do everything I could. Hmm. Okay, try to answer counterarguments. Make it as long as possible, all right, to get all your arguments in But like you said, if your argument's strong, it depends on the argument. If you've got a lot of negatives you've got to overcome, then you've got to take the time. So I think about thirty minutes. About thirty minutes, okay. All right. Um More than that I think you would lose the people. Okay. More than that you might lose them. Lee Yin, you're kind of smiling over there. You're you're uh I think there's something brewing in there. You have some thoughts Well good closing arguments? No, okay. Well in the case of Mrs. Ross's murder trial, it's a that thirty minutes can determine whether somebody lives or dies So it is is it is a very important part of the trial. Yeah, you know you might not want to short shrift your your uh person you're representing by uh too short of a So you know it's interesting. One of the most notable quotes I had from one of my favorite senators, Senator from Texas, Senator Ted Cruz, said um if you um uh If you uh if you have the facts you pound the facts. If you have the law, you pound the law. If you have neither, you pound the table. You just make an emotional appeal. You uh Yeah, so that's a very succinct way of how he goes about his closing arguments. But it's an interesting way to summarize it because he talks about pounding and I think all of you kind of touched on that. You're looking for the highlights, right, the summaries. Well I would submit to you here that the appropriate title for this study, other than the one you have in your handout, is closing arguments. That's really what we're reading here. is a closing argument for all that the penman for the book of Hebrews, he's now bringing it all to a close. We're not going to be discussing these topics really much in depth again. From here on out, it's ramification. The assumption is I have laid this point down. I have argued this case There's a sacrificial system. Ain't cutting it. There's a Levitical priest in office. They can't even last a generation because they die. Position, heal thyself. They can But this man, and that's a big phrase you find throughout the book of Hebrews, but this man, it's a very Jesus-centered message. Jesus is the answer that supersedes all of these things. And that's what we have here by way of a very excellent, succinct closing argument. He's got the facts. He's going to pound both lines of reasoning. He's going to bring them together. And then he's going to deduce ramifications from that. And because of this, as Pastor was pointing out, if it's a murder case, you lay out the case and here's the result. This man sh is a A horrible person should is a threat to society, should be put behind bars forever without, you know, really, etc. You want to really make sure this guy's buried or your client ought to really be released. You're gonna take that next step to point to where it's going. And that's what you have here. And that's what I want to try to show you. So in the this is a little interactive study today. You'll notice in your bulletin there's a little table there And the table has some blanks in it. I'll hand this out here to the young man over here so he can participate. And these blanks are is a comparison and a contrast because We've made we've got this bold, clear summary statement that concerns two big pillars of the Mosaic Covenant, two huge pillars. He's joining together both lines of argument that have already been heavily defended and talked about. The alternative line of a human yet eternal high priest instead of the tribe of Levi. He's been talking about that in chapter 2. Chapter 3, verses 1, Chapter 4, verse 14, Chapter 5, the first ten verses, chapter 8 at length, chapter 9, 11 through 15, and then a whole chapter on Melchizedek, the seventh chapter. A lot about the priesthood. He has just anchored a ton of information about that. Then he also marries the full satisfaction of Jesus' testamentary Substitutionary, propitiatory death, each of those we've explored. All of those are very significant words and the meaning of it, over and above the inadequate, shadowy Animal sacrifices. And he did that in chapter 8, 3, and 5, chapter 9, verse 7, 9, 12, and 28, chapter 10, 1 through 10. So his executive summary couldn't be clearer. And I want to compare the contrast that he's laying out here. It's a beautiful set of contrasts, and I hope you appreciate it. So, first of all, the officer. What's the contrast that are given? Who's the officer in the Mosaic covenant? You can look at the text 11 and 12. It's all right there. I'm just giving it a framework. Who's the officer under the Mosaic Covenant? The priest. Yeah, the priest. The Levites, right? That's your first little fill-in-the-blank, the priest. Alright, who's the officer in the new covenant? Jesus. Yeah, Jesus, this man, calls him this man, talking about Jesus. Jesus the Son of God. So he's comparing the priest to Jesus, right? This is a very simple contrast that's being made here. Very simple. What's the position? By position I mean um Lying, reclining, flying, standing, sitting. What's the position in the Mosaic covenant of the officer? What's he doing? Standing. He's standing He's standing. What about in the new covenant? What's Jesus the Son doing? What's his position? What did he do? He sat down. Do you know of all the furniture in the Old Testament tabernacle, there were tables, there were altars, there were There were uh altars of incense. There was a big box called the Ark of the Covenant. It had stuff inside of it. It had a mercy seat, it had angels, it had tapestry, it had all kinds of wonderful things, but it didn't have a seat There were no chairs in there. We'll explore that in a moment. What was the ministry? What was the frequency of the ministry in the Mosaic covenant? What was the frequency of the ministry? What are the words that are used there? Daily. Yeah, daily. It also it to reinforce that it uses the phrase oftentimes. Oftentimes. uh some somebody gets a a a pet and they observe this animal over time and and they begin to observe the habits of this animal. Well he oh he or she, whatever the pet is, always does such and such. They're always lying around this time of day, or they're always out back hunting, or they're, you know, what there's oftentimes. What about what about this man? What's the frequency in the New Covenant of the things being discussed? Once. Once. Once. One time deal. Once. What about the offering? What was the offering in the Mosaic Covenant? A lot of animals. A lot of bulls, a lot of goats, a lot of blood. Old covenant was a very bloody thing. Very bloody, very messy. Poor animals. What about the new covenant? The body of Jesus Christ once for all. Yeah, the body of Jesus Christ himself. He himself was the offering. He himself, he offered himself. Wow, that's that's a far bigger, bigger deal. What's the duration How how how what what what duration do you see in here? Lifetime. For uh for in the Mosaic Covenant, what was the effect? When they offered that sacrifice, that offering, how long did that offering last? How good health. But that day confident. Yeah, for that day, yeah, basically one day, because he had to make offerings daily. What about when Jesus he made his offering? How long did it last? Forever henceforth. Forever. Yeah, henceforth, forever. It's it's an eternal deal. Um and what's the result in the Mosaic Covenant? What was the result of this One time, one you know, I mean once a day offering a blood bull what was the result of that With respect to sins, what was the result? What how did it affect sins? In the Mosaic Covenant? Never take away, so ultimately fail. Yeah, failure. It really didn't take away sins. And it didn't take it away because it came back the next day. There was something else You know, your your get out of jail free for a day card was expired and you had to go back and do it again. What was the the duration of the result in the new covenant? How long did that one last Yeah, and notice how this point is pounded. One sacrifice for sins forever, for by one offering, he is perfected forever. So you see this forever, forever, forever. Shows how that sacrifice is extraordinarily effective. You know, I have an air conditioning unit I bought in 2021 that's going out. Wonderful. And you would think, well, and of course it's under a warranty, but you know, who knows what I'll have to pay for. They didn't cover this, that, or the other thing And wouldn't it be nice if something could get bought, installed, procured, and left alone and it runs forever? Wouldn't that be nice? Wouldn't it be nice if you could get a car that you just put gas I don't even want to put gas in it. I I buy it and I can just run it forever. I never have to put gas in it, change oil. It just runs forever. Wouldn't that be nice? It's called a bicycle It's called a bicycle. Yeah. Except my knees go out. And what was the expectation as the result of all these things? You had a Levitical priest, he's standing, he's doing a daily offering. It's blood of bulls and goats. Can't take away sins. As a result of all that, what was the expectation under Moses' day? What could you expect from that system What could you expect under Moses' covenant? Did it really work? Did it really cleanse anything under Moses' covenant? Maybe the people thought it would. Yeah, that's what they thought. Yeah, they might have thought that. But as a result of the priest is standing, there's no chair. He's he's he's doing it daily and it could never take away sins. What's your expectation? This is a little bit of a trick question, but it's not that trick. Do it all again tomorrow You get to wash, rinse, repeat, do it all over again tomorrow. One of the funniest single-frame cartoons I ever saw was taped to my mother's mirror in her bedroom. She had a very nice three mirror panel set up where she could, you know, work on her glory. And she had this really funny little cartoon up there. It's a housewife sitting in front of somebody pretending to read a crystal ball. And the caption reads, Ironing, Cleaning, Washing. That's all I'm seeing. Ironing, cleaning, washing. That's it. Nope, nothing else. She's like, really? And so it was under the old covenant. Come back tomorrow. Bring another lamb. See you again tomorrow. Bring it again. Keep coming. The expectation is just keep doing this, and you keep doing this. And there was really never it never ended. It was just endless. Endless. The Old Testament priests had the greatest job security. They had the greatest job security. Yeah. People were never going to stop being sinners. What's the expectation in the new covenant? You had Jesus. He sat down He's ministered once. His offering was himself. The offering lasts forever. What's his expectation now? And it says it in the text. Completed. It is completed. And therefore, because it's completed, what is he now expecting? He's finished all that. What's his expectation? What's the therefore as a result of him doing these things? He's henceforth expecting. To go to heaven. Until Oh he's already in heaven. It says he sat down. Where'd he sit down at? He sat down on the right hand of God. The expectation for us is to go to heaven, amen. And the expectation is his enemies will be made his footstool This is now the expectation of the New Testament because Jesus has come through and done this. All of his enemies will be made his footstool, all of them. You know, the apostle writes in 1 Corinthians 15 that even death itself is an enemy. It's the last enemy. And even death itself will be conquered by Jesus Christ, such that even that will no longer be A threat. Ever again. Over us. Glory. Hallelujah. Now, if these things are true, and they are, then this sentence undermines the entirety For the Mosaic Covenant. He has just presented his closing arguments. It couldn't be clearer. The contrast couldn't be sharper. He's hammered the points. He's doubled down on the ramifications. And so it means the Mosaic covenant has been rendered useless. He's pointing out how it is useless. He's already given many well-reasoned arguments as to why that's a valid conclusion. Now, it turns out that it's not just the penmen to the Hebrews, but also Peter and the Apostle Paul jumped to the same conclusion. And I have two of them in your Well, it's an insert, you can follow along. Acts 2. 32. We're going to go to the verse 35, maybe we can bring that up. Acts 2. 32, Jesus here is speaking And he says, this Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we are all witnesses. Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, notice it said that he's seated at the right hand of God. And having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he has shed forth this which you now see and hear David is not ascended into the heavens, but he saith himself the Lord, said unto my Lord, Sit thou in my right hand until I make thy foes thy footstool. Peter believes that Jesus is David's Lord. Peter believes that Jesus is his Lord, too. And so Peter reaches a very similar conclusion and makes the same point. The same argument to the people to whom he's preaching. The Apostle Paul says it in Romans 8. In Romans 8. 33 and 34, a very classic chapter. I'm sure many of you are familiar with it Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Well, justification is an act born out of redemption. There's been a substitute. You somehow have had your sins dealt with, and you have been given And everlasting righteousness, therefore God can declare you to be just. Who is he that condemneth? He continues. It is Christ that died. There's the offering, there's the sacrifice Yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, and now he goes and makes another step, who also maketh intercession for us. Well, that implies a priestly role. This is something the priests do, and something Christ continues to do I want you now to think about the differences in furniture. In particular, I want you to think about the differences of chairs, things you sit on. What are the different types of chairs that people have? Come on, I know you have chairs in your house. Oh recliners, yeah, my favorite, right? Oops, I jumped ahead. I shouldn't have said that too quick. What are other types of chairs people have in their house? Dining room chairs? Dining room chairs. Roll around office chairs. Office chairs, yep, chairs for com they do have computer chairs, you kind of sit on your knees, and that looks really interesting for oh about ten minutes and then you say, Why did I buy this stupid thing? What are other types of chairs people have? Stools, yep, baby stool. I got one in the garage really good for working on engines. High chair for children. High chairs for children, absolutely. Don't want to forget the little people. Right What are some other kinds of chairs that people might own? Forget the home. What about the business or some other place? a high-back leather, lazy boy office chair that the church bought me that is marvelous. There's uh one chair y'all haven't mentioned yet. Can you guess what that might be? The electric chair. Is he telling family secrets here? Well yeah, there's an electric chair. Uh that's uh there's our I don't think we're talking about an an automated recliner here, but uh yeah, that's uh I guess I know where my uh nursing home is gonna be. Electric chair, yeah. What about a throne? Yeah, the commode. Right. Yeah. Yeah, Brother Bernie used to call it doing Brother Bernie used to call it the Right. Right. Brother Bernie used to call it doing paperwork in the Oval Office. Thought that was funny. A throne. You know, what is your favorite chair? I think some of you already said the recliner. That's the first one you leap to. But of all the chairs mentioned, excluding the electric chair, huh? Of all the chairs that have been mentioned today, which one is your favorite? Well life's really miserable, isn't it? You really try to get rid of some spasms in your back, aren't you? If you could pick one chair out of all those, which chair would it be? I would think a recliner. Your recliner, okay. One chair. Which one would it be? Perhaps a throne, because that implies a kingdom. Yes, a throne. A throne a recliner's great, but you know, you fall asleep in it and then you gotta get up and then you go back to it again. And that it never really fully satisfies, does it? Dining room chairs you sit around, eat at the table, and guess what? You You go back to them again because you need to eat again. And you can pick any other chair except for the electric chair, and you keep going back to it again. But a throne Which is where Jesus is at. He's in a chair that's the head of the kingdom. You know, we use this term even in our vernacular today. If you've gone to college, you've had to deal with the chair of the department of chemistry or the chair of the Department of Biological Sciences or whatever. What does that mean? You're not going up to see some Victorian piece of furniture You're going to talk to a person. They occupy a particular we even say they occupy the seat. We had an election. They're talking about uh elections that for county seats or a seat in the house or this I'll talk about a seat. We're not talking about just physical four legs and cushion. We understand this to mean a position of rule. You know, it's interesting because this whole concept of sitting is a big deal throughout scriptures. And I just want to read some of these, and I want you to tell me as I after I read them. What what the chair entails what is signified by this seat? Alright, I'm just going to read different verses. I've got about uh six of them here, and I'm going to read, and I want you to tell me what this this seat, this this chair, this this sitting posture, what it it what what it involves here. Jesus in Luke 14, 28, said, For Which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he hath sufficient to finish it? Alright. It's interesting that parable says you've got to sit down first and count the cost. What's the implication of that? What's going on there? See if it's comfortable. See if it's comfortable. Alright, uh what do you mean by comfortable? He's intending to build a tower. He wants to build a tower and he's got to count the cost, and he's gonna sit down first to count the cost. In a tower? Uh the verse again is says, for which of you intending to build a tower, you're gonna construct something, you're gonna build something. He says, if you want to do that, don't you sit down first and count the cost to see if you have enough money to finish it? So what does that mean to sit? I'm kind of liking your idea. I want to run with it, but let's let some others answer He's sitting down to work and removing distractions so he can concentrate on this one one thing. What's it gonna cost? Can I afford this hour or not afford this hour It's kind of the an office chair then. Yeah, uh and I'm not so much focused on what the actual individual chair is. That doesn't matter so much That would be perhaps the seat of consideration, the seat of thinking. You're going to sit and see, am I comfortable enough going forward with this project Right? Or I got butterflies in the stomach. I don't know. This is a real stretch. Maybe um maybe a split level tower. Alright, so that's one of the seats in Scripture, the seat of consideration. So again, I'm not talking about a four-legged stool or anything like that. I'm just talking about what occurs in this sitting position. What does that imply? Alright, here's one in Matthew 23. Then spake Jesus to the multitude and to his disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe. That observe and do. But do not ye after their works, for they say and do not. All right, what was that seat? What did that imply? It implies authority, okay. What else? It's not wrong, but what else? Judgment. And where all the people were coming to Moses and his father-in-law said, you know, you could delegate some of it. Yeah, that there it's a seat of judgment, it's a seat of authority, um, and it's judging an authority according to what? The law which would be Moses Covenant. Moses Covenant. Because Jesus said they sit in Moses' seat, right? I'm quite sure they didn't haul around whatever animal skin, three-legged stool Moses sat in in his tent all these days, right? It's not what he's talking about. Jesus says he sits in Moses. He recognizes that as a seat of authority to judge and to rule. Because he says, whatever they bid you observe and do, that observe and do. They're ruling from it. It's a position of ruling and it's a position of judgment. It's it's not like an American form of government. It's really more of a kingly state. You know, they have the power of the purse Power of the law and the power of execution. It was all wrapped in one. Matthew 1347. This one was one of these verses, Pastor, you'll appreciate it's one of these, wow You see these little phrases in there, and you think about it, you go, that's interesting. So I hope to pique your interest. Listen to this parable in Matthew 13, 47, and maybe we can bring it up. It goes all the way through verse 50 Matthew 13, 47, the Lord says this. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net. Jesus gave a lot of kingdom parables in the book of Matthew. It's like a net. that was cast into the sea and gathered of every kind. It's obviously an allusion to fishing, right? Which, when it was full, they drew to shore and sat down. And sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away So, meaning in this fashion, so shall it be at the end of the world, the angels shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just. And shall cast them into the furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. So, first of all Who do you think is in this this is a parable, right? Jesus isn't giving us instruction on how to catch fish. I'm sorry, folks, it's just not that's not what he's talking about But in this parable he says they came and they sat down. Now no words of the Lord Jesus is incidental or accidental. He is intentional. He says this. So who's sitting down in that parable? And what are they doing when they sit down? Maybe we answer that first. What are these individuals, whoever they are, those that went out, they gathered, these individuals now sit down. What are they then doing? Amending their neck. No, it's not what it says. Good try, but I can't let you have a pass on that one, Mrs. Ross. They get to that later. All right, they get to that later Oh Marissa had her red up. Yeah, they gotta get the stuff out of the net first, right? You can't fix the net with a bunch of fish in it, right? So they're sorting the net. Okay, they're sorting it. How many piles do they have? They got two piles. Ooh. Alright. So now we know what they're doing. What's another word for sorting in this context here? What are they doing? Separating, discerning, judging, judging. You have to judge. Is this good fish or bad fish? Good. This pile over here. Well we don't want that one. That's a grouper fish. That's some piny Spiny pokey fish, a lion fish, was that the one they want to kill all the time? Chuck that over here. Alright, so these are individuals who are Exercising authority, exercising great power over this net of fish. Who do you think is that sitting down? In the Jesus, okay, but who what in the uh that's not necessarily wrong, I want to explore that some. The fishermen are the ones who are doing it, okay? Who are the fishermen spiritually speaking? Who are the fishermen? Who are those that go out and cast their nets? Christians. If you're a Christian, that's you Let that sink in for a little bit. You see, we go out casting the net of the gospel We're bringing in people, and I can tell you, you bring in every kind here, I guarantee you, and more often than not, the pile of the bad is bigger than the pile of the good There's a lot of people that get snared up in the net of the gospel. And they come. They come to church. Can you imagine getting some fish in your net that's just a It's a big dolphin. They're strong. They can dance on their tails. Imagine trying to get that out of your net. Oh man, what a mess that is. But every now and then you get a really good 23-inch stripe bass. Wow, what a keeper. That's just amazing. Listen to Matthew 25, 31. It says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him. Then shall he, here it is, sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all nations And he shall separate them one from another as a shepherd divides his sheep from the goats. Alright, what's that seat? Should be pretty obvious. That's the judgment throne of Jesus Christ, I think. In Baptist circles, you often hear the phrase the Bama seat of Christ. It's his judgment throne. Jesus the judge. That's interesting. So you have believers. Who are part of the judging process, you have Jesus that's in that judging process. Well, because in that day, the union is complete. Christ and his bride are united. Together they operate as one. Listen to this language here in Mark ten, verse thirty-seven. Now actually I'm going to jump to Luke 22, 29. Let's skip to that one for interest of time. Jesus says to them at the end of the Last Supper, I think it's the Last Supper, I appoint unto you a kingdom. as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So what is he telling the disciples who would be the New Testament apostles. What's he telling them? Any ideas? Judgment would be committed to them They will have judgment. And it says they're sitting on a throne. A throne. Who else sits on thrones? Kings and queens. They sit on throne. Remember there's no separation of powers here. If you have the power to judge, you have the power to rule. You have the power to rule. I mean there's there's no court of appeals to the king, right? This is your future. This is a glorious future Look at uh look at John 19, 13. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the pavement, but in the Hebrew Gabitha. So what is what's the saying about Pilate? What's he what's his seat? What level is that judgment seat? Is it a spiritual one? Is it a physical one? Earthly one? What extent is his seat civil? Yeah, civil, secular authority. That's all he's got. He only has secular authority. When they brought the coin to Jesus, he says, Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar, and that and unto God that which is God's One of the statements he was making in that is Caesar is not God, because Caesar always wanted to be known as God and worshiped as God, offer a pinch of incense to him as unto a God. Oh no. Jesus says Render to Caesar what Caesar. He has authority, but he's secular authority. God has another separate seat. Alright, so I'm just having you explore this concept of seats in the scriptures and maybe When you come across them, you can think about it a little bit more. Because right now, Jesus Christ is seated on a throne. In heaven, at the right hand of God, folks, it doesn't get any higher than that. You can't get more powerful than that. That throne is not open and available to anybody else, and that's where I'm going to go back to Mark 10, 37, they said unto him that is unto Jesus his apostles, Grant unto us that we may sit One on thy right hand and the other on thy left hand in thy glory. But Jesus said of them, ye know not what you ask But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give, but it shall be given them for whom it is prepared. Well that's a pretty phenomenal statement Jesus is saying, I can't appoint that, but my Father can, and he's going to give it to those to whom it's prepared. So what's glorious about that is number one, God appoints it, number two, it's available So that shows the availability of such positions. But praise my soul, we read from these other passages that believers, not just the apostles, occupy those seats. That was just a fascinating thought to me. And what's the ramification of all of this? In verse 14, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Here these individuals who are sanctified truly are a member of the new covenant. They're perfected forever. They have eternal life. They have a perfect righteousness. The Jude, I love the opening verses of Jude. Some of you have received Christmas cards from the Cluth in the past. And we would open with this verse. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, preserved in Jesus Christ, and called Mercy unto you and peace and love be multiplied. That doesn't contradict what we taught earlier about a positional sanctification, because the Bible is presenting two types of sanctification. There's a positional one, there's an ethical one You see both of them, for instance, in this passage. Look at Hebrews 2. 11. You can see both sanctifications here. It says, for both he that sanctifieth, that means it's an ongoing process And they who are sanctified, one-time deal, are all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. So this is a a glorious, glorious teaching. I I hope you enjoy that uh as much as I did just in considering the contrast and considering the different seats because what a glorious result Because everything that Jesus Christ has done, he has made obsolete in the old covenant, and he has rendered a far better outcome for the people of God than could ever have possibly been given under the old. It is beyond our imagination. We named all these chairs and we described our favorite chair to sit in. And I would agree the recliner is one of my favorite chairs. But scripturally, God has given us something better than a recliner, has given us a throne. Because in a throne, you can call to the servants. Bring me something to eat, bring me something to drink. I let not that individual's whorehead go down to the grave in peace. Get rid of that individual, cast them out. That one's bad. This one's good. Spare such a one. They've been a great helper to me. The saints have that privilege. That is phenomenal I can't get that from a recliner I bought at Bob's discount furniture. It's not going to happen. So we close with that. Let's pray. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this uh Glorious set of closing arguments you've given to us, Lord. May we all be thoroughly convinced by the reasonableness and the truth and the hope of these things. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.