We have a look at 15 to 18. Last week was the closing argument. This week is the closing witness because there's an additional witness brought in to this closing argument. So I'm going to read 15 to 18 and then we'll get into our discussion question, something which I trust is something you've heard before. Hear now the word of the Lord, Hebrews 10, 15 to 18. Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us. For after that he had said, before This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them, and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering percent. This study is a little more on the technical side. It's a little bit more on the Digging deep, sigh, that's one of the benefits of a Bible study. You can stop and ask questions. So to help Bring us into this line of questioning that I want us to look at. I do have our discussion question open, so we're going to kind of talk about it. Is it true Christian, attendee here at church. Is it true that believers have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them? Yes. You're shaking your head yes. You're shaking your head yes. Yes. Other thoughts about that? Other Amplification of that? If we're blessed, we do, certainly, yes. Alright. So we agree that he does well in us. All right, well that's kind of leveling the playing field. Christians do testify to these things Does the Holy Spirit ever lie or bury false witness? No, we won't lie. We don't believe that. We certainly don't see evidence of that in scripture. But sometimes we think it's the Holy Spirit when it's not. When we see other Holy Spirit Satan Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a very interesting observation. Sometimes that spirit we hear in our ears may not be the spirit of God. Ah, very interesting. All right, that's that's a very interesting addition you get. Now I know those are very poor discussion questions because they only have a yes or no answer. But I'm trying to establish two basics here. So we agree that believers have the Holy Spirit and we agree that The Holy Spirit doesn't lie, doesn't bear false witness. So here's where I'm hoping you find it interesting. How do you think most religious people believe the Holy Spirit speaks? How do you How do you think religious people? It could be Christian religion, it could be others. Oh, okay. I'm believer. I'm believing religious people. Probably think that he speaks on a journal vision Alright. Unbelievers may think he speaks in a dream or a vision. Okay. Any other thoughts? And I'm not even going to limit it to the New Testament era How do religious people think the Holy Spirit speaks? I just suddenly know. It'll be something that I'm concerned about and uh all of a sudden I'll know The answer. Something comes to your mind. Maybe you've been wondering about it and then bang a uh an answer comes in. Alright. Marissa? Yeah, well the boys, revelations, signs, or even just through other men's office Okay. They would say the Holy Spirit speaks through revelation, through signs, uh, through other individuals. Okay, right? Because the Spirit, after all, is that a spirit, it's a non-material being Let's focus now in the New Testament era. How do New Testament Christians believe that the Holy Spirit speaks to them? Any type. Through his word, okay. Yep, speaking through the word of God. All right. Uh let me ask this question. Well, I think Marissa covered that. By what means do they think God the Holy Spirit speaks to them? So you would say through his word, what are other means in the New Testament era that we would say God the Holy Spirit speaks to us? What are some other means that people would say? But always in cooperation with the word. I would like to meet Christians who believe that Yeah, always in cooperation work. How do you think a lot of religious and quasi-evangelical churches believe the Holy Spirit speaks to them? uh in exception to the word. In an exception to the word, such as revelation that that um you know something that you won't find in scripture, but the Spirit told me this or I was thinking if this this song came to my mind it must have been the Holy Spirit that gave me this new hymn or or song, something extra biblical. Of course obviously wrong. Um there are they'll say God told me to tell this to you. Yeah. Okay. That's interesting. You tacked on two things. God told me to say this to you, but you would assert it's their reasoning. Why would you assert it's it's their reasoning? Because God speaks to us through his word and divine revelation doesn't happen anymore. Okay. Alright, you're getting into a like sounds like you've had some good theological training so Yeah, and with what Gay said if it's contrary to God's word, then is obviously just man's speech and man's thinking. Yeah Do you see somewhat of a conundrum with what I'm kind of going over here? Do you see the tension or the paradox? Can anybody describe that that tension or that paradox with the reason? I picked these questions carefully to try to illustrate there's a conundrum here. Well God will never contradict himself. And so if God's word says one thing and what you are hearing is something different, then it's not the Spirit of God, because God will not contradict Himself. Okay. Um you've you've you've answered the conundrum, but what is the conundrum? I'm not disagreeing with that. Uh uh Jeff and then Penny. So there's uh uh Who and who or how do we trust God, right? Is it Are we going to start looking for that outside of the Bible message and start down a trail of Well, if it were today, it must have been God that did it. I'm gonna look for it tomorrow. And the next day and and a after a while faith is no longer faith, I'm looking for the answer which is by sight and not mine. Okay, so yeah, you're talking about those who perhaps have heard somebody else say something and by chance that one time they heard it it came to pass. And so maybe God's in that, all right? Um, thinking through everything everybody has said and our personal experience. Like he said, the spirit bears witness with our spirit Sometimes there are other spirits outside that are speaking to us. There's our own reasoning and conscience and there is, you know, the fact that God does like speak to us in our heart So the commandment for me is how do we discern whether it is the Holy Spirit or it is just something we're fabricating in our own mind or somebody else's influencing us Yeah, uh that's uh Well you married an articulate woman, Joe. That's pretty good. It helps to be an English teacher too. You kinda capture the uh so when you marry me She said yes. I like um It's all good input. And uh honestly there's there's in this discussion I don't really have a right or wrong answer. I'm just trying to show this nuance contrast of the first question if God the Holy Spirit is in fact in us and we as believers rejoice to know that yes he does speak to us in a controlled way in a controlled way And yet not in an uncontrolled way. And that's what the world is really struggling with. And how do you prove that? You know, wouldn't it be nice to have something that's immovable, something that is firm and fixed, something of which you can say, yeah, I know for a fact this is God the Spirit talking to me because I have this sure thing, like a guardrail I can hang on to to know that that's that's him speaking and actually we have such a guardrail The Westminster Confession of Faith has in its opening chapter, if you haven't read the Westminster Confession of Faith, I would strongly encourage you to just read the first chapter. Because that's probably 90% of the value of the entire Westminster Confession of Faith, is that very opening chapter. These people nailed it. I wouldn't change one word of it In the first chapter that they have, they break it up by paragraphs. I think there's like eight or nine paragraphs, so you're talking about, you know, two dozen words or less, I mean two dozen sentences or less to read through. But in the fifth and sixth chapter They make a point here about the church and doctrine and what is correct, what is right, right, what is wrong. They write in the fifth, we may be moved and induced by the testimony of the church to a high and reverent esteem of the Holy Scripture. They're getting back to what is the canon. The heavenliness of the matter, the efficacy of the doctrine, the majesty of the style, the consent of all the parts, the scope of the whole, which is to give all glory to God The full discovery of it makes of the only way of man's salvation the many other incomparable excellencies, a lot of fluffy words to say we can be moved about all these things, but that's not what convinces us Scripture. Scripture, what is? What convinces us that this is the canon? They go on to say. Notwithstanding, our full persuasion An assurance of the infallible truth and the divine authority thereof is from the inward work of the Holy Spirit, bearing witness by and with the Word in our hearts. So they say we know this is the canon of God because God the Holy Spirit tells us it is. Isn't that interesting? We hold the canon by faith. They go on to say, in the sixth part, the whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man's salvation, faith, and life. is either expressly set down in Scripture, or by good and necessary consequence, may be deduced from Scripture, unto which nothing at any time is to be added Whether by new revelations of the Spirit, that's an excellent phrase they added, they inserted in here, don't add to the scriptures. or traditions of men. Nevertheless, we acknowledge the inward illumination of the Spirit to be necessary for the saving understanding of such things as are revealed in the Word. The paragraph continues, but that's the part I want to focus on. So the conundrum is this that God the Holy Spirit speaks to us. What are we to do with that? How do we handle it? So the reason I'm getting into that is because our passage in Hebrews 10, beginning in verse 15, is dealing with the witness of the Spirit. And I find this fascinating. Sometimes little phrases in the Bible should make us pump the brakes, stop, whoop, slow down, smell the roses. Cover it, uncover it, look a little bit, because this is a fascinating statement. Notice what he says here in verse 15, whereof the Holy Ghost, Old English word meaning the Holy Spirit It also is a witness to us. For after that he had said before dot dot dot. And then this is a covenantal promise we read in Jeremiah and we've seen it used before in the book of Hebrews. It's there. And yet it says something fascinating. Number one, it says that the Holy Spirit is a person. The Holy Spirit's a person. It's a living entity. It's a member of the Godhead. The Holy Spirit speaks. Doesn't have a mouth But it speaks. Isn't that fascinating? It speaks through something that has a mouth or through something that has been written. So it It can serve as a witness, which is impressive. Number two, the Holy Spirit speaks and prophesies through Scripture. That's the principal way through which the Holy Spirit speaks and prophesies, because he says here the Holy Ghost is a witness He said before, this is the covenant that I will make with him after those days. Now that's interesting because if you go back to the book of Jeremiah and look up that prophecy, let's go see if we find Where Jeremiah writes, the Holy Spirit said, da-da-da-da-da. Is he, is the penman to Hebrews accurately reflecting what we find in Jeremiah? And lo and behold, it says This shall be the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. Saith the Lord. So the penment of Hebrews equates the Holy Spirit with The Lord in Jeremiah 31. There's no mistake. There's no contradiction. He says that's the Holy Spirit speaking. But Jeremiah writes, Thus saith the Lord. You know what I found interesting? You'll appreciate this. The word spirit never shows up in the book of Jeremiah. The Spirit is talking all the time in Ezekiel. He's there in Daniel. He's there in Isaiah. The only time you find spirit in Jeremiah is talking about the spirit of a man and the spirit of another nation, never referring to God the Holy Spirit. So I find this interesting. He said, no, that was the spirit talking in Jeremiah. Isn't that fascinating? Well, that is one of these jewels when the New Testament quotes the old. Now, the Unbeliever, those who are just looking for any occasion to find fault with Christianity, will say, see, that's a contradiction in the Bible. The believer recognizes, no, it's not. It's God giving further insight. The canon of scripture had not yet been complete. You can't have a canonized book without canonized words. These words are now frozen, put in cement, you don't change it. It's that stable guide. It's that thing you can hang on to So I hear these other voices. How do I know that's the voice of God? Is it in concert with Scripture? Is it aligned with the Word of God? The Word of God doesn't tell me whether to fix my air conditioner or not, whether to replace it or to repair it. It doesn't tell me that. Right I may have wisdom that comes to me saying, you know, the wiser thing to do is this, and I may ascribe that to the Holy Spirit. But that's not a canonical message I have to repeat for the church throughout all ages and write it down just like the prophets did. In Jeremiah 1 2 it says the word of the Lord came to me. He didn't write spirit. He says, the word of the Lord came to me And in the opening chapter of Hebrews, God, um, who in sundry ways and diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. So you have God speaking, the Son speaking. Here in Hebrews says the Spirit is speaking. All three are involved. It's one Godhead. It's one Godhead. And the third point about the Spirit's witness is this Holy Spirit enables Christians to understand the Bible's teachings. I can remember as a young quote-unquote Christian, my parents directed me to church. They stuck my nose out the front door and said, walk across the street, go into that building, you're going to church. It was literally across the street from my house. I could see the sign, lighted sign on the road, and I went for years to Irving Bible Church. And it didn't mean a bloomin' thing to me I didn't understand. The pastor would preach something, and he would read a passage in the Bible, and then he would stand up and preach something what I couldn't line up with what was in there Sometimes it seemed to match, sometimes it didn't. It just didn't make sense. I didn't doubt that Jesus existed. If you said, do you believe in Jesus? I would have said, yeah. He was a historical, ancient historical figure. Sure he came. I'm not an unbeliever, but I was. I didn't know him. I didn't have that inward illumination the Holy Spirit telling me And opening up the volume of the book to me. It wasn't exciting to me. The scriptures just didn't explode. Because when you When you've got that inward illumination, it's all the difference. What are the implications that the Holy Spirit speaks to men apart from the Bible? What are the implications of that? If the Holy Spirit today, now that we have the Bible, we got a book, it's a book, you agree that we don't add to this, I hope, right? This is a settled book. So what are the implications if he speaks to people apart from the Bible? What are the implications of that? We would mean that the Bible is not sufficient for the believer All right. Yeah, it really calls into question, is the Bible sufficient? So yeah, that would be one option. Yeah, I gave you the Bible. It's a useful historical book. First century, but you know, from from 2000 BC to the first century, but you know, we we we we we still need to help it help it along a little bit. All right, that's one possible implication. What are some others Yeah, what are the implications if the Holy Spirit in fact speaks to men apart from the Bible? How do you know it's not the devil? How far does it go? How do you know this individual, in fact, is a mouthpiece for the Holy Spirit? Then you start looking at the Bible, you start looking more to that person. Yeah, because that person maybe is a little easier to follow. What are some other implications? There's a lot. Christ has failed because Scripture declares that God spoke in times past by the Spirit, but now he speaks through the Son. So anything that comes forward from that point forward cannot come forth from the Spirit because the Son is the assigned speaker. Uh the the Holy Spirit uh working through the words of the Son has failed Yeah, there's a failure on the part of the Godhead. So that would imply that perhaps God has lied to us. What else? cults based on this extra biblical revelation of the Spirit giving me this new word. We might not be able to rule out the cults because they claim there's an extra biblical revelation. Maybe Moroni did in fact get a bunch of golden plans. Plates from some cities and some tribes that never existed and we have no record of Yeah I was gonna say something along those same lines then if if we can get something in addition to the scripture And that means y by nature you can add to it. And there can be new interpretations and even changes. Hey, why not? Maybe there's a a whole new covenant um that that that the Lord will give since we can add on to what's already there. Yeah. So we're doubling down, and you're all correct, on this position that God the Holy Spirit speaks to the scriptures. The scriptures are sufficient But we also embrace the point that God the Holy Spirit lives in us and guides us and directs us. He does speak to us. Mrs. Ross said it very well. And yet we wouldn't say that that's scripture. Right? You see the potential conundrum here. I don't want to lead you down the wrong wrong path and get top your your nose, but sometimes we we mistake the peace of God for the voice of the Spirit of God. The peace of God that passes all understanding should keep your hearts and minds. And you know, Penny and I don't buy anything. Well, I shouldn't say anything. We buy groceries and things. But if we're considering buying a an appliance or buying a car, we pray about it. If we do not have peace, that's the right thing. We don't move and we uh take that as the peace of God w for which we pray. But that's not the Spirit of God telling us to be to buy or not to buy. It's just simply, as Mrs. Ross was talking about, that that peace of God that just that yes, this is the right thing to do. Mm-hmm. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it is a great mystery. It is a great mystery because on the one hand we acknowledge that God the Holy Spirit dwells in believers. He doesn't lie. We don't believe the scriptures lie. And yet, how does this work out? So My only point in much of this is that the doctrine of the character and the person of the Holy Spirit actually undermines this particular point in Hebrews. That he speaks. He speaks authoritatively. He's not lying. He's a member of the Godhead. And he's a witness. And he's a witness to an important point. Now, for us living at the close of the canon of Scripture, and Gable alluded to this a little earlier, The difference in the Holy Spirit's imparting of knowledge to us lay in these two key words, and you will be greatly aided in any of your discussions with anybody in religion Concerning the role of the Holy Spirit and how he speaks. And these are the two key words. They're two very important words. Don't forget them. I will quiz you on it. There will be a $50 fine if you miss it at the end of the class. And I don't want to be $50 richer. I'll put it in the thank offering. Maybe I should put it in the teaching offering. I don't know. The difference lay between inspiration, that is something new to the Old Testament penman, something new to the New Testament penman. They've not seen it before. So that answers why there may appear to be. contradictions in the Old and New Testament. No, because they are writing under inspiration. They are filling in the gaps. They are filling in and answering questions. They are giving further insight. into things that you find in the Old Testament. God is still putting the puzzle pieces together. He's resolving the enigma And you find that many a time. There's paradoxes in the scriptures, not contradictions. There's a pair of contradictions, but not real contradictions. And that's there to snare the wicked, but that's a different topic. That enscripturation, how the words of God, that's revelation. They are having something brand new revealed to them that the earth and the planet has never heard or seen before, neither would it have entered into the heart of men. And what we have today, now that the book is closed, there's no adding to it, there's no taking away, it's sealed up, you've written it, it's on stone, it's not adding or taking away Now you have illumination. Illumination is a very different thing. Illumination is the inward work, the ongoing insights into the written word of God. The penmen were inspired. Christians in the New Testament are illuminated. And that illumination is broad. If you're informed by a handful of very basic things in the Bible, As you reflect on these things in life, having understood the principles of wisdom and knowledge and righteousness. God can bring to your mind an accurate assessment of a situation, a biblically godly informed decision. That's illumination. particularly into what the things of God are talking about. That's the primary purpose. Otherwise, why canonize a book Why would the likes of Tyndale give his life so that we would have the scriptures? So those are two very important terms that you need to know. In the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit gave the light bulb. In the New Testament he turns it on. But it's not a new light bulb. It's an existing light bulb. Uh I would say he turned it on in the Old Testament as well. Yeah, exactly. He did, right. He gave it on to Revelation. But in the New Testament Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's that's an interesting way to put it. Yeah. It we struggle a bit with the terms, right? Because when it's new to you You could say God revealed this to me, maybe not understanding you're stepping on a theologically loaded term, right? And I don't flame people too much for that, like I used to do. You have to kind of inquire a little bit more to see where they really stand on this matter. But let's look now at this focused excerpt that is given now that I've gotten off this introductory statement. About the role of the Spirit. Let's look at the excerpt because I want you to compare it and contrast it, and I've got it in your handout. Victoria, you could bring up Jeremiah 31. 33 on the screen for people. Because there are selective phrases that are pulled out between Jeremiah's Old Testament promise and what we find in here. And I've color-coded it for you. It says, this shall be versus this is the covenant that I will make with them versus the house of Israel. After those days I'll put my law in their inward parts, write it in their hearts. Now notice the part that's dropped out The Pem in the Hebrews does not include the phrase that says, and will be their God, and they shall be my people, and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his Brothers saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me from the least them to grace them, saith the Lord. Wow, that's a huge chunk of the promise that He doesn't even focus on. He doesn't repeat it. Oh, by the way, it's repeated earlier in Hebrews, but not here. Not here. What he does recount is this. He adds, for I will forgive their iniquity And I will remember their sin no more. He changes that phrase, uh, their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. He somewhat summarizes it. Why just why do you think about half of the verse from Jeremiah was used? Why is he using only half that verse? Why that part? What's the focus? So I was taught in English composition that when you're pulling a quote from somewhere, you need to trim it down as much as possible and don't include anything that's not relevant to the discussion or to the point that you're making. Is that perhaps what's going on here? Yes. That's very good. I like that. You want to get the name of that school you went to down. That's a pretty good school. And so what is that point that's relevant to this discussion? You've teed it up nicely. I'm waiting for somebody to pull out a A two hour a two club and uh just drive that sucker down the fairway. The emphasis is on the forgiveness of sin. He's focusing on emphasis of the f forgiveness of sins. Uh you've you've done this before, right? Uh you've got this very big document you're reading for a college paper or uh you're trying to point out something to a friend from an article you read. And you're not going to start at the beginning of the article, read off the bottom. You're going to jump right to the punchline, the part that you want them to see. See, this official said this on this day. You know, to impeach them or whatever. And so that focus is on the forgiveness of sins. And in fact, it's focusing on the internal work of the Spirit. The Spirit says this, and that's what I find to be quite interesting. He's not so much focusing on the teaching aspect of the Holy Spirit, that's somewhat comes after salvation. But it's this internal work of the Spirit. Forgiveness of sins is depicted in Scriptures as God not remembering something Their sins and their iniquities will I not remember anymore. I will remember no more. It's a promise, guys. I can bring it up. First of all, I want you to observe how in this promise The law of God, the moral law, not the feudal ceremonial shadows which perfected nothing. He's just ruled those out But this moral law, this word of God, known as the law of God, the moral law, remains active in God's plan of saving mercy. I find that interesting because so far in Hebrews, he's just been taking a shotgun to the whole Old Covenant. All the sacrifices and offerings. Useless. Futile. Vain. You have to keep bringing them back. They don't accomplish forgiveness of sins. And then he aims at the priests, the ones who are healing them. They die. They're no good. They can't heal themselves. Their whole priesthood is in has death baked into it. They can't endure forever. They have to keep coming and keep going And so that's useless to secure everlasting righteousness. But the promise of the Spirit is I'll remember their sins and iniquities no more But he's also going to write the law in their heart. Now do you know why we had this earlier discussion about the work of the Spirit Could the Spirit of God testify to you without the law in your heart? As a Christian? This is a hypothetical question It just occurred to me maybe it's too nuanced. Could the Spirit of God Illuminate Christian, teach the Christian without the law of God in them. Because we said the scriptures are sufficient. We said the scriptures testify. Would not that be a fresh revelation if it were something in addition to the law that's already established in the park? Yeah, it would have to it would classify as a fresh revelation. Maybe ha hang with me here folks We've just agreed that God the Holy Spirit speaks to us through the Word of God. That's what the penment to Hebrews is talking about. I'm going to put my laws in their heart. You're going to have embedded in your heart a deeper, greater sense of the law of God. Yea, the very lawgiver himself will be there dwelling with you. And what's he going to bring to remembrance? Something that's not this book? Something that doesn't have anything to do with the moral righteousness of the law. You track it with me here? You see why that has to be part and parcel of it? So he's tanked The ceremonial laws. He's done away with the Levitical priesthood, but he hasn't done away with the moral code, because the law is written in the heart of the believer. So that law remains active, and that's one of your, I think, fill-in-the-blanks, maybe. Did I put that one? I didn't print the claw, so it had to be fill in the blanks. It remains active in God's plan of saving mercy. It's not destroyed. It's actually written into the heart of those whom God pardons. By the very person of the law, the lawgiver dwelling in us. Look at these four verses here I have before you here in your handout. John 14, 6. He says, I'll pray the Father, he shall give you another comforter. that he may abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth. So one thing is, the spirit is called the spirit of truth. You wake up in the morning, you have a great idea, I think I'll rob my neighbor's chicken house because I'm hungry. That's what I'll do today to resolve my poverty. Was that the Spirit of God telling you? No. He speaks against stealing and theft. I'm just making a silly illustration because I just want you to understand he's not going to He's not the spirit of lies, he's the spirit of truth. What he testifies is going to be true. And that is whom the world cannot receive The world can't receive it. Why? Because they don't have the law of God written in their hearts by God. They don't have Him dwelling in them. God hasn't moved to do it. He hasn't paid for their sins. They're not going to get him. Because it sees him not, neither knows him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. There's a lot going on in that passage, but I just present it for you to think about. Romans 5, it talks, the Apostle Paul says that the Holy Ghost is given unto us. Romans 8. 16, the Spirit bears witness with our Spirit. 2 Corinthians 1, 21 and 22. 22 says, who has also sealed us and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts? Folks, we're not like Elijah. We have the earnest, the down payment of the Spirit in our hearts. There's a portion of him there, because your sons, God has sent forth the spirit of the Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father. Alright, let's wrap this up here. I'm sorry. Maybe getting a little technical, but I told you this would be a little different study, because we're trying to get into this role of the Holy Spirit as he speaks through Jeremiah the prophet, as he talks to us today. We have reached the top of a mountain, a big theological mountain. And this closes out now a line of reasoning that has been pursued in Hebrews chapter 10. The law, the Old Testament, contains sacrifices which can never fully deal with sins. In fact, the Holy Spirit Himself identifies a better and a different way to remove sins That of the work of the Son, resulting in a free and full pardon, leading to the indwelling of the Holy Spirit as prophesied by Jeremiah. So we're hitting that peak. He's just gone through great lengths to show Jeremiah's prophecy has been fulfilled. Wonderful. And now we find something else interesting about the Spirit The Spirit's role in salvation. It says in verse 17 and 18, and this is the thing that I found quite fascinating. I hope you do too. It says, their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Technically speaking, who is not remembering sins and iniquities according to that verse? Okay. The Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost. Who is God? Who is the Lord? You're not wrong. Kind of like the kid in Sunday school and ask the question. The answer is always Jesus. Well this answer here is it's the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit Who says, I will not remember sins and iniquities anymore. Now I find that very interesting. I don't know about you, but I kind of have this picture of Judgment Day where all the nations are gathered before this tremendous celestial throne. God is there with all the angels, there's trumpets, it's loud, there's a division being made. The books are open, the dead and the unsaved are judged out of these books, whatever that looks like. And the saved are judged out of a book that simply has a list of names. You're just calling off the names. Here they are. And I get this sense that That God the Father, the Lord Jesus, standing there reading out of a book, a list of sins of the wicked. That's the imagery I have. But that's wrong. Because this passage says, I, the Holy Spirit, will remember their iniquities no more. The one who's bringing up the sin, the flip side likewise would be true. Grieve not the Holy Spirit. There's a certain Spirit that will not forgive you if you do such and such, I think it says in the Old Testament. The flip side of the Spirit is that He is the one bringing the accusations up of the unbelievers. The Holy Spirit is the one pointing out the sins. He's going to cause their iniquities to be brought to remembrance to the Father. The Son has done the work, the Father is judging, and it's the Holy Spirit that's accusing. He said he has sent the Spirit into the world for righteousness, for judgment. And for something else I forget which. Do you remember? No, I was gonna Connect connect some dots for me. Yeah, every mouth shall be stopped. I believe that the spirit can the conviction that they did not have in light will fall upon them You know. Many will say Lord, Lord, yes. But I think deep down the note, yeah. It's the spirit bringing up the the spirit is as it were God's prosecuting attorney. Right I find that interesting. And that very same prosecuting attorney sees your name in the list and says, I'm not bringing those charges up. I'm not bringing it up. Because the Spirit searches the deep things of God. Those deep things of the inward part of men. So there is no more offering for sin. Why? The ultimate payment's been made And having secured this, our disease is in remission. Now we're remission of these, there's no more offering for sin. The Son is involved in the salvation because he atoned for our sins. He came to earth as a man, had to, the eternal, made incarnate, yet without all of his glory, and made as a suffering servant to die on the cross. However, the Spirit of God completes Our remission of sins by promising to not remind God of those sins already paid. Do you see the Spirit has a role? He's got a role in Jeremiah's prophecy to us. Because the Son shed his blood, the Spirit sheds no illuminating light on our sins before the Father The Holy Ghost is a witness, as he said, their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. And so the result the Spirit's poured out bears witness to us about the deep things of God. He's turned from revealing our sins before the Father to revealing the glories of the Father to the sinners, that they may worship him. There's been a big reversal in what how he operates to us. I find that fascinating. You know, you don't have much teaching in Christianity about the Spirit of God. I think this is a very instructive passage by connecting it to this Old Testament prophecy of Jeremiah. Even the Nicene Creed, maybe some of you are familiar with that, written at the Council of Chalcedon, I believe, where it was shoring up the person and the manhood of Jesus Christ. And yet they gave short shrift to the Holy Spirit, just one or two lines. And then years later they said, you know, we kind of cut this a little short and they beefed it up some. But there really hasn't been much teaching I'm aware of concerning the role of the Holy Spirit. And so I find this to be fascinating. Last three verses to consider is 1 Corinthians 6 It says, ye're washed, 1 Corinthians 6. 11. You're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by, meaning through, through the action of, by the Spirit of God. He is the one who applies that work to us. He is the one executing that, carrying out, the washing, the sanctification, the justification. He applies it. 2 Thessalonians 2 God has from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit. This is how sanctification can even occur in the life of a believer. The Spirit of God is there bringing to remembrance the law of God written in their hearts. He's activating, he's turning on the light bulb, as Pastor pointed out. Last verse, I think 1 Peter 1 shows the work of the entire Godhead in salvation. We are elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. God the Father named a people for himself from all eternity, known only to him. He didn't consult with you or I. He didn't go to the so-and-so national convention and get some input and opinion. He wasn't bribed. He elected them, chose from all eternity past. Through sanctification of the Spirit Unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, the entire Godhead is involved in your salvation. And without the Holy Spirit you'd make no progress in sanctification or any growth in grace. None. Wouldn't happen. So I hope you appreciate this connection of the Spirit to this prophecy, to this platform we stand on. Because now Hebrews really should have a chapter division right there in verse 18. It's then going to transition off to the application of everything we've talked about. Now what, as a result of these things? Now that we have this behind it The old, the Tanakh, the old covenant and testament is behind us. It's fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Now what? And that's where the rest of the book of Hebrews goes to And so we're kind of done. The closing witness has been given. The Holy Spirit Himself comes in and declares these things to us. So that's what we have for today. Thank you. Thank you all for your participation. I hope that was helpful.