Arguments because it sounds negative, but a long line of reasons given for why we should have boldness, why we should rejoice, because we have a high priest over our house, and our hearts are sprinkled, and now what And last week I told you I was going to do short shrift to verses 22 to 25. And today we're going to start to look at those because I felt they needed more development, but I wanted to touch on them to show how they combined. So let me read now Hebrews 10, 22 to 23. We'll get into it a little bit. And I've got questions peppered throughout, as opposed to one big leading question today. So that's kind of where we're going So if you will follow along in your bulletin insert or turn in your Bible to Hebrews 10. 23, hello online brethren, Matt Bev, and uh I can't think of the names of my people right now. This is terrible. Patty, yes, the olds, right? Yeah, David. So good to have you join us. Hebrews 10. 22 says this Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And so we'll stop there. I mean it's really a sentence and a half is all we're looking at today. I am continually impressed with how dense scripture is with information. It is very densely packed, and yet it is very readable All right. Because we have three things, boldness, high priest, heart sprinkled, now what? And there's a bunch of let us in here. It's kind of an application that uh the Apostle Paul would make sometimes in Uh the book of uh Ephesians, you have a lot of the one-another commands. He often mentions one another. Well this is the let us commands. It's a solid passage. The salad passage, but it's not a word salad, that's for sure. The first thing I'm excited about, and I'm going to break these into kind of four pieces, looking at uh a half section and then showing the encouragement at the end. Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith. And as you know, I like to kind of pick at words, look at the sense of it. And that word draw near is fascinating to me Uh it kind of has the sense of proactively coming. You know, uh if you're at a dinner party or something like that, there are maybe uh uh maybe you see an an aunt you haven't seen in a very long time. You would draw near to them, uh maybe even hug them and give them the Arabic air kiss. That's the sense, a proactive coming Yeah, in business, uh my boss would use a term for me. He calls it bench, you need to lean forward, uh meaning kind of push the envelope a bit, go beyond. And he wasn't saying, you know, quit sleeping. He was meaning generate some ideas that are going to make sales. Now the opposite of this would be a panic departure. Right? You see something at a place you you really don't want to be just kind of shirk away. uh or to uh a reactive avoidance you just kinda are gonna steer clear the boss is coming, well let's go hide someplace, right? Maybe you've seen people like that at work, you know, or when the boss is coming Pretend to be real busy and put a smile on your face. You have to start randomly typing nonsense on the keyboard. Let's just look at a few places in Scripture where we have that sense of drawing near. Because what does it mean to draw near to God, right? physically present not with us, right? The Son of God has ascended into into heavens. Yes, where two or three are gathered together, there he is in the midst, but I I can't hug an empty chair. What so what does that mean to draw near? What does that look like So there's actually some good examples in scriptures, and I want to give you uh I think the strongest is in Psalm seventy-three. Uh Psalm seventy-three, beginning in verse twenty-seven That whole psalm just preaches itself, really. I I I I'm frankly have not heard a satisfying sermon in Psalm seventy-three because trying to add to something that God puts in there is It's it's just hard. Uh but I'm being picky. It's a great psalm to preach from. Don't get me wrong. If you hear somebody preaching Psalm 73, don't run away. Draw near to it because it's a good psalm. Well At the end, the psalmist concludes, who's under distress because he sees all that the wicked are doing, he makes this conclusion. He says, for lo They that are far from thee, so this is kind of the opposite of drawing here, they that are far from thee shall perish. Thou hast destroyed all them that go ahooring from thee. Now that's another powerful term The faithless wife, the adulterer or the adulteress, who doesn't draw near to the spouse, but instead slips away. God calls that a whoring away from thee. And then on the contrary, the psalmist says, but it is good for me to draw near to God. He says, I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works. Now that's an interesting addition there, declaring all the works. That relates to drawing near as well, and we'll see that in a moment Jeremiah has a very interesting phrase. God speaking through the prophet in Jeremiah chapter 30 and verse 21. He's speaking about the blessing that God is going to give to the nation. He's going to appoint these governors and rulers, and these good governors, and these good rulers, God says of them, I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto me For who is this that engaged his heart to approach unto me, saith the Lord? I like that sense of drawing near. You know, again, I mentioned Jesus isn't physically with us, but yes, he is present in spirit, right? But here the drawing nears to engage your heart. So again, it's back to a heart uh matter. And so to engage your heart to approach unto me. The uh penman to Hebrews writes in 416, the law made nothing perfect. but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which we draw nigh unto God. So there's a hopeful drawing to God, there's an engaging heart There is the opposite, uh, being far from God and whoring from Him. Uh now I have my first question. So, Christian, what is in your mind What's the difference between these two words? Between the word hope and the word duty. What's the difference? Any thoughts? Well that's pretty easy. One you do in your mind, you hope, and the other you do because you have to. It's part of what you are. Interesting, interesting, yes, uh duty. Uh oh I appreciate your generation. Yes, this drive and diligence for duty. You know the MacArthur, duty, honor, country, yes, that That drive. It's uh it's there. And hope you said is within you. It's it's something in the mind. Uh maybe you can expand on that. What do you mean it's it's in the mind It's something that you're thinking about, you may not do it, but you hope that maybe you want to do it. Yes, you see that there is a a a a good potential for a positive outcome. Can I put it that way? Very good. Duty is more certain because it's re it's required, whereas hope is more optional. It may or may not. Okay. Hope is optional. So not in the biblical sense of hope. So entered into the veil, which is So yeah, but I appreciate that because the world's sense of hope is, well I hope so, you know, may or may not happen. Now what about the biblical sense of hope Well the the the blessed hope is a certainty. It is it's a uh we have a more certain hope, we have a sure hope that um cannot fail. Uh because um you know our hope is not in the things of this world, because the things of this world are failing, our hope is in the Lord. It never fails. Correct. There's a certainty there, and that certainty uh is is what what I f what what what we find here. I I put it this way, uh you're all correct. Uh there's a lot of nuances to the English language. Hope desires, but duty requires. There's a desire from hope, right? Uh boy, I hope she says yes when I ask her out for a date. Oh I I hope she'll say yes when I ask her to marry me. You know, there's a hope Uh as opposed to duty, well I guess we gotta get married. I mean it's uh it's uh it's a big difference in that relationship, right? What is the script that text that links hope and anchor We have a hope. Which hope we have is an anchor of the soul. That's a good one. Yes. Yeah, that's a good one. Right. The anchor is very, very uh you know, think of uh a son versus a hireling Right, the son that works in the field versus the hireling that works in the field. The hireling does it because he has to, but the son he has the hope of the inheritance. uh duty bound to do some things, yet I have a good hope in front of you. James 4, 7 and 8 um uses this language. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. So this is the active the the opposite part of drawing near to the devil. There should be a panic departure from the things of the devil and his ways and his mindset, a a reactive avoidance, right? Resist the devil and God says, this is the blessed promise. He will flee from you. Resist him and he will flee. You know, the Son of Man demonstrated that to us at his temptation in the wilderness. There were three questions. He resisted them. It is written, it is written, it is written. You can beat him off with those words, and he will in fact flee from you. However, it says, draw nigh to God, and here's the hope, here's the promise. He We'll draw an eye to you. In other words, when you call, he may be quicker to answer. When you uh are in danger but are unaware of it. He will be there to see that. So there's a benefit to God drawing nigh to you. Wouldn't you want him very close with you at all times And so the point is that Christians with such hope can courageously come to God's heavenly throne at any time. They have a bold access to it. Now I do want to make a little bit of an application here. Call it an application, call it an observation. But folks, if ever there was a place in Holy Writ, if ever there was a place in the Bible For God to say, go to Mary first. Go talk to my mother first. This would be the place you'd find it. But he doesn't. He says, draw near to him, to that high priest, to Jesus Christ, because you have a hope of access to him You don't need to go to Mary. If ever there was a place to put it, this would be it. But he doesn't say it. Fact of the matter is, you don't find an exhortation anywhere in the New Testament for us to go to Mary. Nowhere in the New Testament do you find that. It doesn't exist. There's no exhortation of that. So your Roman Catholic family members perhaps could be pointed to this passage. Okay, second thing we're going to look at, that's our approach to God. Now our consecration. How many of you know what that word consecration means? I didn't either for many a year, and I was a Bible teacher, so that's really pretty bad. Um we see in verse 22 the second half Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. So We'll get to consecration in a moment because this has to do with that. Now, why do you suppose it's using the term sprinkling and washing? Well That's an illusion and high priest. That's an illusion back to much of what the Levites did, right? They were always busy sprinkling things. They were always busy washing things. Just a few examples here. They these things were sprinkled, but they were sprinkled for a purpose. You find in Numbers 8 in verse 6, I'm just going to read summary phrases from that in verse 7 as well Take the Levites from among the tribe of Israel and cleanse them, and he says, To sprinkle water of purifying upon them. It was a purifying water. Now it didn't it didn't you know, changed the heart. Right? There was no way it would do anything to that. But it consecrated them. It set them apart for a particular service. We see that from Hebrews 10. 19 Brethren, we have boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, and then verse 20 says, who is consecrated for us. So our very passage uses that word consecrated, which means to be Inaugurated, set aside, I am anointing you to this task. You may recall the birth of the office of the deacons in the book of Acts. The widows were complaining, hey The Grecian widows, the Greek widows, we are not part of the daily administration, meaning somebody ain't dropping off bread in my house unless it's I'm hungry. So there was a concern there. And they said, well, we don't want to ignore this. This needs to be done. Let's set apart men for this task. And he gave them some qualifications, and they set apart one of which was Stephen So they consecrated him, they anointed him, they inaugurated him as the one to do this. Well, you've been inaugurated, initiated, consecrated as well. You can't just enter into the throne room of heaven without being on the notice list I just don't barge into Mar-a-Lago with a meeting for Donald Trump at a whim's notice. I haven't paid my $200,000 annual fee just to get on to grounds. and my hundred and my fifteen thousand dollar monthly bill for maintenance and housekeeping, plus I can't show my income meets I have not been inaugurated or consecrated for that. I just can't barge in It's even more expensive to get in the presence of heaven because it requires nothing less than the blood of Jesus Christ, which is of great price and great value. You can't exceed that. That makes Mar a Lago look stupid cheap by comparison. A tornado can't wipe out my access to heaven. It could wipe out Mar-a-Lago. Now I'm not picking on our president-elect. I love our president-elect But my my point is this, you are in fact cleansed by the Word of God for the service of God. You were going to comment on something? Well, the the greatest use of consecrate in the English language is in a greater sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot howl at this ground. You know, which was the setting aside Lincoln's um getting for address, setting inside that you know he uses three terms together that really highlight what consecrate means. It is hallowed. Nice. Yes. The good good reference to uh some ancient American history there, which isn't too ancient, but it's useful Yeah, it's getting there, yeah. We're we were ten times behind China in our ancient history, that's for sure. Poor lady Ephesians 5. 26 says that he might sanctify and cleanse it, speaking of the church, with the washing of water by the Word. So physical baptism, folks, is not in view here because it talks about the heart being sprinkled, pure water being used. That's not physical baptism in view here in Hebrews. We know that because of what I just read in Ephesians 5. He's sanctifying and cleansing the church with the washing of water by the Word. It's the Word of God that is the spiritual water. Many a time in the book of Revelation The Apostle John would hear his voice and it said and it was said to sound like the voice of many waters. And so you find that language used in Revelation to depict God's voice coming out sound of many waters. First Peter three makes it even all the more clear in verse twenty-one, speaking of uh of baptism. It says, The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. He says, Baptism saves you. How does that happen? I've seen signs on the front of churches in Texas, you know, be baptized and be saved. Meaning you get wet, you get to heaven. Well, it goes on in 1 Peter 3, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God. I don't know how it could be more clear. What does physical washing or sprinkling do when you take a shower? It washes away the filth of the flesh. He says it's not that. That's not what saves you. It's the answer of a good conscience to God. So our consecration is that true Christians are cleansed by God for his service. We've been set apart. We've been inaugurated. We've been blessed with that privilege, and it's a unique privilege indeed. Well, now that that's happened, how are we supposed to serve him? I'll live any way I want to. I'll do anything I care to do. No, we have to serve him well, and this gets to our word profession. 23a, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. All right, now we get our question time. I'm excited about that word profession. That was my my jewel out of the study this week. But before we talk about profession, I want to talk about possessions And you'll see why in a minute. Think physically for a moment here. I want you to name some items to which you personally Hold fast or hang on to. Name some items. I'll give you the first answer that all of you are probably thinking which is the Bible. I got that. Alright. Now beyond that, name some items to which you hang on to and you cling to. You have it in your closet, you got it in storage, you have it on your shelf. What are some things that you personally have? Your ID, your wallet. Okay, and your wallet, your ID Joe was pointing to his wedding ring. Yep, he's got that welded on there. Contacts? Contact lenses, okay. Yeah, that would be pretty bad if you don't have contacts. Picture of my husband. A picture of your husband. Yes, picture of dear old dad who's since passed. Yeah, we're not going to throw that away. It's an old picture. It's probably crumbling a little bit What are some other other precious possessions you have beyond the necessities? I know you need food and raiment, but um what are some other things that you have that are just special possessions, uh unique, curious things to your house? I'm just laying a a picture of myself and my husband. Yeah. Picture of the husbands, yeah, the family pictures, those are great I have my mom's china closet that my grandfather gave her as a gift. Yes. An old China closet. A signed card by the late Buddy Davis. A signed card from the late Buddy Davis. Yeah, that's very unique. Yeah, that was very special. Very special. I know you have some special things. You have a lot of things. You gotta tell me some of them are special or we're gonna have a garage sale soon. You can't remember garage sales coming here, did you Some things that I bought from Bosnia. I still have those things. Some things you have from Bosnia. Yeah, you served uh uh one or two tours over there? How much time? Just one tour. One tour over there, yeah. That would be special. I've seen some of those special treasures on display at some of the agencies I've worked at, things that have been recovered from from uh different war efforts. We all have some special possessions. Here's another question for you It's Sunday evening. Your Bible, your wallet, your contacts, your wedding ring is on your finger. Not your pictures. It's all in the car. And you go to bed. And at midnight the fire alarm goes off. And when you wake up Smoke is filling your room mighty quick. You get a chance, one chance to flee You can't go from room to room and dwell there too long. You can't go to the car and come back and go to the car and come back. You got one chance to grab whatever possessions that are the most precious to you in your hand and get out that door, what would you take? Your purse. Your purse. So you'd let Daddy burn up on the wall. So he ain't that important. You don't have a second chance. So Daddy just burned up. Jeffrey, what are you taking out? Your computer. Yeah, yeah, that's the laptop. They grabbed the laptop, right, so you could survive. Any of what you got one chance to go and get something and put it in your hand and get out the door, what would you take House is on fire. Now we're getting serious. What would you take? My purse. Your purse, alright. Well so we know the ladies' purse is their life. Got it. Okay. My wedding ring and my diamond. Your wedding ring and your diamond. Do you sleep with it or not? No. Oh you don't sleep with it. Okay, so you would get the with the wedding ring, but not the diamond. Yeah, because it would catch on the sheets and all that. Yeah, that makes sense. Alright, yes that's precious that that would be a precious treasure to you. Gary, what would you take? I'm afraid to ask what you would say. Every firearm in the house and a thousand rounds. A plant. What's in the fridge? Marissa, your house is on fire. Your Bible, your contacts, your ID, your wallet. I should have said your purse is already in the car. I think her son may What would you grab on the way out But I think his little one. The little one. Anton's burning in flames, but I got the kids. He's on his own. We burned up Daddy and Anton today. We know where you guys are at, just to say it We each have possessions in our minds that are really worth hanging on to. Um but you know at the end of the day that's just stuff, right? You're gonna get the living individuals. You want people to be safe, we know that. Well, there's something that's very similar to the Church of God that also is worth hanging on to. And uses the term hold fast. And the Church of God hangs on to, clings to, will not abandon, will not let go, under any circumstance, the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Proverbs 23 says, buy the truth and sell it not. Make whatever investment you've got to make to get the truth of God, but don't sell it. Don't let it go. See, Esau was called a fornicator. He was whoring away from God because he despised his birthright, and he sold it for a pottage of lentil. So I want to consider these two key words in 23, profession and wavering. Profession is a fascinating word. This is one of your fill-in-the-blanks. And you can kind of hear it when I say the Greek word, because we've got a little element of it in our English language, homo magia. Homo, meaning of the same. Legia word. It means to agree, to confess, and here's your fill-in-the-blank, to say the same. So for us to have a profession, it means we say the same thing. We profess the same thing. That's why we read responsively from what? The same Bible. That's why we read responsively from what? The same written confession. It's to say the same thing. In First Timothy, that word profession is used in 1 Timothy 6 13. I give thee charge before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession. That's our word profession. Well, how did Jesus witness a good confession, profession? How did he say the same before Pontius Pine? Well, why was he before Pontius Pilate? Well, he wasn't asking him for an invitation to a dinner party. He wasn't asking him to change some rules in the land. He was there as an accused criminal And listen to the discourse, and I've printed it for you in your bulletin with two different colors. Green is what Pilate said, and purple is what Jesus said, because they put a purple robe on him. Blue is just the scriptures. Pilate said unto him, John 18, 33. Pilate said unto him, Art thou the king of the Jews? He's asking the question. Jesus answered, dot dot dot, did others tell it thee? Did you come to this conclusion, or did somebody else tell you this? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew, thine own nation? And the chief priest have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? This is a lot of pressure. He's putting some real pressure on Christ. Is he gonna cave? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. So he dodged the very thing that Pilate was trying to skewer him on. Why did they deliver you? Because you're a rabble rouser. You're trying to set up a new kingdom. That makes you a desirable, uh one who desires to be in charge around here Well, I'm in charge around here, so you're guilty of insurrection, and the penalty for insurrection is death. That's where Pilate's going And Jesus knows that's where Pilate's going. How do you dodge a charge worthy of immediate death penalty? He is a king He does rule. Pilate's talking to his boss. Doesn't know it. Doesn't matter. His boss knows. And Jesus says, my kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my servants would fight. My servants But now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? He's still trying to pin the death penalty on him Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. I haven't said it. You said it. For this cause came I into the world that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth hears my voice. Had Jesus said statements like that before? Oh yes, he has. But this time, as he speaks, if he makes a step wrong, it could land in the death penalty. Well, for unjust causes. Pilate said unto him, What is truth? Pilate leaves, he comes back later after his wife has a panic attack. And Pilate said unto Jesus, Whence art thou? And Jesus answered him nothing. Then saith Pilate, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee and to release thee? And then Jesus answered, You could have no power at all against me except it were given thee from above. Folks, that's bold. That's bold. You're speaking to a guy who doesn't have to go to Congress, who doesn't have to go to the Justice Department, he doesn't need to get a court or a judge. He is the judge, the jury, the law, and the executioner. All he simply has to say is, crucify him. Which eventually he does, but Jesus is going to get a different confession He's going to twist Pilate around so much that Pilate's going to confess he's innocent and at the same time condemn him. Isn't that amazing? What a tight rope he had to walk. That's not wavering. That's being faithful. That's saying the same thing, even under pressure. The other word we have is wavering. It means to not lean or to not recline. I like reclining. You know, those that are settled on their knees inside. They're just taking their ease. They're not diligent. They're not faithful watchmen. What's wavering? It's just moving a little bit Wavering isn't falling over. It's wavering. How did Peter Make a confession. Not even in front of Pilate, but with some of Pilate's servants. Well, we read and Mark 14, 69 to 71, a little maid saw him speaking of Peter, and she says, this is one of them, and he denied it. He denied it. Would he have denied that he's one of the apostolic band when he's there with them in the midst? I don't think so. And then they answered back, Surely thou art one of them, for thou art a Galilean, and thy speech agreeeth thereto You speak like them. You sound like them. You say the same words as them. You have a profession that sounds like theirs. You see what's going on here? But he began to curse and to swear. He's wavering. He's wavering. He's floundering. What does wavering do to your profession of faith? Any thoughts? It makes it suspect. It doesn't tank it, but it makes it suspect. I like it. I like one-word answers. Those are great. And nailed it. Brings about self-doubt self-doubt. It can certainly bring about self-doubt, yeah. Think about James, the double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Oh, wow, that's a powerful verse. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. I I want to build on that. Thanks, Jeffrey. Your testimony to others is not sure. Quality is just not sure. It puts a big question mark over your head about that other person's testimony. Or your testimony to them. And your testimony to them? Yeah, wavering. A double-minded man. You know, maybe you haven't struggled with this as perhaps uniquely as I have, but I suspect some of you have. As many of you know, I I had a clearance many days of my life and my working life, and that requires me to operate in a building that's pretty much a vault inside of a vault inside of a gated fence with you know all kinds of armed guards around the outside. And it's about as insular, private, and secure as it gets. They used to tease me when I was sitting outside in the waiting my clearance, they call it the leper colony And they said, yeah, well whenever you get clear then you can come in where all the food and the dancing girls are. All the goodies are in here. You're just in a leper colony out here And I got inside and no, there was just a bunch of work and sweat and moldy ventilation systems. So they lied to me there. But you can begin to live a double life There's what I do in here, and of necessity I was being paid to do that, because you go outside and you can't talk about what you do in here. And I think some people can live a double life where they go to work and they can have cozy friendships and relationships with the boss's secretary or that handsome developer that just showed up or whatever that marketing person when they come home and we've got a another identity That somebody's shaking their head, yes, you've maybe seen people that have that propensity. That's wavering That's not speaking the same things in all circumstances to all people. What's the mark of an authentic Christian? I've seen that brother on vacation. I've seen him at leisure. I've seen him in the heat of the moment. I've seen him Sometimes you can waver when you're at the peak and everything's going great. You can start to speak foolishly. I know something about that. Without wavering is you're speaking the same thing, even under intense pressure What's the difference, folks, between an ambassador and a diplomat? This is a little bit of a one-off box here, but I'm going to get you to think about it a little differently. Everybody know what an ambassador is? Sometimes they get appointed different. What's an ambassador versus a diplomat? We can be a diplomat and not be put in that. We can be the kind of person who is a diplomat Right, ambassadors tend to be appointed, at least in America, okay. Uh what's the difference in their roles in terms of messages. I'll take a stab at it. Absolutely. Jeffrey? One comes with the good news, one comes with the bad news. There you go. Well one comes in in good times, one comes in fast. Yeah. Um The ambassador delivers another's message faithfully. I'm just the messenger. We're here to do XYZ. They just deliver a message. Diplomats compromise That's what they're sent to do. Use diplomacy. Well, how about give or take? Folks, you're not called to be diplomats for Jesus Christ. You are called to be ambassadors for Christ, and that's exactly the language the Apostle Paul uses in Second Corinthians five twenty. We are ambassadors for Christ 2 Corinthians 5. 20. I don't know if I have it in your handout. That's what you're called as an ambassador. You're not at liberty. To put a different message in your mouth. Well, I haven't been assigned to the post. Yes, you have. You've been consecrated by God to that Well, I don't know, I wasn't there. The blood of Jesus Christ is what consecrated you to that office. That's mighty pricey. You might not have been standing there at the cross at the foot of it watching it happen, but it did And if your hearts have been sprinkled and your bodies washed with pure water of God the Holy Spirit's in you, you're an ambassador, signed, duly anointed Do yourself a favor if you have difficulty remembering that. Go home, find a template online, ask Microsoft Copilot AI to generate a certificate for you saying an official ambassador of Jesus Christ and at the bottom walk out the door remembering this. Because you are. Every minute, every second, everybody you encounter, know you don't have the diplomat license tag on your bumper sticker of the car But you are in fact an ambassador. To hold a good profession. To hold a good confession means to speak and to say the same thing. And folks, this is the part also that ties us together It's all of us. These are let us commands. We are collectively called to do this. This is not a personal endeavor. Well I'm going to get on my message and your message is over there. No, collectively we are on the same page. Or rather, we're supposed to be And that's what the apostle says in 1 Corinthians 1. 10. I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak Texas, says y'all. The same thing. That there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and the same judgment. Perfectly. That just sounds so so rigid and stiff. Right. So you're not wavering. So you're not wavering. A wavering message calls things into question. Maybe this isn't The real thing. They're kind of being wishy-washy. Maybe they just want us to they'll say whatever they gotta say to get money. You see, that's what the false prophet does So the observation is that this exhortation makes sense to a church under pressure, tempted to say or do something contrary to the Lord's teachings in the heat of the moment. And the Apostle Paul blasted Peter for his wavering profession at the Church of Galatia. Peter, you're sitting and eating. With a different group of people when the Jews are around and when the Gentiles are around. You're wavering. You're sending a message by doing that. And he blasts him. He blasts him because he's a messenger. He's a a big A ambassador. And how can he blow that? And I'm going to make another application. I'm going to go out on a limb here. But at this house, we have faced certain battles There are some people who support churches that have good doctrine. They've got great doctrine in their church. Oh, it's such a great church. But they use the ESV Bible Folks, they have the different set of words. They don't have our words. They're not the same words. There's a question mark over that ministry. The commandments here are let us speak the same thing. Let us be joined together. They have a different canon. You can't have a canonized book without canonized words Oh, but they're good brethren. My wife and I are on the same page on this. I think if I hear the term good and godly men again, that's a cause for me to get a shotgun. Because the devil has got legions of quote-unquote good and godly men in his employ. They're the ones that will send you to hell. Now, I'm not dismissing the fact that there are true good and true godly men But don't just sprinkle that on them and say, well, they're in the camp. We're just speaking the same things So, I want to also talk and conclude with our encouragement, the last parenthetical phrase of 23. It says, For he is faithful that promised. I've just given you a tall order. Vince, that sounds so rigid. You know what? The framework in this house is mighty rigid too. I'm glad that the the posts are straight Those of you who live in Texas will know exactly what I'm talking about. How do you know you got a bad foundation or your house or your foundation is moving? Well, you look around the door frames, you see cracks going up the drywall And you got a crack over here and a crack gets wide and you have to water your foundation in Texas. Literally you go out with a water hose and you water the foundation because if you don't you're gonna get cracks, your foundation's gonna move. It moves too much, you've got a crack foundation. You come out here in Maryland. You're gonna buy a house. You go in the house. You see a crack in the foundation. Is that a good house to buy? Oh, but it's such a beautiful house. Oh, it's got the the nice tile on the floor and the beautiful countertops. It's a crack foundation. If it's below grade, it's gonna leak. You're going to have mold and stench. No, you don't want a crack foundation. Christians, you don't want to get on a crack foundation What's going to keep you standing astray? It says he is faithful that promise. He doesn't waver. We're called to be the image of Christ 1 Corinthians 10. 13, I'll just read these last three verses for you and we'll wrap it up. We're encouraged to hold fast to Jesus' doctrine because he in fact is faithful to his promises. There's no temptation taken you but such as is common to man, but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able That temptation Peter had from that little maid girl, surely you're one of them. Who is she? Peter, she doesn't have the power to take your head off like Pilate. I'm not sending Peter before Pilate, Jesus is thinking, he's just in front of a little maid girl. And he wavered. There's no temptation taking you except such as is common to man, God's faithful, with the temptation will also make a way of escape. that ye may be able to bear it. Look for that way of escape to remain faithful, even as Jesus witnessed a good profession, a good confession before Pontius Pilate. Faithful is he that called you, who will also do it. 1 Thessalonians 5. 24. And lastly, 2 Thessalonians 3. 3, the Lord is faithful. Who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Folks, you are going to have failures in your profession where you waver. Just know, when it happens, call it what it is. Just say I'm wavering. I need some strength here. I gotta get back on track. Don't justify it. Oh well, all Christians lean a little bit Well they may, but that's not right. Call it what it is. It's leaning. Need to be leaning on the everlasting arms if anything else. Well that's what I have for today. Profession. Saying the same thing Collectively, we say the same thing. That's exactly what it means. Could you close in prayer? Sure. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for your word, Lord. I pray that uh we would cling to your words and to your doctrine and uh worship you Lord and and speak of you the things uh that are revealed in Scripture Lord Lord, I pray that you would lead our hearts to deeper trust and deeper knowledge of you. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.