Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the gospel of Jesus Christ that happens to have been written down by a man named Mark. Mark chapter 5 for our scripture reading this morning. And I will read from verses 1 through 20 of Mark chapter 5. Mark chapter five, beginning in the first verse. And they came over under the other side of the sea into the country of the Gaderenes And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no, not with chains, because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains And the chains had been plucked asunder by him, the feathers broken in pieces. Neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him and cried with a loud voice and said What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the Most High God? I adjure thee, by God, that thou torment me not. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he besought him much, but he would not send them away out of the country. Now there was nigh under the mountain a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we may enter into them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea. There were about two thousand, and they were choked in the sea. And they that fed the swine, that the the swine fled. They fed the swine fled. And towed it in the city. And in the country. And there went out to see what it was that was done. And they came to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil. And had the Legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. And they that saw it told it how it how them how it befell him that was possessed with the devil And also concerning the swine. And they began to pray him to depart out of their coast And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. How be it Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to thy friends And tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee. And he departed and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him. And all men did marvel. Let us bow for prayer. Oh Lord, how can we expound this passage? How can we learn anything more of thy truth than that which is so evidently presented to us? And yet, Father, you've chosen the foolishness of preaching. So, Father, I pray that you would endeavor allow us together as we endeavor to take this passage apart and to to look into the the shadows and corners. Lord, may you bring great blessing to your people. May you bring instruction to our hearts, comfort to our souls, encouragement to our weaknesses, joy to our sadness. confidence to our concerns. Father, bless us in thy word today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever spent a very busy 24 hours? I think all of us have I think all of us have had a 24 hour period where we it would just go nonstop. Uh I used to be able to stay up all night and go all day long and didn't affect me Then I got old. And uh I can't go like that anymore. But this Story that is recorded for us here in the Gospels is just one part of a 24-hour day. If you look back to chapter 4 and verse 35, in chapter 4 and verse 35 you find Christ getting into the ship with the disciples, and they cast out into the sea And that night there's a great storm on the sea, and Jesus is asleep in the boat, and the disciples wake him and say, Carest thou not that we perish? We're going to die here while you're asleep. And Christ stands up and he says to the storm, Peace be still, and the storm is the sea's like glass. And they're very afraid because they realize that this man has power over the sea. Now before that In this same chapter, we find the parable of the sower. So Christ has been preaching all day. It's no wonder that he's asleep in the boat. But then we begin chapter 5, where we read this morning, and in chapter 5 we find that they came over to the sea and they're getting out of the boat. So this is the next morning. So they spent the night on the sea, and then we have this morning. And then we have him getting out, and then immediately when he gets out of the boat, he's met by the demoniac of the Gadderenes, and he cast out the demons, and they go into the swine, and then he continues on to the city And in verse 22, Jarius, one of the rulers of the synagogue, meets him, and he says, please help me. Come to my house. My daughter is at the point of death. She's sick. She's dying. In Matthew's account. He he has says my daughter is dead and what he means by that is not that she has passed yet, but she's so close to death No one else could help her. And so Jesus begins to go with Jarius, but while he's going, there's a big mob, a crowd around him. And Jesus realizes that virtue is going out from him because a woman who has been sick for twelve years and she's gone to every doctor she can find and she's spent all of her substance on doctors and she's nothing better but yet worse. She just touches the hem of his garment. Because she has faith that if she butt touch the hem of his garment, she will be healed. And Jesus, walking in the crowd, knows what has happened And he says, who touched me? And the disciples are like, what do you mean who touched you? You're on a subway, you're on the DC Metro, and you're packed in like sardines. And the woman comes forward and she's healed. But then Jesus continues on to the house of Jairus, the ruler of the synagogue. And his dear precious 12-year-old daughter is lying dead. And Jesus takes her by the hand and raises her to life. And he says, give her something to eat. And she gets up and walks about. And that's towards the end of a 24-hour day. Now, I would love to take all four of those miracles and look at them today, and it would take a 24-hour day or more to do it. But what I want us to do is we're going to take, as God allows us, take this miracle of the cleansing of the demoniac But then we'll bring in bits and pieces from the other three miracles and see how really they all work together for one teaching. So the first thing I want us to see from these miracles is that these miracles are a marvelous demonstration of the compassion of Jesus Christ. Look with me there at that 19th verse of chapter 5 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, that's he didn't let the man travel with him, suffered him not, but saith unto him, go Home to thy friends. Tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee and hath had compassion on thee. This man who was possessed of a legion of demons, we find that there were 2,000 hogs, and so there may have been 2,000 demons. In Matthew's account, Matthew records that the two men came out, and the skeptics will say, oh see, here's a contradiction in Scripture. But that's not the case at all. Matthew uses two because he's showing in the Greek a multiplicity. And that's why there's a a what uh would appear to be a contradiction. It's not a contradiction at all. Matthew is referring to a multiplicity when he talks about the legion. But here's a man that nobody has compassion on. They've tried some pretty cruel and harsh ways to stop this guy from roaming on the mountains. We shackle criminals. And it is a great humiliation for someone to be shackled. If you drive down 95 and you see somebody standing beside a police car like this You don't say, oh, there's the citizen of the year. You say, oh, what's he done? Right They had shackled this man with chains, but because of the demons within him, his strength was such that the chains meant nothing to him. He broke them asunder. They had put fetters on him, and the fetters were broken. But more than that, we find that he's living among the tombs. We we read in scripture the women going to the tomb when Christ was raised from the dead. You understand that when they went to that tomb, they were making themselves unclean. And when Peter ran and stooped and looked into the tomb, he was eliminating himself from being able to go into the temple. He had become unclean. This man lives in uncleanness. He lives among the tombs. He's living in an unclean place. He was forbidden to be around the temple. Night and day, he's crying in his agony. People heard him, but did they care? Did they want to try to help him or did they avoid him? He engages in all kinds of self-indurous behavior. He cuts himself with stones. A poor, pitiful man that nobody wants to have anything to do with, and yet Jesus gets out of the boat and immediately he's confronted with this guy and he doesn't think Make way! I've got a busy 24-hour day here. And that's what our response might be Have you ever been really busy? And you're you're working in your house and all of a sudden there's a knock on the door? And you think if it's a Jehovah's Witness, I'm gonna shoot him because I don't have time for it. Not really, but you you you you you you get you get my point. Have you ever been really busy And someone shows up unexpectedly, and your first thought is, I don't have time for this. No, not right now. Well, that wasn't Christ's response to this allocation But rather, he dealt with him in amazing compassion. And when he sends him back to his friends and family, he says, go tell them that I'm a compassionate Savior. Aren't you glad that Jesus Christ is a compassionate Savior? Because before He Saved my soul. I was living in death. I was among the tombs. I was unclean. And I was a raging maniac. And I could not bind my own sins. I could not help but sin. Anything I tried to do to be righteous wouldn't work Because my sin and my iniquity would break through every chain I could forge. And my inner man was as unhappy And crying. And I did to myself all manner of injury Paul refers to it of those things of which now we are ashamed. But Jesus Christ had compassion on me. Jesus Christ, receive my soul. In the Old Testament we find the psalmist speaking with the voice of Christ in Psalm 142, verse 4. I looked on my right hand. And behold, there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. Do you ever feel that way? No man cared for my soul. But aren't you glad that Christ came to call Sinners to repentance. Seeking not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. I'm not a big fan of gospel songs. I like hymns and psalms. And yet scripture does say singing to yourselves, making music with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs But there's a song, it's not old, it was written in 1937. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus, since I've found in him a friend so kind and true. I would tell you how he changed my life completely. He did something that no other friend could do. And folks, that's what I think we find here in this 15th, 19th verse. Go tell your friends. And I think this man loved to tell his friends that Jesus did for him something that no other man could do. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh how much he cares for me And so the first thing we see here is a story of great compassion. But think about it, folks, the disciples had the same long day. They were there when he gave the parable of the sower. After the parable of the sower, Jesus gives them a message on the kingdom. And Jesus is asleep in the boat while they're rowing through the storm. They're tired too. And when Jesus stands up in the boat, he doesn't rebuke the disciples, he rebukes the waves, folks. Oh, how many times I'm the one that should be rebuked. But he in compassion rebukes my problems. When he should stand up in my boat and scold me because I don't have enough faith, instead he stands up in my boat and he says, Peace be still to my s to my waves. God of marvelous compassion. And then again, Jarius comes. Jarius is a ruler of the synagogue. And the synagogues didn't think much of Christ. It was not a place where he was welcome. It was not a place where he was well received. He was viewed as a challenge to the synagogues. And yet Jarius comes and he doesn't say, hey buddy, you've offended me. I'm not going to your house. I'm not gonna help you. Are there people that have done you wrong and boy if they came along You you're gonna help him. But Christ says if they uh if the enemy's hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him drink Christ is going with this ruler of the synagogue. And while he's going, this woman with the issue of blood. Folks, Blood was a prohibitor. This was a prohibitor. This woman was unclean and she could not get clean at all because of her physical condition. She has not been to the temple, to the synagogue for twelve years minimum. Minimum. Because she was ceremonially unclean by her condition. And if you touched her You were unclean, and you could not go into the temple until you had been cleansed. And here she is coming in the Washington Metro where it's all bumping and people are probably making way for her because they know who she is. Folks, Jesus allowed her to touch him. Was he unaware of her presence? Could he have prevented her? But he knew who she was. And he in compassion allowed this unclean woman to touch her. Remember one of the accusations of his Christ? When the woman with the alabaster box broke it and poured it on his head, and the Pharisees said, She's a sinner. If he were a righteous man, he would not allow her to touch him. But here he allows this woman to touch him. Ah Who would ever care for me? My Jesus Mm-hmm. Compassion. But then beyond the compassion, we find that these miracles demonstrate The all-powerfulness of Jesus Christ. It demonstrated his power. He has the power to defeat any foe. Men had tried to control this demoniac. They had tried chains. They had tried fetters in verses 4 or 3 and 4. But this guy's got strength beyond human Do you ever try to break a chain? I um I have a couple logging chains that I've used to tie down tractors on the trailers You you're not gonna break 'em. Even even with the chain binder. You you break the chain binder before you break the chain. And fetters. These fetters probably were wooden stocks of some kind made of of a very hard wood, like an oak or something. And that they had been they had been plopped asunder. There is more strength here than a human being has. Folks, this was a supernatural battle. Mm-hmm. There are some casting out of demons in Scripture that men will say, Oh, that was just a case of epilepsy, and I'm not here to argue that point today. If if if all Christ did was heal epilepsy, that was a miracle too. But when it says it cast out a demon, I take its word for it, he casts out a demon. But nobody can say this was just a case of epilepsy. The the wicked cannot assail this one This guy is possessed of demons. This is a spiritual warfare And the demons knew it. For we find in verse 7 that they cried with a loud Jesus of loud voice, What have I to do with thou, Jesus, Son of the Most High? This multitude didn't recognize who Jesus was, but the demons knew. This multiplitude did not acknowledge his godness. But the demons believe and tremble. And in verse 8, he that is Christ said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. Remember the disciples when Christ sent out the 70. And in Luke chapter 10, verses 17 and 18, the 70 disciples return. rejoicing that even the spirits are made subject to them. But let me read it to you properly, Luke 10, 17. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us. Through thy name. The devils are subject to us, but not by any power that we have but through thy name. And Jesus' response was in verse 18 of Luke 10. Let me read 17 and 18 together. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven When the 70 come back and say, even the devils are subject to us through thy name, Jesus' responses, Of course. I saw when he fell from heaven. And when Jesus saw Satan fall from heaven, it was not active, he just watched it. But rather that seeing there is a judgmental seeing. I administered judgment on him. Why did Satan fall from heaven? Because he rebelled and he was kicked out And Jesus tells these 70 that return with joy because the devils are subject to them through the name of Christ, of course. I kicked their leader, I kicked their master, their captain out of heaven. Of course they're subject through my name. Because I kicked the Lord of the demons out. And so the privates are nothing to me. And so this is this man had tried to control the demon. This was spiritual warfare. These demons knew who Christ was, and they knew that they were subject to him. Look at verse 7. And cry with a loud voice, saying, What am I to do with thee, thou Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adore thee by God that thou not torment me. The demons are begging for mercy, folks. They're begging. Please don't torment us. Please leave us alone. You see, these demons could only be in the location that Jesus Christ allowed them to be. Don't send us out of the country. Well, we could certainly do that, couldn't we? Let us go into the swine! And it says he gave them leave. Alright. I'll give you my permission to enter into the swine. And I know I refer back to my dad's preaching a lot, but my my father was my pastor. He's the pastor I grew up under. But dad said that the demons even made the s the pigs sick. They cast the demons into the pigs and the pigs couldn't tolerate it. This was a power that Christ, there's no power that Christ cannot defeat, but then also there's no evil that Christ cannot overcome. There's no evil that he cannot overcome. Folks, there are multiplied millions of people in this world today that are possessed of devils. And I'm not suggesting that everyone that behaves in a certain way is possessed of a devil. But I am suggesting that a lot of them are possessed of the devil. And folks, by their works ye shall know them. You see how they behave themselves and they bring upon themselves their own condemnation. And so I'm not suggesting that everyone that does the things I'm going to mention here is demon-possessed, though I think many of them are. This man cut himself. He mutilated his body. He altered his flesh. He took stones and he changed his body. And it was a mark of his demon possession. We live in a world today where they're trying to use our tax dollars To buy stones, to mutilate bodies, to cut the flesh. There was a time when it was only in primitive cultures that people would take knives and things and they would mark all kinds of patterns into their skin with with knives and and and sharp stones and what have you But today that's becoming common in our own culture. Why do people hate themselves so much? What was the response of the pigs? The pigs killed themselves! Folks, we have Millions in this world that hate themselves so much. I hate my anatomy I hate the way God has made me. And so they cut themselves. This man was naked. In the Luke account, it says in Luke, this this Story is recounted three times in Scripture, but in the Luke account in Luke 8. 27, and when they went forth to the land, there met him out of the city a certain man which had devils a long time, and wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. He didn't wear clothes. He was naked among the tombs. We live in a naked culture. We live in a culture where clothes are no longer for covering, clothes are simply decorations for nudity. Scripture speaks in Jeremiah of those that could not blush. And I I've seen horrid pictures of these gay pride parades with people marching down the street in nudity. And they are not ashamed. And folks, without I don't mean to be crude in any of this But when a modest woman is in a breeze, she holds her skirt. Why? Because she does not want to expose herself. Because she has a God given sense of modesty. But we live in a culture where that is gone out entirely. And this demon-possessed man went around naked. Folks, we have a lot of poor souls. You can't go to a mall without encountering them. That walk around so nearly naked. As to defy the very term nudity. Or they will have on some garment that does nothing to cover whatsoever. He was naked. Proverbs warns us of the strange woman who had forsaken the guide of her youth. This man was loud. If you look at Mark 5, verse 5, and always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs crying. And that word crying doesn't mean he was weeping over his condition. Rather it's a term that means to cry out. Uh it's not used this way in scripture, but the in the Greek the word refers to the croaking of a of an animal, you know, an animal that croaks like a frog. You ever hear a frog wa? You know, in the pond, I I see some folks that have a pond and know they have frogs. An incessant noise Have you seen the videos of street preachers with someone standing beside them just screaming just screaming and screaming and screaming and screaming? They cannot speak against the message. They have no answer to the message, but they will scream like screaming fools. Like they're demon-possessed. And do I believe that some of those people with their purple hair are demon-possessed? Yes, I do. Yes, I do That was this poor man. Folks, I can't fix that. Yeah. I can't change them. But Christ is able to transform them that they may be sitting, clothed, and in their right minds. Folks, this is the power of Christ. This man was in agony, but Christ brought him peace. Folks, the disciples on the sea were afraid of drowning. They were afraid of the sea, but the passage there says then they feared greatly. Suddenly their fear of the sea was replaced by the fear of God. What manner of man is this that even the winds and the waves obey his voice? Jarius was a ruler of the synagogue. I'm sure he was fairly well off. He could hire the best doctors in the land, but they hadn't helped him. But Christ raised his daughter from the dead. And the woman that's been sick for twelve years it tells us flat out that she spent all of her substances, nothing better but the worse. And Christ had power. These miracles show us, first of all, the compassion of Christ. But secondly, they show us the power of Christ. But folks, lastly, these miracles show us that there's no one, actually I've missed the point. I'm going to go back to it. Because under the power of Christ, these miracles show us that there's no one that Christ can't save. There's no one that Christ can't save. The person who is still a man and yet has cut off his male anatomy and thinks himself to be a woman. Christ can save him. Won't fix the body. But Christ can fix the soul. The person standing beside the street preacher screaming at the top of their lungs could someday go tell their friends how great things Jesus had done for them. And how he is in compassion. And folks, I know many of us have loved ones that just seem to be absolutely crazy. And yet Christ can save. But then finally, these miracles show us the deity of Christ. His miracles are on display. In verse 6 of chapter 5 of Mark. The demoniac runs and he worships Christ. He knows who he is. The demons have no delu delusion. Man may man may say there is no God, but the demons believe and tremble. Man may say, well I'm gonna take Buddha instead, but he doesn't come looking for Buddha, he he comes to Jesus Just a display of the deity of Jesus Christ. But folks, hidden within this glorious account is a diamond. Proof of the deity of Christ. And if the Jehovah's Witnesses come along and say Jesus isn't God, take one of these verses. Look down at verse 18 through 20. And when he was coming to the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. Howbeit, Jesus suffered him not. But said unto him, Go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord, how great things Korios, how great things the Lord hath done for thee And has had compassion on thee. And he departed and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him. This man knew that Jesus was God. He had no doubt that Jesus, that, you know, hey, somebody just somebody just healed you, and then you violated what he told you to do. He tells you to do one thing and to do something else. Jesus tells him, go tell your friends how great things the Lord has done for you, and he goes and tells you how great things Jesus has done. for him. How could that be? But except that he understood that Jesus was the Lord. He knew who had healed him. How was it that the demons were pass cast out by the seventy? Well, through thy name. Through thy name. And so these miracles are a great confirmation that Jesus is God. The disciples feared exceedingly, but only God can still the storm. Jerry's daughter was dead. Only God can raise the dead. I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. And Jesus is the one who healed the woman who had been sick for twelve years. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cares for me. Folks, what a glorious testimony that Christ is a compassionate Lord, that he is all-powerful, and that he is God. Let us stand for prayer. Our gracious Father, we thank you that you can still all of our storms, you can cast out all of our evil, you can heal all of our diseases, and you give us eternal life. Father, we thank you for thy truth and for thy word. Lord, we thank you that there is no soul beyond your reach. And Lord, we pray that you'd have mercy. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.