We are continuing in our subject of homosexuality, and today we're going to be addressing the condemnation of homosexuality. We've looked at the biblical foundation that marriage is between one man and one woman. That's the relationship God has established. And yet in our land, in our day, it's legal to do away with that and have uh a wide range of alternate relationships. How does the Christian handle these things? Uh we've looked at the beginnings of homosexuality and its endings. It doesn't have a good start, at least not certainly as mentioned in the Bible, it doesn't have a good ending. But what is the condemnation? What is it that's fundamentally wrong with it? And so that's what we're going to try to tackle today. What is the fundamental error of it Of course we've been hitting at it all along, but today we'll be more explicit about it. In fact, there was uh an opportunity I had years ago to go along with a friend of mine named Lee Fountain. He would set up tracks out in um Uh Balboa Park in San Diego. It's a big international area. A lot of tourists come through San Diego. What's not to like about San Diego? tremendous number of plants. It's really just an excellent place to be. He would set up a booth out there with his tracks, all different languages. He had his little colorful umbrellas up different banners signs, you know, four foot by six foot with some scripture on them and so forth. And people would come and go. And I'd go with them from time to time. And hand out tracts or just sit and talk with people. Well, some homosexuals came up to me and said, uh, so you know, what does the the Bible say about uh homosexuality? What do you think about that? You know, he's kind of challenging me, he and his partner. I said, Well, the Apostle Paul says, and I gave him a quote, and and he says, Well, forget Paul. He says, Jesus never said anything against it. And it's true. Jesus never explicitly addressed that and had never gotten hit with that argument before. That was the first time, you know, this was some 30. um five or so years ago and so I didn't have a uh a crisp answer for it and I said, well Jesus did say repent and believe. What do you think he meant to repent from? And that was the best I could come up with. And over the years later I thought that's actually not a bad answer. But today we're going to address that. You know, homosexuals will say Jesus actually never condemned this behavior. Is that really true? Well, actually, it's not true at all. For starters, Jesus was speaking to a mostly Jewish audience. They would have understood. that homosexuality was wrong, they would have known that that's that doesn't need to be something to echo in their ears when they were flamed of a great many things. And Matthew 23 and others, he didn't call out homosexuality. That was not one of the sins he identified among the leadership or even among the people, mostly because they didn't listen to his word and believe him. Jesus, in fact, implicitly condemns it because he upholds the Old Testament law. For instance, he said in Matthew 5, think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. So he's not abrogating the Old Testament law, all the moral code that it set forth for right human relationships. Oh no, no, no. He's not tipping the apple cart on that. He's maintaining it. So he is implicitly upholding it. And why would he have to go through and say, and I agree with this, this point and that point, why would he have to go and articulate 5,000 points? All he needs to do is to say, I'm not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. He implicitly upholds it. Turn your Bible to Matthew 19, because this is another instructive passage concerning Jesus' views on uh marriage. And in fact, it's very clear that he specifically affirms heterosexual marriage. He specifically affirms that we look at Matthew 19 and we begin in verse 3. And of course, sadly, we read the common statement here. The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him. So there's already a temptation, and they're going to do it in this area of a relationship. And they said unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? Now when they say put away, what are they talking about? Discard her. Discard, okay. Mm what would we call it? We would call it divorce today. Uh the point is to uh is it lawful for man to divorce his wife for every cause? He there Apparently looking for, you know, how long of a list can we get here? Um, you know, her hair's turned a little gray, uh, she she's gotten a little fatter, uh, she's Uh there may be there's some some annoying habit that I don't like anymore. You name it, you know there's all kinds of things that uh people can find fault with each other for. And Jesus says, he answers verse 4, and he answered and said to them, Have ye not read? So he points them back to the Bible. I find that to be very instructive. Jesus, the Word of God, is pointing people back to the Word of God in their hands. Had he not read That he which made them at the beginning, so as the Creator, he's going to go back to the very start. So Jesus is teaching us something about beginnings. Beginnings have ramifications, they have impacts. At the beginning he made them male and female, and said, For this cause shall a man Leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife. Now I can't help but to wonder if Jesus didn't underscore the word cleave. Maybe he also underscored the word leave, and that's some good marriage advice, and I like the way the King James puts it, the leaving and cleaving You know, if there's a problem in marriage, you don't go run to mom and dad. You're you two have to work it out. You're you're you're leaving the mother and father. Why do you think that is? Why do you think you don't go back to mom and dad and complain? Because mom and dad will take the part of whichever one they think is right. They're going to take sides and they're probably going to take sides with their own child, right? Yeah. They're probably going to do that. And so that's not a wise idea marriages two it never works with three. It never works with three. I've certainly known stories where the sister of the husband greatly interfered in the marriage. And she was a busybody in other men's matters, and the man uh would believe his sister over and against the woman And it can cause tremendous disaster in marriage. It can really throw this imbalance. Am I pleasing her? Am I pleasing him? How does this work out? It's really a mess. And so you leave father and mother, you leave the old nest, you're forming a new nest, and it has to be that way, right? Alright, it says, leave Father Mosha, cleave unto the wife. And furthermore he says, and they twain, the two of them, shall be one flesh. Now that's an interesting statement. They're one flesh. There's a oneness. There's a unity. You know, when you look at married couples, you know, it's always Dr. and Mrs. Rome. There's just this connection there. You can't really envision them apart except death do them part. You just see there's this connection there And then he goes on to say, wherefore, again he repeats, they are no more twain, they are no more two, but one flesh. What God therefore hath joined together, let not man put asunder. Putting asunder is another simple way of saying, let not man divorce. So Jesus is upholding that relationship. He's showing that he has put the two together. It is something that he is bonding. He is uniting. There are bonds that can go far beyond chemical bonds, far beyond, I'm a physicist, you know, weak and strong nuclear electro forces with the little atoms and the protons and the neutrons spinning around. Those are physical bonds. There's bonds of mortar and cement, lumber and nails, but this is a bond in marriage. This is a bond. What is it that is binding? What binds? that relationship. There's several things actually. What binds it? Above all else, the covenant of God. So is there a covenantal relationship? What else binds it? What else holds that thing together? Vows. Hmm? Vows. The vows, okay. Covenantal vows. You made a vow publicly. Yeah, you let other people know. What are some other things that hold that together? But you'll jump all over this. Well children, of course, if you have children at Children certainly are a big way. Yeah. And it can go the other way too though. Yeah, yeah. But parents, uh caring parents who care for their children are concerned about a nurturing environment. Absolutely. What else holds that together? An emotional commitment. An emotional commitment? Yeah, there's one emotion I'm looking for, that's Victoria. Charity. Love. Yes, love holds it together, right. Let love be the banner over your home. You love each other. That's why you got married to begin with. You're Of course, that love as an emotional outpouring deepens into a more committed role. uh it it it's a much more sa it it it airs into a more sacrificial one. At first it's a tremendous enamorment that wow have I got a treasure above all treasures And then over time you begin to it deepens. You have a greater respect for the whole person, for the whole package. So yes, you see that God does join them together. And it's In a way just like cement, which gets harder over time. I don't know if you knew that or not, but as that mortar mixes up and the cement continues to dry, it continues to harden over time. Twenty year concrete is a whole lot harder to bust up than two year concrete, isn't that right, Joe? It absolutely is. say marriage gets harder all the time. Absolutely. It just gets firmer and firmer. Some men haven't learned to put away their power shovels just yet, but that's So there is obviously something there with marriage that Jesus is pointing out from the beginning. It's that way. They come together. There's a growing uh there's a uh closeness of growing. This was God's design, right? And when both parties acknowledge, adhere to, and accept God's design, it works out. And it works out quite well. Statistically, this has been proven out that people tend to live longer in a monogamous relationship. They have a much happier, healthier life, fill-in-the-blank type of life. Emotional life, sex life, spiritual life, you name it. Emotional, all of the the whole package is better in that monogamous relationship. God's way works. Duh. Well then they say to him, verse 7, why did Moses then command? to give a writing of divorcement and to put her away. He says, Moses, they didn't say allow. They said command. We have to command. It's a law. You have to do this. And he saith unto them, verse 8, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, suffered you to put away your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. I find this fascinating because Jesus here is saying that An allowance was made. A confession was made. It's kind of hard to understand, but Jesus, as it were, is weighing the greater evil. And he says, because of the hardness of your heart, you're so hard-hearted that uh to stay in that would have been so catastrophic, so destructive, so counterproductive, it would have wreaked so much havoc I'm reading between the lines here because he says, because of the hardness of your hearts, he suffered this to be so. He says, but from the beginning it wasn't that way. And then he says, he gives a clarification in verse 9. I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery. So he is repeating what the law of Moses had commanded, which is that putting away the wife, and he's quoting from Deuteronomy 24. 1, not a quote Not quoting, he's clarifying Deuteronomy 24. 1, that the uncleanness that Deuteronomy 24. 1 talked about was not, this is the woman's monthly time, this is uh some annoying habit. No, no, no. What the uncleanness he's talking about is fornication. If she has been fornicating or adulterating the marriage, he says, yes, that is the cause that Moses allowed for. But if you divorce for any other reason, because their original question is, is it lawful for man to put away his wife for every cause? He says, no, Moses basically identifies one. From the beginning there's zero, Moses allowed one. So Jesus is really necking this thing down. However, if somebody leaves for every cause, you know, they're looking for the long laundry list here. He says, no, no, you do that for any other cause, you're committing adultery. Pure and simple. And whoso marries her which is put away doth commit adultery. Only the King James retains this Greek uh phrase that is found in the original manuscripts, ESV omits that phrase. It's gone How convenient. ESV also eats away at other phrases prohibiting divorce, such as in Malachi, where God says, I hate divorce. They have changed it so that he hates lying and deception or something else, they change that. And in Romans 7 the ESD changes it so it says about um If a uh um uh Romans 7 is using the illustration of the strength of the law, and the best illustration he gives for the strength of the law is in marriage. that the woman which has a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. But if the husband is dead, she is loose from the law of her husband So then if while her husband liveth she be married to another man, the ESV says she be living with another man she shall be called an adulteress. They changed the word married to living with. Three primary passages that deal with divorce. ESV has gutted, contrary to the original Greek. Oh, but it's only a few percentage of words. Does it affect doctrine? I think so. I think so. Jesus says man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And so one of the things that's a violation is to go monkeying with the Word of God. And that will not end well. Alright, we continue. I just had to make that point because I want you to be aware of the issues. that translations have in the rendering of God's Word. Okay, so Jesus makes it clear that even remarriage is uh an an adulterous relationship. Verse 10, his disciples say unto him, and his disciples dotted His disciples say unto him, If the case of a man be so with his wife, it's good not to marry him. I mean, think about the culture of the day. They're thinking marriage is kind of like how people view relationships today. They find somebody they like, they live with them for a while, and they're tired of each other, well then they can just say goodbye. And they try somebody else. And for girls, it's not all it's cracked up to be, because the man's never going to produce the ring. Why buy the milk when why buy the cow when you're getting free milk? And all it does for the girl is it quote unquote makes it easier to say goodbye? That's a benefit. I don't know And so today what we have is not trying out before marriage. Today what we have is concubinage. Basically, women are living as concubines. And they're not in the marriage relationship. So his disciples, coming apparently from a similar time like we are, when Jesus lays down the law, says, it's just better not to marry them. In other words, they understood the thrust and the gravity of his words. Folks, this is a lifelong covenantal relationship. It's a binding by God together that was ordained from the beginning. And verse 11, as they exclaim that, Jesus doesn't say, well, no, come on, fellas, don't go down on marriage. It's actually a good thing. He says All men can't receive this thing save they to whom it's given. In other words, yeah, you're right. Some people look at it and say, nope, not for me. And Jesus says, okay. You're correct. Some people look and say, you know what? I just I prefer the freedom of being single. I don't particularly see a benefit to marriage. Jesus says that's okay. All men can't receive that, but some can Some can. There are some eunuchs which were born so from their mother's womb. There are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of man, that would be like Daniel. And there be eunuchs which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. So Jesus actually gives a very gracious, open invitation to some. He says, not all can receive this. It's not his normative plan. But some can in fact live a happy solitary life. They find nothing missing in their life. They love the freedom They don't have to go to the committee to figure out if they can change the the the dishes out for a different set or I hate these forks. Can we get new forks? Can we arrange this differently or if we put this potty plant in the corner? Can we have pets in the house or not? Can we paint the room green or yellow or beige or off-white? And like, I can make all those decisions and I'm quite happy with it. And they're content with it. They're totally content with it. There's a lot of benefits to that. Alright, so I have a question. So given this discourse on the Lord Jesus. What relationship possibilities does Jesus acknowledge in this dialogue? What do you find here? What what relationship options do we see from this section? Okay. Yep, marriage, no marriage. There was one other he spoke of. He didn't speak highly of it. Concubines? No, no, no. He didn't mention concubines. He did acknowledge Moses, who suffered divorce. He says Moses suffered that to be so. That was an option under the Old Covenant for the Old Covenant people of God, and then the Apostle Paul going forward in the new covenant does show that if the unbeliever depart, If the unbelieving spouse sues out for a divorce, if somebody else sues for a divorce, let them go. You don't fight it. So basically, Jesus is identifying three options. There's the married state, there's the single state And, if, as clarified by Paul, if the unbeliever depart, let them depart. He doesn't like divorce. God hates divorce, but he acknowledges that it's a reality, that it does happen, because of the hardness of men's heart. He sees that. So although Jesus is not specifically speaking about homosexuality, he's clearly not even listing it as an option. He doesn't say all men, not all men are born this way, but some men like men. This would have been a really good place for him to clarify that, because he seems to be going full orbit about human relationships, about marriage relationships. He doesn't list that. So homosexuality isn't listed as an option. So no, Jesus isn't affirming homosexual marriage. You know, he didn't specifically speak about porn either. He didn't specifically speak about spouse abuse either. Does that mean he approves those things, affirms them? Why no. Right? He's not going to absolutely have to cover the gamut of every single sin if he's already said, I'm not come to destroy the law I'm counting to fulfill. Alright, so what we find now is we turn to Romans 1. In Romans 1, this is another classic passage that tells us, that informs us. about the condemnation of homosexuality. You can't use the argument that Jesus never spoke against it. He implicitly affirmed and upheld A very small set of human relationships, and homosexuality was not in that list. Homosexuality is, however, the result of suppressing the knowledge of God as creator. It suppresses the knowledge of God as creator. That's a big thing. So let's look at this, for instance, in Romans 1. We start in verse 18. It says here, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Now a little note of point here, point of note. That phrase holding the truth in unrighteousness, that word hold means as if to hold down. Think of it as grabbing a hand and pushing something underwater. It's to suppress. They suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Okay? There's truth It's out there and they grab it and they push it down. They demote it. Cancel it. They pervert it. They change it Verse 19. Now, why in the world would they do that? Well, verse 19 tells us, because that which may be known of God, there are some things God has revealed, some things not, but that which may be known of God is manifest, is open, is revealed in them. They don't have to look very far to see that God exists. They just have to look at themselves in the mirror. You're an animated bag of dust. How did that happen? How did 58 cents worth of chemicals come together and walk around on Earth? How does it get up and live? How does this cut I had on my hand the other day all of a sudden disappear and heal and repair? Do you see dirt doing that? Do you see Inanimate things doing that? You don't. Where did life come from? Well that which may be known of God is manifest in them, because For God hath showed it unto them. God insists, though they have plenty of information, they have plenty of knowledge that there is a God. They've got plenty of it, they've got no excuse, and I like the way Ray Comfort has phrased it that God does not believe in atheists. He says, oh no, you know I exist. You're just holding it down. God sees right through to the heart. Skip ahead to verse 21. He says this, because that, again there's a because, when they knew God, again he insists, they know God. They may say otherwise, but God insists they know God. They're lying to you when they say there's no God. They're just being rebellious. They know there's a God. They absolutely positively know it. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God. They didn't give him the glory that was rightly due to his name. They glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful But became vain in their imagination. So they imagine, they think they've got to come up with something, and it becomes vanity. And it says, their foolish heart was darkened. You go to verse 26, because we're trying to get right to the point of the homosexual issue. 26 and 27 is our punchline. For this cause, because of their vanity, their imagination, the darkness of their heart, for this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. Now that's scary because They hold down the truth, and so God removes the restraints from them. He pulls back the restraints. They pull truth down, they push it down, he removes his restraint of sin on their lives. You know, God does restrain sin in this world. We know about that. I'll just cover a verse for you. It's Psalm 76. 10. I like this verse. It's very instructive. It says, Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee. Oh, men get so angry and loud against God. The wrath of man even praises God. It says, the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. The wrath that goes too far, that no longer is validating what his word says about how the heathen rage and the wicked imagine the vain thing When they go beyond that, God restrains that. God is actively restraining sin in this world. And so now, these homosexuals, it says for them, They haven't gotten homosexuality yet. They're suppressing the knowledge of God. They're rejecting that and God gives them up. Yes. Yeah, because that way they knew God in their hearts. If you talk to children, children typically will believe in God until Someone is told there is no God. And that is why the homosexuals are going after the children. Very much aimed at the children, very much aimed at you, the father in particular. We continue here. It says, for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. You know, men and women have very unique and distinct differences between them. And systematically, by design, the two really do come together in a good combination. Uh I've talked before at length about how a woman's brain is wired versus a man's brain and and uh the women's the woman's mind has I think it's uh uh uh it's either gray or white matter, but there's a difference. Don't quote me on this. Um the woman has ten times more of the one. I think it's the gray matter, which is the integrative stuff. the it's spaghetti. It has to go and touch and reach, and so that's why they're everything has to fit and come together. Where men have, I think, six times more the white matter, which is the logic piece of it So when a hot meatball comes down boom and just hits her pile of spaghetti, she's got to figure out all the ramifications because this impacts that and this and the other thing and that And so that's why they're generally pretty good at trying to figure out where to hang things in the house because they're looking at the whole picture. I'm looking at function. Does it block light through the window? Check. Hang it. Doesn't matter if it doesn't match. I've just does it block light. I've got one function, it's logical. The price is right, the function is s right, Ivan? The price is right, the function is served It's I don't care if it's a torn sheet of garbage of uh uh uh liner, you know it works, right? No one's like no no no no no no no Can you imagine being given up by God to a vile affection? Whereas a woman, you say, oh, that other woman over there, she looks pretty cute. Or a guy seeing some other guy thinking he's huge. He'd like to get to know him a little better. Or, yeah, that gal's got some nice high heels. I think I'd like to wear those as a man. To be given up to that. God says you can be. He can restrain. He can remove that restraint. So one thing we find in this is that the seeds of homosexuality have been sown in all of us. Except the Lord God restrains sin in our lives. There's no end as to how far a depraved human being can go. It's the mercy of God. that we don't do these things. So we can't look too far down our long noses and say, I'm not um I'm not as other men. I tithe of all that I owe. They fast twice in the week. I uh I'm even better than this uh publican over here. But the publican stood afar off and smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. You know, to know the depth of depravity that we're capable of Goes a long way to keeping us humble in this whole thing. So we find that God gave them up, even their women did change, verse 27, and likewise also the men. leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust, one toward another. And that's a very key phrase is lust because a lot of this is driven by that. And you know, lust has a way of uh of expressing itself in different ways along the path. Maybe it starts with um uh crude comments. Maybe it starts with a uh uh demeaning of women into uh sex toys. Maybe it goes down the path of pornography, maybe it then goes down the path of of um uh online relationships or then we get to full up fornication uh to adultery. The problem is it doesn't stop It doesn't stop. You can't dabble with these things. You're not reaching out to a tree just for a little while. The problem is you're going down into a cave. And the cave has depths to it that you don't understand that you can fall deeper and deeper into, because this is the path it goes down. And eventually it goes to God giving a person up. They're giving up to it. Their conscience is being seared with a hot iron. That's not good And then we read, man working with man that which is unseemly. I like the way the King James Bible very politely describes a most horrible and wicked set of behaviors. And receiving in themselves that recompense of their error, which was meat, meaning they're going to get diseases. You know, there's plenty of things you talk about suppressing the truth. Even the destructive lifestyle of the homosexual creates so many physical maladies and problems, so many, that the average life expectancy of a homosexual is shortened by a good 20 years. I remember looking s there were some uh polls that were attempted to be made about the um uh they were trying to compare uh homosexuals with other demographics for certain different things. Whatever the poll was looking for, you know how it goes, ages um eighteen to twenty-four, twenty-five to forty, middle age, and then older. Well they had difficulty completing the p the poll Because they could not find enough statistically significant numbers of homosexuals past the age of 55. It was an early termination in life. The number of sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS and other things just skyrockets and there's all kinds of horrible problems that come about as a result of that. That's receiving in themselves the recompense of their errors. All right, now I have a question. Considering what we just read, do you think evolution's teachings play a role here? If so, how Yeah, because there is no God. So evolution would teach there's no God. They're trying to suppress the truth and unrighteousness. They're trying to say there's no God. Okay. So how else does evolution Lend a hand to all this. It certainly says they don't believe any more that whatever's got. Yep, so that's one way. It just discredits God. Yep. No better than the animals, so why not naturally act like the animals? We're no better than the animals, act like them. You know it's interesting. Um the Uh there's the uh the BBC uh has a variety of science videos that they put out from time to time And um they uh their their photography is second to nothing. I mean their videography and how they capture things and the angles and they spend hours pouring over these things. They collect some really interesting things And they always and I always mention the ones about the animals. And they always got to get around to the sex life of the animals, right? It's like, does that really matter? You know, it's a beast. What do you expect, right? And they just but they're doing this with the purpose. I'm finding that it never there was Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom I used to like to watch. I don't know if you remember that. There was really a fascinating program on TV. You all don't know what TV. And so uh uh that was a great series. Uh and they would just talk a lot about different animals. They wouldn't really would not get into the sexual habits of these animals. Over time that began to c come in And then it began to go into, well, you know, storks are monogamous for life, but these other creatures, you know, they're like rabbits or whatever, where it's just whoever. So they're trying to promote the idea that multiple partners is fine. And what I'm seeing more of now is, well, the cuttlefish can cr be like a cross-dresser. The cuttlefish can change to look like a female, so they can do and and so they're trying to find some beast of the forest. that does something to justify their queer behavior. And so, yeah, evolution's teachings have a role in this. They're trying to say, what does evolution say you're who does it say you're from anyway? Monkeys. Yeah, we're from monkeys. We're from apes. We're from the coming from the creatures. So instead of going up, they're headed towards bestiality. Folks, this is the whole direction where this goes. We know from Genesis Excuse me, Leviticus 18, the five warning signs God gives before he pushes Egypt on a nation, the last one being bestiality. that homosexuality has a whole host of other sins that leads to that and it just doesn't stop. It steamrolls right into that. So that yes, evolution has a huge role in that. It's part and parcel of the problem. Thinking of themselves they became fools Evolution cannot exist with homosexuality. Because if there is a reproduction, you can't keep getting better and better and better. Right, right, right. It it's uh it it even it doesn't make sense. Yeah, it isn't even that doesn't make any sense. Homosexuality inevitably multiplies other sins. So let's look at this in verse 28 while we're still in Romans 1. It inevitably multiplies other sins. So I find it interesting, it says, and even as they, who's the they? Well the they we've just been reading about Men burning in their lust, women burning in their lust once or so the they is the homosexuals. That's specifically who Romans 128 is talking about. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. Again, God goes back to this fundamental point. You're rejecting me. You're rejecting me. That's your problem. You're rejecting me. I'm not rejecting you. You're rejecting me. Because you're doing that. I'm giving you up. I'm pulling away my hand of restraint. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Now, we've said earlier that homosexuals can change. They can change. They can repent. It's possible. Up until this point. When they're given up to a reprobate mind, They've crossed the Rubicon. So there are some people who struggle with same-sex attraction, come into a church, looking for guidance and truth. You can preach to them. You can speak to them. They're not that far gone. Now God could have rescued those from Sodom and Gomorrah. He chose not to. He chose to make them example. He said to Capernaum that if The mighty works which had been done in Capernaum had been done in Sodom Gomorrah, they would have remained to this day. They could have repented if God had so chosen. To grant them the gift of repentance. He didn't choose to do that. Instead, he chose to make them an example. They can't repent. But there comes a point when it says they've given over to a reprobate mind To do those things which are not convenient. Boy, what a polite way to phrase it. And notice what they are. They are filled with all unrighteousness. Lord, if there are ten righteous in the city, would you spare it? Yes. No. They were filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetous, maliciousness. They're full of malice, full of envy, murder, debate. They love to debate. They love to argue. You just can't have a reasonable conversation. They're full of debate. Defeat, they're deceived. You can't present logic because they'll twist it. They can't receive it. They can't handle that. They can't process it. Malignity, they'll malign you They'll cast your name as evil. The whole cause is evil. They have malignity. They're whisperers. They go around whispering and their little destructive voice. They're backbiters. Oh, you may think they're with you, but they'll turn around and trash you Haters of God. Of course they hate God. Despiteful, they despise everything. Proud. They don't have a gay humility parade. Boasters. They're bragging. Bragging about what? I remember uh NGA, the uh three-letter government agency I used to support as the whole gay movement was starting to get more steam in the government, uh, decided to have uh June we're gonna celebrate the accomplishments of gay people And I'm and I'm looking on their, you know, I log into the classified, this is on a classified network, folks. You log in and you're looking and they have a page and I'm looking, okay, who are these great The inventors of wonderful things that society is a basketball player. I mean, nothing of significance that I could find They didn't find anybody. I mean they were s you could tell somebody was stretching to try to find some homosexual who had done something of significance. They couldn't find hardly. It was ridiculous. Boasters, inventors of evil things. Boy, the most wicked things they come up with is just beyond imagination. Disobedient to parents, even their parents can't correct them Even their parents are in a position where their influence is not paid attention to, and that's sad. That's very sad. The ones who they know love them. Who brought them into the world, but they hate the Creator who created them, why would they not hate their parents who brought them into the world? Without understanding. You can present A pound of truth. The fool is wise and is wiser in his own conceit than seven men who can render a reason. It's just astounding. Covenant breakers, they break covenants. They're going to get married. Doesn't matter. They'll break it. They have multiple partners throughout life, multiple marriages. They're always looking for love in the wrong places. They can never be satisfied. without natural affection, implacable and unmerciful, who, knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but they have pleasure in them that do them. Trash likes trash. I mean it just goes downhill real fast. It's real bad. All of it because the main start, they suppressed the knowledge of God as creator. So mothers, you can teach your children early. There is a God. Look at that moon. God put that moon up there. Look at the grass. God made that to grow. Look at you, God meet. You have a new baby brother, new baby sister. Look at what God hath wrought. You can talk to them about God. You can freely talk to them about the things of the Lord. You can communicate to them the things of God. You can pound in. Boy, those first seven years are ultra, super duper critical. And don't forget ages six to twelve. Boy, hug them, hug them a lot, love them, kiss them. pour all your moral values into them at that time. They're generally obedient at that point. You don't want to sidestep that period of time. You really want to to uh pour that in. Well I got to uh close with my last passage. Turn to 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 9. The condemnation of homosexuality, the fundamental reason why it's wrong, it breaks God's basic promise, i. e. uh. uh. basic design for what relationships were to be about It's a result of suppressing the knowledge of God. And in verse 9 of 1 Corinthians 6, we read this. Know ye not, in other words, don't you know this? That the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived. Don't be deceived about this. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate. These are the cross-dressers. These are the the the wannabe gays, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, that would be your homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. So, yes, Romans 1 beats up on the homosexuals quite a lot. Homosexuals would point out, hey Christian, we're not the chief sin. I would agree. There's a whole list of them right here. To be covetous. The covetous don't inherit the kingdom of God. Do you get excited when the sale ad comes out and you just can't wait to buy up the store with all the cheap stuff? What drives you? What are you driven by? It says revilers. It says thieves. It says adulterers and fornicators. If you're living in an adulterous relationship, don't kid yourself. If you're living in a fornicating relationship, don't kid yourself. You're not inheriting the kingdom of God. A person can be a born-again Christian and live with their boyfriend and not go to hell. Well, I'm sorry, it's a lie. Don't be deceived. The apostle says, don't be deceived. You don't inherit the kingdom of heaven. That behavior is found. You're not inheriting the kingdom of heaven. Don't be deceived. That's why he starts off this way Because it all comes with a lie, a thin veil that says it's good. The adulterous woman commits her acts, wipes her hands, and says, I've done no evil. Wipes her mouth, cleans her hands, I've done no evil. But praise God for verse 11. Such were some of you. Were, meaning you were in that, you're not doing it anymore. That behavior is not found in your life. You've begun to put reins and controls on that desire, and you've begun to suppress that desire rather than suppress the knowledge of God. Such were some of you. But you're washed, but you're sanctified, but you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. So if we close with that, I have a final question. Why do you believe homosexuals Are excluded from heaven. Why would they be excluded from heaven? Why would God do that Those practicing, actively practicing. Most straightforward answer, they're transgressors of the law. Certainly. They're transgressors of the law. Yeah, absolutely. That's a good reason. There's multiple reasons by the way. This isn't one reason Vince is looking for. What about the ones who claim to be Christians, who practice Christianity in every other way, and they take a Bible and twist it make it sound perfect and reasonable. Mm-hmm. What about them? They're deceived. Yes. But how do you get to them? Yeah. Come next week. We're gonna talk about how we address these things. Yeah. God created man in his image and the next words are male and female. created he them. Okay. And so the the image of God includes that element that God created them in his image and he made them el be And so the male and female, uh that Genesis 224 passage, is that repeated in the New Testament someplace? Does the Apostle Paul use that somewhere? What does he compare it to? Christ and the church. You see, marriage is a grand picture of Jesus Christ and the relationship to his bride, the church. That's what everything is about, this side of eternity, because in marriage in heaven there's no marriage. It's consummated, it's done. The ultimate sign and picture is gone. So they are messing with the picture and the sign of Christ and his church. They are perverting that. If it's a woman and a woman, it's the church, worships the church. Hmm. Do we know religious organizations that practically worship themselves, that are very enamored with their own authority? That is a spiritually homosexual denomination, if it's a church worshiping a church You ever thought of it that way? Well, I leave you things to consider. We need to close it in prayer here. Vaughn, could you close this? Dear Heavenly Father, uh we thank you, Lord, for the clarity of thy word. Um the the the straightforward nature of of the law and and the things that you command, Lord, and uh the order and creation and uh Lord the uh the good benefit Lord from abiding by it Lord. Uh Father, we see the world and how deeply they fall in in their own lusts and deceits, Lord, and how actively they press their vileness and and wickedness. uh upon the rest of us, Lord, and uh we just pray indeed that you would uh help us to maintain a a bold testimony to them, Lord. to the subverting of uh many transgressors of that law, Lord. Um that indeed maybe even one day in this congregation we might have uh somebody that was so given over Lord but heard the the light of that gospel and and would repent and and believe on thy name and be saved. We pray your uh help in our testimonies, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Uh before yoga