Let's turn this morning, if you would, to the Book of Luke, chapter nine. Looking at just two verses and actually we'll be zeroing in on the second verse more than anything But uh Dr. Luke writing, a man with great passion and love for souls and families, he was quite quite the right one that God chose to write uh the gospel for us. And in verse 25 Price speaking. Then he said unto them, All fools and solved heart to believe all the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into his glory? I'm reading a long I'm in the wrong chapter. I'm in chapter twenty-four. Excuse me. No. Well, we're off to a good start. Now you know why I retired some years ago. And I even had a mark, Mr. Mr. All right. Chapter nine. If you like the other one we just read, I'm sorry, we're not going there. Verse twenty-five. For what is the man advantaged if he gained the whole world and lose himself or be cast away or to be lost For whosoever should be ashamed of me and my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed. When he shall come to his own glory and his fathers and with the holy angels. Ashamed of Christ. He'll be ashamed of you. Fifty-two years ago, in October, had you been with me, you would have been standing in the jungles of Vietnam And within those jungles were poisons, centipedes, larger than my fingers, gigantic. Poison snakes, rock apes, and tigers. And I was standing there, this is fifty years ago With the dear John in my hand for my girl back home. I was supposed to be home a couple of months earlier, but uh the dispersing unit had been blown up and they'd lost all my records When I finally said, Why am I not home? I'm supposed to be home. I got a girlfriend waiting back home for me and they said, Well we who are you? They had no records. I could have walked out of Vietnam and never served in the Marine Corps. They had lost everything. But they said about just extend for another six or seven months that they would uh get me out of there shortly and I got out about after fourteen months. But I'm standing in the jungle with the Dear John Letter And off in the background is a new song being sung. Some guy was recording it uh in the tents by some new singer, never heard of him, named Kenny Rogers. And as I'm crumpling up the letter Uh depressed, upset, angry. Kenny Rogers' words come off from the tent. What condition is your condition in? Well, my condition wasn't very good Not only the Dear John letter and the tigers and everything else, but uh I was lost. Not in the jungle, but spiritually lost. I would have been a person at that time who would have been ashamed to be caught reading the Bible or quoting scripture. What condition was my condition in? Pretty bad. The title of the message this morning is The Condition of the Heart. Because somebody here may not be in good condition this morning either. Luke sets forward here in these verses twenty-five and twenty-six, but also in Luke chapter one, he starts out immediately, setting forth those things most surely believed among us, that is, among the believers. Things that would Could really change the condition of one's heart. And Luke said, I'm writing this to set forth chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. To set forth those things most surely believed among us, among the believers. In order that thou mightest know with a certainty of those things. Luke says, I must write these things here. What are the things that we must know? We must believe, the things that must change the condition of our hearts And Mark chapter 4 and 24 write about the same. He said, take heed what you hear or what you read. It will determine the condition of your heart, the condition of your soul. The condition of your Eternal destiny. What things do you believe as a certainty, I would ask you this morning. What things are you really certain about that are true? It means everything to your eternal destiny. It means everything to the condition of your heart. If you have a belief in the certainty of Scriptures, then no matter what's going on in your life, you have some comfort, then it's all going to end well. I mean if you read the last chapter of Revelation, it's gonna it's gonna end well. We're we're heading for a great, great, wonderful time. Maybe not Monday or Tuesday this week, but we're heading for a good time, regardless of what happens in the elections Amen. Do you believe Moses and the prophets? Oh boy. That is a multiple. When when when Luke writes that in chapter sixteen, do you believe Moses and the prophets? Because if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither we persuade the one rose from the dead. And by the way, only one rose from the dead on his own, and that was Christ Jesus. And he said, but if you don't believe Moses and the prophets And there's a lot of stuff that you have to believe in here for a certainty. And we could talk about it today. Do we believe that aborting a baby is a murder? Well, that's what Moses said. Uh, you know, do we believe that marriage is between only a man and a woman? Well, that's what Moses said also. But there's a lot of things here that are for a certainty that we must believe. And if we don't, we must question our the condition of our hearts and our souls. Many of us we get excited when someone's is talking about patriotism and historical things and and you'll hear someone say, Remember the Alamo and we go, Yeah, you know, that's a great verse. And you know, give me liberty or give me death. Yeah. We can really get stirred up about things like that. But how about I'm come to call sinners to repentance? How about in Matthew 9 and 13? How about repent and believe the gospel? Mark 1 and 15. How about except ye repent ye shall perish? Luke 13 and 3. I mean, if that's not more pleasing to you than any patriotic quote that I've just read to you, it exposes that the condition of your heart isn't good. Think about this. Christ said in Luke 9. 26, Whosoever be ashamed of me and my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes. So the messages, the things we hear, the things we repeat, the things we quote, sometimes are very stirring in our hearts as a as a uh as an American. But do the scriptures stir you even more? And if they don't, question the condition of your heart. I was a I'm I was a Marine, I was a patriot. I I volunteered for Vietnam three times I was also nuts. Oh, that's a condition of my heart. You know, you can be page where I can love these things. Remember the animal. But do you love the scriptures? Do they speak even more to you? Do they mean even more to you? You might say, well, I'm not ashamed of Christ and I'm not ashamed of his words. Well let me ask you a couple of things. If you weren't When we sing the Psalms and the hymns, do you sing them loud? Are you are you you hear the words, you're reading the words, you just say are you excited about those things? Because If you're really ashamed of Christ you kind of mumble through them and you kinda talk about 'em a little you know, you you you're kinda singing them and kinda blending in with everybody else. Well if that's the case, i if this doesn't stir you to sing these things now, what's it gonna do when you're in a prison cell like the Apostle Paul at midnight? Uh-huh. Well he was singing so loud they heard him all through the prison. If we can't sing these things loud now, we're not going to sing them loud when we're in prison. Tells you the condition of your heart. What about if you're enslaved someday and pray as and falsely as Joseph was? Are you bearing witness to the Lord Jesus Christ today? Because when you're in prison falsely accused of of of well I think it was like rape. I mean it was a horrible horrible falsely accused he's in jail for a couple of years. I mean really how how can you You still give a testimony about Christ in the prison? Joseph did. We can look at Genesis thirty-nine, verse three, and Genesis thirty-nine, twenty-three, and Genesis forty-one sixteen. He is he was known for his faith in God, even by Potiphar, the man who put him in jail He was known by his faith, by the keeper of the prison, the warden who just fell in love with Joseph. He was known by the Pharaoh. Pharaoh said, Get him out. I want to know what my dreams are saying. I hear he knows God. I mean, you can't do that when you're enslaved. You can't do that when you're imprisoned falsely or accused falsely. You just can't do that. If if i you can only do that if you already are not ashamed of Christ. And already love his words and love reading them and Well, make an application of the day. If you don't give to the work of Christ in good economic times. Do you think you're gonna give to the work of Christ when things are going poorly? Now look at the the the widow The widow's might, we hear the story. She was in poverty. Things were really poor, and she gave her all. She couldn't give her all when she was in poverty unless when she was in good economic times, she was also given her all So check the condition of your heart. What do you give in time and prayer and money to the Lord's work? Tells you the condition of your heart. Adverse circumstances expose the condition of your heart better than the good times. Consider the adverse circumstances of a woman named Joanna. How many remember who Joanna was? Yeah, I know it's she's only mentioned twice in scripture Both times she's with Mary Magdalene. Keeping good company. Joanna. Was she ashamed of the Lord? Well, she had every reason to be. Her husband's name was Cusa Cusa, we read about him in Luke chapter 8 and verse 3 and also of Joanna. He was King Herod's steward. Joanna loves the Lord, but she's got a husband that works for King Herod. I mean, how is that working out for her? And scripture describes in Luke 12, 42 through 44, that a steward he ruled over the household. He ruled over the household and and and over all that the man hath that he was the steward in. Joseph of Potiver's house in Genesis 39, 4. He ruled over Potiphar's house and all that he had. So Johanna's husband He is the steward of Herod's house. He rules over all that Herod has. It would be kind of hard to talk about the Lord Jesus Christ. Why would I say that? Because as Husa, or Cusa, they pronounce it every name, Cusa, as he ministered unto Herod, as Joanna ministered unto Christ, He would uh probably make sure that any guests in the house of Herod were comfortable. He would probably make sure there was food that was plentiful, and he'd probably make sure that there were ministers available For the music? At Herod's birthday party. What was Couza's job? To order somebody to bring a platter to put John the Baptist's head in. And Cusa was in charge of the utensils of the kitchen and of all the household of Heron. Coozer was probably there. Perhaps he carried the Says the charger in and delivered to the prison. That's Joanna's husband. When John the Baptist's head was ordered and brought on a charger, what was the condition of the heart of Cusa then? And when he got home that night and shared with his wife a very unusual day for him. What became of the marriage of Joanna and Couza? What was the condition of Couza's heart? And Joanna's heart after John had been beheaded, adverse times. Has there ever been a moment in your life that changed the condition of your heart or the condition your condition was in? For all eternity? That's that's the moment I want you to know about. Can you think of a time when some adverse condition or some condition changed the condition your heart was in for all eternity, good or bad? Pray for good. Oh my gosh. Whatever became of Joanna He comes home that night, and if he doesn't tell her what happened, well someone's gonna tell her what happened. She's ministering to Christ. She knows John the Baptist disciples. She's gonna find out about it, and if he doesn't come home that I can tell her, she's gonna walk over and grab him by the pillows. Why didn't you tell me what happened yesterday? How could you not talk about that? There are things in our lives that happen And so what happened to Joanna? I wish we had time because I got a lot of stuff I want to cover this morning, but write down the last part of Luke, chapter 23, 51. through chapter twenty-four of Luke and verse ten. I'll just tell you what it says in Luke twenty-three, fifty-one through twenty-four, ten of Luke. It says that Johanna, the wife of Cusa, was with Mary Magdalene. And as Christ's body was being brought down by Joseph of Arimathea, she and Mary Magdalene and some of the others were watching As he put the body into the tomb and they went home, Mary, Magdalene, and Joanna and some of the others, they prepared spices for the Sunday morning After the Sabbath, where they could go back, roll the stone away somehow, and reanoint and the dead body of Christ again. And we see her coming. We see her coming to the tomb on Sunday morning. Joanna With Mary Magdalene, but the tomb is open, there's angels there. And she runs, Mary Magdalene and Joanna and the other ladies, and they tell the disciples who don't believe them. And my question that you I thought of right away was: did Joanna finally go home and tell Cruz or her husband, you're not gonna believe the tomb is empty, he's going to see. Did she go and tell him? Oh, did she go and tell him? Regardless of what the relationship was. marriage was she wasn't there if she's telling the disciples and she's telling everybody you can bet she went to her husband whether he was a believer or not and she said something to him and I don't believe she only said it she was probably rejoicing in song no doubt at what she had discovered at the tomb then. day. Did it affect the condition of Kooz's heart Well, let me tell you. It's not in here. Oh man. Yeah, I'm the same place you are, Jim. I don't know. I don't know if it affected Cooz's heart when Joanna told her. But more important. More important than did it affect Cruz's heart, has the resurrection message affected your heart? So you like to say goodbye. You'd like to tell others about it. That's the most important question. I don't know about Cruza. Hey, maybe we'll run into him in heaven someday. I'd love to tell I know Joanna's there. Mary Magdalene's there I'd like everybody here to be there. But if the condition that your condition is in isn't saved, if you're lost. And the the message that Joanna had to have brought to her husband that day, if that doesn't change your heart, I've got nothing else to say to you Right. It's only the gospel. The good news there isn't better news or gooder news. It's the best news. It's the good news. That's what gospel means. So are you ashamed of the message of the resurrection of Christ? Has the resurrection of Christ affected the condition of your heart? The condition this world sits in today is such darkness that Christ came into the world. And then they sat in darkness, they conferenced out and we're we're back there again. The condition of the world citizen is so dark. People speak of today of global warming and climate change and they tell you that man is responsible for the weather. Now stay with me here, because there's a blessing. They never see God's hand in the weather It's it's man controls the weather, man's destroying the climate, man's doing this you know uh he's the he's a fault for global warming and climate change and so on and so forth. They don't see God's hand in the drought Can you talk to Elijah and Elijah about that? You never see God's hand in the storm. God sends the rain on the just and the unjust, Matthew five forty five. Who's in charge of the weather? Earthquakes. God shakes the earth, Job nine and verse six. Who's in charge of the weather of the climate? And say it to the snow, Be thou on the earth and the great rain. Job thirty seven and six. And Christ even what? He rebuked the wind, the raging waters, and they ceased, and there was no longer. I stole him. Who who really controls the weather? There was a calm. Even the winds of the water obeyed him. Luke 8, 23, and 25. Who's in control of the weather? Not man. Even the insurance companies will tell you when there's a great storm or something happens, a hurricane or a flood or whatever, you know hurricanes bring the waters in down Louisiana. What do the insurance companies say? Act of God. Wow, somebody got it right. But the new thing says these hurricanes are being brought upon by uh the man's inhumanity of man and he's polluting the air, he's doing all and that's no, the insurance company says it's an act of God, and it is It is and they don't have to pay when it's an act of God. They're never gonna change a policy, regardless of what the news media says. Do you believe that God's in charge? Of the winter. The panic experts. I I only got a few of these down here. And believe me, we're going to a place where you're going to get a blessing. The panic experts predicted when I was a kid back in the seventies, the ice age was coming. Do you remember that Jim? We're all gonna freeze to death, the sun's gonna burn out, we're all gonna die, we're running out of oil, we won't be able to heat our homes. The ice age is coming, it's gonna destroy the earth. And then in the eighties and nineties Global warming is coming. What happened to the Ice Age? Global Well, you because you're younger, you don't remember the Ice Age. But we do. And and then they start talking about global warming. That was good news because we thought we're all freeze to death, right? We believed that junk. We believed it. And then lately people aren't really buying the global warming where it's climate change, right? Oh because of man, God's got nothing to do with the weather. Follow me now. There's a fantastic application coming. I promise you, I promise you. 1970, Ice Age for the year 2000. Well we all know that didn't happen, right? I think most of us have been around 2000. 1971, the new age! Ice Age is coming by 2020. I haven't seen it yet. 1974. Space satellite show. New Ice Age is coming fast. That's 1974. Scientific consensus, the planet is cooling. No end in sight. 1978. Years of cooling trend. It's horrible. And then in 1988, eh, put on the brakes. Temperatures are hitting record highs. The Arctic ice begins to melt. 1989, rising sea levels will obliterate all the nations through all the underwater if nothing is done by the year two thousand. Well nothing was done by the year two thousand and we're not underwater now. Rising sea levels. New York City will be underwater by two thousand and nineteen. Now that would have been a blessing. It didn't happen. It would change the whole outlook probably of elections tomorrow or two. Children won't know what snow is. Anybody here not by the year 2000, you won't even know what snow is. Anybody here not know what snow is? Well they got that one wrong too then, didn't they? Manhattan underwater by 2015. Climate genius Al Gore predicts an ice-free Arctic by 2003. There won't be a Northern Pole There won't be a southern Arctic. All that's gonna be melted by 2013. Clima genius Prince Charles probably he missed Diana when he came up with this, or I don't know. He he said we have ninety-six months left to save the world. That's in two thousand nine. didn't happen. The United Kingdom Prime Minister says fifty days to save the planet from catastrophe, two thousand and nine. Climate genius Al Gore moves in, he said, Ice free RG is now I've changed my mind, it's two thousand and fourteen. And then he changed his mind and said, No, it's gonna be I mean this goes on and on. These experts, I got a whole list if you want them. These experts have been wrong 40 times out of 40. You know what that is when you're wrong forty times out of 40? That's enough First Timothy 620. Science falsely so-called. These are scientists. Satellite engineer. Science falsely so-called Okay, that's not a rabbit trail. I know you might think it is. God's in control. But here's the first application. We need to trust God, who created the heavens, the earth in six days. Not six thousand years or six six days. That's what it says. Genesis one one and Genesis one thirteen. And f in four seasons it says he created. Genesis one fourteen. There's not gonna be a global warming, there's not gonna be a a nuclear winter or freeze. There's four seasons. There are always going to be four seasons. He created them, Genesis 114. In fact, he not only did all that, he addresses the end times, what they're really going to be like. In the Gospels it talks about, in the book of Revelation he talks about. Let me give you a hint. Let me give you something to cover it up a little. If you read the Gospels and if you read the book of Revelation, you're gonna find out this. The earth is not gonna be destroyed by an ice age. It's not gonna be destroyed. By United Saint. In fact, we get a lot hotter than that. And here's the second thing: the earth is not going to be destroyed by the Arctic melting and the North Pole melting. It's never because she said in Genesis 9:11, God promised us, neither shall we flood destroyed the earth and the El Gore says it will. Who are you gonna believe? The word of God? Or the people have been wrong forty times out of forty Huh. All right. Applications. Price holds and withholds the cold. Christ controls every raindrop. Christ is in control of the smallest gust of wind and the storms. He's in control of the tremors. You know, he's in control of the earthquakes. They're still trying to prove it's caused by fracking. Do you know we had earthquakes before fracking? The San Francisco earthquake, you ever hear of that one? The earthquakes in the Bible were so tremendous. God controls the earthquakes, He controls the travers, He controls the exploding stars, the supernovas, He controls the lightning bolts when they come and where they go and what they hit and when they leave. Every particle of creation we're talking about sovereignty of God here folks. Including, including, every particle of creation, including the particles of the heart, of the king's heart, is in the hand hand of the Lord, he turns it whithersoever he will. Proverbs twenty-one. We have a sovereign God. I want you to leave it. If if you're not ashamed of Christ in his words, you ought to love his words because it says God's in control of everything, even the king's heart. And they've been controlled the king's heart. Does that mean he's in control of heart? Yeah. Gil's heart. Anton's heart. Larissa's heart. He's in control of our hearts. God is in control of the hearts. And when and and when about 2,000 years ago they cried, crucify him, crucify him Luke 23, 21. God was in control of the one shouting, Crucify Him. He was in control of their hearts. And he was in control of their tongues. At that very moment God could have paralyzed their tongues, changed their hearts, gave them a heart attack and struck in dead, no more shall have crucify him. But God was in control of hearts. Even in a horrible moment like that, in the horrible moments of your life, God is in control. God controls the casting of the lot. Proverbs 16, 33, or the flipping of a coin. God's in control of the casting of the lot. Thank you. You ready for this? And the casting of every vote on Tuesday. That's right. The casting of every vote. Do you believe that? We'll see how many of us believe it on Tuesday. Truly God controls the casting of every vote. Not a sparrow Falleth Matthew 10, 29, without his permission. Stars don't fall without his permission. Matthew 24, 29. Hail doesn't fall without his permission. Job 38, 22, and 23. Raindrops don't fall. Nations don't fall. And their leaders don't fall. According to Luke 152 and Romans 13. 1. Even the leaders of nations do not fall without God's permission. Yeah. Has Christ in His Word touched and refined the condition of your heart? The scribes and the Pharisees. What a bunch of guys they were. They you know they didn't dress immorally. The wise didn't have skirts up to here and dresses down to there and slits up to here and I mean they were they were good guys. You know, what we call I mean if you see them today well, we know what they are now, but you know th I mean they they weren't in publicly in an immoral situation. They were just they they really hit it well is what they did. But when you think about the Pharisees, they they They they weren't immoral openly immoral. They didn't endorse immorality. They they went uh into all the they didn't miss the temple services at all. They were at all the temple services. They tithed, they read, they quoted the Bible to others And what you had here was spiritual camouflage. We all know people like that today, don't we? No, they they go to church, they don't miss church, they close the Bible, uh, they tithe. Uh, you know, the i the spiritual camouflage, uh, Caiaphas, Judas, Janus Who whispered Moses by the way, and also he wished to the truth, 2 Timothy 3 8. I mean this is a spiritual camouflage. Christ said except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall know case Entering the kingdom of heaven. So is a condition of your heart better than a Pharisee? I hope so. What was missing from the Pharisees? I mean, they They could quote the Bible, they read the Bible, they share it with others, they they taught it, they preached it, they they they tithed, they didn't miss anything. What was missing from the Pharisees A love for Christ. And a love for the words that they read and preached about. Is there something missing in your own life? I mean you're sitting here and and you you think, well, I I I think I'm okay. The heart is deceived and wicked above all things. That's what Jeremiah uh tells us in seventeen and nine. Yeah, you say, well I'm I'm dating uh this individual and are they glad they hear the gospel preached? Never miss any church services. In fact uh Uh they're doctrinally sound. I mean they why th the very life of this individual has changed and and now does so many things going to church and and money to the missionaries and helps them maintain the church building itself and and and you know they Never did this before. Neither would he change. I I think I'm good. Yeah, well there was one that saw John the Baptist and said, Justin, he's a holy man. And he and he observed him doing many things and heard him gladly and and and he said he did many things himself after watching John the Baptist. But his name in Mark 6. 20 is Herod. Herod. Herod thought that John the Baptist was a holy man. And he said, but I'm listening and observing. Herod said, I did many things. I changed a lot of my outward things I did. Until he cut his head off And I heard John the Baptist gladly. I I I gotta tell you, attending a Bible-believing service with good preaching And John the Baptist, that was a good service to attend, and he was good preaching, solid preaching, talking about the the coming of the Christ, the Messiah. You know, John you can have you can go to a Bible believing service with a good preaching. It doesn't guarantee spiritual decedigree. It just doesn't guarantee it. What guarantees a dropping on your knees and asking God to save you, to touch your heart? Yeah. And you can't do that unless God first touches your heart. Nobody ever says, God save me. When he says that, God can say, I already have. That's why you're asking for it. If I didn't touch your heart, you'd never ask for salvation. You know. When you start when a person says, What does that do to be saved? You're there. Just call on God and say say, man. He says he done that. God's always way ahead of us, you know. Says he's a beginner and author of our faith. That's right. When we say, Oh God save me. Where did Johnny come lately? It's finally dawning us that we're lost. And where to go for salvation. We we think that just by being in a great church, great service, great preaching, we're okay. But you know what in Calpurnium where Christ was ministering and healing, there in Calpurnium in that synagogue was a man with an unclean spirit, Mark 1 and 23. This is a good service. This is a great synagogue. We got Jesus in here. He's Christ Jesus, our Lord. He's preaching and and people are getting saved and people are getting hailed. Hey, what could go wrong? You've got an unsaved, unclean, unclean spirit in a man that's in there. And you can go into any church today, I don't care what church you go to or what the who the preacher or where he's preaching, there are unclean people in those church services. Look, find it hard to believe. Mike, find it hard to believe, yeah. Oh yeah. And they are ashamed of the name of Christ. They're ashamed of the name Christian. And you know what? And if you're ashamed of the name of Christian, please don't use that title. Oh, I'm a Christian. Please don't use that title. If you're not. Consider the condition wherein the saved people find themselves today. Christ's followers will be, Matthew 24, 9, hated of all nations, hated of all men, Mark 13 and 13. And like Christ who they laughed to scorn and mocked Luke eight and fifty three and they they mocked him mocked Christ. Oh, he saved others. Let him save himself. People will say that too sometimes. Oh yeah, you're the one run getting people saved. Well save yourself from this. Boom and it hit you you know. I mean uh i they they're gonna mock us like they did Christ. He trusted in God. Well let him deliver him. We're not gonna help you out of your mess. You say you're a Christian, you're God let God take care of you. You're stuck in the ditch, you cars broke down Bye, they thumb and keep on going, right? Let God take care of you. They mock us all the time. We've been mocked for decades when we would tell people, you know, the Constitution said it it provides us with the pursuit of life and happiness and and we said, Yeah, life In the born and onborn. Oh, they didn't like that. And we would save them back then. What do you mean? It's the born and unborn. I mean All lives matter. We would say that. We really did. Today you say all lives matter, boy, a whole different nuance. And they are just as mad now as they were during the abortion marches that we went on. Yeah. Today if you believe all lies matter, you can get fired from your job, rejected for a court appointment. You can be ejected from government job or teaching or neglected for a promotion. And they will say of you as they say of Christ, we can't have this person here Uh can't get in that promotion. He's beside himself, Mark eight, or Mark three and twenty one. In other words, he's out of his mind. In other words, he's not fit Or she's not fit to serve as long as they believe that all lives matter, born and onborn. Oh, we can't have that Are you want to be ashamed of Christ? Luke nine and twenty six. Well I don't think so. Really? Well, are you afraid or ashamed to use the term born again Are you afraid or ashamed to use the term saved or scriptures before your friends? If you're not using scripture before your friends If you're not talking about being born again and talking about Christ to your best friend forever. If you're not sharing Christ with them, they are not your best friend. Or you would. They are not, and if they are your best friend and you're not sharing Christ, they won't be your best friend Forever. Mm-hmm. Hm. That's right. It's getting harder, some people tell me. to play the role of a Christian. Yeah, well if you're playing, yeah it is it is hard, right? If you're just playing, it's hard to play Christian. Today's Christians are pursued, accused, abused for not following Christ, or not sorry, for not following COVID nineteen. You know, they abuse us for that and pursue us, accuse us. We're not following COVID-19 science. And what does COVID-19 science say? Shut down the churches To stop the spread, casinos they can be opened. No wonder we're not following COVID nineteen science You can't have any singing in church. I saw them even arrest a guy for singing the Psalms and the service was outside the church, but they were singing And so they were spewing a lot of air. You can't you can't sing in a church service. COVID nineteen science. Sing in a church service. Gets one arrested, but not shouting profanities in public or at the policeman. Just singing praises to the Lord. Social distancing is important worship services, but not in the Walmart Isles. Have you noticed that? But that's the COVID nineteen science Some days we're told the mass work, some days are so they don't work, and on and on it goes. You know what? Real science is consistent Mm-hmm. Church? No. Casino? Yes. Maps? No. Maps. Maps. Yeah. Real science is consistent. Only theories bounce back and forth, or what we call science falsely so-called, uh, 1 Timothy 6. 20. When you see the real science changing like an evolution, when you see the science changing all the time, that's not science, that's just a theory. When we say Bruce Jenner isn't a woman, all of a sudden things change. You know, Bruce Jenner, Caitlin Jenner, whatever you want to call him, her, uh Bruce Jenner Isn't a woman, don't they say? Forgive science. Forgive science. We're supposed to believe in COVID nineteen signs, but when we say Bruce Sinner is not a a a woman, forget science. When we say life hasn't evolved anywhere beyond the earth, they say Well forget science. Forget science. When they say that uh a fetus in the womb uh it's a baby, when we say it's a baby, it's a living human being baby, they say, forget science. What is truth anyway, they say? Well they're quoting Pontius Pilate there, John eighteen what is truth. You know what Christ said in eight John 8, 31, 32. My disciples know the truth. My disciples know what truth is. My disciples know what real science is Why do we know the truth? Because our heart condition is settled in Christ and in his words. So ask yourself today, what is the condition that you find your heart in today? What is the condition your condition is in? What is the condition of your heart? and soul today. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we looked you today. And we have, as Peter said, Lord, where else can we go but to you, Lord, to Christ? The Lord Jesus Christ and to his word. There's nowhere else we can go. Anywhere else will lead us down a crooked path. Get us lost. We just asked today that there was something in this message that would encourage us in the days ahead that our sovereign God is a control of every heart. Even the mistakes we make, the stupid words we utter Even the casting of the lot or a vote. Oh Lord, give us comfort Change the condition of our hearts to where we can walk through any valley. Singing. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.