Look at Hebrews chapter two, verses three and four. Hebrews chapter two, three and four. And uh we're going to be covering uh A minor doctrine today. You know, you've heard people talk about major doctrines of Scripture and minor doctrines. And minor doctrines are things in which we can disagree. And certainly you don't have to agree with me on some part of today's study. We're going to look at verse 3, which is I'm going to touch on a minor doctrine, and it has to do with who was the penman for the book of Hebrews. A major doctrine is the inspiration of Scripture. God is the one who authored all the scriptures of the Bible. 1 Corinthians and the Pauline epistles, Hebrews have the same author, God. The pen man for Hebrews is the one that's in question. The traditional answer that many have given is that, well, Paul has. In fact, I'm looking here at my Thomson Chain reference, and it the title reads The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews. uh in the uh Greek it says pros Hebros, meaning to the Hebrews. Paul was something that had been added at the time of the Reformation where they took an ancient tradition and said Pauline authorship, uh excuse me, Pauline Association is Pauline authorship. Well we're going to touch on this a little bit today. And the reason I'm going into this is number one, I've given this a lot of study And I really was on the fence, frankly, as to whether or not to even talk about this subject because it can uh I don't want it to be perceived as contentious or people I know and love who are very dear to me were uh take an opposite view of what I do. And I don't want that to serve as a point of contention. Not my not my intent at all. However This is, I think, an application of something that is known as lower criticism. Lower criticism. What is lower criticism? Well, it is the consideration of the manner the choice, the type of word and sentence structure, and comparing that to external factors. You know, this was written in space-time history in what are now two dead languages, three if you count uh the uh Aramaic in the book of Daniel. So you can actually see where that word was used in ancient history. You can compare scriptures to archaeology. There are certain phrases that are used throughout Luke's epistle as well as in Acts that helped tie us to certain ancient cities of Ephesus and others that give insight into the uh into ties of archaeology, of church history, you can tie it back to, secular history as well uh you can tie this back to science and biology. The Bible came to us and can be used to evaluate things in the outside world. Now higher criticism is when men come in to say, well, who wrote the Bible? By that they mean man wrote it, not God. and they begin to question what is canonical or not, uh is this the word of God or not. No, that's not what we're doing here. Uh that's where the critical text comes from, from the higher text critics. We're not doing that at all. I'm not questioning any of this. We're receiving it not as the word of men, but as the word of God. And that's how we're going to treat that today. So with that brief introduction, let's get into this. And we're going to start in chapter 2. And uh verse 3, where we read this, how shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Covered that point last week and probably some the week before He continues, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders and with diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Now I never realized going through this that this is actually quite a strong proof text to give insight into the pendant So let's explore this for a bit. I want you to focus on that last part of verse three, spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. Alright. Uh what does that word confirm mean? I'm going to parse out four words. Testify. Testify? Okay, yeah. What else? What are some other synonyms for the word to confirm? To make it sure? Yeah. Prove it. To prove it, yeah. It's rendered in strong to make firm, to make sure, to establish. Okay, this is something that was established. Now uh it says unto us, now who is the us? If you're writing something and you make a mention to us, who would that be? Apostles. Us, okay. Potentially apostles. Okay, I would say disciples for now, all right. Us, okay. Who would us include? Would that include the author or not? Yeah, if you're making rep and you say uh Uh we are coming. Uh you're including yourself and some other people. You don't know who they are. But there's a group of people to include the author here. There was him Christ. Yeah, Jesus Christ, them that hur and who's them? Who's the them that heard him What were you saying, Carol? Us. Us. I didn't hear Jesus Christ on the earth. Yeah, like who you were talking to? The us? Well look at it carefully. It was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. So did us is or the group of people who are us the same group of people as them. You're shaking your head no, Victoria. Why are you saying no? I don't think it's limited to just the disciples. Okay, the Lam's opening the aperture. Okay. So these would be the people that it could but not necessarily include the others. It could, but in other words, the the um them and us could be the same group of people, but not necessarily the same group of people. Okay, couldn't it her and him could include me, but does not necessarily mean it has to include me. I see. All right. By them, probably the by them is the is the uh Jesus, God and Holy Spirit, three of them. Oh so you see the Trinity in there. Well it says them that heard him Them that heard Jesus. Right. Who are the people that heard Jesus? He's talking about Jesus after the flesh, not multitudes that Certainly anybody who heard the audible sounds coming from his mouth hit their ears and resonate. Right? So this would include the apostles, this would include disciples, this would include Mary, this, you know, and so forth. So there's a number of individuals that heard him. And it said, At first it was spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us By this other group of people, them that heard him. So the point here is that the author is placing himself outside of the apostolic circle. He was not one who directly heard Jesus Christ because the word was confirmed, made sure unto him. Now, I think based on that, and I've gone around the barn on this, at first I thought I'd heard a good argument years ago for the author of the book of Hebrews to be Luke uh but uh that has since been shot down. But I think based on this, you're first fill in the blank, and it's okay if you put the word apostle in there, but I believe the fill in the blank for the first one is not Paul. Uh well the the uh the us is not is different than them that heard him. I'm asserting that. Well uh And again you can disagree with him. Correct, he was an apostle. But let's talk about Paul for a moment. The reason I go down this path is because Whoever the us is, it says the word was confirmed to them by others who heard him, and God bore them signs. and uh science with miracles and so forth. Now last week we spent a lot of time at the end of the study going over how the Apostle Paul got his information from God And if you look at Galatians 1, and we're going to review those verses here, this is a pretty important point. In Galatians 1 and verse 1, it says, Paul an apostle, not of men. Neither of man, but by Jesus Christ. He's an apostle directly by Jesus Christ, and we know that account, right? We have it in the book of Acts. And God the Father who raised him from the dead. Verse 11. But I certify you, brethren, I testify to you, I assure you that the gospel which was preached of me, the gospel out of my mouth, is not after man. He's not getting his information from man. He's making that very clear. Verse 12. I neither received it of man. I did not receive the gospel I preach to you from men. Didn't get it from men. Neither was I taught it. He underscores the fact that nobody taught him this But by revelation of Jesus Christ, Paul was a unique apostle in that God Himself, because the Lord Jesus, he didn't spend time walking with the Lord Jesus on the earth. He wasn't there with him for three years. And he insists, man did not give this to me. I got it directly from God. You know, think about it. Paul comes and he's rebuking Peter. He's he's He says, James and Barnabas, others were carried away with this hypocrisy, with this dissimulation. And so he's taking the task. He says, I'm getting this directly from God. He goes on in verse 16. He says to reveal his son in me. Oh, I'm sorry, verse 15. When it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace to reveal his son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen, this would be the Gentiles Immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood. He did not go to men to get, shall I say, any confirmation. Verse 17, Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me, but I went to Arabia and returned again in Damascus. So the and this is just one place where the apostle talks about this. This is the strongest place. So the point I'm giving here is that I believe Hebrews 2. 3 is a very powerful passage that to me seems very unlikely that if Paul wrote Hebrews It would be unlikely that he would refer to himself as simply someone who was convinced of gospel truths from other miracle workers who heard the Lord directly. It just seems unlikely. There's people I know and love who would say, nope, that doesn't count. This doesn't count. John Gill is one. He's a great commentator. He's one of my favorite commentators. But as all Bible teachers have their feet of play, uh uh he has some areas that that that uh I I you know, in Revelation he views the Antichrist entirely as the Pope, and boy the Pope is doing everything he can to look like the Antichrist for sure. And here, when he addresses Hebrews 2-3, he says, well, us does not include the author. Somehow he finds an exception. He carves that out. I find that a little difficult to hold. And then he moves on to other points. Anyway, I believe this is a very powerful passage that would argue against Paulinian authorship because it seems to me whoever the us is is placing himself outside of the apostolic circle. Now, let me go over some other proofs to kind of make my case because I can rarely do this when talking with other people, right? Uh most people I speak with who want to assert pawing authorship, I find that it will quickly divulge into an argument, and I don't want to argue about a minor doctrine. And I can't really get some other points out. So I'm gonna abuse the bully pulpit this morning. I'm going to just lay out the case. And honestly, you don't have to agree with me This is a minor doctrine. If you want to stand firm and you say, Vince, I hear you, that's great. But Paul wrote this, I would say, God is the author. And if you want to say Paul was the penman, love you, brother. That's fine. I'm not up with that. Um have no issues with that. Now, let me give some other proofs, however, in addition to Hebrews 2. 3, because this is not the first time the church has asked this question. Fact of the matter is, there is a long tradition For both sides of the question dating back as far as two hundred AD. In fact, uh the Eastern Church where Constantinople was and so forth, they held Pauline Association. As a result, the Western Church, the Roman Catholic Said, well, it doesn't have Paul's name, so we reject it as even being canonical. The Roman Catholic Church rejected Hebrews as being canonical for a while, I don't know how long, but then changed and said, No, we'll accept it um and we'll make it of Paul. So they just stamped it as Paulinian and gave it their their thumbs up. Proof that the Roman Catholics do waffle on their position. They rejected the Book of Romans is not proof. Canonical. Right. Well, so they were using a means of lower criticism to go for higher criticism, but that's not the only error the Roman Catholic Church has. So One of the other proofs that comes up for authorship, if you look at 2 Thessalonians 3, 2 Thessalonians 3 and verses 17 and 18 The Apostle Paul writes this he says that he signs his name in every letter that he writes. Second Thessalonians 3. 17. It says, The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle, so I write The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. And uh however, we do not have Paul's salutation in the book of Hebrews. You don't find that traditional Pauline opening, Paul, an apostle or servant Jesus Christ to so and so. Others would say, well no no no no no the the the salutation is not where he uses his name. It's this phrase The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. That is his universal token. And they would say that is unique to Paul. That's his token. And some of you have signature blocks in your email where you have your unique signature block. Okay, fair enough. I'll accept that as a token. However, That same token is also found at the end of the Bible in the book of Revelation. Well the Apostle John uses that If you're going to look in secular history, Clement of Rome also signed his epistles that way. So it seems to me that others would reuse this simple token. It doesn't seem that it's such a unique thing that it can only be Paul. Now, it's also curious that the Apostle Paul will state some other things after this universal token In first Corinthians sixteen, twenty-one and twenty-two he says, If any man love not the Lord Jesus, uh let him be anathema, Maranatha. That's part of the signature block, if you will, as well. So there's something added to it. And Colossians 4. 18 he adds, Remember my bonds. That's part of that signature block, if you will. So there's other things added to it in other places. So it's not truly a unique stamp, I would argue. Again, that is a strong argument that some make. And in fact, uh that first came up uh back in the uh second century. Others have pointed this out. So this is not a new argument. And it's a it's a reasonable one. It's a reasonable one. I don't think it has that much weight. Second point is that God sent the Apostle Paul to the Gentiles. He was the apostle to the Gentiles. Now, it says, for instance, in um Acts 26, 17, and Galatians 2. 7. He himself says, I'll just read this, Acts 26, 17. The apostle makes it clear. He says, Acts twenty six. Did I get this right? Oh yeah, I'm in twenty-six seventeen. Delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee. He's reporting He's giving a witness to Felix of his conversion, of his testimony, and he says, God told me that he sent me to the Gentiles. He made it clear in another place that Peter was sent as the apostle to the circumcision. He was sent to the Uncircumcision. And so why would he change swim lanes? Why would he alter his calling? Um He says in Romans eleven, I magnify my office by ministering to the Gentiles that it may cause the Jews to he would he would st em emulate them to oh what is that language I can't exactly quote it's Romans 1113 he says um and magnify my office, uh as inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles and magnify my office, if by any means I may provoke to emulation, I may stir them up, them which are my flesh, and might save some of them. He believed that his work among the Gentiles, that alone would cause the Jews to say, hey, we we want this blessing. We want to get back to that. That's how he perceived his ministry. He would reach out to the Jews by continuing his work. to the Gentiles. Clement of Rome, uh third point, Clement of Rome suggested that Paul wrote Hebrews without naming himself So as not to scare off the Jews. Clement of Rome is in the 2nd, 3rd century A. D. thereabouts. And that's a reasonable assertion to make Uh you know, certainly any time Paul was mentioned, boy, they found out he was in the city, man, they would send people to stone it. Uh if Jews heard this and maybe they're on the fence, they see Paul's name out the gate, we're tearing this up, we're not gonna listen to it. That sounds reasonable. That's a reasonable uh thing to assert. Um however, uh Romans, an epistle where Paul did identify himself. was addressed to a partly Jewish audience. And for instance in Romans 4. 1 he says, concerning Abraham our father. So there were some at Rome, because remember the Jews were dispersed. In Romans seven one he says, Uh Brethren, I speak to them that know the law. So some of the people he's writing to were were Hebrews there, the Jews. And so if Paul didn't hesitate to identify himself in Romans to an audience which was at least partially Jewish Why would he not have refrained in Hebrews? In fact, the matter is, Rome would prove to be more hostile to Paul than the Jews were. They were the ones that ultimately beheaded him. So I think there can be some question around that. This is the part I spent an awful lot of time at because by admission I have not been a formally trained in Greek or in Hebrew. However, I've spent enough time digging around in it to learn some things. The Greek in this epistle to the Hebrews is incredible It's incredible. It really is. It is in a sophisticated style of someone who is very well educated in formal rhetoric. It is very ornate. You know, one thing that pastors like to do is make alliterations. You know, if you can make a sermon outline that all begins with the same letter and are kind of the same size, you know, it's like boom, boom, boom. That's really neat, right? That happens all throughout Hebrews. It's very ornate, even beginning at at verse one. Let me just give you an illustration here. Hebrews 1:1. God who at sundry times and diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets. You know what it is in the Greek? Theos, polymeros, polytropos. Do you hear the alliteration? It all ends in os And then he says Lalau, and then he gets into he says um uh uh in uh then uh in times past, I forget what that one was. by the fathers, Potter, by the prophets, prophetus. So his opening statement has already three two sets of triple alliterations. Theos, polytropos, polymeros. It's just very eloquent. You know, some of my favorite politicians are those who can really spin a phrase really quickly and make it kind of bring it down super simple. and they kind of hit certain key points. It's tough to boil that down. Ronald Reagan was known as the great communicator because he could really boil things down simply and there was a certain rhythmic and a rhyme to it that could bring you along That's what you have all throughout Hebrews. It's all throughout Hebrews 4. 12 is another one. It uses the phrase joints and marrows and is a discerner in thoughts and intents of the heart In the Greek it's harmos, myelos, kritikos. Do you hear the alliteration? In the Greek it's very ornate It's just very ornate. Many, both believing and unbelieving, have considered Hebrews a masterpiece of Greek prose. It's considered an absolute masterpiece in its prose And as such, the Greek style is frankly not typical of Paul's abruptness and digressions. I mean, the brother goes off on rabbit trails and comes back in the King James, you've got these parenthetical passages that it shoves it in the print. You're trying to struggle to digest it and break it apart. You don't find that in Hebrews. That's just not there. Also, Eusebius reports Origin's conclusion from AD1-85. Again, these are people that were close to the language at the time it was written. He writes this, the diction in Hebrews does not have the rough quality the apostle himself admits having. And he references 2 Corinthians 11. 6, where the apostle says, 2 Corinthians 11. 6. But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge, but we have been thoroughly made manifest among you in all things. He was referring- he himself said he came not with excellency of speech or with wisdom of men. He went out of his way to say, no, I'm not ornate at all. Hebrews is a masterpiece of ornate Greek style. Again, I'm not a Greek scholar, but I'm relying on others who have this. The penman of Hebrews doesn't indicate his own spiritual experiences in the letter, as Paul often does. He says, you know what manner of men we were among you. He often appeals to himself. Um thrice I was beaten, forty days and you know, and so forth. He he describes his own experiences and how the Lord delivered me and I was let down uh by the wall in a basket. He often speaks about his own personal experiences. You have no sharing of personal experiences from the penmen of Hebrews. It's not there. I found this to be a very fascinating point as well. There are significant differences in diction, that would be vocabulary choice, between the letter of Hebrews and Paul's epistles. Hebrews contains over 150 words that are called haphs logima. What does that mean? Words that appear only once in a corpus text. Hebrews 4. 12, the alliteration I just gave you. Harmos, Myelos, Kritikos, found nowhere else in Scripture. There's over 150 words in Hebrews that are never, that Paul never uses. Likewise, there's a whole bunch of words that Paul uses that are never used in the book of Hebrews. Let me give you one simple example. You can go look for the phrase Christ Jesus. Paul uses that phrase 90 times. It's only once in Hebrews. Only once. Hebrews seems to emphasize um and my my point about that is if it doesn't sound like Paul, is he the author? It's ornate. Not using words that he typically uses. Doesn't go off in digressions and rabbit trails. Lastly, there are indeed parallels in doctrine between the book of Hebrews and Paul's writing. And there are a long list of those. But I would assert that's because of the same author. God. There's a parallel in doctrine between Mark and Isaiah. They are doctrinally lined up. Isaiah is called the fifth gospel in my book. There's a lot of doctrinal alignments in scripture. You would not expect that to be divergent. But there are some themes, if I could use that phrase, that are unique to the book of Hebrews. For instance, Jesus as the great high priest is unique to Hebrews. The Apostle Paul never, ever, ever alludes to Jesus Christ as a priest. Paul seems to be very caught up with the resurrection. Indeed, he's first hand experienced a very real resurrection life experience in his conversion, is as all God's people do. His was very magnified. But in Hebrews it's the exaltation of Christ that is emphasized, not so much the resurrection. So who are some candidates then, if I'm asserting the Apostle Paul is not the one who was the penman for Hebrews? I'm not saying author, God's the author. Hebrews 1-1, God. That's your author. Don't miss that point. Well, the requirements are this. The author likely was a close associate of Paul, because he says our brother Timothy, so he had to have known Timothy, right? So there was some close association. The author knew the recipients to whom he's writing. He was able to write ornate rhetorical Greek, became a Christian out of Judaism, the intimate and the depth of familiarity The manner of arguing, the the the approach to arguing is straight out of Jewish Midresh or Rosh, I forget what it's called, but it's very similar in that vein of of argumentation, became a Christian out of Judaism, and was familiar with Levitical practices. That's who the candidate would be. So I've already mentioned that Eusebius reports that Rome didn't believe Paul's authorship and rejected the epistle. So Rome said, nope, Hebrews isn't even canonical. Later they compromise and described Pauline authorship later. I'd say that's sort of a good compromise Clement of Alexandria, who lived in one hundred fifty to two hundred fifteen and origin, same time period roughly, held an author with quote Pauline Association. Now later that phrase association became uh i it it that got jumped over to authorship. Um there are some lists where people are arguing what are canonical letters and are not And some have found lists that include Hebrews in a list of Paul those having Pauline authorships. A very old codex. I forget the name of it. Does include, I think this is the Chester Beatty Papyrus list Hebrews among they they they the the way they order the books of the Bible they put all of Paul's in one section they put Hebrews right at the end of the list of Pauline So there is an ancient history of that. The Tertullian, who lived in the same period, however, attributed Hebrews to Barnabas. He was a Lev and he was known as the son of encouragement. He uh had the right some of the right qualifications. Um Hebrews 1322, it says the epistle was written for the purpose of encouraging people. And indeed, Hebrews is a very encouraging epistles I beseech you, brethren, he says in Hebrews thirteen twenty two, start for the word of exhortation, that's the word consolation, encouragement. I have written a letter unto you in a few words. Now, uh John Gill argued at length for Paul but claims us in Hebrews 2-3 does not include the author. I've already kind of touched on that Erasmus, Luther, and Calvin, all during the Reformation, they all questioned Pauline authorship. This is a time when they were swinging back away from the later Latin and the corrupt Vulgate uh to original documents and as they began to really start to study style and so forth, they began to really question that and discovered that others in history had questioned that as well. Luther, Martin Luther contended for Apollos, and that's an interesting uh argument actually because Apollos he was an eloquent Jew, we know that. He was a great blessing to many. He was from Alexandria, but he was a Jew. So he knew Greek. He was eloquent. He was taught by Paul. He was also taught by Priscilla and Aquila, who taught him the way of the Lord more perfectly. So he is someone who could possibly fit. However, there's no early tradition that supports Apollo. The bottom line is that no one candidate is conclusive. I I believe Roman uh Hebrews 2 I in fact uh uh had had questioned Paul myself, latched on to Luke for a while, but I'm rejecting Luke and I'm saying, no, the answer is not Paul. And so your next fill in the blank is you have to have the bottom line is this, God is the ultimate author of Hebrews. Don't miss that fact. I don't even like to talk I don't even like to use the question who authored Hebrews? Because if someone asks you that question, you can say, oh, I know absolutely, beyond a shadow of a doubt. I don't have an ounce of doubt in my mind. Who, Paul? No, God. God did that. That is the answer. Are you saying who's the pen man? Who's the one that had put pen and quill and ink to paper? Yeah, we can debate about that. You can have an opinion, I'll have an opinion. Doesn't really matter. Do you hear his voice? Right, when Angela and I were were dating, she would send me pager messages. We didn't have text back in those days. She'd leave me voicemails, we'd write letters. She had three different mechanisms that she used to communicate with me, and I likewise back to her. I wouldn't say, well, Pager sent me a message today and oh did you see a letter that showed up? Well letter says this. I think letter is different than Pager. I never talked about her like that. Except Angela wrote me Right? And so you have to embrace Hebrews as God is the ultimate author, and God chose to hide the penman. You know, and that is so Godlike and I think uh holy of some of God's saints. They want to they don't want to promote themselves, right? The Apostle Paul could. He had credentials above credentials. He had nothing to hide. And Frankly, tr him trying to hide his name, that just doesn't sound timid to me. Paul's not a bold individual. Again, you can disagree with me on that. Still love your mind, right? I I but I I think there's some interesting things to think through concerning all that. Let's get now to Hebrews back to Hebrews 3 and we're going to touch now on verse 4. Verse 4 says this: God also bearing them witness with signs and wonders and diverse miracles gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Christians are accused of believing cunningly devised myths. Cunningly devised fables. Have you heard the counter-argument? Well all of these things were written afterwards when it comes to the miracles. The book of Daniel is under a lot of attack because they say, well there's no way he could have foretold of three or four world dominating kingdom powers in succession with tremendous precision. Uh he must have written it in he could not have written it in six hundred BC. It had to have been You know, one hundred kind of been five hundred years later after the fact. But there's still that problems because he also foretold of Rome and the Roman domination and the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in seventy AD, so putting in that far ahead doesn't help them. But many people say, well, the Bible is just a bunch of myths manufactured by people. Is that true? We really just believing some fantastic phantasmical things? Well Hebrews 2. 4 is telling us this. Now we heard this from those and they confirmed this word to us. What does it take for somebody to confirm something to you? You're gonna buy, say, an insurance policy. And you hope that upon your death your heirs receive that money. It's a legal instrument. You're dealing with the man whom God says all men are liars and man and man and and the heart is evil above all things and desperately wicked and the love of money is the root of all evil. How are you going to trust human clay who says, yep Saying right here, trust me. Just trust me. When you die, your heirs are gonna get this money. Talk to me now. This is a question. What's it take to confirm you that that's that's legit? The bank account of the person. The bank account of the person? Okay, the person's background. Okay. What else might confirm? A history of others who have already collected on the same policy that have collected on this. Okay. Yeah, because you can say, hey, did you collect? Oh yes, I collected. They're bearing witness. They say, yes, I heard and I saw. I heard them say Prudential said they'll pay out, and lo and behold, Prudential did pay out. What else would confirm that to you? Maybe you're not convinced just yet The signatures on the witnesses that a court will accept. Yeah. Signatures, witnesses that a court would accept, some credibility. You're looking for some real no-kidding credibility. So we do this with men How do you know this Bible coming to you is credible? It says, listen, the Lord Jesus came down here first. He spoke first. That's one word number one. God Himself came down here and spoke to some people. Wow, all right, that's pretty big. That's a pretty stark testimony. Number two There were those who heard Jesus Christ speak. And he commissioned them. They were called apostles. And in their commissioning, they could do certain things, they could do miracles. What does the ability to do miracles say to a Jewish audience? If somebody could do miracles, what does that mean to a Jew? God is with them. God is with them. What scriptures might have come to their mind? Yeah, prophets. Alright, so it's pull pull that through a little more, David. What what's you don't have to quote the scripture, but what was the context or what was the thrust of some of these prophets? Would bring it. I think a prophet is think of Yeah, the proof that there was a prophet in Israel is they could do miracles. Certainly they might be thinking of Elijah on Mount Carmel. You know, here's 450 prophets of Baal in 400 prophets of the groves, don't forget the 400 prophets of the groves, there were 850 false prophets Elijah was against, versus him. They all claimed that they could do something. They're running and jumping around. But Elijah's the one that Practically didn't finish his prayer when a notable miracle came down and devoured everything. They predict things too. They predicted things. Yes, they would predict things, and in Deuteronomy it says if they predict something and it doesn't come to pass, not afraid of that person. Not afraid. So to a Jewish audience to say that God bore them record by them that heard him because they had what does it say? Signs and wonders and diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost. Well, we find that's exactly what the apostles could do And I just want you to consider for a moment in the remaining amount of time how God is validating his word through multiple paths. Mark 16, 20, it's in your bulletin insert. And they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word with signs following. Amen. Now I've seen Baptist church that have confirming no signs following Baptist Church. Literally that was the name on the side. Signs following Baptist Church. I assure you they were not doing Bible grade miracles. So A publicly verified miracle is something that is a biblical grade miracle. Now, when I was on business travel, I'd be lying in bed I didn't have a TV at the time, but the hotel had TV. I always went to the front desk before I went in and said, You got any of that pay-per-view TV? Yeah, cancel it. Just shut it off. I don't want it in my room at all But I'd be trolling whatever was on the open air and I'd hear people say, yeah, this this this one that job evangelist he's he heals people So I'm watching, and there's this guy coming up on stage, and he says, What's his problem? He's deaf. Oh, okay. So the evangelist goes up and goes right into his ear and starts screaming at the top of his lungs. You guessed it Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. And then miraculously the fellow after shaking around says, First thing I heard was Jesus. Oh a miracle has occurred. Folks I'm not buying it. I mean if I'm looking to make a buck through false testimony, that'd be a real easy way. Let me give you a review of biblical grade miracles that the apostle Peter did. We went from a man who was laid at the temple gate called Beautiful daily for many years. He had lame legs. He's in the temple. People coming in, going out Coming in, going out. Every day they see this guy. Hey Fred, how's it going? Here's some alms. Coming in, going out. Everybody saw this guy. He couldn't be moved. They picked him up, moved him The Apostle Peter and John show up and say, Look at us Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have I give unto thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And the man rose up. Walked and leaping went into the temple with him. And all who saw him were, it uses multiple words, amazed, astounded, marveled, wondered They were blown away. And that landed Peter in in front of the uh the the Sanhedrin He did it twice. In Acts 9, he healed a lame man. His reputation came to the point where Peter stood in some place And his shadow was on the ground. Not only was people in Jerusalem, but people from surrounding communities, other cities outside. You could say the the greater Jerusalem metroplex came in and laid people down that perhaps his shadow might pass. And the scripture says, and he healed. every one of them. In other words, without exception, if you knew and you talk to somebody who says, look, I'm telling you, look, Brother Bernie had a withered hand. He had a withered hand, literally was a withered hand. If somebody if I saw Brother Bernie and his hand was perfectly normal and he's juggling, I would say, Well who'd you go to I think Marissa would be out of business. Nobody would come to her pharmacy. They'd be going someplace else. Yeah, it's a slow day today. I only work two days a week. Ain't nobody coming here. Why? Because they're going to this guy to heal people Testimony that man that he Peter healed there at the gate of the beautiful in verse sixteen of chapter four The Pharisees, the scribes, the priests, they say, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them. It's manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem These are the Pharisees and and the scribes and they said and We cannot deny it. We can't deny it. Verse 22 says, For the man was above forty years old on whom this miracle of healing was showed. Our brother just had major issues done to his knee. He could still walk on his knee But it was a major thing done and here it says he was healed immediately. Can you leap yet? Are you jumping yet? Yeah, I don't think you're a jumping stage. I'm not talking about you're snoring in bed, I'm talking about you're gonna say Well, no, there hasn't been a pulp Correct. Yeah, not a Pope Since Peter's pulled that off. Peter um was twice sprung out of prison. He was in chains. Now can you imagine I'm just gonna pick the can uh a random person that I know it's a stretch to figure out can you imagine Donald Trump being thrown in prison? And the next day he shows up in front of the Senate talking to them. How'd you get out? An angel got me out. I mean that would be pretty amazing. That would be pretty astounding. That would get out Peter caused the death of two liars. There were two liars that came before them, and boom, they died. That's pretty notable. He could heal people and he could kill them instantaneously. Any of your evangel televangelists doing something like that? No, they're just feashing you for money. We gotta send Peter to Congress. We should. Um he he raised a dead woman at her wake. Here's all the people crying and more. He says, get out of here. Just get out of the house. Tabitha, Humah, arise. He raised a dead one. These are the Bible great miracles that happened. And so that's a clear indication that God is with them and that the word they spoke was indeed Thus saith the Lord. Hebrews would accept that. A Jew would accept that. But then we have to unfortunately ask the question: do apostolic miracles continue today? If you're honest, you're going to have to shake your head and say, sure wish they did, but no, they don't. Apostolic great miracles. Look, there's some people that we pray for that God would relieve them from issues and diseases. Well, you're saying God doesn't heal? Yes, God heals. It's the only way you're going to get any healing. You're nothing more than an animated bag of dust. All the chemicals that you have that marvelously work together, God is in there And God works through normal means today, but sometimes he's pleased not to heal. The Apostle Paul says that Trophimus I have left at my lead him sick. He couldn't heal Trophimus He told Timothy, Take a little wine for thy stomach, and off infirmity's sake. He couldn't heal Timothy So you begin to see at the close of the New Testament canon, as the Word of God is coming to a close, as it's being sealed off, as the canon is being completed. God is removing that age of apostolic miracles because their purpose was to validate the messenger and his message And once the message, the complete message that you and I are to have was given to us, we read in Revelation 22, 18 and 19. I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book. If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book, and if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part. out of the book of life, the holy city, and from the things written in this book. It's a typical end of a testament That's how the Old Testament ended with similar types of warnings. Don't add, don't take away. It's pure. It's perfect. When it's perfect The wife gets Thanksgiving dinner ready on the counter and it's perfect and you come in and want to start messing with it. What does she say? Don't touch it! It's perfect! Leave it alone. Can I have a piece of this? No, you can't. Don't touch it. Right? So it does with God's Word. It's finished. Don't touch it. You don't but if somebody does come with a Bible-grade miracle, and somebody in fact can, are we to listen to them today? Well, it turns out in Revelation it says that there will come an individual known as the Antichrist And he can perform miracles. He'll heal himself from a deadly wound. The scripture gives warning. No, no, no, no, no, don't follow him. Out of his mouth goes lies. Don't follow him. So we know at the end of times, Satan is allowed to come with signs and wonders, but his purpose at that point is to deceive. Remember Pharaoh? He had his magicians. They could throw down their rods. Have snakes, pick them up again. Yeah, the devil has the power to get people to do that. God allows that. So it's a test for you and I. Are we listening? This is it. You don't need any more. 800,000 words in this book. It's a lot. It's a lot to study. And so this is an important point. The canon is closed and what you and I have is borne on good, good testimony and witness. All right, let's close there. Pastor Burr, would you close us in prayer, please? Lord, we just thank you for delving in these words. They're just always fresh to us. We've read them tens, dozens, a hundred times, and yet we find something new each day. And something that encourages us here talking about miracles today that they still happen, but God doesn't need an apostle to do them. He doesn't have to be present. He can answer our prayers and we often know that convinces us So grateful, Lord, you've left us your word. It's not just passed on from person to person, but your printed word that is infallible, inerrant. And that cannot be the story, cannot be shortened, cannot be lengthened. And there's so much there. When you believe that, there's so much of this world that means nothing to you. Nothing shakes our foundations. Nothing shakes us if God's word has already shaken us. So we just thank you with this time today, then. To chew on again the things we love to chew on most, the precious honey flavored word. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.