Turn in your Bibles with you this morning to the book of Zechariah. And if you have difficulty finding Zechariah, the easiest way to find it is to turn to Matthew and then start going backwards And as you go back into your Old Testament, you will quickly come to Zechariah, starting Matthew and going backwards. How many of you like to do puzzles? I see a few hands. Imagine with me this morning If you had a box that was basically a child's puzzle and it had about 30 pieces and they were those nice big pieces of the kid's puzzle. and you could put it together very quickly. But when you opened the box, you suddenly found out that it was not a child's puzzle at all. Instead it was a 5,000-piece puzzle. How many of you have ever seen a 5,000-piece puzzle? How many have you ever put one together? Ah, Pastor Keith has. I have one My mom gave it to me probably 30 years ago, and I still haven't gotten it together. Why is it 1,000? 1,000. Well, I love to do puzzles and I used to take two 1,000-piece puzzles and dump them into a pile and then do the two puzzles side by side. I'm nuts for puzzles. I love them. Now, I was prepared this morning to preach on Zechariah chapter three verse one. And it appeared to be a nice child's puzzle of about 30 pieces. About six o'clock this morning I was panicking. And by seven o'clock I realized that instead of a twenty-five piece puzzle, I had a five thousand piece puzzle. And I had eight pages of notes to preach from this morning, and I've told you before that four pages is about a sermon's worth. And so at 7 o'clock this morning I set aside those eight pages, and we're not going to look at any of them this morning. And this may well develop into a series of messages in the minor prophets. And I'm terrified. Because the minor prophets scare me. Now they're minor, they shouldn't scare me. They're not big ones They're the little ones. They're not minor in their content. They're only minor in their size. They're compact in their message. And yet the minor prophets are full of glorious imagery and rich truths 5,000 piece puzzle? Are you kidding me? There's millions of pieces here, and how will we ever get them all in the right sequence and put them together? Well, aren't you glad that we don't do this puzzle with a blindfold? Rather, as we work on this puzzle, we have the box picture. How many people we do puzzle? Look at the box picture. Yeah, every one of us. Jesus Christ is the box picture. We find him throughout the Old Testament. He is the picture. He is the image. The Old Testament is all about Jesus Christ. He is the picture. And if you want to get the puzzle together, you look at the picture. And then you understand where the pieces fit. If you want to understand the minor prophets, you look at Jesus Christ. And then by the grace of the Holy Spirit, you begin to see how the pieces all interlock and fit together. And so we're going to start on a journey this morning. And I don't know how long the journey will be. I don't know how many messages we're going to have. in this portion of scripture. We're not actually going to be in Zechariah much this morning because we've got to go to Haggai to understand Zechariah. But turn with me to chapter 3 and verse 1 of Zechariah. That is the announced text for the this morning and that is where we're going to begin. Zechariah chapter 3 and verse 1, and he showed me Joshua the high priest. Standing before the angel of the Lord, the angel of Jehovah, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him. That was the text we were going to start with. But we've got to give some background. What is going on here as you read further down in That chapter, we find that Joshua is clothed in filthy garments. What does that mean? What are we reading about Joshua there? Who is this Joshua? Well, we've got to go to chapter 1 of Zechariah to begin, and then we're going to go to Haggai. Fasten your seat belts, put your trade tables in their upright locked position, because we're in a fly. Zechariah chapter 1 And starting in verse 1. In the eighth month of the second year of Darius came the word of the Lord unto Zachariah, the son of uh Barekiah, the son of Idu, the prophet, saying The Lord hath been sore displeased with your fathers. Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts Turn ye unto me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. You notice the emphasis there again, saith the Lord of hosts, saith the Lord of hosts, saith the Lord of hosts Who is speaking? Where does this word come from? Is this something Zachariah came up with? No, not at all. Verse 3 again, therefore say unto them, thus saith the Lord of hosts, turning unto me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. Be not as your fathers unto whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts. Turn ye now from your evil ways and from your evil doings. But they did not hear, nor hearken unto them, saith the Lord. Okay, what is the foundation that we're finding right in the first chapter of this book? It's going to talk about sin and revival. It's going to talk about a people that have rebelled against God and now are being called back to God. It's going to talk about people who have gone astray as sheep, but now they need to return to the shepherd and the bishop of the soul. Verse 5, your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live ever? But my words and my statutes, which I command my servants, the prophets, Did they not take hold of your fathers? And they returned and said, Like as the Lord of hosts thought to do unto us According to our ways and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us. What's the background? Well, the children of Israel have gone into captivity and bought in Babylon. Seventy years they have been in captivity. They have been oppressed. They've been driven from their land. Their houses have been given to others. Their labor has not been for the for their own own benefit. It has been for the benefit of their masters. And why had all this calamity fallen upon them? Because they had failed to listen to the voice of the prophet. Because God had sent forth his word, and rather than them accepting them, thus saith the Lord, and that's why Zechariah is emphasizing this, because the Lord had spoken and the people had failed to hear. God sent them into captivity, and to the point when they were finally ready to say, Alright, well here, yes, it is the word of the Lord, and that which has befallen us, this is what God said he would do to our sin. This is what he's done. This is where we are. This is what he promised. Now Before we can go into Zechariah, we've got to back up to the book of Haggai. The book of Haggai only has two chapters. It's a short one. And we're going to spend the balance of our time today in Haggai. So turn back just one or two pages in your Bible from Zechariah chapter 1, and you're in the book of Haggai, and go to verse 1 of Haggai. In the second year of Darius, in the sixth month In the first day of the month came the word of the Lord by Hagai the prophet to Zerubabel, the son of Sheothel, governor of Judah And to Joshua, son of Josedeck, the high priest, saying, Okay, we've heard something familiar before, haven't we? This is familiar. What do we read in the first book of Zechariah? Zechariah 1 in the eighth month in the second year of Darius. Heggai won in the second year of Darius in the sixth month. Are you starting to get the time frame here? Heggai is exactly two months before Zechariah Okay, it's dated for us. It gives us the dates of the secular king. So we have the time frame here. Zechariah and Heggai are contemporaries. Heggai is recording what happened two months before the beginning of Zechariah. You see how you have to go between the two to get the flow. And so we note the date. But note the characters that we find in Haggai chapter 1. Zerob and I'll mispronounce it 30 times for you. Zerobabel, the son of Sheitael, governor of Judah. What does this name Zerobabiel or have you pronounced it mean? His name means sown in Babylon. Sown in Babylon. Why is that important? Because remember that what we have here in Hegiah and Zechariah is the remnant that is returned from captivity in Babylon. They've come back and they've built the walls, but they haven't really cared about the temple. They've built the external trappings of their nation. But they haven't cared for the worship of God. Now, why are they returning in the first place? Because God has been gracious to allow them to return. brought them back. This Zero Baby pronounced his name wrong again. His name means sown in Babylon. And he is the governor of Judah. This is the grandson of Jehoiachim. Who was the leader of the fur uh the of King Jehoiachim's grandson? Okay? So his grandfather had been king But they were conquered by Babylon. And now the grandson is the leader of those that have returned to the land. Remember what we read back there in chapter 1 of Zechariah, verse 5, the fathers, where are they? The prophets, what has become of them? They have died. Just as when the children of Israel came out of Egypt, a generation had to die in the wilderness. And why did they die in the wilderness? Because they did not believe the word of God. God said, I'll give you the land of Egypt of Canaan. And they said, but there's giants in the land. There's the Amalekites and so on. They didn't believe the Word of God, and so they died in the wilderness. And it's happened again. They didn't believe the Word of God, they died in Babylon But now one who was sown in Babylon, he's a seed of Babylon, has been brought out. just as the new generation that rose up in the wilderness were the ones who entered the promises of God and into the promised land. You see how the pen puzzle pieces began to fit together and to make sense. So we have Zerobabiel. How do you want me to pronounce that? Zerubable. Okay, well pronounce it zerubable. And you have Joshua, the son of Josedec, the high priest. Remember chapter 3 and verse 1 of Zechariah. And he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. Okay, so this one that we find here in Hagi chapter one is the same man that Zechariah is going to see in his vision in chapter 3. It is a real living man. He is a contemporary of Zachariah. And Zechariah knows him. He recognizes him in the vision. Now, Zechariah is going to see This Joshua or Yeshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, standing before Christ. and Satan standing on his right hand to accuse him, and Joshua is clothed in filthy garments. Now that was what we were going to look at this week, and we're going to look at that on a future Sunday, but just to very briefly encapsulate what we find there with this Joshua. This Joshua was an actual man. He was an actual high priest. He represents the priesthood of all believers. He represents to us that we are made in Christ a royal priesthood. It is a priesthood that he occupies after the order of Aaron. Aaron was a priest made under the law. He was a priest that was made in sinful men. But we're going to see, Lord willing, next week, in the changing of his raiment from filthy garments to pure garments. and the setting of a fair mitre on his head that God will establish a new priesthood. And it will not be a priesthood after the order of Aaron But rather, it will be a priesthood after the order of Christ. And it will be a priesthood of purity. And I am a priesthood to God today, not because I'm an ordained minister, but because I am a royal priesthood in Christ. And I'm not a priesthood after the order of Aaron, because Aaron was a sinner, but I am a priesthood after the order of Christ, for he was sinless And the righteousness of Christ, which made him a priest, not according to the law, but according to righteousness, is imputed to me, and I am clothed not in my garments of sin, but rather in the garments of righteousness. I'm not a priest after the law, for I have broken the law. And Aaron broke the law. Aaron made the golden calf, folks. But I am a priest, that's the order of Christ. Now remember I began by saying that if you look at the picture on the box, it all becomes clear. Christ is the image. And it all And so this Joshua, the high priest, was a literal man that Zechariah knew and recognized in his vision. And yet he shows to us a glorious man that we see only by faith. He shows us Christ. And so the second verse of Haggai chapter 1. Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, This people say, The time has not come, the time that the Lord's house should be built. It's not time to build the Lord's house. We're too busy with our crops. We're too busy with our commerce. We're too busy building our own sealed houses. We've got a lot going on, folks. We don't f uh we we've just come back from Babylon. The walls of the city were torn down and burnt with fire. We've had to rebuild them. We'll get around to the house of the Lord some other day. But God saying, where are your fathers? Where are the prophets? Redeem the time for the days are evil. We don't have much time, folks. The time is short. But oh, how easy it is to be so consumed with the affairs of this world and the things that are around us that the house of the Lord is neglected. And we're not talking about a physical building of brick and mortar. We don't care about that. The house of the Lord is the body of believers And the body of believers made up of many members. And when one finger is hurting, the whole body is hurting. And when one member of the body is not living for Christ, the whole body suffers. And that's what happened to Israel. This one and this one and this one and this one and this one failed to care about the things of God. They failed to hear the word of God, and before long the entire nation was sick. And the entire nation went into bondage because they didn't listen to the Word of God But now God has delivered them from bondage. He has brought them out of Babylon. They have built the walls of the city. They have gates again. They even have a governor. And they have a high priest. But they're still concerned about their corn and their wine. Just as Israel coming out of Egypt looked back to the leeks and garlics. Remember? Remember? Remember? And so these delivered people care more for the world than they care for the things of God. Brethren, how we need to look to Christ. How every day we need to look at the picture. Because We're to be like him. It's all about him. It's all about Jesus Christ. And our lives day by day are to be tuned for the purpose of being conformed to the image of Christ. It's all about him. Notice who's speaking there in verse 2. Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying They say the time is not time. You have two speakers there. God says that they say it's not time. God didn't say it wasn't time. God's not agreeing with them there. Rather God is rebuking them. Because they say the time is not come, the time that the Lord's house shall come Verse 3. Then came the word of the Lord unto Hagia the prophet, saying, I didn't count it up. I probably should have, but I only had about two hours to put this together this morning. I didn't count up the number of times we read there. The Lord said, the Lord said, the Lord said. It'd be an interesting interesting thing to count. Now thus saith the Lord of the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. I skipped ahead. We're in verse 3. Then came the word of the Lord by Hagah the prophet, saying, It is time for you O ye that dwell in your sealed houses, and the house, and this house lieth waste. Is it time for you, O ye that dwell in your sealed houses, and this house lieth lieth waste. Is it right, the prophet is saying in the word of the Lord, is it right that the temple of the Lord But the place of worship lies waste, and you live in your sealed houses, in other words, your beautiful dwellings that you have built for yourselves. Take no thought what you should weak or drink, or wherewithal ye should be clothed. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Now verse 5. Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Remember I said this is a passage of revival. What are you doing? That's basically what it says. Did your dad ever say that to you? What are you doing? Well Our Heavenly Father is saying to us, what are you doing? Consider your ways. What is this life that is but a vapor? How much time do we have to live for God? How many days do we have to waste in the service of this world? Consider your ways. Look at the consequences. They return from Babylon, but in verse 6, ye have sown much and bring in little. Ye eat, but ye have not enough Ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink. Ye clothe you, but there is none warm. And he that earneth wages, earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. Rebuke. You're so busy about your crops, so pleased with your sealed houses Oh, we've got to earn more, they were saying. We've got to take care of all these things. We don't have time for the things of God. We're just too busy to be about the master's business. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, verse seven. Consider your ways. Have you heard that before? What do we learn from the repetitions of Scripture? It's important. Right? If it's important, you say it twice and three times and another time. Consider your ways. Look what the solution is. Go up into the mountain, verse 8, and bring wood, and build the house, and I will take pleasure in it. And I will be glorified, saith the Lord. First of all, go up in the mountains. Go up in the mountains. Folks, it's a hard climb. It's steep. It's exhausting. It's exhausting. Penny and I were were hiking a few weeks ago and we hiked down uh about two miles down to the river, down to Deer Creek, and it was beautiful down there. We ate our supper down there, but then we had to go back. And we found out very quickly that going downhill is much easier than going uphill. It's steep. God doesn't say go out in the plates. Just to say go down the mouth. Go up Up in the mountains. It's not easy, folks. It's a hard climb. It's exhausting. There will be places where your feet will slip There will be places where you've got to grab onto a tree and hold on. You're going to have to pull yourself up. There's going to be narrow ledges. It's going to be difficult every step of the way. Go up in the mountains. Nobody said living for Christ instead of the world would be easy. Their sealed houses maybe had air conditioning, who knows? They were comfortable, folks, they were comfortable to do nothing about the service of God because they were so busy doing everything for the service of the world. But God tells him to go up in the mountains. Go up in the mountains. I love the mountains. I I love hiking, I I enjoy nature and I I I love to see beautiful vistas and beautiful views. But they weren't going on a pleasure walk up into the mountains. Even though the hill is going to be steep, they're going to go up there and work. Go up in the mountains and bring wood. When you go up in the mountain, take your axe with you. Take your saw. Go up there because you're going to have to bring wood out of the mountains. There is work to be done. Remember the old hymn, Work for the Night is Coming? Work till the morning hour. There's work to be done, folks. This Christian life is not a downstream float. Go up in the mountains. Bring woods. You may see the beauties along the way, but work, work, work. Build the house Build the house of God, we read there. Go up in the mountains and bring wood and build the house. Don't be lazy. Proverbs tells us about the slothful man who as a hinge turned, a door turns on his hinge, so he turns on his bed. Ah, how easy it is to live that kind of a Christian life. Oh, it's Sunday. Mondays come. We roll back over. Oh, I was in church. I heard the preaching. I had dust off my Bible before I head to church so nobody could see dust on there. Yeah. Easy it is to become lazy in our Christian life. But God says, the people say it's not time to build the house. God says, yes, it is time to build the house. Go up on the mountain, get wood, build the house. But then look at the promise there in verse eight. And I will take pleasure in it. God says, go in the mountain. Get the wood. Build the house. And God says, I'll be pleased. I'll take pleasure in it, God says. This will please the Lord. God will take Pleasure in that which his people are doing? Why did they go into bondage because God did not take pleasure in what they were doing? Why did Israel die in the wilderness because God did not take pleasure in what they were doing? They were doing their own work. They were pleased with themselves. They refused to hear his word, and God did not take pleasure. Rather, the wrath of God was on them But God said, go up in the mountain, cut the wood, build my house, and I will be pleased. I will take pleasure in it, the Lord says But not only will we take pleasure in it, I will be glorified. Glory will be brought to the name of Jehovah. I will Verse 9, ye look much or ye look for much, and lo, it came to little. And when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. God says, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the Lord of hosts. Because of mine house that is wasted And you run every man to his own house. God says, why don't you prosper? Why is it you bring home much and I blow on and it's gone? Because you're busy running to your own house and my house is wasted. Because you've been concerned with the things of this world, but not with the things of God. You have served Satan rather than Jesus Christ. Remember, he's the picture. Your life has been in the service of the God of this world, rather than the service of the God who made this world. Verse 10 and 11. Therefore, the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit. And I will call for a drought upon the land and upon the mountains and upon the corn and upon the new wine and upon the oil and upon that which is grown Which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon the labor of your hands. Does that remind you of anything? Remember ten flags in Egypt? Doesn't doesn't that sound like the temple? The dew has stayed, there's a drought, the corn The mountains, the wine, the oil, maybe different things in some aspects, but it's talking about plagues And difficulties and troubles that came upon the people of God. Why? Because they were more concerned about their own house than God's And Joshua, the son of Joshedek, those the two characters that we we're seeing again and again, the high priest. And all the remnants of the people obeyed the voice of the Lord their God, and the words of Hagi the prophet And the Lord their God, as the Lord their God had sent him. And the people did fear the Lord. First of all, they obeyed the voice of the Lord. Second, they recognized that the word of God was coming from Hegai. And third, they feared the Lord. So they obeyed God's voice. They acknowledged that Haggai was speaking in the voice of the Lord. And the result was fear. The result was fear. And this isn't fear of drought. This isn't fear of pestilence. This isn't the fear of Babylon. This is the true Jesus. Genuine, loving, fear of the Lord. We must obey God. God is sending his word by his prophet Hagi. Oh Lord, help us. Oh Lord, revive my heart. Oh Lord, turn me from the God of this world to the God of this world. of heaven. Get my eyes off my own house and onto your own. Get my eyes off my commerce and onto the glory of God. God. Turn me again, O Lord, cause thy face to shine, and I shall be saved. The people heard and obeyed. Verse 13. Then spake Haggai the Lord's messenger in the Lord's message unto the people, saying, I am with you saith the Lord that beautiful what was the next message that God sent to Hagi God says Go for the mountain, get the woods, build my house. I'll be pleased and I'll be glorified. The people obeyed, and then what does the Lord say in verse 13? I'm with you I'm here. I am with you. Was God with them in their commerce? Well, no, he wasn't because their commerce failed. Was God with him in their crops? No, he wasn't. Their crops failed. But now when they've obeyed, God said, I'm with you. I'm here. You have obeyed my voice. I am with you. It's a glorious statement. Is God with you, folks? Is God with me? Do I know the blessing and fellowship of the Lord? Or am I so concerned about the things of this world that I couldn't hear his voice if he spoke to me God says, I'm with you. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerobabel, the son of Shethiah, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, son of Josh Deck, the high priest. The spirit of all the remnant of the people, not just the governor and the high priest, but God's spirit served up all the remnant of the people. And they came and did work in the house of the Lord of hosts their God in the four and twentieth month of the sixth second year of Dari uh in the four and twentieth day of the sixth month of the second year of King Darius. We're still in that sixth month there Except the Lord of hosts build the house, they labor in vain to build it. Now that's chapter one. We're halfway through the book. Chapter 2. In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of the Lord by the prophet Hegiai, saying, Okay, here we go. Isn't this great? Let's give us a calendar. Let's give us a time marker. So chapter one, chapter two of Hegi is one month after chapter two and one, sorry. Chapter 2 is one month after chapter 1, and it is one month before chapter 1 of Zechariah. You see? Okay, so we've come one month through Heggai, and we're still one month before Zechariah. Isn't that beautiful? Don't those pieces just fit together gloriously? And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, son of Shetel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, and the spirit of all the rimen of the people. I'm sorry, my eyes went too high on my paper. Verse 2. Speak now, this is chapter 2, verse 2. Speak now, the Zerubbable. son of Shetiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and to the residue of the people saying Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes? Or is it is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? The temple that Solomon had built. We read about its beauties and its glories. We read about the bath of brass that was held up by the four bulls and the four bull Corner. When Babylon came, they chopped it up into little bits and carried it away for the brass. temple, all the glorious hangings. These people can't rebuild that. We talk about some things that are irreplaceable. Irreplaceable. Who remembers the glory? It's been seventy years of captivity. And so there are some that have come back that they remember it, they saw it. Who Among you sees it, and and how does this compare? Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory Turn with me to Ezra chapter 3. And yes, I'm checking the time because I know we're it's getting getting away from us. We'll go quickly here. Ezra chapter 3 In Ezra chapter 3 and verse 10 we read that the the builders laid the foundation. This is the same temple we're talking about here. The builders laid the foundation down foundation, and they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets and the Levites and so on. And it comes down to verse 12 of Ezra 3. But many of the priests and the Levites and the chief of the fathers, who were ancient men, Who had seen that first temple. They were ancient men. And had seen the first house when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice. Uh I'm glad we're rebuilding it. But it's not what it was You see, they were looking for a temple for the priesthood of Aaron. And the priesthood of Aaron The priesthood of earth, the temple of earth, even Solomon's temple. All the beauty of the building is nothing. This passage is about the building of the Lord's house. It's about going in the mountain and getting wood. But folks, it's not It's not about the wood. It's not about the bricks. It's not about the big bath of brass. It's not about the gold and the beauty. These elderly priests, dear men, who had seen the first temple when this was built, they're happy it's being built, but they weep because it doesn't have the beauty of the old one Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where malt and rust are throughout the word east. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moss nor wrath doth drop, where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart Be also. You see, their treasure was on earth, and their treasure was in a physical temple. And God is saying, Yes, you're living in your sealed houses. It's time to build my house, but the building of my house isn't the point. It's the building of the heart. It's the building of the inward man. It is the true worship of God. The picture on the box is not yours. The picture on the box is Jesus Christ. It's all about him. It's about his Worship. Come back to Haggai chapter two and verse four. And I'll try to move along quickly here. Yet now be strong The men are weeping because it's not a comparison. Yet now be strong, O Zarebabel, saith the Lord. And be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the Lord. and work, for I am among you, saith the Lord of hosts, according to the word that I have covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt So my spirit remaineth with you, fear not. See what God's pointing him back to? How many times do we make reference back to the children of Israel coming out of Egypt You see the parallels, the comparison. You see how another piece falls in and the picture becomes more clear. Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it from the day of Christ. I started the work, God says I I'll finish it. Verse 6. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, yet once it is a little while, and I will shape the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come. There it is, folks. I shouldn't have broken the middle of the verse, but I can't help it Sometimes. And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord of hosts. What was the glory of the second temple that could not compare in its bricks and mortars to the first one? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. It's all about him. It's all about I am. The pieces of the puzzle begin to fall in place. It doesn't matter if it's 26 pieces or 5,000 pieces. The picture is of Jesus Christ. And so they were still concerned, they're still learning, God is still working in them. The revival's not complete because they're still looking to the brick and mortar rather than looking to the coming Messiah. Verse 7, God says he will shake, he will take that which is seen, seen small in their eyes, but he will fill it with himself. And Jesus Christ will come. Look at verse 8. The silver is mine, the gold is mine, saith the Lord. What were they weeping over? The lost silver and gold of the first temple. God says, Babylon took it, but it's mine. Babylon destroyed the big bath of brass that Solomon made. It's all mine. I don't care if it's over there or over here. What does it mean to me? He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. He owns the gold in the mines. It's all the Lord's. The earth is the Lord's in the fullness thereof. The silver is mine, the gold is mine, says the Lord of hosts. Remember also they were worried about their commerce. They were more concerned about their corn and their commerce than they were about the things of God. God said it's all mine You can put your money in your bag, but I've got a hole, but it's got a hole in the bottom. It's gonna fall out. Verse 2 or verse 9. The glory of this latter house shall be greater than the former, saith Lord of Hosts, and this is the place I will put uh and in this place will I give peace, saith Lord of hosts In the fourth and twentieth day of the ninth month in the second year of Darius came the word of the Lord to Hagi. the pro prophet saying, okay, here we go. Another calendar. Now we are three months since chapter one of Hegai, and one month since chapter one of Haggai Of Zechariah. Okay, so we're one month into the prophecy of Zechariah now, but we're still in the book of Hegel. Verse 11, and this is the last page of my notes, I promise. Verse 11. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, ask now the princes concerning the law, saying, If one bear holy flesh in his skirts of his garment And which sorry, if one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt doth touch bread or pottage or wine or oil, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priest answered and said, No. I think we're going to start to wrap up here and pick up here again next week. But through the balance of this book, we have this correspondence regarding if the priest Are polluted and they touch that which is holy, is it still holy? If someone's come in contact with a dead body and then they touch that which is holy, is it still holy? No, it's polluted. What's the framework we have here? God's people were in bondage in Babylon because their father God has delivered them from that bondage. They returned to the land. They've built the walls and the gates, but they haven't been concerned about Now finally God has got a hold of their hearts and shook them by their own poverty, by their crops failing, by them bringing in much and having little, by them putting their money in bags with holes in it. God's gotten their attention. Now they've gone up into the mountain. They've made the hard journey. They've brought back the wood to build the house. And God is pleased with what they're doing. And God will glory in that house. And yet as they're beginning to build the house, they're beginning to weep because they realize we can never build what needs to be built. We can never build a temple as beautiful as the one that Solomon built, and God says, that's not the point. The point is me. This house will be more glorious than the house Solomon built because Christ will come to this house. What is my house? What is your life, my friend? It is but a vapor. Is your life about yourself? Or is your life about Jesus Christ. Now, when we go into Zechariah, we'll go next week. Into Zechariah, we're going to find this same Joshua, son of Josedek, the highest priest. But we're going to find him clothed in filthy garments. The balance of Hagi talks about how he get polluted. And I was going to go through that this morning and our time stop. It talks about how you get polluted. If you're in contact with this and it's polluted, are you polluted? If you're in contact with that, then you get polluted, polluted. All these things around us pollute us. The question is, how do we get clean? And that's what we're going to find in chapter three of Zechariah next week. Let's stand for prayer.