The question did go out. It might have gone to your inbox a little late, but I did get it out yesterday. But hopefully our morning question is not too difficult. But let me read the passage of scripture we're going to cover today. It's in Hebrews chapter ten. And verse 24. And again, I said we're kind of at a plateau, a little mountaintop experience here, because we've got a ton of justification as to why we have boldness, why we have a high priest, why we have our hearts sprinkled, and therefore there's a bunch of let us commands. And we're walking our way through the let us commands. The Apostle Paul uses the phrase one another. These are the let us commands Hebrews 10. 24 says, I'm going to start in 23, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. So I'm going to stop right there. And we're going to introduce our question. What are some synonyms for the word inconsiderate? Rude. Rude. Oh yeah, rude. Okay, that's a good one. What are some other synonyms for inconsiderate? Don't put my name down. No manners. Yeah, somebody who's ill-mannered. They just don't seem to have good manners. What are some other words for inconsiderate? Maybe selfish Oh, selfish, yeah. Yeah, right. Selfish, yeah. What was that? Wow. Yeah that's true. Right. How could somebody do that? How are they so heartless? Careless. Careless. Without any care whatsoever. That's another good one. Yeah. Careless. Right. Thoughtless. That's another good one. There's another good one. So give me some examples of inconsiderate behavior. What are some examples of inconsiderate behavior? standing by uh and then a man uh s sitting and he doesn't give her a seat. Wow yeah I've seen that on the metro. Uh you're getting on the ride and maybe uh uh person that could use that handicapped seat or a pregnant woman, they don't give up their seat. They just let the poor thing stand there. Right. That would be someone driving slow in the fast lane. Yeah, that's uh someone driving slow in the fast lane. Yeah, Joey and I have some choice ideas on how to fix those problems. Uh but they don't allow us to mount fifty millimeter uh cannons on the car. Uh yeah, that's it. Somebody who's always late. I like that one. Someone who is always late. We set the meeting time and you didn't show up There was an executive at work when he scheduled a meeting for, you pick the time, it could have been 9. 15, could have been 10 o'clock. He would tell his secretary, go lock the door at that time and people are bound pounding on the door. They couldn't get in. Guess who got all the action items? Well the people outside pounding on the door. They don't want to get stuck with all the tasks. Yeah Other other examples of inconsiderate behavior. Homeless veterans with well-housed illegals. Hmm Mm. Yep, that's in consideration on a on a massive scale. Here you have veterans that are homeless, and I've seen some on the side of the road, and lo and behold you've got illegals and in housing. Yeah, that's the three hundred a night dollar housing. Right hot house. Yeah. So what are the marks or what are the traits of an inconsiderate person What are their marks? What are the things that are associated with them? Selfishness? Yeah, Marcus selfishness. Yeah, there's a there's an inward focus, right? A focus on I, me, and myself. You know, that's a very common one. You have your hand up here. No. You're scratching your neck. You can do that They think you're better than others. Oh, that's a good one. Yeah, they think they're better than others. Right, right. I'm I'm I'm deserving of this. You're not. Yeah. Well, um th that's kind of the um antonyms and the opposites of what we're going to look at today because this lesson is really filled with a lot of examples I've got for you and in your bulletin you'll see there's lots of fill-in the blanks and I'll help you fill those in quickly when we get to them so we can look at this. You know the passage says let us consider one another To provoke unto love into good works. I was really struck at first with that word provoke Provoke. What comes to mind when you hear someone wants to provoke? Well, that means they're kind of poking a bear in the belly. They're irritating you. They're they're doing something to annoy you Why would he use that word here, provoke unto love and to good works? It's a good word to use, but it has here not the negative sense. This word is only used twice in the Bible Uh the only other times that it we find it in the scriptures, there's one other time where the exact word is used, another one where the root word is used. The other times Uh well that's uh that that's uh uh that that that is a Bible passage, but that's not this word, but uh uh but that's a good one. Um Thanks for bringing it up. The other two times are used in a negative way. So in your bulletin insert, you'll see, for instance, in Acts 15, 39, you might recall this account where there was a contention, that's our word provoke, or a provocation. So sharp between them, this is between Paul and Mark, John Mark, so sharp between them, they departed asunder one from the other. Barnabas took Mark, sailed into Cyprus, and Paul went another way. Well, that's a pretty sharp argument between the two. Well, that's our same word here. It really has a uh a very sharp sense to it. But apparently in Greek it can also be used in a positive way The other way, where the root word is used, is in Acts 17, 16, it says, while Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit was stirred in him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. Pastor gave the example of somebody driving slow in the fast lane. There's something in you that just gets stirred up or any form of provocation. You just it it inwardly affects you It inwardly affects you, that's stirring. That's kind of what the sense is, but in a positive way that we're enjoined and encouraged to do here to stir up somebody. It means to encourage, to emotionally encourage somebody, to stir them up in an emotionally powerful way, to provoke unto love and to good works. That's a That's a pretty interesting command if you think about it, because it's not just, hey, wouldn't it be nice if we did such and such? It really is a way to enable a person to just so flood them with an encouragement that they indeed want to do these things Let's look at the general directives that are here. We're politely to urge saints to two different spiritual fruits. One is to love, and of course, as you might imagine, that's that word, agape. And the other is good work, agape. I'm sure you've heard it a million times over, is sacrificial love, and indeed that's what it is. But let's first look at love So here we see Jesus saying in John 13, we'll just pick on two places. It's replete throughout the New Testament, and I know you're familiar with this. John 13, 35 Jesus said by this, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye, plural meaning y'all, have love one to another. This is how you'll know if you have love one to another. So that kind of ties in with our passage here. And then he says in John 15, 9, As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye, all of you, in my love. Now, when the world uses that word love, what comes to their mind? Lust. Lust? Yeah. Yeah, that's a big one. What does love look like to the world? Desire? Yeah, a strong desire. Uh something they have. Yeah. Yeah, it's all about me, right? Unqualified acceptance Uh the world? Yeah. An unqualified. No no regulation, no morals. No restraints. Gotcha. Right, yeah, the parents think they're gonna love their kids by never applying the rod to them. I'm just gonna love on them and hug them and you know There's a book written called The Language of Love. Some people they they feel loved if they get gifts. Other people words of affirmation. That is there are different forms of how people receive and receive love. Yeah. Right. Yeah, it's very emotional. It's very much about me. There's no reproof in it. Uh there's uh a lustful element to it. But here when Jesus refers to love He means something different. What is that difference? Concern for the well-being of our soul Yeah, the concern for the well-being of the soul, the well-being of the other individual, yeah, that's very different. Why do Hollywood actresses sometimes have seven marriages? How come the first six didn't work? Because when the guy quits liking her or she quits liking him, oh well, they're all about themselves and when that fades, then let's go get a new one. Tru true love is a reflection of God's love Yeah, w which God's God loves his children, but he also has a hatred for sin, which God's hatred of sin is part of his love. Because sin never benefits anyone. Sin will harm someone, and therefore God restrains those that he loves from sin. Mm-hmm. Well when we rebuke someone for a sin or admonish them. Let's say that was nasty, that was mean, well the most loving, kind thing we can do is to tell 'em what what they're doing is gonna do damage to their soul. and the the whether we're gonna rest in the eternity. So they they all they think preaching of the gospel is is rude and nasty and makes people uncomfortable. Uh we're trying to make them eternally comfortable. And so it's the most loving thing we can do is to admonish, review, absorb. Absolutely. Yeah The um interesting thing I find here is uh this a one-time action, an ongoing action. That's an ongoing action, right? It implies continuous activity. To love one another implies a continuous activity. Well, um, you know It's not this fleeting, warm and fuzzy feeling where we have to get that concept out of our head that to to love another person, you know Joe and I have grown very close now over these past five years. It turns out we were yoke fellow born out of due season and we've discovered You have what you you have what you need what I need and I have and and and vice versa. And it turns out we were you know two peas in a pod for the ministry and and so there's a great ongoing, you know, uh deep appreciation for each other and a care. Um and and it's a wonderful thing, but it's not just supposed to be between ministers. It's good that it's between ministers, but it can't just be about that. The whole body of Christ has to somehow exhibit that. Um now I want to take a look, because these are general directives, right? There's there's a few little specifics we've given you, but we're going to get into some general ones in a very specific ones in a minute. I want to consider the encouragement towards good works. So Titus 3. 8 has something that is pretty close and identical to what we've been reading here in Hebrews 10. 24. It's in your bulletin, but I'll read it for you. It says this, Titus 3. 8, it says, this is a faithful saying. I think that's an interesting This is a constant affirmation. He's speaking to a man who would go on to be a minister in his own right. He says you need to constantly affirm this, keep affirming it. That's that ongoing activity. That they which have believed in God, there's this business of faith again might be careful. Somebody used the word careless earlier about inconsiderate as a care. That they might be careful. They might be full of care, full of concern, careful to maintain good works. Again, a very general, broad directive, but notice the ongoing activity. You need to have this care for people These things are good and profitable unto men. Pastor Bird talked about the profit to the individual. This is a profit for another First Corinthians ten, the apostle gives this very sweeping statement, whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give none offense, no inconsiderate, no driving your chariot slow in the left lane. Neither to the Jews nor to the Gentiles nor to the Church of God. That's a pretty broad range. Jews, the religious, Gentiles, the irreligious, it's both camps, people with or without a Bible nor to the church of God, even as I please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit. Not seeking my own profit. Have you ever had someone pretend that they're doing something good to you, but you kind of suspect it's for their own Bottom line, their own benefit, not seeking my own profit, but prop but the profit of many that they may be saved. So he explicitly calls out why he's doing it has a purpose in mind. Now, I want to make a basic observation in this, and maybe this is duh, but it is something that I believe is remains relevant even in our day, is folks These things can't be done in a vacuum. You can't hold yourself up in a room, in a house, in a monastery, and I will live the good Christian life because all that's bad is out there and I'm just going to stay in here. It can't be done in a vacuum. There has to be a community of saints. There has to be a gathering of people. There has to be interaction and FaceTime. And I'm not talking about the app. with another individual. That is a Christian. You have to have that. That really is important. It really is. You know what's interesting, this is true even in management Yes, technically you could do a lot of people management remotely. Yes, you can communicate with them through email, text, even telephone, even a face-to-face video conference. You can do all kinds of things remotely. But I guarantee you that you will still not know your employees very well. I learned more information just wandering into their office Not here to spy on you. Keep shopping on Amazon, I don't care right now. Just won't talk. What's going on? And all kinds of information would come out I would learn all kinds of things. What's working, what's broke, what's not working, how this is going bad, and did you know this isn't going to work right as well? Could they have typed that in email? Yeah. Why didn't they? Don't know, don't care There's something very impactful about seeing the individual face to face. You know, there were some false ministers in the Old Testament that claimed to be so holy that nobody else could approach to them. It's in Isaiah 65, 3, a people that provokes me to anger continually to my face, verse 5 which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. God says, these are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burns all the day. The holy Christian is so holy you can't approach to him, right? The Roman Catholics have this in spades, right? Don't bother Jesus. He's too busy. Come over here to this saint. And then Desnio talk to this other patron saint. And then talk to this one or talk And and you know, uh if you really need to get through, you know, you go to his mother, but don't go to Jesus. You know, they have this isolation mindset, this hierarchy, this he's holier than thou. God says that's a stench in my nostrils Because Jesus Christ has placed his people in a manner that they can all boldly enter the throne to find help in time of need, to find grace in time of need. They're all on the same platform and because of that they act as a family. I don't have Gabriel living out in the trapping shack in a constrained uh you know one of my other children under a tree and you know I somebody out here in a bush, we're in a house together, right? This is kind of how it operates. It's not too hard. These one-another commands can't be done in isolation. You need communities, you need each other. Alright, so we're going to move past the general directives. And if we were to stop right there, you might think, okay, he's covered the verse. That's great. Move on What does it mean though when it says to consider one another? Give me some practical examples. And I would be hard pressed to do that. Well, I found a number of examples for you of what this looks like. I've got eight. I've got eight. And so this is the fill-in-the-blanks I told you about. You're going to have to fill in what it is. The first one is the financially distressed saint. A financially distressed saint. That's your first thing in consideration. Proverbs 29. 7 says this, the righteous considereth the cause of the poor. But the wicked regardeth not to know it. You see, the wicked say he's poor, he's a problem. I'm moving past him. I'm just going to ignore that. They don't give it any thought. They put it out of their mind. But the righteous considers. He considers. Why is this individual there? Do they have a need? And in fact, this is a very relevant point if anybody ever finds themselves in a position where they might serve as a deacon at some point, because the deacons are to be on the lookout. Right. It says in Acts 11, 29, then the disciples, every man according to his ability, he didn't sell his house and give away everything, just as he was able What did they do? They determined. What's the determination? There's some thought involved. It's not a random act It's not accidentally determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judea. Now You know, where do you see the consideration in the book of Acts? For my big question is, how did the poor notify the disciples? They're in two different cities. How did the poor brethren notify these disciples? Messengers maybe, okay. The disciples were attentive to the sheep, their own shepherds. They were attentive to it, yeah. In fact, it says the disciples observed, they considered that the brethren needed help and acted on it. It could be that the brethren through some of their communication kind of gave some indication of what they were or were not able to do and then you can begin to to choose. I have found you know pick and choose and sort out what's going on This has been my experience over the years, is that people who actively come to you for money and look for it are not necessarily the ones I would be the readiest to want to give. Typically the faithful are very reluctant to ask for money. They're very reluctant to want to do that. For good reason, right? They don't want to be a burden to the saints. They don't want to, you know, they feel like they're diminishing from the cause of the gospel and the church It is incumbent on church leadership to pay attention to these things. And this is one of my favorite verses for that point. We find in 1 John 3. 16, hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. Well, we didn't send a messenger to heaven saying, hey, we we need some help up here or down here. It says, He laid down his life for us. We ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's good, notice that's the connection he has to our lives. I know most of the married men most, if not all, the married men in this room say, I'll take a wife of the I'll take a wife, I'll take a bullet for my wife. That got almost that almost got that backwards. Yeah, don't get that one back. Uh but that's what this is meant here about laying down your life. Whoso hath this world's good And seeth, notice the seeing, his brother have need. It's incumbent upon the leadership to see and observe that there is a need. They can't put a blind eye to it. And shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him. That's that carelessness, that's that heartlessness. How dwelleth the love of God in him? There's a connection to the general directive, the love of God. Isn't that a very concrete example, right? To consider. Where is the heart? Don't you have a heart for this individual? You have the means. You're a brother or sister that has means. And this saint does not. And you're saying you're a Christian? How does the love of God dwell in you if you turn a blind eye to that? And that's that weighs heavy on faithful saints who are brothers of need. And I'm grateful that we have such in our midst. Yes. It says we should not love in words. Yeah, we should not love in word only, but indeed and in truth. Absolutely. Then we get to our second example here because I'm kind of going through some examples of consideration just to kind of refresh your thinking on this. And one Oh to go back on the Spanish said. So many people will sometimes just say, Pray for me, this was a need of God, blah blah blah. And we know we could take care of that. And we'll pray for you, brother That's what we do. I I I can't tell how many times people say, Well, we'll pray for you. Uh they just let you know that there's a need there and maybe if you pray for that brother, God will put it on your heart to to supply that need. Absolutely. Most of the time they just pray for you. You don't see them supplying the need. And they don't even pray for you actually. Yeah, that's true, sir. Great. The other uh example I have thanks. That that's a very very good one. Very good one. And uh and I rejoice because there have been times at our prayer meetings when I get the phone calls afterward, hey, you know, is there something we could do to help that? And that's great. By the way, come to me for that. Don't th th that's an administrative task Don't go to the pastor. I mean you can, but it's not his wheelhouse per se. He'll just deflect it to me. The second uh example is the emotional saint the emotional saint. And I mean this in a good way and a bad way. It says, rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. There are times when saints rejoice and you ought to rejoice with them. Actually be happy for something that occurred. Now imagine somebody just got a They got a new bride, they're in a new house, then you go over and you want to talk about all your week and all your successes and everything that's just been going good for you. That's inconsiderate. You're not there to talk about you. The big thing of the day ought to be about their wonderful successes that have occurred. It would be a wonderful thing to talk about them for a change. I've told my kids as they entered into the workforce uh you know the the ways to have business communications and to interactions with other people or get to know other people the business world has these silly icebreakers which are typically a huge waste of time. The best way to get to know another person is to just start to ask questions about them. So what about this? What about you? What about this? Oh tell me more about that. Because sadly people love to talk about themselves. And they'll walk away and they go, that was a great conversation Because they talked about themselves. Of course it was a great conversation. Nobody walks around the lousy conversation and ends up talking about me the whole time. But see, that's the world, and the world is inconsiderate. The world is all about I, me, and myself So we know how the world's game is, but that ought not to be so among Christians. Yes, you can learn about other saints. It's good to know about them. That's fine But rejoicing with them that do rejoice, and to weep with them that weep. Obviously, there are times of tremendous grief in the life of the saints. Tremendous grief. And um I'll give you a tip, people say, I just don't know what to say. And the answer is don't say anything. Presence means a lot. A simple card with a signature on it means a lot. And I know when my dad passed, Um that I had one fellow of a church that wanted to come and talk to me about this and complain about this other thing and I had to tell him, Harvey, knock it off. I don't want to hear this. You're not helping. You're not helping. But Those that were the most helpful were those that showed up, gave a simple card and just listened. They had a wonderful grief counselor after uh Gloria was born. It was a it was a very difficult uh time. She ended up in an ICU and so my wife was in one hospital, my daughter's in another. She was there for two weeks. I was distraught beyond imagination And a social worker just sat down and just let me pour out my grief. She said nothing. And it was a it's it's helpful. Rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. You know, it's not about you and your words, it's listening. Job's friend sat in silence seven days. I had to look up to those two as three, but it's in uh chapter two verse thirteen. It sat seven days in silence Yeah, right. There wasn't anything to say. And sometimes there just isn't anything to say, just to be with them and present. The way we respond when we do finally say something is it's getting colder and colder. Uh in the days we used to call 'em on the phone. I get very few phone calls. But then the next best thing is to send them a card. Then that's going away now too. Now we just send them an email And the next generation they just send you an emoji. Wow, this this is great But now it's text praying for you today or just praying hands or it's just getting colder and colder, even among the church people. It's just And it's a wonderful opportunity for Christians to have a massive impact because if you have a whole society that's not accustomed to this actual presence, this thoughtful consideration that does leave a deep and lasting impression on people when they're not used to it. Let's look at our third exam thank you for that. That was very good. Look at our third example here of consideration This is one for the musician. This is one for the musician. You're musically talented. It says, let the word of Christ dwell In you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in. Look at the teaching mechanism here. Psalms. Hymns, spiritual songs. It's a teaching mechanism. And you sing with grace in your hearts to the Lord Now, thankfully our musicians understand this, but I fear that a great many in congregations don't, because the point of the musician and their musical abilities is not for self-exaltation and popularity Can it can music be done to do that? Well, sure. It it's even easier these days with autotune. Even a clown like me could sing and sound fantastic. If I just do a little post-processing to it, I'd have some top hits. Maybe not. Um but the point of the musical abilities is to stir up and encourage others, and I came up with this catchy little phrase We are to inter-train, not entertain. We are to inter-train, training, teaching one another, admonishing, through the musical abilities. And isn't music a great example of consideration? Because what does it do? It stirs up something very joyful in you, right? It is a very positive, provocative method and that's a lot of what is being spoken of here to provoke unto these things. So that's a great example of it. Sorry to keep interrupting, but you know Saul's depression was overcome by David's music. Yes, yes. David skillfully played such that it would drive away his depression, the evil spirit that afflicted him. Fourth one is uh a beat-up for uh pastor and I it's called the church leadership. Church leadership, how do we do these things? Well, it says in 2 Thessalonians 3. 8, as the apostle is writing to the Thessalonians church They had a lot of things right. They had a few things that he wanted to point out to them. He said, We did not eat any man's bread for naught, but we wrought, meaning we worked. with labor and travail. This wasn't a desk job. This was hard work. Night and day. This guy's Punching the clock for two different jobs. He's got a lot of work on his show. This is the Apostle Paul saying this. And his entourage probably with Silas and maybe Barnabas with him, that we might not be chargeable to any of you. We didn't want to hit your budget. We didn't want to take anything from you. That's why we worked hard to provide for our own needs. That's an impressive lot. Why did you do this? Not because we have not power, meaning, yeah, we have the authority. We have the right To partake of your tithes and offerings. It is a right thing for you to financially support the apostle We did this, however, he says, but to make ourselves an example unto you to follow us So what church leadership does more often than not is to set an example. And I'm keenly aware of things that we are trying to do and have been doing at Mission Bible because it does set an example. for the day when these three men here are not around and there's another generation, Lord willing, of people coming through. How are they going to operate? Well we remember Vince and Jove did this, so let's keep doing the same thing. It's an example Um we could live uh you know uh uh a cut above the rest. We could uh uh take our ease and luxury in it, uh y but that's not the point, right? I referred to it this way. How many of you have ever seen I almost laugh as I say this. How many of you have ever seen an org chart? You know I'm talking about an org chart, an organizational chart. Has anybody ever seen an orchard before in their life? Oh absolutely. What do they look like? Unorganized pyramids. A pyramid, well unorganized. Yeah, well you were in the Marines. Very true. I understand that orbit chart. We had bullseyes. You know the world's org chart and the only time I would ever see org charts come out was when some business leader recently got a promotion He would send out his vision and he would be sure to send out his own charts so he could let everybody know of his empire, his kingdom, you know, his name blazoned right up in front with his administrative assistant and all the direct reports and all the people he's over and then uh you know, he just show them the king, try it out. I just delete it as fast as it did in. It's like That's useless to me. I don't need to know that, I don't care. I'm talking to my boss, I got my customer. I quit keeping them It's like, do you have the latest org chart? No. It doesn't matter. I could care less what your stupid work chart is. It's just over the years that the first I can't get towards the end is deliberate God's organization chart, folks, is upside down. It's upside down. What do I mean by that? I'm not saying that Jesus is the lowest rank But if you're going to lead, you have to be the servant of all. You're at the bottom. And there's all this weight on top of you. So if you're looking for a promotion in church, the way you get promoted is to find a way, how can I serve more people How can I take on more problems? Problems, right? This is what pastor in my job is like. We wake up in the morning and there it is next to our bed problems. Problems. Just giving you a little shake. God's word charges upside down. The authority is at the bottom, serving all. Fifth point, the persecuted saint. The persecuted saint, this is directly spoken of later in the book of Hebrews. He says in Hebrews 13:3, remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity. We can't sit in our little heidi holes and say, hot ones going downrange there. Shy away from that. It says as being yourselves also in the body. They're part of your body. Hey, if something hurts in the body, you need to tend to it. And, you know, there may be a season when we might find some of our own under that kind of intense persecution. You know, there are others around the world who do in fact face Christian persecution because of a faithful testimony. Now this is where discernment comes in, because there are also those who fly under the name of Christianity, but they're not Christians. They're enemies of the gospel of God. They've got a different gospel, their gospel That's not of grace, but of mere idolatry. And if they're suffering persecution, I am not too anxious to help that, to be honest. That's God dealing with the wicked. They're unwitting emissaries of the devil. I'm sorry to say. I'm interested in the faithful, the household of faith. Then we look at number six, the common saint. The common saint. This should catch everybody, right? Ephesians 4. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye, English word, y'all, walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, were called. Did you ever print up your ambassador card last week? Did you ever write your name down, print it up? You're an ambassador, you're anointed, you actually have the job, you get the title. That's your vocation, your call to that. With all loneliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring, endeavor is a work You know, what are you endeavoring to do? Oh, I'm going to take down this tree, I'm going to cut up the There's some work involved in an endeavor. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And I have one simple point of this because I'm running out of time. There ought not to be, sadly there is, but there ought not to be any occasion for disturbing the peace among the saints. It really ought not to be. It says endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is a phrase that a certain denomination uses, which I like. I I've seen it misused But it's uh incumbent upon the leadership to preserve and protect the peace and purity of the congregation. The peace And purity. You can't have purity at the expense of peace. We become very brittle and we begin to argue against each other. You can't have peace at the expense of purity. Well, I know he's reading from a Jehovah's Witnesses Bible, but he's a good he's a good old boy No, it's a problem. It needs to be addressed. Doctrinal error can bring just as much disturbance to the peace as anything else. Boy, these are going to be tough. The next one is the husband. The husband. He's the next in the target zone here. 1 Peter is a really good excellent exhortation. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them, them being wives, your wife. According to knowledge. Well, guess what? That takes consideration. You have to stop. You have to think. If I say this, what is she going to say? If I do this, is she going to like it? If you don't know, you better ask and get smart fast. Jeffrey's got a big smile on his face. Yes, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel as being heirs together of the grace of life. There's all kinds of rationale going on there. You give honor, weaker vessel, consider it I happen to have a weak hand at the moment. It recently was broken. It's finally out of the cast. It's weak. There's some things I can do. There's some things I can't. I have to consider it. Can I open this brand new jar from the store? Well, I can't grip it very well. I might do something. Can I go to the gym and work out well? Probably not. It's not going to handle. I'm not going to wait and try and see if it breaks and then go, whoops, I guess I shouldn't have done that. Well that would be the dummy approach. And God would not have his people stupid and hurt Dwell with them according to knowledge. That's a practical form of ongoing consideration unto love and good works. That's just very cornbread and and and and uh and and uh beans type of stuff Last one, dining with unbelievers. Dining with unbelievers. Yeah, even eating with an unbeliever, you have to think. Scripture talks about it. 1 Corinthians 10, 27. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go, it's okay. Maybe it's a relative, maybe it's uh somebody on the job, and you're disposed to go whatsoever is set before you eat, asking no question for conscience sake. But if any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that showed it And for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Now a little bit of first century historical context here. The Romans and the pagans had a sacrificial system. Their priests would have offerings brought to them, but they would not burn it to eat, they would typically slay the animal and then resell it in the agora, the marketplace. It had been offered to the to Dionysius or some other false god or statue that the Romans had propped up. But they were just in it for the money. You know, just bring me your offering, that's fine. It didn't even have to be a clean animal or anything like that. And they would sell it in the marketplace for cheap They would sell it for cheap because they didn't have much in it. The other person bore all the expense. They were going to get out of it what they could. They just want to move it and get the money. Well, it was a source of cheap food. However, it was an offering sacrificed, sacrificed, not burned, just given, to an idol. Some would say, you can't eat that Or some testing the Christian might say, hey, you know where that is? That's pork from the Ugura. Just to see what you might do. And so there is some liberty there on the Christians have, on the Christians' part. If it's going to offend this person, meaning If it's going to blow my Christian testimony, that's the offense we're talking about here. My testimony as a Christian is on the line here How is that testimony going to be impacted? Do you see where consideration comes in, right? This is no one-size-fits-all formula. There's got to be consideration. What is the situation? Who is the individual? How is this going to be impacted? Yeah, the Christian has to think. We gotta think. This is not mindless, emotional, just going with the flow. There's some thought involved here. Even something as little as a dinner. Here's another practical one. They show up and they're having a little wine. Just a little. What's that going to do to your Christian testimony? I believe it's fine for a Christian individual, upon occasion, rare occasion, never into drunkenness. It's in the Lord's Supper. And yet I will not do that because of the testimony. What testimony am I giving to another individual? Because I guarantee you in the wrong crowd and in the wrong context, it'll be taken to the nth degree. They'll use that to justify further excesses. Well, see, he does. There's other examples I could give. The Apostle concludes that there in verse 29, conscience I say, not thine own, but of the other. Why is my liberty judged by another man's conscience? In other words, I can't, he could eat food offered to an idol. He says it's just A hunk of flesh. That idol is nothing. There's no spiritual anything to it. It was never commanded in scriptures. But I don't want you to have the impression that I, as a Christian, am partaker of that idol You see the thought process is going on here? You see the consideration? And so these are some examples, practical examples of what it means to love one another. Love as consideration And it has a bit of provoking to it to encourage, whether it's through music or through emotion, all of those things. And so we close that out there. I'd like to cover more verses, but I wanted to leave 25 by itself for next week. And then we'll go over the cliff. It's gonna be a tough one. Just a quick go back to Honor of the White as a weekly vessel. Yes. Uh when you go to a church building, break you know, and steel doors to go through. But the weakest part of the building is the stained glass windows. And they're also the most precious. It's a weaker section. A Ming Vas, very weak But very precious. So calling a woman the weaker vessel is also calling her the most precious. Hm. That's an excellent observation. Great ill illustration too. I've seen a building like that before. Yeah. That that stained glass window in our church was seven thousand dollars. But the brick we put in the on the other places, eh, maybe five hundred dollars. The steel door, five or six hundred dollars. The weakest section of the church building, the stained glass windows. Absolutely. They're the glory of the man. So our or why we honor them as a weaker vessel. How do you honor a weaker vessel? They're precious. Yeah, too. What what is what is the true value of a diamond ring Well it's not the gold in the diamond. You know, a wife's gold diamond ring is precious because of where she got it. Yeah. It's just a di there's lots there's millions of diamonds in the world. Yeah. But it is that Mm-hmm. That's why we don't give them a ruby when we marry him. Well, we're gonna close here. We're out of time. Father in heaven, we thank you for this uh uh this reminder.