How many of you actually know what the word koinonia means? Fellowship. Very good. We have a Greek scholar here that lets us know that koinanea is the Greek term for fellowship. And Constant Koinania is the topic for tonight. And I'm taking as my theme verse the book of Philippians. Let's turn to Philippians now, and let's look once at chapter one. I'm really excited about the church at Philippi because it was one church that the Apostle Paul uh had that was very steadfast in their support for him, even though they were apparently a deeply impoverished church They um were the first converts in Europe. They were in the land of Macedonia at that time. And um He speaks to them in verse 3 of the first chapter, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine for you all, making request with joy. What does he thank the Lord for? For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. And I find that to be very interesting. Um that From the very first day that the Apostle Paul set foot in Philippi, and you can read about it in the sixteenth chapter of Acts as he set foot there to first speak to a woman named Lydia, whose heart the Lord opened, and she attended unto the things which Paul spoke. And she was so moved at the message she heard that she constrained Paul to abide in her house that same day And at the end of Philippians, after he saves a woman who was following behind Paul and Silas, who was his colleague at the time. Uh these men, you know, preach to us the way of salvation, and he cast a demon out of her and caused her masters much loss of gain so that uh They put false accusations on him, and he winds up in prison, being beaten, thrown into the inner prison, in the stocks, no less, and he's singing and praying at midnight, and an earthquake comes. frees all the prisoners except they don't all run away. But the jailer runs and falls to the feet of Paul and says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And he says that classic statement, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved in thy house. And after that he leaves. And so the first three converts he has is a woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, a nutcase walking around the streets who had been They had a demon cast out of her and a jailer. And he says that that they had great fellowship in the gospel from day one. until now. There was no cessation of that greatness of fellowship. They were of kindred spirits right off the bat. Fellowship is what we're going to talk about tonight, and I'm going to talk about the necessity of the love of the brethren. But I'm going to try not to use that phrase love of the brethren because it's a little tired and old. That's why I label it constant koinonia. There is a closeness. There is a constancy. There is a relationship that abides among true saints, though they may be different in age. status or station in life, background. They could be different in terms of levels of education or income. They could be different in terms of degrees of health. But all believers have one thing in common. They are deeply connected to each other. You know, the Lord Jesus plainly taught this. He said in John 13, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if you have love one towards another. It is that inexplicable connection that saints have to each other that distinguishes them from, say, the Burrwin Rod and Gun Club or the some other you know uh Mount Erie Golf Club or the Ladies Bridge Club, if they even have such things anymore. What keeps them together? What keeps them in common? Well it's worldly parameters, but how is it that you as a Christian can go to another place, another city, another state, and if you come across another true believer In short time, you've met another member of the family and you're very excited about it. And you're very connected to them You'll probably exchange phone numbers and you'll put them on your Christmas card mailing list and try to reach out to them if you ever happen to be in the area again. You know, this Philippian church had no censures from Paul. They had a deep love towards him, and he likewise reciprocated. But before we talk about koinonia fellowship, as I've described it, what really is fellowship? Any ideas? What would you say is fellowship? I used to Go ahead, Chris. Sorry, but I used to think it was uh you know, eating and a fellowship all afterwards. People getting together to have a meal. Sure. And suffering with Christ? Okay, that's good. Hang on to that one. Edward? The any gathering in the name of Christ? Go ahead. Gatherings in the name of Christ, okay. What are some uh ideas about fellowship that others may have that maybe are commonly thought of as fellowship? Chris, you mentioned one about eating. What are some other ideas that you've maybe heard or seen in churches that are labeled as a fellowship? Yeah. Well, I know at least from the, you know, college Christian fellowship that they had, you know, they would kind of see just going out and having a good time, you know, with food or uh with uh you know doing some worldly activity, right? Right. Uh Chuck E. Cheese, the air bounce, right? Getting fellowship. Right, right, right. And and there's nothing wrong with getting together as a bunch of believers and wanting to enjoy some activity together. I'm not going to poo-poo that. But look what the Apostle Paul terms as fellowship. We're going to look at three passages just briefly in Philippians, so you'll want to turn there. We looked at our first one, Philippians 1. 5, your fellowship in the gospel. The very first place the believers find fellowship is in the gospel of God's grace in Christ Jesus. Their fellowship is around the gospel. In Philippians 2, chapter 2, verse 1, he says, if there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit. You see, the second area of fellowship surrounds is the fact that we have the same indwelling of the Holy Spirit as every other believer does. So there is already a connection because we have something very much in common. God the Holy Spirit dwells in that individual. And so that opens up other ideas. If they have the same God the Holy Spirit in them, that must mean they also call upon the same Father. uh having been redeemed by the same Son. And so there's going to be an interest in the Godhead, and certainly the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is going to generate a lot of that fellowship. That's a lot of where that kindred spirit comes from. Look at chapter 3 and verse 10. And it's in the middle of a sentence, but again, I'm focusing on fellowship. And he talks there about the power of his, that is Christ's resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings. That's another area that true believers find fellowship in, is that they suffer the same struggles And the same afflictions. Only believers can talk to other believers about the things that they count to be difficult. For instance, young Christian men struggle with the worldly attire that young women their age often fancy themselves about with. And so they will discuss how are you doing when you walk, how are you winning this battle against the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh. And one brother may say, yep, when I go grocery shopping I just take my glasses off and stick it in my pocket and You know, I can't see the aisles too well, and I'm not a very good value shopper that way, but I don't have an issue with, you know, uh dealing with the young women who are poorly dressed in there And only another believer could understand that. The world would not react that way. And likewise for other struggles. So three things: fellowship and the gospel and the spirit, and fellowship of the sufferings. So from the book of Philippi and Philippi, Philippians, what are some things about fellowship that you did not find listed here? Food wasn't mentioned, yep. Yes, Seth? Games. Games? Very good. Right. Yeah. Enjoying a game of foosball. And it's okay for believers to do that. We just don't want to call a fellowship. We're just having fun around foosball, that's all. It's not biblical fellowship is the way I put that. Very good. Well, I had a short list of things here. See if you can track with me here. I don't find listed fellowship of the same physical family. same church membership or denomination, although it was the same gospel, but you know what I'm talking about. I'm bringing it to today's vernacular. the same job, the same societal status, same football team, same style of personal music, same clothing, etc. Those are worldly things. Have you ever noticed it's really strange how uh kids, particularly in high school and even shortly after it, um to th they want to fit in and so they all sort of dress the same. And whatever is in style or is in fashion that year they they have to dress kind of the same way. Is that like that in your school? Do the kid there's a certain type So when I was growing up, you had to have bell bottom jeans. You know, you had to have these jeans that flared out, you know, like the shape of a funnel at the bottom. When you walked it went flump, flump, flump, flump, flump. We had about ten pounds of cloth at the bottom uh and uh and long hair, right? And uh and that was that was the cool thing There was this cult in California that was really strange. They all drank the Kool-Aid, but one of the strange things that was noted about them was that they all wore the same kind of white Nike shoes. They all had to have the same tennis shoes on You know, that's the things that the world looks at. The things that truly tie and anchor the believers together is the same gospel of his grace. the same indwelling of the Spirit, and they're struggling against the same things in this world. They can relate to that. Those are the three things that really, really tie them together. When you think about your good Christian brothers in Christ or sisters, you'll find one of those three things is something that unites you closely to the bed. Your heart resonates with them because of those things. True believers do have a tight relationship, and let's go look at some passages. There's actually quite a few that talk about this abiding relationship. Let's look at a sampling. We'll start in the book of the Psalms, Psalm 119. And verse 63. I like what the psalmist says here. Psalm 119 is just about smack dab in the middle of the Bible. Psalm 119 and verse 63 says this: I am a companion of all them that fear thee. and of them that keep thy precepts. The psalmist says that he's a companion of these types of individuals. In fact, he's a companion of all those. that fear God and that keep his precepts. In the book of Malachi, that may be hard to find, but if you can find the book of Matthew, all you've got to do is back up a few pages. to the book of Malachi, the last Old Testament minor prophet. It's minor in terms of the amount that he wrote, not that he was less significant than others. Chapter 3 and verse 16, one of the famous 316s in the Bible. There's a lot of interesting verses that have as their reference 316. Malachi 316. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him. For them that feared the Lord and that thought upon his name. Notice it says that they spake often one to another. This is not a situation where Other than they show up on church on Sunday and say, oh hi brother, how you doing? And they really don't talk again for another seven days. And that may be the extent of what they say on that Sunday. No, they spake often one to another. It really is okay to pick up the phone and call a brother and sister in the Lord throughout the week or text them, let them know you're praying for them, thinking about them, hey, what about this? They spake often to each other. There is a closeness, a proximity there. They're interested in each other's welfare. This was true of the early church, and turn now to the book of Acts, Acts chapter 2. And again, I didn't want to beat up the eating of food because we do have this indication in Acts 2. Food is at times a good part of fellowship, and so uh Philippians doesn't connect it. But that's not the main reason we gather. It's not because so-and-so has got really good food The pencils is the place to go for Christmas Eve. As true as that may be, that's not the main reason we love the pencils, okay? We would love them if they didn't have that on Christmas Eve. Acts 242. And they continued speaking about the 3,000 souls, talking about the very first outpouring of the Spirit working greatly to bring in people into the into the church. They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. And they had a very great uh uh uh uh association and trust among each other insomuch that they each sold their possessions. This was voluntary. This isn't commanded. This is voluntary. It's just exemplary of the tremendous outpouring of love, they sold their possessions and goods, and whosoever had need, they were in a voluntary state. of communism. It was entirely socialistic, but it was voluntary. It was enforced. And that's really the only way that kind of government works. They broke bread from house to out house. They ate their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God. having favor with all the people. All of those in that mixed were in great favor one with another. First John says, If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all This is just a sampling of passages. That was 1 John 1 7, if you're taking notes. This is just a sampling of passages that tell us that the saints of God are tight. They're very close to each other. And it's not passing, not fading, it's not temporary. You know, why do you suppose Christians are not in tighter relationships today? What are some of the things that Prohibit that or what might be some reasons why Christians, I'm just going to use that as the title, aren't in greater relationships today. Any thoughts? Oh just probably several, but you know, Satan's busy, thorns grow, and Yeah, things get in the way and uh you know throw the believer off track. Satan's busy, um so that's an external influence. Thorns row, that's something internal we might poke each other, so to speak. Talk to me a little bit about Satan's work. How would that manifest itself? might throw a disaster your way like in Job's time, um which might get your thoughts off of the Lord, off of fellowship. Um Yeah. What are some other ways that Satan works to disrupt the unity of the brethren? Entertainment. Entertainment, yeah, he likes to dangle a lot of those things out. Yep, that's kind of a constant backdrop. False doctrine. False doctrine, boy, that is a big one, isn't it? If he can put in some seeds of false doctrine, um how does that play out in a church if somebody has Satan attacking the church with false doctrine? Walk me through an example or a scenario of that. I had a I had a sh the Church of Christ come through a college campus and run around yanking people into it and scaring them saying that they weren't baptized by water, they were going to hell. That's they caught a lot of people off guard. And they even tried to do the living the you know, the unforced communism together too. Yep. So go ahead Edward. Okay, um the chairs of the wall, the material thing. So I think that in that part like if we look They didn't have all their needs were provided. But today we we don't we care more about the wants, not a need, you go beyond their need, the wants and it Yep. There's a lot of things that chop away at fellowship, uh, either from false doctrine coming through and it disturbs people and they wonder. You know, sheep the sheep of God, um Are under a difficult spotlight. I have made an observation over the, I don't know, 30 some odd years now of walking with Christ that from different ministers I listen to, from different sermons, different books I read, I think the sheep of God are being unfairly beat up An awful lot. Uh we have a tough lot, folks. On the one hand, the Bible exhorts us to love one another and Uh to be kind and forgiving, tenderhearted. It seems like the world knows what we're supposed to do. They just seem to know what we're supposed to do. And and you know they can dump on us, but we're not supposed to, you know react negatively inclined. We're supposed to be a doormat and just kind of let people run over us. But at the same time, the sheep also have another difficulty. And somebody mentioned Anton mentioned the impact of the devil. He comes as a roaring lion, he comes through false prophets, he comes through wolves. But the wolves will come in with drooling, dripping fangs, the claws out, and their mane mangy, evident that they're a wolf, they're in what In what kind of clothing? They're in sheep's clothing, which means they pretend they look like, from all external appearances, sheep. And so the children of God are supposed to love the other sheep, but this one comes in and he's not acting like a sheep in certain areas. And so the child of God is kind of always on edge. On the one hand, he's supposed to hug and love the brothers. On the other hand He doesn't want to end up hugging and loving a wolf because then he gets devoured. So I try not to, and I hope I don't, beat up on the people of God too harshly because they do live in that Tension. You understand that tension? You know what I'm talking about? You don't know sometimes if I could really extend that trust to this brother because there's just some things that are not right. But on the other hand, oh, there's some brethren that's just from all indications, and as far as you can tell, yes, and you just love them, and then maybe later you get greatly disappointed And so it's hard for the saints, and the devil knows that. And so, yes, that's one way he comes in and tries to impact the fellowship of the sheep. It's a very real uh a very real battle. You know, this close fellowship that the saints have is there because it typifies divine constancy Our God is constant in his affection towards his people. After all, his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, has bought them out of the pit of bondage. They sold themselves for naught. Uh they're they're in a pit of sin, and Christ had to pay the debt. He had to uh uh uh as it were, assuage all of the wrath that God rightly deserves to have poured out on my head. Instead it fell on Christ, and all of his righteousness instead was given to me in order for me to have fellowship with him. So I have been bought with a price. Yea, a very big price, a costly price, an expensive price. It was none the less than the second member of the Godhead. And so that demonstrates a great love, but it also demonstrates that God has an intense interest in us. Look, if he's willing to go to that extent, scarcely for a righteous man some would die, but God commendeth his love towards us, and that while we were yet Sinners, Christ died for the ungodly. You see, that's a very big thing. And so that reflects his closeness to us even when the conditions for close fellowship are not favorable. This is the thing that is amazing to me. You know, young people, anybody under the age of 35, Uh when the when the when the time of romance comes and and there is a certain sweet somebody that uh is of interest to you and uh uh uh the heart goes aflutter and uh y you want to speak to them and you're just all giddy about each other and it's a very wonderful and happy time and that's great and wonderful. Try loving somebody that's unlovable Try loving somebody that's uh older. There's a joke I have whenever I'm holding a new baby. uh from some parent and the little baby is sitting there and he's bobbling his head and he's just, you know, got one tooth and he's drooling all over himself and And I and I look at the child and I'm sure to speak to the child in the ears of the parent, so they hear this. I said, Enjoy it, child, you know, little junior, Igor, enjoy it, Igor, while you can. This is the only time in your life when you can be bald with one tooth and drooling. And they will and in diapers and they will like you. Give this child another seventy years and he won't be so likable at that point. Look at Acts 41 and verse 17. I just give that as a cheesy illustration to point out some of the things we're going to read here in Acts. Excuse me. Isaiah. Did I say Acts? Isaiah 41, 17. Acts didn't have 41 verses. Chapters. Chapters, verses, Acts, Isaiah. So take your pick. Quran, Bible. It's all good. Isaiah 41, 17. We're going to take a flip through Isaiah, so the next series of verses are all going to be found here in Isaiah. This is about how our God is constant in his affection for his people. When the poor and needy seek water and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst, I the Lord will hear them. I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. Notice that God indicates that even the poor and the needy uh among his people um when they are in such a dis uh a desperate strait, God says, I'll not forsake them I'll not turn a blind eye to them. Isaiah 42 in verse 16. His constancy. I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not. I will lead them in paths that they have not known. I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them and not forsake them. Now again, there is spiritual aspects to this, and ultimately that blind is somebody who's spiritually blind, whom God leads in the way, the way being Jesus Christ. That's us. Read John 9 for that insight But just to take it physically for a moment, that even blindness or severe disease, as it were, doesn't stop God. It doesn't stop him. I still will hang on to you. Isaiah chapter 46 and verse 4. This is a very encouraging passage. Isaiah 46, 4. He says, Even to your old age I am he. And even to whorehairs, meaning gray hairs, will I carry you? I have made and I will bear, even I will carry and will deliver you. When you get old and gray-headed, as it we read in the 76th Psalm, Even old and gray-headed God does not forget. He still sticks with us. He's still there. Remember that first verse we read in Philippians that he rejoiced in their fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. He still stuck with them. It wasn't a passing temporary friendship. We read in Isaiah 49, a few pages over, verse 15. It says, Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget. Yet will not I forget thee? You know, you'd wonder, wow, how can a nursing mother forget her own child? And every so often I come across some hideous news article where a child dies because the mother was negligent or just didn't care for the child. Horribly treated it. God says, No, I I will not forget thee. Even the most tenderest expectations of relationships between a mother and the child of her womb She carried this child. She felt it move inside of her. She bore it. She painfully went through the process of the delivery. And she continued to stay with it and to deliver it and to nurse it. If ever there was a closer relationship that could be found, surely it's between mom and the child. And God says, even that can fail. But I won't fail you. That's pretty impressive. That's a high watermark as God is illustrating his constancy towards his people. Isaiah 54. Look at these kinds of things that can happen. Isaiah 54 and verse 10. For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed, but my kindness shall not depart from thee. Neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy on thee. Great physical calamities don't break any ties between us and our God. You know, of course, there is a time coming indeed when the mountain shall be removed and the earth and the skies will roll back as a scroll, and he will appear in the clouds. Yes, even at that time, the time that you really need Christ, he says, I will not forsake thee. You'll be there. There's a constancy, a constancy that God has. And here's another one for your consideration. Maybe I'm wrong about this, but I think if you meditate on it, you'll see what I'm talking about. It's in Luke 24. In verse fifteen. This is our two on the road to Emmaus. Luke twenty-four and verse fifteen. And it's just one passage. You know the account. There's two walking on the road to Omaeus, and they really aren't they don't understand what's going on. They're disappointed that, you know, the we thought Christ, we thought this one Jesus should be he that would deliver Israel. And they're just disappointed. Beside all these things, they say it's a third day But we read in Luke 24, 15, it came to pass that when they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. You know, later he's going to call these two fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered and enter into his glory. Even in their foolishness, even in their weak understanding, even in spite of the fact that they had a great many testimonies right in front of their face as to who the Christ is. That Jesus was the Messiah, the Savior, promised and fulfilling promises from all the Old Testament. He still called them fools and slow of heart, and yet he drew near with them. Shall I say that even in the weakness of our understanding at times, even in the dimness of our perception of things in the Scripture God still says, He walks with us. He draws near. He's there. He's present. That's a comfort It doesn't depend. You getting the sense here? God's constancy of fellowship doesn't depend on something natively attractive to us. He doesn't hang close to us. He's not tight with us because we're wonderful and desire. Oh, this this is a The army where God's looking for a few good men. He couldn't find any. There weren't any good men to find. He's picking up a bunch of lousy people from the bottom of the barrel and he's going to turn them into the image of his son. That's what he's going to do. And of course you know Hebrews 13, let your conversation be without covetousness and be content with such things as you have. For he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That's why we can be content, Edward, back to your point about needs versus wants, I can be content because he will never leave me nor forsake me. That's a great thing. Let's look at some examples of close-knit fellowship among believers. And I'm really struck with these examples in the Old Testament. The first is the book of Ruth. You've got to turn to the book of Ruth. So let me help you locate that. If you get to the 1st and 2 Samuel and the 1st and 2 Kings, you've gone too far. Back up. It's the first five books of Moses, followed by Joshua and Judges, and then you get a tiny, tiny, tiny little book of Luth. It's only got four chapters. It's probably only two or three pages in your Bible. Ruth chapter one and verse fifteen. This is the account, the sad account of a man named Alinelech and his wife Naomi. had two sons, Malon and Shilion. They left the famine in Bethlehem in Israel and they went into the land of Moab. And while they were there, Malon and Chileon, the two sons, married Moabite women. One was Ruth, the other was Orpah. Lo and behold, Elimelech dies, and so does the two boys. What a sad scene. You've got Naomi, the mother-in-law, to her two daughters-in-law. They're not even blood relatives at this point. She's lost her whole family Her whole future is tanked. Every male figure of any significance in her life is gone. And all she's got are these two Moabite daughter-in-laws who technically Have nothing further to do with her. And we read in verse 15, as Naomi is speaking to Ruth, she said, Behold! Thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people and unto her gods. Return thou after thy sister-in-law Now this is a Moabite woman. These are Moabites. They're not familiar with the things of God But Ruth is, and she says Ruth said, Entreat me not, don't don't don't be against me, be not against me, to leave thee or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go. And where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God, my God. Where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also if aught but death part thee and me And when she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her. What caused such a strong attraction? You know, the world would say the woman's crazy. Why would you leave your family? You know, they didn't have portable 401k plans back in those days. It wasn't something where she could transfer her wealth across community borders or different countries. You know, it was all about the family. If you go away from your kin, you're really going out on a limb. You may just frankly wind up as a slave in some other village. She was willing to do that because she loved, she clung to Naomi. Big age difference, huge age difference, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, two different cultures Two different interests, two different phases of life, one looking at a sunset of life, the other at a broken noonday of life. But what they had in common was the God of the Bible. What they had of similar kindred interest was God the Holy Spirit in them. And she says, I want what you've got, and I like your God, because I believe in that God. And I want to have something to do with him. And so she parted ways. She says, I've got nothing in Moab. It's all death and destruction to me. I have no interest in that. And I don't know what the future holds, but I know this. You've got the truth And I'm interested in the truth, and I want to stick with you. Beautiful account, beautiful account of the tenderness and the connection, this close-knit friendship between true believers in a land of great darkness. And I love this illustration because it's so exemplary and such a great example for our day-to-day. We are in a land of tremendous spiritual darkness, though there is a lot of religion around us. I think I counted six churches up and down my local street alone that all believe very, very differently. have a very different gospel than what you're hearing and here. And so there is a lot of darkness in our land and a lot of Satan's attacks in our land trying to divide. And true believers need each other more than ever. They need to cling to each other. Turn to the book of Samuel. Jump forward a few pages to 1 Samuel chapter 20. We have another pair of people, this time from the same country, even of the same age group. But politically, there is a disconnect. You would say, these are this is even a stronger divide than Democrat and Republican. This is uh one party wants to kill you and the other party wants to try to stay alive. This is the account between Saul's son, Jonathan, and God's anointed David. David was assured that Saul was going to kill him someday. And he was very concerned about it. And Jonathan was like, well, listen, my dad will tell me everything. And before anything happens to you, he'll tell me. And I'm going to let you know. If I give you such and such a sign, you're safe. If I give you a different sign, you need to flee. And he loved David. In fact, we read in verse 16, Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord even require it at the hand of David's enemies. And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul. This is a greatness of affection concerning spiritual things. Do not let your mind be troubled or disturbed by the sodomites in our land who would dare venture into these passages and suggest for a moment that the interests between each other was anything other than the God of the Bible. Because it was only about the things concerning the kingdom of God. David was God's anointed and Jonathan knew it David was greatly favored and blessed of the Lord, and Jonathan saw it. And his father had promised David many things, and his father didn't deliver. Jonathan knew it. And he knew, though I see not his kingdom and David on the throne yet, yet I know someday he will be there. And I want to be a part of that kingdom. I want to put my hand behind that. And in fact, this covenant was remembered by David when years later. When David did come to the throne, and there was a member of the household of King Saul. And his name was Mephiboshef, who was a son uh in that household. And I would have to go back and validate, but he would have had some relationship to Jonathan. I think it was Jonathan's son. And Mephibosheth uh was shown great kindness even though when he was young his nurse dropped him and he broke his feet and was lame in his feet and couldn't walk right And because of this covenant that Jonathan swore, David was kind and ate at the table, the king's table no less, all the days of his life. He took care of Athibisheth. 2 Kings is our next passage, the book of 2 Kings. You can skip forward past the Samuels, get to the Kings, and 2 Kings 2. No, that was uh Shimei who threw rocks at David. The Fibishef is uh It's a great story and it in fact um if you search on sermon audio for uh sermon that Mahan preached on the Fibeshef, uh that one brought my dad to tears. That was a good message. Good message. It was a good message, I enjoyed it. But it particularly meant much to my dad because uh well it you listen to it and if you know something about my dad you'll you'll see why. 2 Kings 2, the first two verses. It came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah in the heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. Now, the ministry of the prophets is a different type of ministry. Apparently, Elijah was notified of the day of his termination of existence here on earth. We know of course he didn't die. The Lord took him by a whirlwind up to heaven. And Elisha wanted to go with him. And he said, no, no, you stay behind. He says, no, no, I'm going with you. There are those that you work with for a season and a long season in ministry. And if you labor and are privileged to have the opportunity to work with another laborer full-time in ministry, there is a closeness that comes about of that. And they do not part. If they're true ministers of God, they do not part together. The only thing that parts them is God killing one or taking the other. There is a closeness there. And sadly, you do see in churches where there are debates and fights and squabbles in ministry. More often than not, it's about money. Sometimes it's about one who is really not a minister of the Lord and they become interested in an old girlfriend and leave their wife and children and go run astray. proving they were never one of his to begin with. That parts them. But if they're true ministers of the Lord, no, they they stick together. They will walk with them. In a sense, among ministers, they don't know what retirement is among each other. They're still interested in the cause and they're still going to walk with them. They're not going to say, okay, I'll just sit back now. No, they they hang tight. They're tight We jump now to the New Testament, Matthew chapter 27, and this is another very touching account to me, and I think it speaks deeply, deeply to some very strong heartstrings. Very close ties are being demonstrated here. Matthew 27 is a difficult chapter because it speaks about the crucifixion of Christ. He was arrested in the garden, as you know, identified as the Christ through the traitorous kiss of Judas. And Peter attempting to rescue cut off the high priest's servant's ear, which Christ promptly restored, telling him to put his sword back. Calm down, Peter. I could blow the whistle, and there could be twelve legions of angels here. Suffer it to be so for now. Christ basically spared the disciples, saying, If you come seeking me, let these go. What have they to do with thee? And when they took him, the disciples fled, and they're gone. They're scattered. There's a quick trial. There's a mocking, a scourging. Time before Pontius Pilate, he bears his cross and he's nailed to it and it's erected. Daylight arises, there he is. Naked, bleeding, on the cross. Disciples are scattered. There's only one that was relatively nearby, and it was the Apostle John. But there were a bunch of others. There were a bunch of others that did not want to be away from their Savior, even in his Moment of great passion, meaning suffering. We read in verse 55 of Matthew 27, it says, And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee He administered to a great many women. And they were there. They wanted to see. They wanted to be there to weep. And it says they were, these were women who had ministered unto him. Among which was Mary Magdalene. We know her story. God cast seven devils out of her. You don't think she's going to be there with her Lord all to the very end? You bet she is. And Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, this is the one that asked, grant that these my two sons may sit, one on the right hand and the other on the left, when you come into your kingdom, and says you don't know what you're asking for. But she's there. And the mother of Zebedee's children. There they are. The women are there. I'm really struck by that There's a whole cast of them there. Where's the disciples? Do you see there's nothing that can drive these ladies back? And I'm not trying to beat up too much on the disciples, but at this moment They're not to be found there. But the women, they're not about to walk away. What a great blessing. John chapter 11 is another example. of a connection, a close-net connection. Thomas is beat up a lot. Doubting Thomas is his name. We call him Doubting Thomas But Thomas was a good believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. We read in John 11, 14. This is at the event where Lazarus dies. Jesus said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead, and I'm glad for your sakes I wasn't there. To the intent that you may believe, nevertheless, let us go unto him. Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. Now Thomas isn't fully understanding everything Christ is saying, but it to him it doesn't matter. If Jesus is going to go there and he says it's a good thing for death to occur, well let's go. We're going with him. We'll die with him. He's in there with him You know, sometimes the hard things do prune away a crowd of people, doesn't it? I can testify From the approximately 70 different people we had cycling through this living room over a one or two year period that as soon as I began to teach upon the cessation of tongues, and that the supernatural gifts that the early church had of uh tongues or dreams or visions and these sorts of things were ceased, uh that those things no longer occur, that that group was split in half. Half no longer came And others said, wow, we've never heard this, but I can't argue with the scriptures. This sounds correct. And it was a pruning moment. It was a pruning moment. Doctrine does prune. But here, the hard things that Jesus told didn't send didn't send Thomas away. Jesus pruned a bunch of people in John 6. He talked about eating his flesh and drinking his blood, and they sat around and said, this is a hard saying. Who can Who can receive this? And they walk no more with him. In uh John 13, verse 1, I'll try to move quickly here. There's just a couple more verses and then we'll wrap it up. John chapter thirteen. Just a few pages over. John chapter thirteen and verse one. Before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father. Having loved his own, which were in the world, I love this last phrase. Watch it now. He loved them unto the end. This constancy that God has for us is a love that goes all the way to the bloody, to the gory, to the nasty, to the horrible, to the bitter end. He doesn't leave. And because he does that, so do we with fellow saints. Now I do speak somewhat to my shame in this. But I had a dear, dear mentor. I dare say, right after seeing Jesus, the very next person I want to see in heaven is Brother Bernie. my mentor of seven years when I first became saved. Oh. Towards his latter days, the last six or so months of his life, his body was falling apart pretty badly. He couldn't toilet himself. He needed to be in diapers, and they needed to be changed, and they were not pleasant, and his wife hated doing it. Uh and so did I. Let me tell you what, adult diapers is not a pleasant thing. It's a gagging thing. It's a crack open the window, get the fans going here, don't we have some deodorant around here? This is horrible. But it got to the point where I would shy from going to his house. I can distinctly remember sitting in my truck in an intersection. I could make a left turn, be down the street, another quick left in the apartment entrance, and I'd be at Bernie's. Or I could keep going straight. And I sat there at that intersection for about 30 seconds. There wasn't anybody behind me. And it was a battle in my mind. And to my shame, I went straight. I couldn't bear up with it. It was too hard. But every time I did go, in his miserable estate, I came away more blessed. than I had been before. I remember one of the things he told me, I'd show up, he would be in a miserable state, he'd be pining away, and he'd just be in in in agony. Just, you know, Lord take me now. And and I'd show up, he's like, Oh, Vince, you're here. And Jan's like, Oh good. You'll give him another ten days or whatever, you know. Go feed him. So he could eat boiled eggs and so I'd chop up a boiled egg. You know, and I'd beat him a little bit, could I have some more salt please? He says, no, no, no, hit it with the salt. Hit it with the salt. So I'd really dump half the shit. Ah, that's perfect. You know, gotta get a lot of salt. Push in the salt. Because he needed the blood pressure. Salt constricted the arteries. It raised his blood pressure. He could feel like a human, you know, when his blood pressure was low, you just feel like you're about dead. And after I fed him and got a little bit doubting, he said, Vince, he says, I'm learning to lean. On Jesus. I'll never forget that. Boy, what a powerful statement. What a powerful statement And then, as he grew older and older and weaker and weaker, the time came when he needed to be in the hospital. And it was his nine days. And there wasn't going to be much more time left. And I went and visited him. It was that one night, the next morning I'd get a call from Jan, yep, Bernie expired. But I visited him the night before and I went to the hospital into the room where they just kind of abandoned him. They left him there. He was terminal and the hospital didn't seem to care to want to do anything. And as he lay there, his eyes bugged out, and just inhaling and gasping for air, I can say I was there. I talked to him. He couldn't respond. He was unresponsive. But I was there. I saw him. To the bitter end. I'm glad I did. I'm glad I did. Look at Romans sixteen, Romans chapter sixteen There's two particular groups of people that the Apostle Paul commends for their constancy towards him. In Romans 16, 3 and 4, he says, Greet Priscilla and Aquila. My helpers in Christ Jesus. Sometimes he refers to Priscilla as Priscilla. You may see that term in the scriptures. That's the same woman who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. There are some people that will go the extra mile to the point of, you know, if there's a risk to be had here, brother, we'll take it. We believe your role in the kingdom of God is important because they knew there's something special about this fellow whom the Lord chose, known as Paul. And they risk their lives for him. And he's grateful, grateful to the Lord for them having done so. There's a tightness there Things don't push them back, push them away quickly. There is a tightness there. 2 Timothy is our last passage. And chapter 1. 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 15. We'll read to the end of the chapter and I have a conclusion. 2 Timothy 1. 15, this thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me. Wow All of Paul's missionary journeys through Asia, which is what the part of Turkey is, that's where the churches of Revelation are listed. Turned away from me, of whom are Figellus and Homogenes. He lists a couple of people that were apparently a great plague, perhaps instruments of the devil used to alienate them from Saul of Tarsus, now known as Paul. But, verse 16, the Lord give mercy unto the house of Onosiphorus. For he oft refreshed me. Oft, that's our word, often. He often refreshed Paul. This isn't showing up with a cup of Kool-Aid, although I wouldn't be surprised if he had some in his bag. This is about the fellowship, true fellowship, gospel of grace, indwelling spirit. Here's the sufferings, and people are still abiding fast. Good, good. That's what he wants to hear. Good. I'm glad they're holding fast Off refresh me. He was not ashamed of my chain. He showed up in prison. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. Where is Paul? Don't know. Sir, do you know where Paul is? Don't know. Where's Paul? Probably in prison. He's searching, looking. Where is this man? He's not going to give up easy. Sometimes it's hard to reconnect with saints Know that the devil's going to put roadblocks in there. Verse sixteen, verse eighteen, excuse me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day, and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus. This is a church in Asia, thou knowest. Very well. Those six or seven examples are there, folks, to give you that the idea that the saints of God dearly love one another. True saints of God. There is a tightness and a connection there which the world can't explain. They have the same Father. They have the same indwelling of the Holy Spirit. They have the same struggles and trials and afflictions. They can relate to each other and they can share with each, even if they both say, yeah, I'm stuck in this mode of XYZ and it's killing, I don't know how to get out of it either You know, and they're they're they're a couple of fellas in the same ship. The ship happens to be in store. They are minded for the heavenly kingdom and they're interested in that eternal immortality of life everlasting. But I also have to say, anyone claiming to be a Christian and doesn't dearly love the brethren, all the brethren, you can't have favorites. You can't have favorites. You can't play favorites in the house of God. That doesn't work. Especially those, brethren, who lay down their lives for the sake of the benefit of the saints, like a Priscilla and Aquila, should be seriously questioned as to whether they're in the faith or not. The love of the brethren is a hallmark of the saints. Alright, well I wrap it up there. I trust you find that uh useful. And we'll uh close it up there. Edward, can I ask you to close us in prayer, please?