It is indeed blessed to be with you in the Gospel of Christ today and to be able to sing the hymns with you, blend our voices together sing the Psalms, hear the exhortation, the instruction of the morning already given, and certainly the perception of Christ in our midst is made real today in the fellowship, in the opening of the Word in the singing of the phrases unto him. And I'm so thankful to be here with you. I'm very, very comfortable in your midst and was very comfortable in that chair as well. Even though it is sitting in the corner. Uh I became quite accustomed to sitting in the corner at one point in my life. So I'm very much at home today. No two ways about it. Want to read from the scriptures in the Gospel of Luke and chapter number twelve. We'll begin reading there at the thirteenth verse. and read through the 34th verse this record of our Lord's teaching and the event that prompted that teaching and one One piece of instruction our Lord gave in this, we will endeavor to enlarge on this morning. Luke chapter 12 and verse 13, this is the Word of God. And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? And he said unto him, Take heed, and beware of covetousness. For a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall these things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God. And he said to his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which neither have storehouse nor barn And God feedeth them, how much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit. And if ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? Consider the lilies how they grow. They toil not, they spin not. And yet I say unto you that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass which is to-day in the field, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith And seek not that which ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. For all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather, seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell that ye have, and give alms. Provide yourself bags which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not Where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Amen. This is the Word of God, and I want to focus on one phrase of our Lord's instruction there. The phrase which begins verse 24, where he says, consider the ravens. And we will, I trust, end up back at this passage again. In the course of the morning, in the immediate context of those words. But when our Lord says, consider the ravens, perhaps there is more there to be considered now. You recognize that our Lord had not in mind here a group of blasphemous thugs that wear purple and tackle one another when he said, consider the ravens Long before there were such creatures on earth, there were the ones he had created originally, which were we note from the Old Testament considered unclean animals. They were not to be eaten. They were on the list of those prohibited animals for for uh consumption because they were ceremonially unclean. And yet it is to be noted by way of introduction that it was our Lord's pleasure and wisdom on this occasion to point to unclean animals for the instruction of his people. And we are to see in that at least this much. We are all as an unclean thing. And yet God uses such vessels. I have said and say more often all the time, God has never used a man whose theology was perfect, nor one whose life was perfect. He rejoices and exhibits his greatness by using the weak things to confound the things that are mighty. And he takes the base things and makes great works through them. And so may God be praised that his working among men does not depend upon the perfection of men, but rather upon the perfections of our God A perfection which is exhibited in that he can use such imperfect and unclean vessels as we are to do a work that will stand forevermore. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. But as he says here, consider the ravens. There is an immediate context, but I do not think we do violence to Scripture if we step away from the immediate context. to observe other instances in the scripture where the raven is spoken of. God didn't have to tell us any of the other instances we will consider this morning. where the raven is spoken of. But he chose to do so. And he did not do so in vain. It was not simply idle scribbling by which the writers of old were moved to report other incidences of ravens in the economy of God. And so that's where I want us to focus this morning, and God helping us then to terminate by looking at the immediate context here. The Raven. What is a raven? It seems that I should know if I'm preaching on them, but I haven't fully figured it out myself yet. It's certainly something like a crow, I believe. Maybe it is a crow. And I would leave this bit of instruction with you. Because they are so plentiful, the grows around us. Every one of them, every time you see one, can be a reminder to you to exercise the very instructions that God has given here. When he says, consider the ravens and speaks about trust in him, let us every time we see a crow Feeding on roadkill. Rejoice that God provides for the ravens and will provide for his people. And let us trust him and be instructed in that. Now, as we look to the scripture, to the first mention of the raven in the Word of God, I want to read to you just briefly the portion in which that instruction appears. You will recall that the whole earth was destroyed with the destruction of the flood. The wicked, wicked world, God, would withstand no longer. And so the fountains of the deep were broken up. The earthquakes and volcanoes, the cataclysm which must have taken place, along with the deluge of which we've sung from the psalm this morning, overtook this planet. There was nothing to be seen but the debris of floodwaters and the f the ark floating in them. The Ark came to rest. How is Noah to know when they might exit the Ark? And so in Genesis the eighth chapter, beginning at the sixth verse, we read, and it came to pass at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made. And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro until the waters were dried up from off the earth. Also he sent forth a dove from him to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground. But the dove found no rest for the sole of her feet And she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth, and he put forth his hand. and took her and pulled her unto him in the ark. We know from the scriptures and from the heritage of godly preachers of the word That the ark in Genesis 8, Genesis 6, 7 and 8, where the flood waters came upon the earth. is in fact a picture of Christ himself, our Lord and our Savior, the only safety from the judgment of the flood. A judgment upon sin was within that ark. And so it is the only safety from the judgment of sin is in the person of Jesus Christ. Those in the ark were kept from destruction. And so it is that the people in Christ are kept from this destruction. It is interesting that the pitch which with which Noah had coated the exterior of the ark to keep the water out is the same word translated atonement. The atonement that Christ provides for his people takes them safely through the judgment of the Ark itself. The picture of Christ that it is sailed through the flood, all of the flood waters pouring down from heaven. The howling of the wind and the rolling of the waves. The ark withstood. It went through the judgment And the judgment of the flood fell upon the ark. But the ark was not overtaken by the judgment. The ark sailed through the judgment. All of those within that ark likewise sailed through that judgment in the safety of the ark. and were delivered. And so when I come to this passage, it is with that thought in mind that the ark, like Christ, is the safe dwelling of all of his people forevermore. But as Noah would test the waters of the flood to see if they had abated, he sent forth a raven. And the raven Flew, as we have read, hither and yon, never to return to the ark. And surely what we know is the people who are in Christ are yet possessed of an old nature. That struggles and wrestles against what is right and true. The flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And the world of destruction upon which the flood had fallen was a place where the raven could make it and thrive. An unclean animal it was. If it got tired on the wing It could rest on the floating, rotting corpse of one of the victims of the flood. There it could feed And found its home in the place of such destruction, never to return to the safety of the ark. And is not that a picture of our own vile nature? That is what we are There is none righteous. No, not one. We've all gone astray There is in every one of us something that answers to every corruption of the world. And we read of this world as being simply the combination of the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. That is all that is in the world. And the raven loved the corruption of the world. And so does our depraved, defiled nature. Love the corruption, and we are disinclined by our own strength to seek the ark or to return to the safety. But thank God That is not the only thing within us. For there is within the people of God a regenerated new nature. They are born, and then they are born again. And the second time they are born, it is not of corruptible seed. But of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever, so that there is placed within them something that is not comfortable with this world. While on the one hand, the raven that they are answers to the corruptions of the world for they are a part of its own being. There is that which has been wrought by the Spirit of God, the dove, ever the symbol of the Holy Spirit. in his meekness and quietness and peaceableness. And when Noah sent the dove out, there was no place there for the dove. It would not light upon the floating carcasses left from the judgment. It had to return. It had to come back to the ark. And so the people of God Though they find an identity with the wickedness of this world, because our own hearts are deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Yet by the work of the Spirit of God they find themselves not at home in this world system. And they ever want to return to the ark, let us flee unto Christ. He is the one who brings us through the judgment. He is the one that lands us safe forever in his presence. And thus, as Christ says, consider the raven. Let us see, first of all, in considering the raven, that there is within each of us that raven that would strive against the spirit. That would yet seek out a place in this world. And let us thank God for the Spirit of God whom He has given. that returns to the ark. And let us ever find ourselves in Christ, returning to the ark amidst all of the destruction that sin is already bringing upon the world. For you see, sin Is in many respects its own judgment. We find in Romans 1 that the wrath of God is revealed against men. By simply turning them over to their own reprobate spirit, their own reprobate mind, their own uncleanness. And they delight in the expanded capacity they have for iniquity, never realizing that it is God who has given them over in response to their rebellion and unbelief. Sin is its own judgment, but not its complete judgment. For that judgment upon sin will never be complete. Thus, hell is eternal, and there is never the payment for the debt that sin incurs. So we learn from the Raven. There is in us that which loves this world and iniquity, which would not return to Christ the ark. But may we, with the Spirit of God given to us, ever flee from the things of this world unto our Savior, our safety, our ark. Well then we come a little further in the scripture and once again judgment has befallen. Not a flood this time, that will never be repeated. But a famine, a dearth. The people of Israel in their sin have been confronted with their idolatry and its wickedness by a dearth, a famine, a drought that is sent at the behest of the prayers of the prophet Elijah. And as Elijah likewise will suffer the effects of this dearth We find that God instructs him to go to the brook called Cherith. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord. For he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook. What it took for Elijah to accept the fact that these unclean beasts, unclean in more ways than one, nothing's dirtier than birds. But unclean also, inasmuch as they were ceremonially unclean, yet God uses them to bring food to the prophet twice a day And he lives quite well there, evidently. No hunger? Does not the scripture tell us in the Psalm, Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies? It was in the presence of his enemies that Elijah was living and ministering. It was in the presence of his enemies that such a drought had been sent because of their enmity against the prophets God had graciously given them. And yet there he is, while they are famished and foodless, he is eating quite well. Food from the beak of a raven, morning and evening. He didn't have to go out and harvest it He simply had to take what God sent and praise God for the means by which he sent it. And there, this unclean animal was used of God to nourish and sustain a prophet who is true to the word of God. You know I think of some of these things as I consider elements of Christian history I don't know that you could find a man more wicked than Henry VIII was. What a wicked king he was in England. How he Got rid of wives for whatever reason he wanted. And yet he was the instrument By which Protestantism became enthroned in England and in the British Isles. And the truth of God would go forth in the language of that people more than in any other language to the uttermost parts of the earth. Thanks to such a dirty bird as Henry VIII. God uses the wrath of men to praise him. God will use that which is his own enemy. To bring about his own triumph. How often I have heard the cause of Christ and its opponents, the Satan emissaries, described as if it's As if it's something of a boxing match. And the devil wins a round. And then God wins his round. And back and forth, back and forth. No, not at all. When it appears that Satan has won a victory It is the victory for God Himself. God is never taken by surprise, nor ever the victim of an accident. No mishaps befall him, and in fact the most robust assaults of his enemies are what ultimately serves his eternal purpose and exhibits his sovereign triumph. We need look no further than the cross of Calvary, where the Roman Empire, prompted on by the haters of Christ among the Jewish leaders committed the greatest crime that has ever been committed against man or humanity, the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. And while they were rejoicing in their triumph, they had pulled it off. The fact of the matter was they were accomplishing the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God Which before the foundation of the world had been ordained unto his glory and unto our good. And what I am saying is this Satan never has a victory for even that which would appear to be him getting the upper hand is done under the sovereign rule of God who by that means brings to pass his purposes. This is why we can rejoice in knowing that all things work together for good to them that love God. And to those who are the called according to his purpose. There is not a thing that transpires, but what God through that will work his purposes. I don't know all that is happening In the Palestinian and Israeli circumstances that we lament. But God Will ultimately reveal to us the perfections of his own eternal workings. And it is by faith that we rest in him. And recognize that even by means of a dirty bird that is unclean ceremonially, God can feed his prophet and keep him. And so when Jesus says, consider the ravens, there's much there for us to consider. That's right. And then too, we read this morning from the 147th Psalm, he giveth to the beasts his food. And to the young ravens, which cry. And there the psalmist repeats the words God Himself had spoken to Job. As Job was approaching the end of his afflictions and would be restored, when God asked him this question, Who provideth for the raven his food? When his young ones cry unto God, they wonder for lack of meat. No, he hears the young raven when they cry. Now you have all heard the croaking of a crow, doubtless. And it's not necessarily something you would want for charming music. It's not something you would go to a concert to listen to, although there have been concerts that I would prefer a pro over the concert. But it's the kind of thing where the call of a crow, and even the varieties among them, as they have one call by which the adult will speak to its children. And another that we hear as they go overhead and are flying after a hawk. It is a raspy, unpleasant croaking at best. And yet God hears the young ravens when they cry. And he's pleased to answer their prayer, to give them food. I've met many believers who may attend a public prayer meeting and say, I would love to lead in prayer aloud, but I I just Can't pray. I can't pray like so-and-so over here does. The the words just don't come. And I'm not judging that at all. People shouldn't pray just to be heard. They should pray to supplicate God, and God sends among the assembly those who lead In prayer, public prayer is a leading operation by the people of God. But the point I make is this I don't care how poor you think your prayers are in their vocabulary, in their modes of expression, in their earnestness and passion. God hears the prayers of his people. If he hears the croaking of a young raven, Who is not made to live forever, who is devoid of any soul. Who has no consciousness that we know of of God and who lives only on the basis of instincts. input into him by creation rather than revelation such as we receive from God. If God hears the raven that cries, how much more his own children when they cry. And so when you see a raven, remember our old nature, which is so prone to flee from the ark, and let us return like the dove Remember our God, who by such means meets the needs of his people and more than supplies for them. And remember our God who hears the most raspy-voiced prayer that has ever been, who stumbles over his words and does not pray grammatically correct. God makes up for everything, and he loves the cry of his people. He takes their supplications to his own heart. Consider the ravens. But then we come to the passage where we began this morning in Luke chapter 12. And there has been a death. And two brothers evidently are at odds over the inheritance. And this man of Galilee, named Jesus, who has Evidently, all of this miracle power is beginning to be known as a person of note and significance for teaching and for healing in the region. And so one of the heirs, troubled by his brother, whom he thinks is not rightly dividing the heritage, Comes to Jesus and says, Master, speak to my brother that he share the inheritance, divide the inheritance with me. And there was a prayer that did not please God. This was a prayer that Jesus answered, but boy, what an answer it was! It wasn't the answer that the prayer was hoping for. And how good God is when He denies us the answer to our prayers because He is being wise and good to spare us. from our ill advised fleshly praying that will ask amiss to consume on our lusts. Such was the case here And so Christ, having heard this request, responds quite curtly, we might say, Man, who made me a judge or divider over you. And having thus exposed the man's greed He yet goes further and begins to instruct concerning the evil of greed And he gives the parable of the rich man who took his harvest and what a harvest it was. There was no room in his barns to store it. And of course, what Christ tells us in the passage is, when you have more than you need, it's in order that you might disperse it to others for their good in God's glory. But this rich man, like so many rich men, had no idea and would not give any thought to that. He would in fact go out and destroy what barns he had in order that he might build bigger ones and become the first hoarder recorded in history. And so into the barns goes all of this harvest. Was this the rich man that fared sumptuously every day, beside whose gate Lazarus the beggar had been laid? I don't know. But chances are that scenario has been repeated many times. And how many This rich man might have fed, not that feeding many would get him into heaven, but feeding many would exhibit his sense of beauty and responsibility before God. And that sense indeed might drive a man unto submission unto Christ. And so he said Soul, what should I do? Now if you talk to yourselves at times, recognize there are some in the Bible that did too, and this is one of them But what he had to say and the counsel which he gave to himself was pretty corrupt. Mm-hmm. So Thou hast much goods. Laid up for many years. Take thine ease. Eat, drink, and be merry. Well, the point is Christ did not create any human being to be idle. Right. He did not create us to take our ease. Even before the curse of sin fell upon the earth, Adam was given a job to tend to and keep the garden. And while gardeners enjoy their gardening, they will doubtless agree it is work. There are things to be done there. And so this farmer who has had such a tremendous crop, thanks not to his diligence, for he didn't grow a thing. God drew it all. The life in the seed which he had sown in the ground was a life that God had imparted when he created all the vegetation of the world, that it might reproduce after its kind. And the life which was germinated in that seed came about by means of the moisture that God had placed in the ground, whether by rain or some other form And by the warmth of the sun that warmed the soil, which moistened around the seed and caused it to burst forth and germinate. And the plant that had grown to render the crops he had harvested had grown only because there had been no drought, and God sees to the rainfall. So all of these things God had done for him. And it was for him merely to go out and take in the harvest and to use it in a manner that is rich toward God. What would God have me to do with this? This harvest which I have to put in my barns is not my own It belongs to the one who gave the life in the seed and brought that seed to life in the soil so that it would grow and produce a bountiful crop. It is his I am but the steward that is responsible to administer it for his glory, not for my own eat, drink, and be merry in idleness. No? He had it all wrong. And is not that the case with most rich men? It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter heaven. Because rich men very quickly imagine that their wealth is self-gotten, fooling themselves in a major way and then foolishly hold on to that wealth for their own ease. Eat, drink, and be merry. Greed, get more and more and more. And so while this man spoke to himself and counseled himself with great human wisdom, which is never great, God says, Thou fool. You see, the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. And those who rest themselves in the wisdom of this world are thus labeled fools in God's economy. Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Forget, eat, drink, and be merry. There is nothing merry for you ahead. There is no eating or drinking. The party's up. You are lost. You take none of your possessions with you. You leave behind only a reputation to reverberate through the centuries as what not to do and not to be. And so the man was lost. And then Jesus turns to his disciples. And mind you, the disciples have all left their profession to follow him. Peter, James, John, the fishermen, they left their nets and their boats, and they've been following the Lord Jesus, who told them the laborer is worthy of his hire Take no script with you. Don't worry about what you're going to eat or drink. Matthew, the tax collector, a pretty lucrative job he had. He had left the place of the custom collection. They were following the Lord Jesus with no promise of any monetary gain. They were indeed distracted by the misperception that Christ was going to establish his kingdom here and now on earth And they might be big shots in it, and perhaps perhaps in their moments of unbelief, which Christ from time to time rebuked among the disciples They are thinking to themselves, I've made this investment, and the returns are going to be real good. I've left the money I would get from fishing, it wasn't much anyhow And I'm gonna be uh a member of the president's cabinet. We're gonna be uh a big shot in the kingdom. In fact, they even debated among themselves over which would be the greatest And surely with such greatness in a kingdom comes wealth. And they may have been thinking that, which is why Christ instructs them to the contrary in verse number 22 of our passage, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat or food, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap. Which neither have storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much more are ye better than the fowls? In other words, the ravens. who have never tilled as much as a square inch of soil for the planting of crops, who have never put a seed in the ground, Yet they eat quite well. And though they would be considered virtually mindless creatures, Their thoughts are better than the rich men's were. And though dirty fowls Their living was better than the rich man's was. They never plant seeds, they never cultivate a harvest, they never gather into barns. And yet our Heavenly Father feeds them. And I don't mean to go from the sublime to the ridiculous, but perhaps I do so when I say all you have to do is drive down the road. And you see how well they are fed. Roadkill. Why they're along the road. I have this theory and I'm probably going over time now, aren't I? You're doing good. Uh that um The more you see of any particular creature dead along the highway, the better it is. Because well let me ask it this way. How many of you have been driving down the road and have seen a dead rhinoceros by the road? You know what that means? That the Rhinoceros is doing very, very poorly in this country. There are very few of them. But the raccoons, the deer, the foxes, they're thriving. The more you see of any creature by the road. The more evidence it is that that species is doing very strongly among us. And we know they are. And because of them and cars, the ravens are doing quite well also. God feeds them. Feeds them to the full. And so it is for us to learn from this, as Christ would have his disciples learn, lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. For Where your treasure is, there shall your heart be also. The rich man's treasure was in his barn, and he would soon leave it. The disciple's treasure was to be laid up in heaven. And Christ goes on and says, look at the lilies. The beauty of that flower. The grass of the field is grown simply to be mowed down and to cast into the fire. And it's gone. But God gives such royal apparel to the lilies of the field. They do not toil. They have no spinning wheels going to get the thread right. And yet God clothes them so that even great rich King Solomon arrayed in his royal regalia was not clothed like a lily. The ravens should teach us to trust the one who clothes the lilies, the one who feeds them. The one who hears their babies when they cry, trust the one who by them met the needs of the prophet, and in them shows us our own vile nature, to which we are always inclined to the world. And seeing that, let us return like the dove to the ark. Abide in him. Shall we bow together as we pray? Our God and our Father, we give thanks for the provision you make for the ravens. For every morsel that they consume is testimony that you will meet the needs of your people, for we are of more value than these mere fowls that live on earth. As Christ instructed his disciples to consider the ravens, so may we be attentive to the instruction given even through the base things of this world, the animals of the sea and of the forest to which you refer so many times. And may we receive that instruction. Bless thy word today to our spiritual fortification and to the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ and to the strength of our souls. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.