Morning. Look this morning to First Samuel twenty two. As you recall, David has is fleeing from Saul. He has fled to Samuel, the College of the Prophets. And Saul shows up there and flees to the city of Nob or the city of the priests are and and Saul's men spot him there and and he David therefore departed thence and escaped to the cave Adulum, and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him. And everyone that was in distress, and everyone that was in debt, and everyone that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him And he became a captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men. So there's four hundred men in this cave. And there are some large caves, by the way, uh in Adulum, so it's just south. of uh Beth and the ways. And there's some very large caves, larger than this church. They're quite quite large. And David, verse 3 of chapter 22, 1 Samuel, and David went thence to Mithpa of Moab And he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father, my mother, I pray thee, come forth and be with you, till I know what God will do for me. And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold or in the caves And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold or in the cave, depart and get thee into the land of Judah. And then David departed and came into the forest of Harath When Saul heard that David was discovered, and that the men that were with him, and then we have a parentheses here, but now Saul abode in Gibe under a tree in Ramah, having a spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him And then he continues with the thought. When Saul heard that David was discovered, verse seven, then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites, will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds? That all of you have conspired He's saying this because he realized that they're all Benjamites, and David is from the tribe of Judah And King Saul has been good to the Benjamites, but he says David's not going to be good to the Benjamites. So then in verse 8, that all of you have conspired against me. Saul now is accusing his Benjamites, his own people, his own court. That all of you conspired against me, there's none that has showed me the way my son hath made a league with the son of Jesuit, with David. And there is none of you that is sorry for me. Don't we all like a pity party once in a while Someone feels sorry for us. Show it unto me that my son has stirred up my servants against me to lie in wait at this very day. Then answered Dog, the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and he said, I saw the son of Jesse. Coming to the city of Nob to Ahimelech, the priest, the son of Ahitub. And he inquired of the Lord for him. And he gave him vigils. Remember five loaves of bread a week or so ago? And he gave the sword of Goliath, the Philistine. We'll stop there. Title of the Mesh this morning, Consider the Enemy. Consider the opponents that we face in the spiritual world. We we we do that in sports. We know that we send out scouts and they spy out on the other baseball teams and and they look to see if the other team's catcher can really peg that ball down to second base and pick somebody off, steal them second Because you really got that good an arm, you know, we we do that and we find out what the the batters on other teams, what they like to swing at. Maybe they're they're they're they really get drawn into swinging at a fastball or they get drawn into swing it at a curveball or a or a a uh you know, a a knuckleball that we we we study the opposition. We want to know what they're like. And in football it's the same thing. Is this a quarterback who likes to run the ball? That is run it himself Is or does he just throw it and always hand it off? W we want to know what the enemy's doing or what the opponents are doing. Uh does that quarterback hear footsteps 'cause he's been hit so many times He gets rid of the ball real quick, you know. Uh is the is the quarterback one made the injury report. We want to know. We wanna we wanna consider our opponents what's going on, how well they play in the cold. We check the weather out. It's gonna be a cold day that they play. We we we we want to consider our opponent. And and so the title of message this morning is Consider the Enemy. David actually prayed in Psalm 25 and 19, consider mine enemies, God. He he's asking God to look in his enemies, to consider his enemies And I think it behooves us that we need to also consider our enemy, the devil. He really exists, he's really after us. after our souls. And so in these ten verses I found at least seven things about the enemy of man's soul that I'd like to point out to you this morning. As I said earlier, Saul had chased David from his wife and his home. Saul had chased him with the presence of Samuel and the prophets. He chased him from Ahimelech and all the priests in the city of Nob of Nob. And this is how David is treated in the world. The man who's after he's a man of my own heart, God says in Acts 13 and 2. Yet he's being pursued in this world. He's a man after God's own heart And and Satan's got Saul chasing him everywhere, pursuing him, doing Satan's bidding. Saul would have David dead. King Saul wants David dead. Of course, Satan would like him dead as well. He's especially like David dead before he writes the Psalms. Once David writes a Psalms, people will be reading them and they'll be blessed by them, they'll be comforted by them, they'll be saved by them. For numerous generations, people would be so blessed by this Sweet psalmist of Israel, King David. Let's kill him before he starts writing all these psalms and touching all these hearts And so he's using King Saul, one of Satan's devices, and 2 Corinthians 2 and 11 tells us Satan has a lot of devices, a lot of armaments, a lot of tools, a lot of weapons he can use to try and overthrow the kingdom of God. And here he's using Saul. Satan often uses rulers. and governments as his persecutors of the church. We go all through the history and we see that. Back to the days of Nebuchadnezzar and Rome and Caesar and Herod and Pilate And so he has these devices that persecutes the church of Christ. And so the first thing we learn about our enemy, the enemy of mansoul, is relentless. And he is persistent. That's the first thing we learn here. David has been chased from his house, chased from his wife, chased from Samuel Prophets, chased from the priests, Ahimelech. I mean, the servant, the enemy of mansoul is relentless and he's persistent. The first of seven things we note here. And yet in verse one, David escapes. He escapes every time. Here he escapes to the cave of Adulum. We find sometimes that the favorites of God, those that God loves the most, are found in some strange places. We find Jeremiah sunk in the mire, Jeremiah 38 and 6, and that mire was actually, it was really the septic tank in the prison system, and that's where they threw him, in the bottom of a septic tank. If that doesn't quite register with you, I can take you out here and show you the two. We'll lift the lids on and show you what Jeremiah was tossed into the dice Jonah was found in the belly of a fish. Jonah 1 in verse 17. God's favorites have found in some unusual places. Job was found sitting upon a heap of ashes. It doesn't say where those heap of ashes came from, but I suspect it was from the houses that had fallen down on his children and perhaps caught fire. Lord Jesus Christ was found lying in a manger. What an odd place for the Son of God to up here. We're not talking about the pretty manger scenes they show you on TV. A manger is it's just a trough that the cattle eat out of, that you throw the hay in. God's favorites, the favorites of heaven, are often found in some strange places, and David is found in a cave six miles southwest of Bethlehem, and there's a all kinds of caves out there, some very large ones. uh good places to hide. And then we read that David's brethren and his father of the house they came down to him. They came probably for their own safety If Saul uh didn't like David, he probably didn't like the family either, probably afraid the family was was helping him to escape, uh giving him food and sustenance and a warning system. And so the family was also in jeopardy, and they were fleeing, and they came to David at the cave for their safety. And probably to comfort David, to let him know we still had some friends in this world, still had some friends there in Israel. Sometimes when our situation changes, we don't have as many friends You ever notice if you're very prosperous, everybody likes you and they want to be around you because maybe you're always treating them to something or taking them on a vacation with you or whatever. I mean when people are very prosperous, they have lots of friends Uh but when that we have changed in our life, when we lose our authority, as David lost his at the court, if we lose our beauty as we get older, if we lose our prosperity or our popularity, it produces a change. Of affections towards us from some people. Does the change in one's authority or beauty or prosperity or popularity change your affection for them? It shouldn't. We ought to still have an affection for our husbands or our wives and our children as they get older and and their appearances change. We ought to not be so tossed to and fro with our affections, so they ought to be steady and solid. David learns that he's got some friends within the family that come to the cave to be with him. And uh David quickly learns who his true friends are, doesn't he? When times are tough you find out who your true friends are. When you're not so popular, maybe when you're hated by the world or hated by the neighbors or Or hated by uh as he was in this case hated by the government of Israel, David's fleeing from them. He finds out who his real friends are. And we as a church will find out, and I fear shortly Who really loves the Lord Jesus Christ and not? As this church, not this building here, but as the church of Christ throughout the world goes under more and more persecution We know already they're burning Christians over in the Middle East. They're beheading Christians in the Middle East. They're burning down their churches. We know some of it's starting here, persecution within our military. Chaplains are not allowed to preach in the name of Jesus Christ. Chaplains not allowed to counsel from the Bible when someone comes in and is having some sinful problems in their life. that they had a chaplain tossed out a couple of weeks ago because he was uh he's been set aside at a desk now he we we we see the persecution coming against the church. And we're gonna find out who really loves the Lord and who doesn't. Who can stand up and and stick with their beliefs and their faith and the Word of God Persecution one way is good. It shows you who your friends are. It shows you who the ones are that are really, really faithful Christians. And so here David, we find has been, as I said, removed from Samuel the prophets, removed from the priests of Nob. We find out the second thing we learn about our enemy is this the enemy of Mansoul seeks to remove any godly influence from our life. The enemy of David's soul is Satan, and he's using Saul for his devices, but we find out that what you want to do he wants to remove David from the influence of Samuel, from the influence of the prophecy He wants to remove David from Ahimelech, the high priest, and from the other priests from the city of Nal. He wants to remove, if he can at all possible, the enemy of Mansoul. wants to remove any godly influence from our life. That's the wiles of the devil, as we read about in Ephesians 6 and 11. He will isolate David from the prophets. You isolate David from the priests. You isolate David from public services and congregating with other believers. You isolate David from public prayer. You isolate David from preaching of the Word of God And we have to ask yourself today when we look around in this country, when we see that uh we have to ask and wonder, who do you think is really behind the removal of the crosses? from churches and universities and and cemeteries. Who do you think is really behind the removal of Bibles from the school and and from the teacher's desk and so forth? And who do you think is really behind uh removing the reverence of Christ in public prayers down in Annapolis and who you behind the idea of changing the holy days and calling them spring break instead of Resurrection Sunday and and calling the winter solace instead of it being Of celebration of the birth of Christ coming here called Christmas. What is behind all that? It's it's the it's the the enemies of man's soul to seek to remove all godly influence From the lives of God's people. And we ought to understand that when we see it happening, that it's not just a government doing it or some individual doing it, that Satan is behind uh these individuals whether they know that they're being used of him or not. But as hopeless as it it it seems here for David No priests, no prophets, little of his family. He's in the cave. He's you know you might say he's in darkness at that moment. As hopeless as it seems, the next verse almost makes it sound worse But God is still on the throne, you'll discover shortly. In verse 2, and everyone that was in distress, in debt, discontented, gathered unto him, under David. I mean, if you really want to fight Saul, you really want to fight Saul's army, you really want to fight the governor of Israel that's coming against you as as it was here for David Look at the look at the crew that's being sent to him. The distressed, the in-depth, the discontented. I mean how are you gonna lead a crowd like that to fight a well-armed, well-regimented arm military? It just doesn't seem like he's being sent anyone that would really be of any substance for him. There's no mention of any rich nobleman coming to the cave. There's no mention of the intellectual men from the court changing sides and going with David There's there's not even any mention here of some of David's great combat buddies who fought with him against Goliath and the Philistines. I mean there's no mention here of anything but the distressed, the indebt, the discontented Until you get to verse five, and one of those that came was Gad, a prophet of God. Wow. That was good to hear. Dad, a prophet of God. You know, Christ makes it pretty clear to us when he's preaching in Luke 12 and 32. The followers of Christ are a little flock. But he also makes it clear the gates of hell shall not prevail against his little flock. Matthew 16 and 18. So David has 400 excuse me discontented people, people in debt, people who are distressed. Uh they're they they're hardly uh gonna be able to help David. They got their own problems really But Christ says this little flock, it doesn't look like much. But Gad the prophet is there. He proves to be very valuable to David throughout David's entire life from this point on. And so the gates of hell shall not prevail against God's church, Matthew 16, 18, or against David, even in that cave with these 400 distressed, indebted, and discontented people So in verse 3, David went and he said unto the king of Moab, he leaves the cave, and he says to the king of Moab, I have my mother and my father with me. They're elderly, you know, they're a little older, and I know that I don't know what God's going to do with me. I just want them to be safe. And so the third thing it wants to see about the enemies of man's soul, that that that that enemy, Satan, who like to destroy our souls, the third thing it wants to see is the enemy of our souls We'll go after those we love. And you know, especially for parents, how you weep over the direction some of your children are going in. When they're teenagers, sometimes younger, sometimes much, much older. If Satan really wants to hurt you, he knows where to hit you, doesn't he? He'll go after your spouse, he'll go after your children You'll go after your elderly parents. He really knows how to hit you where it hurts the most. And Dave is concerned. As much as he's in the midst of survival for his own life, he has a concern for his parents. You might ask yourself, why would David go to the king of Moab? I mean, you go back a couple chapters and King Saul and the name the armies of Israel, they're fighting the king of Moab. I mean, they're not on the best of terms. Why would David think he's going to be well received with the King of Moab? You know the book of Samuel never tells us why? And the book of 2 Samuel never tells us why. And the chronicles of the kings and first kings. None of those books tell us why David thought he'd be received well by the king of Moab. But there's a little book that some people used to question whether it should even be in the Bible, and it tells us why. It's called the Book of Ruth. We find in the book of Ruth that Ruth was the great-grandmother of David. We find in the book of Ruth that David had some bloodline that came out of the Moabites. Ruth. The Moabites, if you recall, the reason that nobody wanted to do anything with the Moabites, they came out of the loins of Lot. Now Lot was a good guy. Lot was a safe guy But there was an evening when he had a uh ill-time and a very sickening, sinful relationship, one of his daughters, and she gave birth to a child that she called Moab. And so upset was God with what transpired between Lot and his daughter that God said, For ten generations, these people will not be allowed to worship before the Lord in the tabernacle of God. God cursed them for ten generations. And then this Moabitus named Ruth, all of a sudden she's welcome in Israel And Boaz marries her? And then Boaz has a son named Jesse, and Jesse has a son named David. And why would they finally marry this Ruth if they've been cursed for ten generations? But you go back to the genealogies. Ruth was the tenth generation. She was the first generation of Moabites who would be welcomed back to the tabernacle, to the congregation of the Lord to worship. Boaz must have figured that out. When the other relatives wouldn't marry her, when another fellow wouldn't. Maybe he thought, I'm not gonna marry a Moabite, well, you know, y you you're the one that can can marry her and can redeem her land and so forth and Naomi's land and And he said, I'm not going to marry some mobile. No, God's cursed him for ten generations. She must have been an attractive girl because Boaz said, Well, I'll marry her then. And Boaz, a godly man, must have figured it out Those ten generations. You go through the genealogy. Those boring genealogies in the Bible, this and begat, this and begat, this and you wonder, what's all this stuff for? You know, it's so boring. What does it mean anything? Why would God put all that in there? There's nothing in the Bible that isn't important. Nothing. Even those seemingly boring genealogies, they explained to us why David knew he could go to the king of Moab and that he would protect his parents. He's got Moabite blood running through his veins. And so he goes to the king. You can read about it, Ruth 4, 21 and 22, that she's the great grandmother of David. It's all laid out there. David's life is in jeopardy. And this is what I love. David's life is in jeopardy. He's got one of the most powerful armies of Israel chasing him everywhere. They know the land. They know the area quite well. Benjamin and Judah are like that close together on the map of Israel. I mean the Benjamites know Judah pretty well. He can't hide in the land of Benjamin where the tribe of Benjamin list He can't really hide very well in the land of Judah because they're just that close. They're the two closest tribes. In fact, when the tribes split up, you know, after uh King Solomon's son Really messes things up as the as the king. When Israel splits, ten nations of the north go against the two nations of the south, and those two nations of the south are Benjamin and Judah. Benjamin and Judah are tight. They are close Where is David going to hide in the tribe of Benjamin? Where's David going to hide in the land of Judah that he can't be found? This is a tough time for David. It's a bad time for David. And yet through all of this duress, he's just just Saul's just missed him with Samuel And the prophet Saul just missed him up there with the priest and the Himelech. I mean Saul is getting so close to him every time, and then under all this duress, David is concerned for his parents, the care of his elderly parents. Are you concerned about your parents as they get older? Taking care of them? Someone Call my daughter today and tell her that, okay? I mean some of you got your kids here. Children, are you concerned about your parents? You look at your parents, oh my parents aren't old. Well not yet. But there's gonna come a day when they are, and you need to be concerned and and caring. For your elderly parents. Well, when parents get old and some get really old, I mean there's there's there's the pens and there's diapers and hey, they took care of your diapers when you were little. You know We ought to be concerned for our elderly parents. David shows it here. He said, Well, that's David. Oh, it's not just David. The Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. Do you remember that? You read about it. He's talking there on the cross in the book of John, John nineteen and twenty-seven, and he looks down and he sees his mother, the Virgin Mary, standing there, and he sees the beloved apostle John And he says, Mother, behold your son. John, behold your mother. And it says, from that day forth, John took her home with him and cared. for her. The Lord Jesus Christ is on the cross at probably the most traumatic moment in the history of the world. He has got the sins of the world nailing him to the cross. He's got something really important going on there, as well as trying to witness to one of the thieves next to him nailed to another cross I mean, he's in intense pain and intense agony. He's got the the demons around him that they can't be seen, and they're all laughing and they're excited. He's dying. It's a tremendous, horrendous, horrendous time for the Lord Jesus Christ And yet he has time to think about his elderly mother and her care. That's a responsibility of us as children. to take care of our elderly parents. The Lord Jesus Christ, he certainly knew it. He did it as well as David here. Now verses 4 and 5, David was in the hole, to get back to David, one of the many caves in Adulum. And the prophet Gad said unto David, What are you abiding down here in the cave for? Get you out of Judah. Don't sit down here hiding like a coward. Let the people of Judah realize that you're not afraid of Saul. You're not afraid of the armies of Israel. You're not afraid because you've done nothing wrong. Let them see that you trust in the Lord. Boy, do you let people see you trust in the Lord? Things are going bad. We said, why is this happening to me? So that people can watch and see how you handle it. You're the Christian. You're the one that says I always got Jesus on my side, I've got the Lord helping me, I've got God, I fear nothing. Why is this happening? Well, we've got to show the people how we react. When things bad happen. That's why bad things happen to good people. Well, there are any good people. I mean, we're all sinners, but you know what I'm saying. And so he said, get out of this cave, come out of the gardeners, go into Judah, start walking around Judah, encourage others, be an encouragement of how you handle stress. Be an encouragement of how you handle attacks. Be an encouragement of how you handle fear. David, get out of the cave Pilgrim, are you an encouragement to others? We need to encourage others There was a lady this week. She'd she'd walked in after her place had been robbed. Actually was a it was a jar of chips. You know, like they have in the restaurant sometimes. and pizza places and she'd walk in, they just they just rob. They they grab the the chip jar. Can you imagine that? These young people are working these stores, they don't make much. You know, in a pizza store or something like that or an ice cream store. They don't make much and some guy runs in and grabs the chip jar. How do you encourage someone like that? How much is in the tips or oh we don't mean ten dollars? Well uh Lord would have me to replace that for you and she put the money ten dollars the tip charge says there you didn't lose a thing can you encourage people and talk about give a cup of water in Christ's name give a tip in Christ's name If if you give a tip at a restaurant when you're eating somewhere, if it's not a real good tip, please don't leave a track. If we got a track, we leave a nice tip If we don't have a track, we leave a nice tip too. But if we get we leave a tip, I mean if we leave a track, it's gonna be a nice tip We need to be encouragement to others. And how do you encourage others on an everyday basis? Well, you know, you gotta tell them. People they don't want to read the Bible, that's God, he's an angry guy, he's a god of wrath's gonna send you to hell. That's not very encouraging for some people. You know what you encourage people by saying God forgives sin. God forgave the chief of sinners. The Bible says the Apostle Paul is the chief of sinners Paul says, I'm the under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Paul writes, he says, I am the chief of sinners. There's no arguing that. If Paul says the chief of and you read the listings, Paul did. He blasphemed God's name, he arrested Christians, he tortured Christians, he put Christians to death. I don't doubt he was the worst of sinners. He said he was the worst of sinners. Now there's other people who have done that, but Paul was a Pharisee. He'd been educated in the law and the books and the Bible, and he had verses upon verses memorized, and for him to be killing Christians Before he was saved, that makes him pretty bad. In fact, Paul says, I'm the chief of sinners. So you want to encourage people to say, look, if God forgave the chief of sinners, and explain to them who that was and why. He's got to forgive you. Even if you're the second worst of sinners, or the third, you know, of the whole world. God will forgive you In fact, it says the blood of Jesus Christ his son cleanses us of all sin. You can't come up with a sin that God won't forgive you of There isn't one. The blood of Jesus. Is that my phone again? I hope not. God will forgive you for anything. But I've done it six times. I've done, I don't care, have you done seven times seventy? Encourage them. And encourage them. Okay, I know God's going to forgive me, and I'm going to go to this church and I'm going to become a member. But I mean when they find out that I'm a sinner I was, well, why tell them? Well, it's a part of my testimony. Okay, then you can tell them. Oh, then I'll just become like a second-class Christian. That is nowhere in the Bible. There are no there's no second-class Christian. We're all on the same plane. Doesn't matter what sin we committed. I mean Paul talks in here about, he talks about some of the most horrible sins you can imagine. Even mentions sodomy, the Corinthians. You know what he says? Of some such were you. And Paul says you're on the same level. Once you're saved, your sins are cleansed of the blood of Christ, you're on an equal par with everybody else. You could be a murderer of Christians, you could have been a sodomite. It doesn't matter. A thief? You could have stolen the church's treasury? Blaspheme Christ's name? It doesn't matter. Once you are saved and you ask for forgiveness, you repent, you're that that's that's that's how we're an encouragement to people Tell them what Christ has done for their soul. So David's told to get out of the cave. Get out there and be an encouragement. Saul is an army, but David is to trust in the holy arm of God, Psalm 98 and verse 1. Saul has the military, all the military gear, but David has the fear of God by the name of Gad. Saul thinks might is right, but David has the light of the world and the light of the word of God A lamp under my feet and a light under my path, Psalm 119 or 105. He's got all that to guide him. He doesn't need Saul's military gear. He's got the Word of God. Powerful, more powerful than a two-edged sword. And so the fourth thing we learn about our enemies, as we consider the enemies of our soul, the enemy of man's soul, he's misguided and he's overconfident of victory. That was Saul. Not with Satan. I mean you think about Satan. He's been out there for six thousand years ever since the Garden of Eden and he's been trying to catch this soul and catch catch that soul and put this soul in hell and that soul in hell. I mean and and every time and what he really wants From the day we're born, we're we're we're lost. We're sinners. From the day we're born, we're heading for hell. And then Christ comes along, starts saving this one, saving that one. And what Satan wants, he wants the one that Christ is saving But Christ said, of all my sheep, I've lost none. How does a guy go on for 6,000 years losing every day Never winning one of Christ's sheeps, never dragging one of Christ's sheep into hell. How does a guy go on like it for 6,000 years and still think he's gonna win? He's never won. He's never taken one soul, never plucked one lamb out of Christ's hands, not one sheep. It's a good place to be. In the hand of Christ, in the hand of God. And not a goat. The enemy of man's soul, he's so misguided, Satan. He's so overconfident of victory, he has no reason to be confident in victory. And so when Saul hears here in verse 6 and 7 that David had 400 men, Saul said, you know, he's he's upset. He's a little upset. David's got 400 men? Saul's got four hundred thousand men. What does he care about four hundred men? But he's upset about it Because he knows that a man of God, like Gideon, with only three hundred men, took out all the Midianites. What will David do with four hundred men? He's upset about this. And he says, so Paul said that he heard that David had four hundred men And Saul said, You Benjamites, will the son of Jesse, that is, David is the son of Jesse of the tribe of Judah, will the son of Jesse of the tribe of Judah, will he give you fields Since I've been the king and we've been fighting the Philistines and taking back land and taking back property, I've been giving you vineyards, I've been giving you fields, I've been giving you positions of honor and titles, I've made you captains. and majors and colonels and generals. He said, Is David gonna do that for you, Benjamites? Of course he won't. He's from the tribe of Judah. He's gonna give the vineyards and he's gonna give the command posts and he's gonna give the property. He's gonna give it all to the Those of the tribe of Judah, you're not going to get anything. Do you really want him to be the next king? You better join with me. You better get excited about this. We gotta take David out, or you Benjamites, your vineyards will be gone, your properties will be gone, your high and hoity positions of power. will be gone. Saul appeals to the covetous heart of man, doesn't he? Hey, you want some property? You want some power and authority? You want some money? You want some prosperity? And you stick with me, you Benjamites. Don't any of you think of betraying me or going with David at all? He'll never prefer you over those of the tribe of Judah. Saul. He's learned the lesson well and learned it early that the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, isn't it? Verse Timothy 6 and 10. Do you have a covetous heart, pilgrim? Can you be bought? I've heard people say that, oh, for enough money, I'd do that. And I've heard others say I wouldn't do that for a million bucks. Do you have a covetous heart? Because I'll tell you something. Fifth point about our enemy. Lucifer, the devil, Satan, it's got a number of names. The fifth thing about our enemy, our spiritual enemy, Satan. The enemy of man's soul knows. Here's what he knows For a mere thirty pieces of silver, he can even get Christ the Lord of Glory crucified. Can you imagine that? Thirty pieces of silver, by the way, is not a lot of money. If you know what a dime is, a dime used to be silver. So just think of 30 dimes. It was worth about $3. Our enemy knows that for thirty pieces of silver, that was the price of a slave, for thirty pieces of silver, he can even get The Christ, the Lord of glory, crucified. I mean, the most horrible sin that man could ever commit. He can convince someone to do it for 30 pieces of silver. That is pretty cheap. How much cheaper is it for him to get us to sin in other realms? Even cheaper. The enemy man's soul knows. The covetous heart of man. And so Saul, working in the covetous heart of his Benjamin, you know, he's really saying He doesn't really have a lot of respect for the Benjamin. Look, you guys are easy. I can buy you off. I can buy your loyalty. It won't take much. I'll give you a vineyard. Give you a couple of sheep over here. I can you guys are easy But then he says in verse 8, all of you conspired against me. Now he doesn't even trust them. Well why would you trust something that can be bought? Somebody else would come by and offer him more money He said, You've all conspired against me. None of you show me that my son Jonathan hath made a league with the son of Jesse. My son Jonathan, he's in league, he's made a covenant with David. How come somebody didn't come and tell me that I found out about it eventually, but why didn't somebody come and tell me right away that my son Jonathan and this David, they're in league together. In fact, he said they're in league together and they're gonna lie in wait to kill me. Now that just wasn't true. Jonathan loved his father. He disagreed with his father in some major things, but he loved his father. Jonathan didn't want his father killed. He didn't want to help David kill him. And David didn't want to kill him. But Saul here, he's lying. He's making this all up. It is the nature of an evil ruler to just distrust everyone. He distrusts all the Benjamites here, of the whole tribe that he's king over. He distrusts his own son Jonathan. He distrusts the sweet psalmist of Israel, David. You know, there are people who are so wicked they don't trust anyone. And that's why they want to disarm everyone. They don't trust. And maybe they're the ones that shouldn't be trusted. Saul certainly wasn't trustworthy David or here Saul was lying about David, saying David's gonna lay in wait with my son Jonathan. They're gonna try and slay me The sixth thing we note about the enemies of mansoul. Christ said it best. Let me quote him. The devil. He is a liar and the father of it. John 8 and 44. The devil is the father of many other lies as well, and the lies that Saul is teaching came right out of the pits of hell to accuse David of wanting to murder the king of Israel. The enemy of man's soul is a liar. Satan is a liar. He'll tell you things. You know what kind of lies that Satan will tell you? You're not gonna when you die you're not gonna go to hell because you're you're as good as everybody else. I mean in fact there's a lot of people a lot worse than you. Now some of the we can all point to something, that guy deserves to go to hell. Oh that person there, I think they're going to hell. Oh well I'm better than him and I'm better than that one over there And you start looking around, and the devil's got you believing a lie that as long as you're better than someone, that someone drops off into hell and you just kind of you you miss it. That's a lie Christ said, You must be perfect with my Father in heaven. There's no one good enough to go to heaven, but by the grace of God Heaven is filled with millions and millions of people, not because they were they deserved to go to heaven, but because by God's grace and mercy, He saved them and blessed them But the devil would have you think, hey, we're all on the same ship, the Titanic, it's going down. Well, God doesn't want to kill everybody, the Titanic. I'm going to be okay Don't listen to the lies of the devil. And so Saul is accusing all the Benjamites of not coming to him with any information That he could use that would prove that David was a traitor and deserved to die. And in verses 9 and 10, we find that traitor. We met him last week. Remember Dog? Dog was at the hill of or the city of Nob with the priest at the time David came in asking for bread and the sword of Goliath and so forth. And Dog was the chief shepherd of Saul, and David saw a dog, and Dog saw David, and their eyes met, and they went, oh boy Saul or David said, I gotta get out of here, and Dog said, I gotta get out of here, and I gotta go and tell Saul, and David said he's gonna go and tell Saul, and he did go and tell Sa And so here we have in verses nine and ten, then answer dog, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Hohimelech, he's the high priest. And he inquired the Lord for him. The high priest of Ahimelech. He said he he he started praying and reaching out to God and asking God what David could do and what David should do. And what what might be done for David? What David needed. He said, I saw him inquiring of the Lord for David. And he gave him vitals. That was the five loaves of bread. And the sword of Goliath, the Philistine, to take with him to protect himself. He said, I saw it all. Dog didn't exactly lie. He just didn't tell the whole truth. And when you don't tell the whole truth, you're telling a half-lie, aren't you? If you don't tell the whole truth, a half-truth is a lie. It's a sinnible mission, and that's what he does. He says I saw David the high priest. He doesn't tell Saul. And the reason he gave him the bread, and the reason he gave him the sword, and the reason he acquired the Lord, is because David told him he was on a secret mission for you, King Saul He couldn't tell me what the secret mission was. It was a secret mission for you. And and and the high priest believed him. The high priest, well, you know, David's been in the court with Saul. He's been playing the harp and singing songs with Saul He's he's killed Goliath for Saul. They've been really tight and really close. And I if he needs bread, I'll give him bread. That a Himalayas thought he was on a secret mission. That's what the last chapter said. He just tells the part that he thinks will ingratiate himself to King Saul. And so he spreads the lie. When you look at this list that Dog throws out there, the first thing he says that the high priest and he inquired of the Lord! No, the second thought. Oh, by the way, he got some bread. Oh, by the way, he's got that big heavy sword of Goliath. But the main thing, you know, if you want the king's attention, you've got to hit him with the big guns first. And so he said, he if the priest, the high priest, the Himlock, he inquired of the Lord. Well that got Saul's attention. Gee, the bread that was secondary. The sword? Yeah, okay, so he's got a sword. See the seventh thing that we need to know about The enemy of man's soul said he hates and he fears when people inquire of the Lord. The enemy of our souls, he knows the effect of inquiring the Lord. He knows the effect of praying. He knows the effect of getting down on our knees and asking God to help us, to interfere, to run interference with what Satan's doing in our life. Satan hates. Satan fears. When we inquire and begin talking to the Lord in prayer, he knows how effective it is. Saul knew how effective that would be. I don't care about the bread, I don't care about Goliath's storage. He's inquiring of the Lord. Because he knows it's effective. Do you know that prayer is effective? Some of you don't. Let's make it a habit, alright? Let's scare the day daylights. The minions and the demons of hell. Start praying today. Know your enemy. Know your enemy. And what he fears most. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. We thank you, Lord, for the life of David. A life that probably none of us will ever have. Fleeing. from his government, fleeing from those that wanted to kill him, his own family in jeopardy, having to hide his parents in a foreign land. Attempts upon his life numerous, numerous times. Oh Lord, we just thank God that we have here an example of how you can get us through this if we have to face it. And it's by inquiring to the Lord. That's where all the strength is, all the all the answers are. We may not be able to hear a verbal, an audio voice today, but if we read your word You're talking right back at us out of the pages of Scripture. May we come to treasure the written word in our Bibles. And may we also treasure inquiring of the Lord in prayer where to find the answers in that. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.