David, which is the king's son-in-law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honorable in all nine house. And did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Because he was your son-in-law. What's wrong with that? Be it far from me, he says in verse 15. Let not the king impute anything unto his servant. That is unto David or unto Ahimelech, nor to all the house of my father. For thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more. He said, I don't know what you're talking about. And the king said, Thou shalt surely die Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house. And the king said on the footmen that stood around about him. These were his his personal bodyguards. Turn and slay the priests of the Lord, because their hand also is with David. And because they knew when he fled, and they did not show it to me. But the servants or the bodyguards of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the Lord And the king said to Dog, Turn thou and fall upon the priests. And Dog the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and he slew on that day four score and five persons. that did wear the linen ephad. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women And children and sucklings, that's little babies in her arms, and oxen and asson and sheep with the edge of the sword And one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitab, named Abyarthor, escaped, and he fled after David. And Abbiarthor showed David that Saul had slain the Lord's priests. And David said unto Abiyarthar, I knew it that day. When dog the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul, and I have occasioned the death of all the persons of my father's throne Abide thou with me. Fear not. For he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life. But with me thou shalt be in safeguard, or I'll guard you as if you're my own life. The king calls Ahimelech, the priest, and all the priests who were at Nob, and as we find, it was Himelech and 84 other priests. He calls them all. And we discover here the Saul says on him as he addresses himself to the high priest of Israel, son of Ahitob. Why have you conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, sword, and inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me? The first thing I want you to note, there's four things we'll note about the enemy this morning And the first thing I want you to note here is that the enemy, and Saul here is the enemy, that the enemy delights in disrespecting godly men. Saul is not interested in building a relationship here with these men. He refers to the high priest not as the high priest, or he does not call him Mr. Ahimelech or Sir. He just calls him the son of Ahita And he does the same thing with David. David is the captain of the host of Israel. He has been promoted by Saul. He is the captain. And he does refer to him as of my son-in-law David. He doesn't refer to him as as the captain of the host. He just calls him the son of Jesse. And he just, these are titles of belittlement, as it were. The enemy delights in disrespecting godly men. Point one. And we note here that Saul is certainly not interested in building a relationship with the men of God. He's not interested in building a relationship with Christians. And so I would say this morning, pilgrim, do you cultivate relationships with other Christians? I mean, if you're out there trying to cultivate relationships with people, do you try to cultivate relationships with other Christians? It's what we ought to be doing. The enemy does just the opposite. And the second thing I might ask you this morning is, what is your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? Have you cultivated that relationship? Relationship? Is he your redeemer? Is he your savior? Is he your hope beyond the grave? Have you cultivated the relationship with the Lord Jesus? Christ. And do you give him his title? There are so many people who talk about, and when they hear them on the radio and hear them on talk shows, and they'll talk about uh the carpenter's son That lived in Nazareth, or they'll refer to the son of Mary. We read that in Matthew 13, 55, and again in Mark 6. 3. were the Pharisees and the priests who thought little of Christ. They never came running to him late at night like Nicodemus and others and said, Lord, what would you have me to do? They gave him no title or rabbi or master. They called him the son of Mary, the son of the carpenter. Do you trust Jesus as the Lord? Jesus Christ in your prayers and and when you're talking about him, is he just Jesus? I I have a that that bugs me and I I hear Christians do they even their prayers sometimes It's a slight. He is the Lord, the God of the heavens, the creator of all He's the Lord of glory. And when you look through the scriptures, you find the apostles when they and the disciples when they they speak to Christ, it's it's they say, Lord. I think we forgotten that even in in the body of believers that he's just Jesus. He's just David. Just the son of the carpenter. Just the man from Nazareth. The man upstairs. That's the language that the enemy uses to disrespect the Son of God. Ahimelech here anores he ignores the slighting of Saul's just referring to him as the son of Ahitab. He ignores that. And in verse 14, Ahimelech says What are you getting at? He said, who is so faithful among all thy servants as David? I mean, yes, I gave him the sword, yes, I gave him bread, yes, I inquired the Lord. Why shouldn't I? He's your son-in-law. Should I say to your son-in-law, I don't care who you are, you don't get any special attention from me. Come back at a later time. Come back at a more convenient moment. He's your son-in-law. You love him Don't you? You you promoted him to captain, right? You you married him. You gave your daughter for information to hand him marriage. What is I don't understand this How many times, Saul, have I inquired for you of the Lord for your kingdom, Saul? I mean, that's all I've done. I've given bread to your son-in-law, I've given a sword To the husband of your daughter, and I've inquired the Lord for your kingdom. He's one of your main men that came here. What has changed? What has changed? Oh a lot had changed. And so he says in verse fifteen to the king he's pleading he's begging let not the king impute anything unto his servants nor to all the house of my father he must have been suspect as he's talking about David being the son of And David being the captain and David being a man of God and David being someone he should be. He must have seen Saul's face getting redder and redder and and the scrowl on his his face, a scowl on his face, and his brows just getting more tense. And he must have realized that everything he was saying was only irritating him more. That's why I say to people, if you have to deal with someone on a touchy or A situ a situation that's that's very sensitive, don't do it on email. Don't do it on the phone. You need to be right in front of them so you can watch the body language and the face to realize I gotta tone this back a little bit. I gotta lighten this up even more. I've got to say this with more love. I've got to change my vocabulary. It's best to deal with sensitive face to face. And here he is, and he's dealing with Saul, and he realizes that as he's praising David, Saul is getting angrier and angrier. And he realizes that Saul is on the verge of perhaps that remember that javelin Saul always carries on he's on the verge of thrusting it right through the high priest the Himalach and he's and he says to him he says Oh king don't impute anything onto his servant don't impute these bad things onto me and nor to the house of my father he must have been suspect He is getting so angry, I think he's gonna kill me and my wife and the family dog and maybe the rest of the I I have you know he said don't impute this to me, your servant, or to the house of my father I knew nothing about this feud between you and David. I knew nothing about it. So please don't impute any evil On my part, or the part of the 84 priests that are here. In verse 16, Saul said, Thou shalt surely When you hear those words from someone who can put you to death That shakes you to the very soul. I remember years ago I wrote a letter to the White House when Jimmy Carter was the president. And I got a letter back. I thought wow, I got a letter back to the president of the White House Station. That's really nice. And it was re-signed. It wasn't one of those you know letters that comes off of a Machine. And I knew it was a real letter. It didn't come off the machine because it was only about two sentences long, and it said, Your views and opinions have been carefully noted. That's all he said. I thought, whoa. They probably still have those views. carefully noted in my little folder somewhere. And here the king says, Thou shalt surely die. It didn't mean you're going to die someday of old age, you're going to die someday of an accident or a car accident, or surely you're getting older and you're you look kind of sick. He meant he was going to kill him. He's going to have him put to death. Thou shalt surely die. And he doesn't stop there. And all thy father's house Why? This is so unreasonable. I mean maybe Ahimelech did help David, and maybe Ahimelech knew or suspected But what do the other eighty-four priests have to do with this? It is so unreasonable. And and Dog brought the report. If you remember last week we he read the report, he says the king saw away. I was there in Nob, in the city of Nob, in the city of the priests And I saw Ahimelech, and I saw him like give him bread, and I saw him like give him the sword of Goliath, and I saw Himalach inquire of the Lord and pray for him. And you looked at the Old Testament and dog, he's an Edomite. And Edomites hate Israelites. Remember, Edom and Edomite And as though it seemed like it kind of patches up between them, it never really does, at least among their own children. children and grandchildren and Esau's family, the Edomites, they hate Jacob, the Jews, the Israelites, and this hatred is there. And Dog comes in and he says, Ahimelech the high priest did this, and he did this, and he did this. He never mentions the other 84 priests. As though they were involved. We don't even know if they were there. We don't even know if they were there the night that David came. Dog doesn't accuse all the priests and their families of treason. And so the second thing I want you to know here is that the enemies of God, uh our enemies that we should be considering is this: that the enemy has an unreasonable hatred for those in service of the Lord. He has an unreasonable hatred for God's people. It's just unreasonable that these other priests they weren't even there. It's unreasonable to impute to Himelech without proof that he knew That the son-in-law was not in good standing. And it's unreasonable that from Dog's report of Ahimelech singular that Saul decides to kill all 85 of the priests of the city of Nob. He's going to expand the killing order. And in verse 19, boy, is it expanded. I don't know if Saul gave this, but he probably did because he says, Thou shalt surely die in all thy father's house. Underscore the word all. And so what does Dog do? He kills all. We start to find that in verse 19. He kills the 85 priests, but he also kills their women. their children, their baby sucklings, their oxen, their asses, and their sheep of the sword. He kills all of thy father's house, doesn't he? When he says all, he means all. This is the same King Saul. If we go back just a couple of chapters, and you go back to chapter 15, to go back to chapter 15, verses 8 and 9. This is the same Name King Saul, who when he was told to kill all King Agag and all the Amalekites, he didn't. He spared the king, he spared the King Sheikh and the best The sheep, the best of the oxen, the best of the of the livestock. This king, Saul, who spares an enemy, the Amalekites. He he's the Amalekites, they were part of the Kenites, the original Horrible tribes are in the promised land when uh Joshua came in the promised land. The Amalekites are horrible, carnal as can be. And King Saul, he spares their king in that And he spares the best of sheep and the cats high in the livestock. But when it comes to Israel, when it comes to David David, when it comes to the high priest and the priest of the Lord Jesus Christ, the priest, the high priest of God, he said, Don't spare any of them. Kill them all. They're women, their children, their animals, livestock, nothing shall live That's just unreasonable. And that's I said the second thing we ought to note is the unreasonable hatred. the enemies of God. That same unreasonable hatred will show up when the priests are pleaing with Pilate. I mean, that's an unreasonable scene if you ever saw one They said, you know, this is a day when you normally release one person. It's narrowing the Passover. And he said, so I've got Barabbas, the murderer, the seditionist, the robber. He said, and I've got Jesus over here who's Healing people, raising them from the dead, cleansing leprosy, making people walk, the blind to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to understand. He said, So do you want the murderous, seditious treason Of Rome released. Or the man that can come back out and raise more of your dead and love folks. What do you want? And the unreasonable hate of the priesthood was give us maravas Give us the murderer. Give us the seditionist, the man who's trying to overthrow the Roman government. Now Pilate in his own mind ought to have said, wait a minute, if I release the guy that's trying to overthrow the Roman government, because that's what Barabbas is saying is trying to do. Caesar is not going to be happy with me. But the unreason was a high the unreasonable priest give us for rabbits crucify the Christ that is unreasonable hatred it's just unreasonable That's why people who aren't saved, who hate the Word of God, you can lay all the evidence you want in front of them about evolution versus corruption. Creation and they are just they're not reasonable. They're just not reasonable. The unreasonable hatred. You know what's unreasonable? We know perhaps somebody sitting right Here, you've never sought Christ as your Savior. And you know you're not perfect. And you know you've sinned. And you know that someday you'll be hauled before the Supreme Court of justice in the heavens to account for your sins, you know it. And you may say, Well, maybe next week, next month, next year. I'm I had a girl tell me one time, you know, that that religion thing, that born-again, I I could really get into that someday. What's unreasonable is you're going to wait for that special day. This day your soul may be required of you. This hour. It's unreasonable to wait to ask God to forgive you of your sins. It's unreasonable to tell God, I want you to wait. I still got a couple more weeks or months of sinning I want to do. A couple of sins I haven't quite done yet. Or haven't I haven't quenched my thirst of certain sins, but once I get all that done, then I'm going to ask God to forgive me and I'm going to go straight. But I need a I need about twenty years of sowing my wild oats or whatever. That's unreasonable, because you maybe don't have twenty years or twenty days or twenty minutes. You have an unreasonable hatred. If you haven't asked God to cleanse your soul of your sins and wash them in the blood of Christ, if you haven't asked God if your sin Or if you know someone that has not done that, that is so unreasonable. It shows here's what's unreasonable about it. It shows that a person who hasn't asked Christ to forgive them has an unreasonable for hatred for their own soul. They have no concern for their own soul. They have no concern for where that soul is going to spend eternity. They have no concern for what hell will be like for that soul in eternity. That's an unreasonable hatred, friend, that you have no concern no concern for the deer out in the woods, no concern for the uh the mosquito on your No concern for the birds in your backyard. Yes, I understand. But no concern for your soul that will live for eternity in a place called hell if you don't repent of your sins. laid on the cross of Christ. That's an unreasonable hatred for your own soul. Your own soul. If you still love sin, then you hate your own soul. And you know what? Verse 17, Saul he turns to his bodyguard called the footmen that are around about him. This is a special bodyguard for us, kind of like the secret service guys that the president has. He says, Slay the priest of the Lord because her hand is with David. He didn't say, Slay the priest of the Lord, because these men are abortionist You know, he doesn't say that. Slay these men because these are serial rapists or serial murderers or serial kills. He says, Slay these priests because their hand is with David. And I want you to pay a special attention at verse 17. He doesn't say to the his special secret services, his bodyguards of him, I want you to slay these men. He doesn't say that. He said, I want to slay these priests of the Lord. Whoa. He hasn't forgotten who these guys are. They're standing with their ephods, made their breastplates. These men are they've got their clerical garb on. He has not forgotten who they are. And and for all the posterity, for a whole record to be read for thousands of years, he says, Slay the priests of the Lord Almost as if that was another reason to kill them. There's a priests of Yahweh. They're the priests of Jehovah. It's like it's another reason to kill them. He has got such animosity for the things of God and the people of God And the servants of God slay the priests of the Lord. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand And to fall upon the priests. Who think there's ever anybody in the White House who refuses to do what the priest There have been rare occasions where a private or little Little Lowling refused to do what the colonel or the general said to do. He paid dearly. But who tells the king I won't do it and his whole bodyguard not one of his whole main bodyguard not one of his Secret service, as it were. Not one of them. It says that the servants of the king, plural, would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests. God always has his people in some of the almost unlikely places, doesn't he? Remember the midwife, they disobeyed the Pharaoh of Egypt when he wanted all the the little Jewish boy babies killed. Here are the bodyguards, they disobey Saul. I found interesting in my reading, and some please correct me after church if you come and tell me if I'm wrong, but I go to the crucifixion of Christ, and Pilate orders the Roman guard to scourge him, and they play with him, they punch him in the face, they slap him, and they make mockery of him with the robes, and they put the And then they take him out of Goggle, nail his hands and his feet to the cross, you know, and they they throw his body up there and then they try to they stand there watching him die. I can't find anywhere in the testimony of of sex History or in the Bible anywhere, that one Roman soldier said, No, I won't crucify the Christ. Not one There were midwives that told the Pharaoh, no. There were the personal bodyguards of Saul. All of them said, no. But when it came to the crucifixion of Christ, Satan itself enveloped the lives of the soldiers, the Gentiles, and the priests, and the Sadducees and the Pharisees. There wasn't there wasn't one standing up and boldly proclaiming, No, I won't drive those nails. his hands and his feet. No, I won't shove the spear in his side. No, I won't scourge him. We don't find anywhere talk about a hatred for the things of God. Why why was why was there not somebody that said no to Pilate Well, we have the reason in scripture, Acts 4, 27 and 28, why no one said no. For of a truth, the Holy Jesus Both Herod and Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together to do whatsoever God's hand and counsel. Determined before to be done. It was predestined that Christ would die on the cross, that he'd shed his blood for the sins of the world. It was predestined that he would die he he must die, that he would die. There would be nothing there to stop it. And these men, they were not going to say no to Pilate because it was predetermined from before the Gentile and Jew and Pilate, they'd all be gathered together against the Christ. Boy, if you don't believe there's a Satan in the world, if you don't really believe there's someone out there so disgusting and so hateful, that's that's involved in controlling the minds and the hearts of people, how is it, you know, you can go into any audience, you can go into any city, any country, and you can't get them all to agree To do something. But here, at the crucifixion of Christ, there's not one Roman soldier that says no. Not one Sadducee that says no. Pilate doesn't say no. And so the king in verses 18 and 19, he said the dog fall upon the priest and dog the Edomite. He didn't say no. Because he's an Edomite, remember that? He fell upon the priest and he slew on that day fourscore and five. Remember Lincoln the Gazeburg Address? Four score and seven years ago? Four score. a biblical term. Oh, I can't stand and read the King James Bible. It's so difficult to understand. This four scores of what is that? Well then don't read the Gainesburg Address either. Forescore is a biblical term. Forscore and five that wore the linen ephid, the priest. And why did God allow that to happen? That's an ugly part of history, isn't it? To kill eighty-five people Why would God it's an ugly part of history that Christ died on the cross, but now we know why. It seemed like an ugly, ugly part of history until the resurrection of Christ On Sunday morning, doesn't it? And that God allows some of these ugly parts of history to take place. Why does He allow this one to take place? Because it fulfills a 50-year-old plus prophecy that the house of Eli. Remember several months ago? House of Eli, his sons were laying with the women at the door of the congregation, and they were stealing the meat off the sacrifice to God, the burnt offerings, and God became so distressed. Just uh enchanted with them and hated. Then he said of the house of Eli, the day will come when there will not be one man sitting in the temple or in the tabernacle. From the loins, from the bloodline of Eli. They'll all be wiped out. Now it doesn't mean they were all as guilty as Eli's two sons, but it just meant that God was going to get rid of that line of freedom. And it happens here. Forscore and five of them are dead. Fulfills the prophecy in 1 Samuel 2, verses 31 through 36. And so This is what Dog does. He kills all 85. He fulfills prophecy, but woe unto the dog that fills prophecy Judas Iscariot, woe unto the man that betrays Christ. It was prophesied that the one that lifted up his heel against me I ate bread with. But it was prophesied that one would betray Christ. But woe unto the one that did. And it was prophesied here that the day would come when these priests will all be wiped out. But woe unto the dog that does it. And his name is Dog. God is able to take the ugliest of events in history the crucifixion of the cross. That's got to be the ugliest event in history. But this is a pretty ugly event too. God is able to take the ugliest events in history and give them beauty for ashes. We read in Isaiah 16. He's able to give us the oil of joy, oil of joy for mourning, that he might be glorified. Something ugly going on in your life. Can't understand why God's allowing this to happen. Why is God doing this? How many of you ever heard people say, Why is God allowing this? Why is God allowing Would they ever say, why is Satan doing this? Why is Satan doing this? What have I done to irritate? You know, Satan never gets brought in the picture. He doesn't exist, I guess, or something. But God does allow Satan to go after Job's family, go after Job's goods. But God brought great glory out of it. Job never cursed God through all of that. God can take the ugliest events in history. He can bring beauty out of ashes, the oil of joy from mourning. Christ is an example of that. He was delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God. God. Why did they crucify Christ? It was determined by his father, the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God. But you have taken by wicked hands and crucified and slayed him. 2 and 23. Yes, it was determined by the council of God. Yes, it would determine that our sins might be cleansed. But those who did it, you did it with wicked hands, he says in Acts 2 and 23. You have slain him and crucified him with your wicked hands and your wicked heart. It's no excuse. Well, I was predestined to do it. That's no excuse It's written on the heart of man what is right and what is wrong, and if he does wrong, he can't say, Well, I was predestined to steal that car. A man used that one time in the court. He told the judge, Your Honor, uh, do you believe in the Bible? And the judge says, Well, I I read it sometime He says, well, the Bible says that we're all predestined. The judge thought I was familiar with that. Well, I was predestined to steal your car. You know, the judge said, I'm predestined to send you to jail for six years. That's the way it works The third thing we note about our enemy, the enemy sometimes will turn Turn our life and our world upside down, mess things up so bad that we see no hope in sight. You ever been there? Your life's so messed up one day to another, things are going on just peachy And all of a sudden they're turned upside down, there seems like there's no answer, there's no hope in sight at all. The enemy will do that. And if you note here and you should in the city of Nob where eighty five priests are now dead, and their wives and their children and their sucklings and their babes and their cattle and their sheep You can't get rid of sorrow like that. That lasts forever. And when Christ as a babe is born And Herod goes in and wipes out all the babies in Bethlehem and as far as Rachel's heard weeping all the way up to the city of Rama. I mean he wiped out we have no idea what the numbers of babies were that he killed from two years and younger. How do you how do you forget about that sorrow? You don't. There are things that happen in our lives that they're sorrowful, they're painful, they're hurtful. And you know, I uh my wife says it she says When her mother died and they were they were very close, they were as close as the mother and daughter could be. And I said, How do you feel about that? And she says, Well, mom's been dead now for over twenty years. I actually been dead for forty years now. My wife said, It's a little easier after 40 years There's some things that are happening to you folks today and or that will happen in the next weeks or months or of your life, and they're gonna hurt. And you're not gonna get over some of these things. There's going to be that sorrow. There's going to be that pain. Things that won't go away. But I want to I want you to know this. Your enemy, Satan, who loves to bring you pain and sorrow, he'll never feel able to claim victory over a soul that is saved. He'll never be able to claim victory over God's people, over God's church. I want you to know there there will not be a victory for For him. He'll have eternal sorrow. Ours is only while we're still here on earth. He'll have eternal sorrow. He'll never claim victory. And there's ample historical proof for all of that. For Pharaoh, he can't claim victory in the Red Sea, can he? Exodus 14 and 28. Jezebel, she can't claim victory. She's flying out the window and heading to the pavement, can she? Haman. Haman can't claim victory over Mordecai and the Jews as he's standing on the on the gallows that he built for the Jews. He can't claim victory, can he? And Herod, he's standing there before all the people, he's preaching, and all of a sudden he's devoured by worms, and his last words are victory, victory, victory. The enemies of God will never claim victory. And their sorrow will be for eternity. Our sorrow is temporary. There are better and brighter days coming for the Christian. Maybe not today. But there are better and brighter days coming. The enemies of Israel could not have done more damage to that nation Saul did this day when he killed eighty-five of the priests. The men who sacrificed the blood of animals for the people's sin. The men who had the Bible, the Old Testament memorized The men who shared the gospel with your children and your grandchildren and set an example to walk with God. of the nation of Israel and what Saul had done right here that day. He'd killed off the gospel preachers, the evangelists, the priests, and their children. Saul with his accomplice has accomplished more than the Philistines could have ever hoped. hope for or the Canaanites. And he's done it in one day with a man named Dog. Saul, who has fractured his relationship with his son Jonathan, Saul who has fractured his relationship with the prophet Samuel, Saul who has fractured the relationship with the remaining Levites. And remember, not all priests served at the hill of Nob, not all priests served the sacrifice. There were priests That were the would bring the wood, and there were priests who would put the showbread on the table, and there were other priests who did other things, but he had wiped out those who did the sacrifices for Israel And there were other Levites throughout the whole nation of Israel, but the majority of the priests were at and at Nob, in the city of Nob, and he wiped them out. There were Levites out there, and he had fractured his relationship with all the tribe of Levi In doing what he had done here. And he had nauseated his own personal bodyguards. And probably nauseated the majority of the people in all of the eleven tribes. of Israel for what he had done. Oh sure, Saul can say, Hey, but dog is still with me. If that's where you are today, if you're still out there world, you're running around while you're drunk and Buddies and your druggie friends and so forth, and you say, Yeah, but I still got my buddy Jim over here. If that's what you've got, if that's what you've got, you are a pretty sorry, lonely soul That you have to point to some disreputable character like dog and say, He's still with me. Oh, he'll do anything for me. He's done anything for me. Give me the shirt off my back. Wow. Israel's in quite a fix here. They've killed the gospel messengers. That's what the king has done. He's come down on those who some of them served like his chaplains in his military. Ahimelech had done that. He was like The chaplain to King Saul. He inquired the Lord, he directed him in his battles. When you got a ruler, when you've got a ruler that hasn't the support of God's people, I think about this. When you've got a ruler that hasn't got the support of God When you've got a ruler who has ignored the laws of the land, and he did that because the scripture says Psalm hundred and five fifteen Touch not my anointed. And Saul had done that. He'd ignored the rules of the of the land, the laws of the land. When you've got a ruler that ignores God's people Ignores the laws of the land, who undermines the justice system. Ahimelech had no trial. There was no 12 men to listen to the other side. He ignores the system of justice. He soon loses his charm And his end will not be pretty, I promise you that. Providential Verse 20, one of the sons of Ahimelech, Aliarthar, escaped And he fled after David and showed David what Saul had slain the Lord's priest. The Pharaoh's some call the postnatal care program that the Pharaoh had. After the born, you can still kill him. We've got something like that going on today. They bring the baby out alive and they're still allowed to kill him. The Pharaoh had this great plan for getting rid of the Hebrew babies, but one, he missed one named Moses, didn't he? Abby Arthur, he escaped. Saul missed one. Well, same thing with Pharaoh, he missed one, Moses, Exodus 2, 1 through 10. Athelia, the queen of Israel, she was a murderer, she went and killed all the royal sea, but she missed one, Joash, Second Kings eleven And then this Herod, the slaughter of the babies of Bethlehem. But he missed one real important one, Emmanuel Jesus the Christ, Matthew two thirteen And what we see here is that no matter how wicked the enemy of God is, how wicked the enemy of God's people is, they're always going to miss some really important ones. That escape. Are you one of the important ones? This escape from the world, that you've escaped from your habitual sin life, that you've escaped from eternity called hell. Are you one of the ones? I hope there's plenty of em here this morning David says unto Abbey Arthur, I will occasion the death of all thy father's house. Abide with me, fear not, you'll be safe with me. I'll I'll I say he said you'll be I'll be your safeguard. If you won't die unless I die, I'll be your safeguard. You the last person that you will see will be me dying over your body to protect you. I'll take care of you. Now as we've been reading through this, King David David has a small motley group with him, doesn't he? And he is the king. He was anointed by Samuel. He really is the king. King David has a small group, but it includes Gad, the prophet 1 Samuel 22 5. And a now improved Abhiarthar 2220, the high priest, and he is the king as well. This is really a pretty hopeful Combination. It may look like he's almost destitute up there in the cave of Adulum hiding from everybody with a motley crew of dissidents with him. But he's got a gad. He's got an Adi Arthur, and he is the king So pilgrims, do you have Christ in your heart? Because Christ is prophet, priest, and king. If you got Christ in your heart And the scripture declares that Christ is prophet, priest, and king. You've got a pretty hopeful combination. If you're saved, if you're saved this morning, you couldn't be in a better situation No matter how dark your world looks at this moment, if you're saved, you can't be in a better situation if Christ. is in your heart. If you're one of the ones that has escaped your old sin life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. for history, his story, the story of God from creation to resurrection to revelation. Oh Lord, we just thank you so much for these Books, chapters, verses to encourage us that we have hope in any situation. But there's a day when you'll wipe away all our tears and fill us with joy. Oh Lord, we we look forward to that day, and for many of us here we can pray, even so, come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. And God's people said, Amen.