Today it's something that I can help you appreciate because I'm beginning to appreciate it more that I look at it Hebrews 12, 3 to 4 says this. Consider him that endured such, and here's the phrase, contradiction of sinners. That's that's just I don't know how I've read over that too quickly in the past. Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. Ye have not resisted unto blood striving against sin. That phrase contradiction of sinners is fascinating to me. And so I began to look and I said, you know what, this will be a great homework assignment. Have you all do a little looking and searching And to try to find some events in Jesus' life and ministry that stood out as examples of contradiction of sinners. Now, I probably should have clarified the assignment a little bit more. It was the I the way I took the phrase was to mean the hypocrisy of the the kettle calling the pot black is the phrase that we use here. Somebody who's accusing the Lord as something they themselves are very much guilty of. And the example I gave was in John 1, 10 and 11. So let's turn there and then I'm going to turn to those who uh actually gave a written response from our online audience. I'll give them a a shot at this first and then you all can uh jump in and and maybe if the Lord prompts your mind to some others you can uh join in this uh this morning. And I'm gonna spend about 30 minutes just on this exercise because I think it's a fascinating exercise The biggest, fattest, obvious one to me that stood out is John 1. 10. He came unto his own, his own people. And his own No, verse I'm sorry, verse 10. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. So the entire human planet had zero reason for not recognizing who he was. Can't imagine that. I you know, I've made some things in my garage, but none of them have any kind of active intelligence that they could recognize me Yet here the creator of the universe steps into our space-time history. Nobody recognizes him. It goes on, he came into his own, and his own received him not. Now, these you would think The people of God, the Israelites, the Jews, who had the promises, who had the prophecies, who had a lot of specific descriptions concerning the coming of the Messiah when he came And no I'm not. To me that's a contradiction of sinners, and it's a really good thumbnail sketch of kind of what I was looking for. So let me read a few that we we got from online. Our brother in Arizona was the first to cross the finish line And he got an A plus because he gave probably three pages and I said, can you boil it down? And he did. He put it down to a nice set of bullet points. So I'm very proud, very proud of you, brother He uh uh picked up one. Um I'm just gonna pick on a couple here because everybody's got quite a few of those who who who assigned some things. The healing of the paraplegic, you know, he this fellow was let down from the roof. This is the account in Luke 5 and verse 20. And uh he actually uh standing there preaching and he says to them all, which is easier to say Thy sons be forgiven thee, or rise, take up thy bed and walk. That's quite the conundrum of a question, right? And then people have focused on, is it easier to say it, or does he mean say it and do it? Well, the Son of Man can handle either way. He healed him. Nobody has ever seen a paraplegic. That's nerve damage. That's muscle atrophy. That's memory of how to actually move. and coordinate the movement. It says he got up, he picked up his bed, and it later later talks about him leaping, I think about Elias, leaping and jumping around. He could do that. And you would think if somebody could demonstrate that miracle in front of you, you might begin to take more seriously his claim Yeah, this man can actually forgive sins because surely this is the Christ. They could surely make that connection. Contradiction. There was a cognitive dissonance in their mind that wasn't being resolved. That's a good one Now one that I also liked brother pointed out was in Mark uh Oh I'm sorry, I'm actually covering uh uh I'm covering uh our sister in uh PG County. Sorry Mike. You have short short short summaries. Well I just had it flipped. Anyway, the other one was in Mark 1460 where Jesus is before the Sanhedrin He had done a ton of miracles. These are the smart religious rulers. These are the people who know the law. These are the people who teach the law. These are the people who read the law. They teach those who read the la They can't even produce a set of witnesses to consistently testify against him. All of their efforts to prosecute him fail. And it wasn't until Jesus opened his mouth, because he was silent the whole time, when the high priest put him under an oath, saying, I adjured thee, meaning I put you under oath Tell us if you're the Christ. He says, I am, and hereafter you'll see And he says thou hast said, and hereafter you'll see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power He said, what further need have we of witnesses? This man has spoken blasphemy. Just an odd contradiction. They can't even get their own false witnesses to stick He's about as innocent as he gets, and yet they said he's worthy of death. Very good, very good uh picks. Alright, our brother in Arizona. Here's the ones he picked up, sorry. Um John 5 The Jews, which appears to be perhaps the Pharisees, who appeared to be the most moral and orthodox Jews, had the greatest intellectual scripture of knowledge. Did not could not believe the scriptures about the Messiah right in front of them. In the passage there was uh a mild rebuke spoken of by the man who was healed. He's uneducated He hasn't known anything about the scriptures, and yet he's mildly rebuking them. Kind of reminds you of John 9, where the man healed. He says, Would you learn of him too? He says, I I don't know if this man's a sinner or not. It seems the uneducated knew more that this was the Messiah than the very well educated. A complete contradiction. It just doesn't make sense. Uh John 70 pointed out that the officers answering the Pharisees who said, you know, let's uh Let's go capture this man and why didn't you bring him? And they said, never man spake like this man before. And uh So the Jews who were outwardly devout and keeping the law of Moses, but they didn't keep that law in their hearts. Again, a contradiction. And the Lord sees the hearts as well as the mind and the outward deed. Another good one. Turn to this one. This is in John chapter 11. I do like this one. This one is particularly fascinating to me. Actually, let's go to John 12 is where I want to go. The whole context, of course, is the raising of Lazarus, but let's go to John chapter 12 and we'll start uh at uh verse 1 We'll bring that up on the screen and then we'll jump down to verse 9. John 12, 1. Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany. where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. And there they made him a supper. Martha served. Of course, what else should Martha do? But Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Now Lazarus was raised from the dead in the prior chapter. See, she's throwing a big dinner event. This is just an amazing event for her. Skip down to verse 9. Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he, that is Jesus, was there. And they came not for Jesus' sake only. But that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. Wow, what what a show, right? This is the man that was raised from the dead, and here's the one that did it I would love to have been at that event. Can you imagine? Ask Lazarus, what did it feel like? What was it like to slip off into death? What was it Uh how did you feel and and how did he raise you from the dead? And what did you notice and just all those kinds of questions? What did you feel? Were you kind of creaky and achy or you know, just all Did you feel an infusion of strength in your body? Oh, that would have been interesting conversation. What an amazing event. And then look at the next verse. But the chief priest consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death, because by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. So What what are they thinking? Jesus just raised him from the dead. Well maybe if we put him to death a different way, Jesus can't bring him out of That? I just what? What what what are we thinking? How backwards can you be? That's a massive contradiction And it really seems to, you know, work against what might be something that they could rejoice in. Hallelujah glory, hallelujah. We actually have one greater than the prophets. Is this not surely the Messiah? What others did you find? Those were just the ones from online. What are some other ones that you find or considered? Well that's what in in uh John, so I guess I'm not sure. Where where's the account? Let's all go to that Luke with Luke chapter two It starts with verse uh forty-one and then goes through forty-nine. But um I think the the key verses to read there are forty-eight and forty-nine Okay. Which is uh Go ahead go ahead and read those two. Just get it in front of us. And just a little background I think would be helpful before I read the two verses. Sure. This was after uh They visited Jerusalem and then when uh Joseph and Mary left they didn't realize that Christ was left back in Jerusalem at the temple. So they go back to him and then this is their response. Um verse forty eight And when they saw him they were amazed and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me, wished ye not that I must be about my father's business? And so, you know, they they would have known that um This child that they have is is from the Lord and uh he was conceived by the Holy Ghost, who was certainly a mission, he was the Messiah, and yet they were concerned, you know how is it that you dealt with us in this manner? But but his response is, you know, you you should have known, you know, uh how is it that you sought me? You know, why why is it that you were seeking me? Didn't you know uh whiskey not that I must be about my father's business. So it was uh somewhat of a contradiction there that they should have known that what he's doing is right, what he's doing is of the Lord and yet they were upset about it. That's a good point because his they were not the regular set of parents, right? When you all had a Marissa when you were Pregnant, you didn't have an angel visit you and tell you, you know, not to worry about this thing, and you know the child is of the Lord. And by the way, this is the name you're gonna give him. I mean, probab I'm guessing that probably didn't happen, right? I'm pretty sure it's a safe bet. Uh yeah, how could they have forgotten that? That surely this would be a very different child that he's that he's tarrying in the temple where the worship of God is? Yeah, I guess we would expect that. There was We would have some expectations that he would be an unusually spiritually minded child. Right? A contradiction. They just didn't connect the dots. That's a good one. Any other passages that perhaps come to your mind? This contradiction. Just I of course Benny and I were both English miners. So we love to take words apart. So I think of uh contradiction, contra being the prefix, contrary to, against, and diction being the root of uh to dictate or to speak. You know, and so so often they spoke against his speech. Uh, thou that sayest dest uh will destroy the temple, you know, if you be the Chr Christ come down from the cross. You know, where they're where they spoke directly against his speech. But he was the one that spoke the world into existence. Mm-hmm. It's interesting you're uh uh dissecting that word, and thank you for that. I hadn't thought about uh dissecting the the English version of it Uh the the Greek word is quite interesting. It's the word anti-logia. Where we would give again logia logic. It's illogical. It's just not right. It's uh it's so when it puts it contradiction of sinners, uh the sense I get coming across is the hypocrisy of what they're saying, which is what you're pointing out. They're speaking against him. He spoke the world into existence. How can you dare do that? Here's some other flagrant examples, please. Um, I guess I kinda like did a quick scan of this whole thing and what nearly struck me was every single thing Jesus said. Every single thing he did there were those who opposed it and when I was thinking of a contradiction since I was thinking that that was really contrary to their own salvation and their own needs. Everything he did, everything he taught was so that they might be safe, and yet they were contrary to him and resolved in their own destruction. Um there were a lot that I came up with, but I was thinking about um Pilate, who declared this is an innocent man, and yet he crucified them You know, and Herod or Pilot I don't remember which one it was, who put the seal on the tomb so that he couldn't rise. And yet he rose and well, their unbelief it was his resurrection who would have been their salvation, and yet they did everything to remedy to his father That's a really good point that all that he did was for those people, for their salvation, for their benefit, and yet they actively resisted every step of the way. His entire ministry was one of great resistance And Jeffrey, you'll appreciate Pilates called. He gave him, he got a favorable ruling from the court, but it didn't help. Right. I mean, you know, it's like, okay, now what do I do? Right? I mean, y y what do you appeal to now? What a contradiction. Pilate is a walking kind. He's politics on display. There's nothing new there. Just Whatever appeases the people, uh it just was really astounding. Anybody else have any others? Because I had a few also to to point out Once you start looking for them, you'll find quite a few. Did you have any? You didn't do your homework. That's okay. You brought me uh you brought me something good to eat. I appreciate it. I was gonna say how um well two things. One is that when uh Christ was taken to be crucified, his disciples abandoned him at that time. Um Which, you know, they were the ones that were closest to him there in the ministry, and yet at that at that uh very hour of his uh trial they had had gone away. Same same thing, same kind of concept with um the few disciples that were with him sleeping while he was uh in his season of of prayer in agony before he was being taken. No. This was this was the the greatest time to support him and yet uh they weren't there for him. Mm-hmm. Even his very closest apostles were falling asleep at his time of greatest need of prayer. Joy? contradiction but John the Baptist questioning are you the Christ. Yeah that's a good one. That's a really good one, right? John really scratching his head. You know, here he is in prison. He's got to have some doubts and wondering, are you the Christ? And he's the very one that said, Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. He could talk to his mother who would say, yeah, you were miraculously, you know, conceived in the womb. I was past age and my niece uh had similar and with Mary and so they would have known of this miraculous birth that they were both Yeah, how can a prophet not know? Yeah, there's a contradiction even of a prophet. That's a really good one to pull out. Thanks. That's a good one After the resurrection, the chief priests and the whole priesthood knew that Christ had risen because the soldiers told them, but they still perpetuated the lie. There's another good one, yeah. Truth is right in their face, they can't deny it. The easiest way to stamp out this early sect would be to simply produce the body of Jesus and say, see, here he is. But they could never fall back on that approach because they didn't have the body, because it wasn't there. Yeah. So I came up with uh uh fourteen of them, thirteen actually, and and my wife kicked in one as well, which I thought was very good. Um Oh, I forgot uh our brother in Texas. He let me get to some of his as well. Um go to Luke chapter 4. You know, you talked about his family. We're hopefully there in Luke already from earlier if uh one. But um in Luke four uh we have what I call the religionist being offended. It begins in verse sixteen Um and it really is, you know, kind of his own own family. It says uh Luke 4. 16, and he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went on the Sabbath, excuse me, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for to read Skip down to verse 22. So basically we have from that Jesus in his hometown. Hometown boy in his hometown synagogue. Verse 22. After he reads, it says, All bear him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. What a beautiful speech, what a marvelous reading, the emphasis on certain words. And then he declared that this day the scriptures fulfilled in your ears. And what do they reclave? They said, Is not this Joseph's son? Is not this Joseph's son? Verse 22. And then in verse 24, he said, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. Here he is among his own people, among his own kin, and they didn't receive him. Well, what does it mean they didn't receive him? Well look at verse 28. And all they, not a few, all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath, and rose up and thrust him out of the city And led him into the brow of the hill where their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. Here your hometown boy just showed up, and it turns out he's more than just a fine young man. He's Somebody who's actually declaring, hey, I'm the fulfillment of this. He announces it first to his family to let them know Yes, I I am in fact the Messiah, the one to come. These things are fulfilled in your ears. And their response, complete contradiction, thrust him out. Get rid of him. Very offended. Yep, that's a very good one. He had no honor among his family You know, uh the Mark 4 uh six to two. Uh let's look at Mark 4, 6. Um Mark chapter 4, and going to Mark chapter 6, Mark chapter 6, my apologies, Mark chapter 6, verse 2 When the Sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence hath this man these things? What wisdom is this, which is given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, Joseph, Judah, and Simon Are not his sisters here with us? Yes, Jesus had sisters, half-sisters, and they were offended at him Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, but in his own country, among his own kin, in his own house. So he had the contradiction of sinners of his own family. He had no family support. His family was against him You know, I think about people that are converted in the Muslim countries. They don't have any support for their family. Their family will be very much that response, rise up with wrath to kill them. It's called an honor killing. You've dishonored our family. It's the honorable thing for us to kill you. And yeah, that happens in the States There's been attempts of very zealous Muslim husbands against their daughters or sons if they do something contrary to their pagan law. Here's another good one. Go back to Luke 4. This is the devils that appeared in Luke 4. 33. You talk about a big contradiction. Here he's getting all this resistance and pushback, but there's one that sort of didn't in an unusual way. It's the demons in Luke 4. 33. It says, In the synagogue there was a man which had the spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. Wow. Wow. Here's a demon confessing Jesus is the Holy One of God. That's astounding. How is it that the devils knew this? Verse 41, skip down a few verses in the same chapter, Luke 4, 41. Devils also came out of many, crying out and saying, Thou art the Christ, the Son of God. And he, rebuking them, suffered them not to speak, for they knew that he was the Christ. Well now that's a contradiction. The devils for whom there is no salvation, whom Christ suffered them not to speak, they were not given a commission, they were not given permission to speak, they know who Jesus is. They're making a confession that he is the Christ long before the disciples do in Matthew 16. That just doesn't make sense. How can that be? They have no problem. They understand. This You know, if you're in Jesus' shoes, this has got to be strange. He was called Beelzebub. He was called the chief devil because he cast out a demon. Well, wait a minute. If Jesus can cast out a devil, why am I the chief of the devils? He reasons with them, because if Satan cast out Satan, his house is divided. He's not divided against himself. He would be doing his own work against him. He says, by what power do your disciples do that? You know, he's reasoning with them. Why would they call him the chief of the devils when he's able to cast out a devil? It's a contradiction. That makes zero sense It's this absolutely ludicrous response. Joey, you were talking about John the Baptist. You know, look at Matthew 11. This is a good one as well. Here's another great contradiction the Lord Jesus points out, Matthew 11 and verse 16 Matthew 11, 16, Jesus said this, Whereunto shall I liken? To what am I going to compare this generation? It's like children sitting in the markets calling unto their fellows. Saying, we've piped unto you, we've played nice music for you, we've played something you can dance to, and you've not danced. We have mourned unto you, we've played sad songs, and you haven't lamented. In other words, these children can't be satisfied. It doesn't matter what song they play, they're going to say, well, you're not doing what we want. What's the application? That's the little parable he gives. He says they're like children Verse 18, he says, John, John the Baptist, came neither eating nor drinking. Remember, he's in the desert. He eats locusts and wild honey. He's very ascetic. He's a Nazarene from his youth. And they say he has a devil. All right. Well, what about somebody who does eat and drink? The Son of Man came eating and drinking. He was eating and drinking with publicans. Others, and they say, behold, a man gluttonous in a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. Well, they didn't like that either. It doesn't matter. You had two holy people One's very aesthetic, the other one eats all things. They're not satisfied. Contradiction. They have a complete contradiction of their position. And Jesus points it out. There's many like things. The Jews of John 6, who were hungry, they came seeking food from Jesus because he knew he could feed them. Here's a tip. You want to have a good Bible study? Feed people. And they'll show up for the food. That'll be 75 to 80% of the reason they show up for the Bible study. And they watch them fall asleep when you start teaching. It just happens So here's all these hungry Jews. And then in John 6. 41, let me get to that because we've got to read that. In John 6. 41, what do they say then? The Jews murmured. They murmured at him because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. They said, Isn't this Jesus, the Son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it that he says I came down from heaven? He goes on, verse 60, as he continues to teach them. Many, therefore, of his disciples, when they heard this, said, this is a hard saying, who can hear it? And verse 66, from that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. He said, He's the bread of life. He's the bread of God from heaven. Moses didn't give you that bread. I am that true bread which comes from the Father in heaven. Your fathers eight men in the wilderness and are dead. He's pointing out some very obvious things and he tells them the truth. He is that true bread from heaven. They couldn't handle it. They didn't want it Many, they would threaten to stone Jesus because he would do a miracle. They didn't like the miracle, they'd want to stone him. Uh Caphas, look at John 11. This is another doozy. John eleven, forty-seven This is after the resurrection of Lazarus. Caiaphas had a plan for murder. John 1147 then gathered the chief priest, the Pharisees, a council, and said, What do we? This man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. The Romans will come, will take away our place, take away our nation. And one of them, named Caiaphas, being high priest that same year, said unto them, You know nothing at all. Nor consider that it's expedient for us. Always looking for expediency. It's all about exigency. What's the easiest solution to this problem? You don't consider it expedient that one man should die for the people, that the whole nation perish not. And this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for that nation only, but that he also should gather together in one, the children of God, scattered abroad. What a contradiction. Here's a high priest. He's making a prophecy, he doesn't even realize it The intent of this prophecy is to kill, but God meant it unto good. That's a contradiction. That is so bizarre. And yet it's not a contradiction ultimately because the Lord's in that. It shows the wickedness and the sinfulness and the evil of man and the righteousness of God to overcome it. I'll take you to one last one. Um there's there's there's so many. It's John chapter 18, this is the arrest of Jesus. Our brother pointed out the fact that his disciples ran away and couldn't even pray. But I'm always struck by this one. This particular aspect of it. There's a little phrase that's tucked in that that just I've often wondered what were these people thinking. John 18, 3. This is uh Judas then, having received a band of men and officers, and the chief priests and Pharisees, comes thither with lanterns, torches, weapons. Right, here's the whole FBI entourage, right? We got the whole group there. They're ready to knock the door down. They're locked and loaded. They're ready to go. Jesus, therefore, knowing that all things should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, so here he is standing in front of the group. He goes boldly forward. Whom seek ye? Beautiful question. Brilliant question. They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Judah saith unto them, I am he. Now what's interesting, verse 6, as soon as he said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. Alright, let's just get the picture here for a moment. Got a lantern, got a sword. You're holding this stuff. The man you're looking for comes right out. He's an easy target. Fellas, this ought to be a piece of cake He asked them a question. They didn't start off by saying, you're under arrest, we're looking. As soon as he said, I am, they were blown over and they fell down backwards. Jeffrey, they got up and they arrested him. Now I'm thinking there's got to be some lowly soldier in the back going, hey Cap, wait a minute here. You know, maybe if he spoke three words we might be obliterating the fire. I remember an account of Elijah when they came to get him and he set down fire with a company of fifty people and roasted them I'm thinking maybe this isn't a good idea. What's going to their head? They just were knocked. They can't explain the force that knocked them over. I I don't believe they tripped over some exposed roof that was in the garden they couldn't see. They all fell down. Yes. And they were all Jews who would seek a sign. And a sign is given. And they they still And so what is my point in all this? And I hope you got it from your own personal exercise in reading through it, because there's many that are there. Jesus faced so many bizarre contradictions from all areas of his life, from his very own family. From the earliest of age, brother pointed out, age twelve, another time later as he's wanting to go into the marketplace, his brothers say, Why don't you go openly? Neither do his brethren believe in him. They're trying to give him advice they don't believe. What do they know how to do from his race, his very own Jewish people, his own, from his nation, the Sanhedrin, from all legal avenues, whether it was the Jewish religious legal avenue to that of Pilate. They were all chalk full of maddening contradiction, his entire earthly ministry. And we're considering this because that's what the passage tells us to do in Hebrews 12. Consider him That endured, endured, such madness. You know, if you were in Jesus' shoes, so to speak, what do you think this felt like? Jeff, what do you think this felt like? He was a man like us, and I don't think I'm blasphemous to say, what did he feel like? You know, he would go by a well, he'd be wearied. What do you think it felt like Being cancelled. What else? Cancelled by the people? What else would it feel like? Rejected. Just so rejected I was going to reject where Freddie went, despised and rejected a man of sorrows and point of grief. I have to thank you. You're absolutely right. Do you do you think he'd ever kind of get a bit sick and tired of this? Would it just kind of start to get old? Always throwing in your face You know, it it's it's like the kid with the cookie crumbs in his mouth coming to you saying, Mommy, you shouldn't have dessert. Do you know if you think that I could ask my father he would send ten thousand legions of angels? Yeah. You know, I could I could take care of you in a second. But that's all I'm why I'm here. Yeah, it just you know, what do you think it might feel like the closer that Jesus got to the cross The closer he's getting to the cross, the rejection's coming from the higher authorities. There's more of an uproar against him. What does that feel like as he's getting closer to that cross? Burdensome, what a great word. It's getting the load's getting heavy now. You know We looked earlier in Hebrews about we're surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses, like we're running a race in an arena. We actually have people there cheering us on, but But the Son of Man here on earth didn't have anybody cheering in them all. Brother pointed out, his disciples couldn't even pray for sixty sinking minutes. They decided it's nap time. Seriously? The most crucial time to pray. And the reason I'm I'm going down that path is because look at our very next phrase. In the continuation of what we're looking at in Hebrews 12, it says, consider him that endured this contradiction. Lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds, what's the implication? There's a connection being made. His experience is going to be a whole lot like ours Now consider this, and I want to wrap it up here with this. I wanted to spend that whole opening time going through all of these contradiction of centers, all these different areas of life, the different angles and the facets from just such a broad multitude If your world that you live in, that you and I operate in now, if you view it with a Holy Spirit-informed mind, If your world seems rather insane, just insane, does the world seem insane to you sometimes? Does it seem upside down? Does it seem full of ill-logic? Does it seem nuts to you that we actually have politicians defending criminals? Does it seem nuts to you that we have judges releasing criminals? Does it seem crazy to you as it gets closer to home? That there can be division in a church against you. Does it just seem to be totally illogical that family, your flesh and blood family really is not too terribly interested in this gospel you're offering to them. And in fact, they may shun you and may not even talk to you. That's not to their benefit. Does it just seem a little unusual to you that this never lets up? That it just keeps going. Consider him that endured this contradiction of sinners, and he endured it as he continued marching all the way to the cross. The Lord Jesus said in John 15, 20, he says, Remember the word that I said unto you. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, and boy, we just looked at one form of it right here, and this has got to be the biggest one. Just a blatant contradiction. If they have persecuted me, they'll also persecute you. If you're a follower of Christ, you're going to get this same behavior. And it's going to come from the strangest of places. It's Contrary, what was diction? Contra diction to speech. Contrary to speech, they're gonna be contrary to your speech, they're gonna argue against it. It'll be illogical, anti-logical, just totally doesn't make any sense. But it says, if they have kept my say, they'll keep yours also. No, don't listen to that false prophet on YouTube. You don't need to listen to him. Okay, good with that. This is a good Good book to read of the doctrine of God. This is a good I read it. It was a good book. If they have kept my saying, they'll keep yours also. You see, Jesus came to bring a division. There's a division between insanity Because unbelief is insanity. It's not in its sound mind. It's not in its right mind. For all practical purposes, the world, the unsaved world, is filled with the devil. They really are. The spirit of the evil one is in them. They're useful idiots. And then there are those in whom God the Holy Spirit dwells and you feel an immediate connection. You don't have the same family background. You may even have the same church background, but if you're born of God You're in that family. And it's a small family. It's a precious family. So here's the considerations that I have, and I'll wrap it up here. Jesus was and is completely righteous. He was a righteous man and he endured every one of these contradictions. You and I are not. We're not As it is written, there's none righteous, no not one, none that understand, none that doeth good, no not one. You know, Jesus did everything right, and he still faced this nonsense. So take comfort. Even if you did it perfectly, even if you do things exactly right, even if you produce yet another bombshell report, I'm tired of hearing bombshell reports because the bombs are not going off. There's a hole in there's fifty holes in the side of the ship that just keeps sailing along. Breaking news. Breaking news, right? That that that ship has got so many bomb holes in it and it's it it's always been at the bottom of the ocean. It can't get more bombed out. So take comfort, even if you do it right, you're still going to get it. The second point is this if we can understand Jesus' sufferings by the contradiction of sinners, then maybe we sinners ought to consider ourselves at times a walking contradiction. And I say this because Hebrews 12 is going to continue on to talk about chastening of the Lord. And it's in connection to these contradictions of sinners against Jesus. And it's in connection with weariness. And it could be that the Lord is using As he did Caiaphas, as he did Pilate, as he did all of the people who were in charge during Jesus' day, to use them to crucify the Son of God, to carry out God's ultimate purposes. Could it be that God is using these contradictory sinners in your life to round you out? To sharpen you up. We're not perfect. Could it be that God is using that as a rebuke? Hey, you have a contradiction as well You need to fix that. It's not to make you pay for your sin, but it's as a rebuke. It's a means to say you ought not to be like that. Just think about it. Third point is this. Our Christian walk in this world is to experience what He did for us and to reprove us of sin. And I've got four closing passages. Turn to 1 Peter 2 and verse 20 and 21. And I think I'll have to wrap it up there. I'll briefly mention the others. First Peter A man who had many contradictions of his own throughout the life of Jesus was always doing strange things He writes thus, 1 Peter 2. 20, what glory is it when you be buffeted for your faults? That word buffet is to be struck. You know, slapped with a fist, punched. If you be buffeted for your fault, you shall take it patiently. But if when you do well and suffer for it, you take it patiently. This is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were you called because Christ also suffered for us. We just looked at part of his suffering. Leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Yes, this contradiction of sinners will come against us as well, perhaps for our sin, causing us to think, perhaps not. The apostle said in Philippians that I may know him, the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of the sufferings. It's all part of the program. I'll leave you with a last thought when these things come against us. An accusation is made. Somebody points out something to you that perhaps is correct, probably isn't going to come in the kindest of ways. You get a reproof, sharp rebuke. You either have a tender conscience or you have a tender ego. How dare you accuse me of such a thing You either have a tender conscience, ooh, maybe they're right. Oh, I don't want to shame my Lord that way And you go and investigate and you look. And it's a purification, it's a pruning, it's a purging process. Maybe, maybe, maybe, Lord, have I done anything wrong? You have a tender conscience. We have a tender ego. How dare they? Don't they know who I am? People think like that. They get very offended. People shoot other people if you bang your shopping cart in their car. It's an extension of their ego. So I leave you with that. Well Please uh try to make it next Sunday as well for the uh follow-on portion of this, which ties in nicely to what we looked at today. Uh Anton, could you close this in prayer? Father in heaven, we uh thank you Lord for preserving your word and uh providing it to us, Lord, so we could read it. grow by it. Help us to indeed desire the sincere milk of the word that we could grow thereby and even to learn of Christ here. And um To walk as he walked, oh Lord. The uh contradiction of sinners that he endured, oh Lord, help us uh to understand that the servant isn't above his Lord, isn't above his master. If he suffered these things, we'll suffer them too. Lord, help us to be patient and uh maybe correct us where we need correcting, oh Lord. That we would be uh faithfully faithful servants of mine. Pray that you would bless our uh hour of worship coming up with uh you would be uh honored and glorified in it and uh that your your thanks would be exhorted even by your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.