O God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, Lord, we call upon the great God of heaven and thank you. Lord, we have the privilege to gather, to worship that great King. Father, we thank you that you've given to us thy word. You have given to us that which pertains to life and godliness, all things that pertain to life and godliness And so, Father, we pray today that by thy Spirit we would be able to hear, that we would be able to comprehend thy truth, that we would be able to digest it. And Father, may all that we do and say redound to the glory of God. May thy truth go forth in clarity to the hearts of thy people. And oh Lord, may we rejoice for the uh blessings of having been here together. Bless our assembly this day in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading our call to worship, if you've gotten an email from me, you've uh maybe seen this verse because I use it frequently. Psalm twenty-seven and verse four, one thing Have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire at His temple. Good morning everyone. We turn to our opening song in our blue songbook. It's number 429. And this was sung about a month or so ago, but when we were not able to meet together Because of the threat of bad weather, it turned out to be a nothing burger. And it was the first time it had been sung, and it's been sticking in my head ever since. So he kindly suffered me to request it Again, and uh trust you'll enjoy it as well. May the Lord find us faithful, four twenty-nine, all three stanzas God has not given us the spirit of fear, but has given us the strength to obey with I wore a sound point with far an unsettling point, don't be not ashamed of his way. May the Lord die No men seek antains of his life. Is the soldier as says not yes? Be faithful. Be working, be running, be serving, be searching is work for his best. May the Lord May his word be our better well cycle May the Lord write us. Every day though we live though we die. Willing for dying may honor be thy From the flame flight for my path is not far, the only time. Be faithful from now to thy praise. Mayor find us for May Horthy. May the Lord wide us later every day so we live for we Amen, amen. Please be seeking. Anton, if you would give us the confessional meal. Good morning. If you have your bulletin with you, please turn to the back of it for this morning's confessional reading. This morning we're reading from the 12th article. This is the second portion that regards the creation. Christian, and what do you believe? He also created the angels good to be his messengers and to serve his life. Some of whom are fallen from that excellency in which God created them into everlasting perdition. And the others have, by the grace of God, remained steadfast and continued in their primitive state. The devils and evil spirits are so depraved that they are the enemies of God in every good thing to the utmost of their power. As murderers, watching to ruin the church and every member thereof, and by their wicked stratagems to destroy all. And are therefore, by their own wickedness, a judge to eternal damnation, daily expecting their horrible torments Therefore, we reject and abhor the error of the Sadducees, who deny the existence of spirits and angels, and also that of manich. who assert that the devils have their own origin themselves, and that they are wicked of their own nature, without having been corrupted Now this morning, thank you, this morning we consider God's creation of the angels specifically and their purpose. Last week we looked at the larger overview of the entirety of God's creation, and this morning we focus in on these angelic beings that the Lord's created. They were, as we mentioned last week, they're part of that entire creation, and so they were likewise created by Christ and for him, for his glory, to worship him and to serve him. But the Bible isn't explicit when exactly the angels were created. There isn't too much in Genesis that will specifically point out the day of the creation for the angels. But we do see that in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. The angels weren't there before that. And at the end of the sixth day We read in Genesis 2. 1, Thus the heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. And in that point the angels were already there, as the heavens were created, and all the host was there at the end of the sixth day. The angels were uh already there in that heaven. And as the angels were created, just like everything else that God created, he created them good. They were created upright. There was no evil angel there to begin with. And uh his purpose for creating them was that they were to be messengers. There's uh several accounts in the scriptures where the angels would come and encounter an individual and bring a specific message from the Lord, though not always. These were uh very specific certain and specific times. They're also used of God to serve and minister to the saints. We read in Hebrews one verses thirteen and fourteen it says, But to which of the angels said he at any time Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. And then he says, Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? So they're ministering spirits. They do minister to the believers. This is who God has set up as an aid, as an assistant. And we do um we now have heard about their role. We now have heard about some of the things that they do. The Lord's also used them in battle, and we see as well that they're used in his Worship at his temple, they worship before him. But we also do recognize, as the confession pointed out, there's a portion of angels that fell. They fell from the state that they were in. They sinned against God. And we read of that in 2 Peter 2 verse 4. It says that God spared not the angels that sinned but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And these angels, of course They don't have a salvation plan. Human beings are unique, they're created in the image of God, and God has created a salvation plan Christ has died for those elect humans, but there are no angels that were died for. Any that fell away, they're fallen for forever. There's no salvation for them. And these fallen angels, they know their judgment that's awaiting them, and currently they're roaming around the earth doing evil, uh stirring up men's hearts away from the Lord. We read of uh several accounts in the New Testament where individuals were possessed by these fallen angels, like in Luke 8, verse 30. We also, uh, Pastor Joe preached last week regarding the devil and how he walks about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. They're out there to tear up, to destroy, to turn people away. And the confession has this one term, stratagems, that's another word for strategies. They have these plans and devices. They really sit and well I I'm not sure if they sit, but they really do plan out And devised ways to turn men away from the Lord, to darken their minds, as we read of as the God of this world, he's darkened men's minds to so they wouldn't receive the truth, they don't receive the gospel And of course, false teachers we find that are here in this world are products of Satan. You know, Christ said, Ye are of your father the devil, to those uh Pharisees, those that uh falsely accuse him. And in 2 Corinthians 11 we read that, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light, therefore it is no great thing if his ministers Satan has his ministers. It's no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works And so we see false teachers, false uh prophets around this world that claim to be ministers of righteousness. They claim to be teaching something good, something that will help you, something that will draw you closer to God. But really they're deceivers. They're ministers of Satan. They're working to turn men's minds away from the Lord. And of course, that's the most dangerous when you think you're on the right track and you're being deceived. When somebody's called you to attend their church to have some stance of morality. And yet they point you away from Christ. They never really turn you to Christ. They never really uh point to your soul and And and and uh the the uh damned estate that it's in and the need of Christ, and so they let you slip into hell, and Satan is perfectly okay with that message. And that's a danger there. But Satan and his angels, they know that there's a final torment coming to them. There's a final judgment that comes their way. That's why those demons that were in individuals as as Christ came uh and walked about this earth, they asked him, Art thou come hither to torment us before the time They knew that there's a time appointed for their judgment. They're just w awaiting it. And the last thing I wanted to mention that the confession brings up that there's two heretical uh beliefs about angels and the one is that was mentioned was the Sadducees and they basically didn't believe in the spiritual realm altogether. They denied the resurrection And in Acts 23. 8 says very clearly, the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit. So they just deny that spiritual realm altogether. And the other false group was the Manichaeans. They came a few centuries after the New Testament. And they believed the heresy that the devil has his own origin. He's not a fallen angel. He just has his own origin, he has his own plots, his own wicked schemes, and he's not uh yeah, he he's not someone that was created by God Well, the danger there is thinking that the devil has some power of his own. But the scripture teaches a very different message, that the devil is God's devil God sets up boundaries around the devil. He only lets them go so far. And when judgment time has come, there's no wrestling. It's a very easy tossing the devil into into hell. And of course uh there's a a danger for us, for those that are not true believers, those that are not uh never converted, never truly put their faith in Christ They have the same end, that same damnation that comes to the devil and his angels. That's why Christ says To those goats in that parable, he says, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels And so may God help us to be vigilant of the wiles of the devil, lest we be deceived and fall into that same judgment with him. Thank you. Thank you, Anton. Well, we have answers to prayer in our midst this morning. And we have much to pray for as well. Let us join our hearts together in prayer. I will obviously be praying aloud, but I urge you to pray along in agreement with me. Let us pray. Our gracious Father, we thank you that you are indeed the one true God. Uh you declared, I am God, and there is none else, I know not any. And Father, the The omniscience of our God, the all-knowingness of our God, is in itself evidence of the truth of that statement. If you know no other, there can be no other. And so, Father, we thank you for these glorious declarations of thy word. Father, bless us this day, we pray, with thy truth Encourage us, strengthen us in thee. And O Lord, indeed, put a hedge about us and protect us, Father, from from error, from false doctrine. Lord, we thank you that there are the created beings, the angels. And are they all not ministers sent forth to minister for those who shall be redeemed? And so, Father, we thank you for these truths. Bless into our hearts. Lord, we do thank you that our brother is here this morning and his dear wife. We have not seen them in person. We've seen them online at prayer meeting, but not seen them in person. For these many weeks. And Father, we thank you for the answered prayer, even prayers uttered before thee this very morning, that they are able to be here today. We rejoice in that. It is good and it is pleasant. to be together to greet one another face to face. We thank you for your healing power. We thank you that you have ordained in your wisdom of time that we live in a day and age when there are uh medical procedures and advancements that our fathers did not know. And Lord, we thank you that even though these things appear to be the works of man, yet we recognize that it is the ordinance of our God that we have access to them. Father, we do pray for others in our congregation. Lord, many of you are facing very serious medical issues. And Father, we thank you again, Lord, that we live in a day and age when there are pharmaceutical products, when there are procedures that can be performed, which the doctors would say extend our lives But Lord, we know from thy word that our days are in thy hand. And Lord, that that we are blessed to live in the day when these things are available. And Lord, we uh make use of these means, but we put no faith in them. Our faith is in you. And so, Father, we do pray that the prayer of faith shall save the sick. And so, Father, work in these situations. Father, there are very grave matters on our hearts, Lord, both related to the body of believers, the church. related to those who have association with us. And then Lord, within our own families. Lord, there are issues that weigh heavily on the hearts of thy people. And Lord, they are known to thee, and we cry out to you that you would work in each of these situations, Father, that you would bring about healing where healing is needed. That you would bring about restoration where restoration is needed. And Lord, that you would bring about repentance where repentance is lacking. Father, bless these things according to thy will. Lord, we thank you for the overseas ministries that you have allowed us to be a part of, Lord. We pray for Burves, this man that we've learned of in the Philippines, Father Lord, we thank you for his earnest desire to have access to good teaching and to have access to good materials to share with others. And Father, we pray that you would bless him. Lord, we pray that you would provide for him. Lord, I pray that you would help us to be iron, to sharpen his iron. And Lord, bless uh in these things. We thank you for the opportunity. Father, we pray also for our our dear brother Maggie and his wife Barbara there in Jamaica. Father, bless them. Uh bless as he ministers there at the little little outposts, the little church there on the beach at Smithfield. Uh Father, bless that assembly. Lord, I pray that you would bless up and fern, Lord, where he he resides as well with the church there. Lord, I I've known of these two works for so very, very many years And Lord, they're very dear to my heart. Lord, I knew of the church there in Crowder uh as a young child, before I'd ever even visited Jamaica. I heard that name. And uh Lord I pray that you bless. Be with Pastor Dalbert there, Lord I pray for the uh prosperity of of thy gospel in that land. Father, we thank you also for the ministries that we're able to be a part of here in the United States. We do pray for the Authentic Scriptures Foundation. Father, bless Doctor Elliott, Lord. We thank you that he will uh be here to minister among us in the middle of March. Uh Father, bless the ministry that you've given to him, we pray. Lord, I pray you would open up more doors there, Father, that the truth of thy word may be established in the hearts of thy people. Father, we thank you also for the opportunity that we have to ministry at the Only Memory Care, and pray, Lord, that you be with us next week as we will, Lord willing, in thy providence, have the opportunity to visit there again. Father, we thank you that that ministry is not simply to the residents there but Lord to their daughters, to their their family, to their grandchildren. to their sons, Lord, who very often in your perfect timing just happen to be there on the Lord's day and attend the services Father, we pray that you would use that open door for the salvation of many. And Lord, some of these folks are within in the easy driving sphere of here where we meet Lord, may it even be in your providence to bring others into this assembly through the outreach there at the memory care. Lord, you are able in these things. Father, I pray for my brother who labors in the Word with the Sunday school week after week. Lord bless him. Bless him in his administrative duties. Uh there is much that takes place in this assembly that very few are aware of uh and unaware of it until they they have need of of some aspect of the bearing one another's burdens, the ministry of this congregation, and then then it is to my brother that they go. Lord bless him in that ministry, Lord. May he know the fruit of his labor Father, I pray that you would bless those that participate in the prayer meeting devotionals and in the reading of the confession. Father, we pray that you would bless the preaching from this pulpit. Lord, not simply by my mouth, but by all that stand here to proclaim thy truth. May it be protected by thy Spirit. May the bird of the air, Satan, ever be driven away, that he may not steal away the seed. Father, our name is Mission Bible Church. And Father, we pray that that middle word, the Word of God, the Bible, may always be the center and the foundation of our doctrine. the foundation of our counseling, the foundation of our discipline, the foundation and guidebook of our product of our of our practice, Father. Well, we thank you that it is indeed Jesus Christ who is the cornerstone. But maybe I'll always be firmly based on the Word of God Father, bless us this day. Bless the preaching of thy word. Bless thy word to the edification and admonition of thy people and to the glory of thy great Son in Jesus' name. Please turn to Psalm 16 for our responsive reading. Once you've located Psalm 16, please rise We'll read all eleven verses of Psalm sixteen. Micdom of David Preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord, my goodness extendeth not to thee. But to the things that are in the earth, and to the excellent in whom is all my delight. Their sorrows shall be multiplied and hasten after another God. Their drink offerings of blood will not offer, nor take up their names to my lips. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a good encouragement I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reigns also instruct me in the night seasons. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth. My flesh also shall rest in hope For thou wilt not lead my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. And altogether thou wilt show me the path of life In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are our pleasures forevermore. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. Those that think heaven is boring need to read that last verse of Psalm 16, At thy right hand are pleasures foreverbore. It's a great, great promise we have of the Lord. Our Sermon Psalm comes to us in a red songbook, number 37A. 37A, to the tune of Saint Anne. You should know this one. It's Song we sing, O God, our help in ages past. Number thirty seven A Uh there will be all five stanzas. Uh no disco Thoughts about those doing wickedly when we done we are some those To work in it with me for reason to be but shall we And white for green and temper when they also fade always Said thou I trust upon the Lord, continue. Well thou security in the right. Joy in the Lord will grant each gift for which thy heart take off. I'll make thy way on to the board crossing will do it all and my God. And he thy judgment shall bring forth thy judge. Open in your Bibles with me this morning To the fifth book of your New Testament, the book of Acts, and to the second chapter of the book of Acts. It is called Axe, not because we're chopping down trees. It's not axe like a AXK, a AXE. My spellings off this morning. It's not an act of that kind, but it is like the acts like the acts of a play. It is the Acts of the Apostles, the history of the early church. You may notice I look a bit a little bit different this morning. I took six hairs off the left side and three off the right. No, actually I'm wearing a new pair of glasses and I meant to bring my old glasses with me just in case and I forgot. So if I struggle a bit to to read this morning, it's because my eyes are not used to these new glasses. Acts chapter 2, and I will begin our scripture reading with verse number 37, the 37th verse of Acts chapter 2. Now, when they heard this They were pricked in their hearts, and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins. And ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you and to your children and to all that are afar off. even as many as the Lord our God shall call. And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day they were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. And all that believed were together and had all things in common. And we will end our reading there. Let us pray. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word contains glorious promises concerning your word. Father, you promise that your word will not return unto you void, but it will accomplish that which you purpose and prosper in the thing whereunto you send it. And so, Father, may you accomplish your purpose for your word this day in our hearts, and may you prosper your word that it may be sent unto our hearts Father, we thank you that thy word is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. So if we do not see the light, it is because our eyes are closed. If we stumble in the path, it is because it is not ordered by the light of thy word. And yet, Father, we thank you that though we have been enlightened by thy Spirit, yet there is within us the darkness of the old man who shall deliver me from the body of this death. And you have told us that if we live in the f out of the flesh, we the flesh reap corruption, but if we sow into the spirit We have the Spirit reap life everlasting. And so, Father, by Thy Spirit, this day may you open the eyes of our souls that we might see thy truth. May you remove the blindness of our hearts, that thy word might shine unto us. And Father, today may thy people be instructed and taught by the things which we consider. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is that 42nd verse that we read. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. But we began our reading with that verse number 37. And we kind of jumped into it mid-thought, didn't we? And now when they heard this When they heard this. Well what was it that they heard? Well, if you look back up to verse 22 of the chapter, there Peter is preaching, and we read there, Ye men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which he did in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know, him that is Jesus. Being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be holden of it, that he should be holden of death. And so coming back to verse thirty-seven, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts, and said, Men and brethren, what shall we do? And so those first few words we read there in verse thirty-seven are like the captain of the ship coming on the PA system and saying, Now hear this Now hear this, the captain is speaking. And we've been studying in the book of Hebrews. which testifies of Christ. And in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 10, Christ is called the captain of our soul. And so here we find on this day of Pentecost that these Jews Have been confronted with the truth that Jesus Christ, whom they crucified You'll notice there in verse 22 that Peter refers to Jesus as Jesus of Nazareth. Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Jesus of Nazareth, this one who was rejected by you elders, who is rejected by the Pharisees, who was delivered unto Pilate, wicked hands. You crucified. But this one that you crucified is now verse 42, whom God hath raised up, verse 24, whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be holding of them. You killed him But he's alive. Folks, that's a reason for great fear. You killed him Now he's alive, you better watch out because he's coming. Now hear this. Now hear this. When they heard it from the captain of their salvation, they were pricked in their hearts. You ever been pricked in your heart? Ever done something and either instantly or shortly thereafter or years later suddenly it's uh Oh no What did I do? Why did I do that? Folks, I've had dreams. I've had dreams that I've committed some crime. And in my dream I think, why did I do that? That was so stupid. I knew it was wrong. And now I'm gonna be caught. That was pricked in my heart in a dream. Boy, it's good to wake up. Thank you, Lord. I didn't do that. There there's not gonna be a knock at the door. But here these two rules, they're pretty no, we did it. He's right He's right. We took Jesus, who we just thought was of Nazareth Not understanding that he was of heaven, that he was the Son of God, and we delivered him to wicked hands to be crucified, and we have slain him, and now he's alive again He came as the Messiah, but now he's coming back as the judge, we find in Scripture. And so they were pricked in their hearts. But folks, it's not the scribes and Pharisees that are saying, Men and brethren, what shall we do? The scribes and the Pharisees, when they learned that he was risen again, what did they do? Well they paid off a bunch of soldiers They tried to hide it. There is no fear of God before their eyes. But here we find a group of people, and their response is men and brethren What shall we do? And the answer is repent. The answer is repent. Repent. Repent. In verse 38, then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sin. And ye shall receive not judgment, but the gift of eternal life. The promises to you and to your children, even as many as be far off. And then verse 41, to finish up our introduction. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. Now that's where we actually begin. I needed that introduction to kind of lay the groundwork. But now we have 3,000 new conversions, new converts. The church has grown from the twenty-five or thirty that meet here daily to suddenly they're out across the field and they're down the road and they're on this side and they're up in the attic and they're in the basement and they're all over the place. They're online. Suddenly there's 3,000 souls that now are saying, yes, this is the Messiah, what shall we do? And that brings us to our text for the morning. Which is verse 42. And may the Spirit of God challenge us and encourage us and direct our worship Through this verse. And they, that is these that were saved, and they continued steadfast in the apostles' doctrine. and in fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers. First of all we find they continued steadfast. And those two words steadfast really are re pr relating to us one concept. It's steadfast two different words, but it is sort of a compound that works together. They continued steadfast. That word steadfast is actually a servant's term. It is a serving term. It means one that is in attendance. Someone who cares for someone else. One who's in attendance one who remains by the side of another, not leading or forsaking. And it's interesting we find that word in other passages translated, the same Greek word, but different translation. Listen to Mark chapter 3 and verse 9. And he, that is Jesus, spake unto his disciples that a small ship should wait on him. And that word wait is the same word steadfast. He said there's a small ship and it should wait on him because of the m multitude. And we know that he got into the ship and they cast out little waves and he taught them from the ship. But the ship was what? It was to be a servant of Christ. It was to wait on him. And then this same compound is used again in Acts chapter 6 and verse 4. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer. In other words, not just a little bit of prayer, not just prayer in the morning and before we eat, but we will give ourselves continually to prayer. And then again in Romans 12 and verse 12, rejoicing in hope. Patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer. And it's the same idea, steadfast in prayer. And so we are to continue in prayer So they were steadfast, but they continued steadfast. It takes lime and stone. to make cement. But it also takes water. And you may have the bag of sacrete as we call it which has all the ingredients in the bag but water and it it you can pour it out you can separate it you can sift it you can throw it in the air and the and the lime blows away But when you add the water, it sets up. When you add the water is when it becomes concrete And once it's concrete, it's never gonna be, you can bust it up maybe, but it's it's changed its form. And that is the idea of continuing steadfast. The water of the Holy Spirit, which is the theme of Acts chapter two, the pouring out of the Holy Spirit has been poured into these people and Peter said, repent to be baptized, every one of you in the name of the of uh Christ, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Believers, the Holy Spirit is poured into you now. Continually concrete. Continue set. Continue steadfastly. But look what it is that they are to continue steadfastly in They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. Now, that word apostles in our English is what we would say a possessive, but it wasn't that it was something that they had come up with themselves. The apostles' doctrine was the doctrine that the apostles preached, but they didn't think this up. It was totally foreign to their Jewish minds. But rather, this is the doctrine that they have received. If you go back up to the beginning, the Holy Spirit is poured out on them. in verse 1, the day of Pentecost, and in verse 4 of the chapter. And they were filled all filled with the Holy Ghost and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance That is the apostles' doctrine that is being spoken of there, is being given to them by the Holy Spirit. And so we find, first of all, that this doctrine of the Holy Spirit in which they were to continue steadfastly, and in which we are to continue steadfastly, is a doctrine that has come by the means of the Holy Spirit. In other words, we're not believing fables. We're not believing some man's opinion. There's a lot of people with opinions today. But there's one truth. And it is the truth that they steadfastly continued into that is referred to as the apostles' doctrine, but the apostles got it from the Holy Spirit. The holy the holy men of God were moved, uh spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. And so, first of all, this doctrine in which we're to continue is a supernatural doctrine. It comes from the Holy Spirit. But also we find that the doctrine which they were to continue in was the fulfillment of prosp prophecy. Look down to verse um Well, let's start with verse 16. Yeah, it is verse 16. Chapter 2, verse 16. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. Okay, the prophet Joe had talked about the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, that which they were seeing on the day of Pentecost. Job said, and it shall come to pass, verse six seventeen, and it shall come to pass in the last days Saith God, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions. And then Droping down to verse 21, and it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's exactly what's taking place. 3,000 have been saved. But also in this apostle doctrine we find the prophecies of David being fulfilled. Look down to verse 25. For David speaketh concerning him, concerning Christ Uh David here, for I foresaw the Lord always before me, my face, for he is on my right hand that I should not be moved. You know where David where Peter is quoting from from David Psalm 16, which we read for our responsive reading this morning, thou shalt not leave his soul in hell. Verse 7 or 27, because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption We read that this morning from the 16th Psalm. They continued in this doctrine, which was from the inspiration of the Holy Spirit And this doctrine was, which was the fulfillment of prophecy, but also we find that this was the doctrine of the resurrection. It was the doctrine of Jesus Christ. The doctrine came by the inspiration, the doctrine was confirmed by the fulfillment of prophecy, and the doctrine was concerning the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Indeed, my friend, when we are confronted with such doctrine, our response must be, Sirs, men and brethren. What shall we do? My friend, if you have been pricked in your heart by the truth of God. Continue, said Don't listen to what some man has to say, because the Holy Spirit has always given us all things that pertain to the life of God. Don't listen to some new doctrine which has recently come along because the prophecies have been fulfilled. Don't look for another Christ, for this is Messiah. They continued. They received the doctrine. They retained the doctrine and they repeated the doctrine. If you want And so, first of all, it continues steadfastly in doctrine. And folks, this is a vital reminder and lesson for the church today. Because we see departure from sound doctrine all across what is called the church. Secondly, they continued in fellowship. Think about it. These 3,000 Jews who are new converts They are now ostracized from their nation. The scribes and Pharisees are out to kill them. They are ostracized from their people. They have left the traditions of the Father to follow Jesus Christ. But not only are they ostracized from their nation, they're ostracized from their families as well. And even today, among some Orthodox Jewish communities, if someone converts to Christianity, they're like dead. They are cast out. And so these to these fearful people who have suddenly come to understand the prophets as they never had before. who have come to understand this doctrine which now they hold to, they cling to, which they continue in steadfastly. They're told, you know, folks, you're not alone. You've got a new family. And you have a new nation. They continued steadfast in fellowship. Notice that their fellowship, first of all, is with one another. They can tell continue in fellowship with one another. There are so many verses that we find the necessity of the fellowship of the brethren. Psalm 133, verse 1, behold how good. And how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. That's what's been talked about here. Though the world hate us, we continue in fellowship. Hebrews 13, 1. Let brotherly love continue. Romans 12, 10. Be kindly, affectionate one to another in brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. 1 Thessalonians 4 verse 9, as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. 1 Peter 4, verse 8, Above all these things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. 1 John 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Proverbs twenty-seven verse seventeen iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friends. Hebrews ten twenty-five, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together As the manner of some is, but exhort one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching They continued steadfast in doctrine, and they continued steadfast in their fellowship with each other. It wasn't going to be broken. There weren't going to be little squabbles that cause cracks There weren't going to be contention over this and that and the other. I've heard, never seen it personally, fortunately, but heard of churches that have been split over the color of the carpet. Literally. Because they were putting carpet in the church and this side wanted green and this side wanted blue, and there was a few that wanted purple. And so the whole thing turned scarlet. And they had a big fight in the church split because they couldn't agree on a simple little thing. They continued steadfastly in fellowship with one another. Now folks, this is beautiful because the very language of the text indicates that they continued in fellowship for one another. That word fellowship there is used in just a few times in Scripture. We don't find it much. But the translation of fellowship is not a predominant translation. Listen to this. In Romans chapter 15 and verse 26 Paul is preaching and he says, For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaea to make certain Contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. And you know what that word contribution is? It's the same word fellowship. It's the same Greek word. They continued in fellowship with one another, but they continued in fellowship for one another. In other words, their fellowship was such that it wasn't just, hey friend, be warmed and filled, but rather it was a fellowship that said, those brethren have needs. And we have resources. And therefore, the resources God has given us must be applied to their needs. And that is what the true fellowship of the church is. If you see your brother destitute of daily food and you say it and be warmed and filled, what does it profit him? But rather, if you give him what he needs for his body. And so they continued in fellowship with one another. But the continued fellow steadfast in fellowship for one another. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, so you have love one to another. And we don't see someone we love having need and saying, Oh well Not my problem. And then again, in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verses 12 and 13. For the administration of the service not only supplies the want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God. While by the ex experiment of the ministration they glorify God for your professed subjection under the gospel of Christ and for your liberal distribution unto them and to all men. And that word distribution is this same Greek word, fellowship. And so this idea of continually steadfast in fellowship doesn't just mean that, hey friend, how you doing? But rather it is a fellowship that sees the need and says, God has given us the ability to meet the need. Here's a contribution. Here is a distribution of that which God has entrusted us with. for the brethren. And so they continued steadfast in doctrine, and may we do likewise. They continued steadfast in fellowship, and may we do likewise But then also we find that they continued steadfast in breaking of bread. And this breaking of bread in its first instance is, of course, the communion. the observation of the Lord's table. In fact, that word communion that we use, I prefer the Lord's Supper. I tip typically refer to it as the Lord's Supper But we also refer to it as the communion. It's a biblical term. It comes actually from 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 16. And there we read, the couple blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? And that word communion Is the same word breaking of bread that we find here in Acts chapter 2. And so they continued in the Lord's table. Why is that important? We don't have any statues, do we? What's a statue for? Oh, a statue is a memorial It's something to remember by. Or worse, it's an idol. That's something we worship. We do not have a statue of Mary at our place of worship. And we do not have a cross either, because these signs and symbols, the symbol of the Presbyterian fathers was the rooster. You know why their symbol was the rooster? Because Peter denied. And it was a reminder to the preachers that were one size sunrise away from denying the Lord. Uh my brother, who's also a pastor, decorated his church altars with roosters. He had roosters all over the and it was a reminder. That were one sunrise away from denying the Lord. Folks, when a memorial is proposed And we sign on to that memorial, it's established. We have one memorial of our faith. Do this in remembrance. Of me. And so these 3,000 new converts that have been suddenly brought in to this new understanding of the prophecies that came by the Holy Spirit. And who have been outcast by their nation and their families, but they found a new fellowship to remain in. Now they're continuing also in the breaking of bread. In the remembrance of the body and blood of Jesus Christ. And as oft as you do drink this cup and eat this bread, you do show the Lord's death till he comes. And folks, that's the cornerstone of our faith. Our faith is based on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is what pricked their hearts. And so now they're to continue. Folks, don't forget it. Don't pollute it. Don't start to say, oh, this is the actual blood, the actual body. Don't make it into a mass. There is no mass for Christ. Christ has no vicar on earth. And we won't go into that any further, but you understand me. They continued in the Lord's table. But not only was there continuance in the Lord's table, and you remember that the men on the road wrote to Emmaus, how was it that they recognized Christ? Well, they they recognized him in the breaking of bread But also they continued in the fellowship meal, and this is separate from communion. We find both in this text. If you look down to verse 46 of the text. There it says, um, and they continued daily with one accord in the temple and in breaking bread from house to house And so they're continuing in the breaking of bread, which in the very context of the chapter is both the observance of the Lord's table, but also the fellowship meal. And folks, we know what that is. My heart aches for our brethren who are scattered across the country who can't enjoy Sunday afternoons. Because you know we we we stay in in our sister's house in her way long into the afternoon sometimes. Uh and we know we're welcome, but but you understand that That fellowship is precious and sweet, and it's iron that sharpens iron, and it doesn't matter what the food is, it all tastes good. Because of those with whom we eat it. They continued steadfastly in remembrance of the Lord's death, burial, and resurrection, and in that fellowship of our food. But then there's one thing, one more thing. They continued steadfast in Prayer. Folks, prayer is the joy of the believer's heart. What do you do when you're sick? Pray. What do you do when you're sad? Pray. What do you do when you're lonely? Pray. What do you do when you get the greatest blessing in the world? Pray. You pray. Pray without ceasing. They continued steadfast in prayer. Look up to verse 14 of the chapter These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and with Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. Philippians 4, verse 6, be careful or be filled with care. Be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God. Colossians 4, verse 2. Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. James 5, verses 17 and 18. Elias Was a man subject to the light passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain. And it rained not on the earth for the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. These believers who were outcast They continued in their fellowship. They continued in their breaking of bread. They continued in their prayer. And they were firmly established in doctrine. What can we learn? Well, we have the same prophecies that they had. We need to continue steadfastly in them. They had the same doctrine that we had have. We need to continue steadfastly in them. They had the same Lord Jesus Christ that we have We need to continue steadfastly. They had the same memorial for him that we have, so we must continue steadfastly. They had the same fellowship Uh yet yet we on earth have union with with with God the three and one and and blessed sweet communion with those whose rest is what We all have fellowship together. And finally, we have the same avenue of prayer, which to us is a great blessing. May we continue steadfastly in it. Let us stand for prayer. Father, bless thy word to the hearts of your people today. May we be encouraged by the faithfulness of saints past. May we be strengthened with a view towards heaven and not to the earth. May we look on things that are not seen. May we indeed continue steadfastly. May we be anchored in the truth of our Christ. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We sing our closing hymn, number six oh five, for all the saints. Using the passage from Hebrews 11 as the thought behind this song, these all died in faith and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims. On the earth. For all the saints, six oh five, we sing all four stanzas. Oh stays to live to me my day. No was there wrong, their fortress and their time to do. Their grass can come well through life on. So make thy soul to stay home to Don't you forget the victory spell up for the. . Problems by ocean starts holding the postweed in the countless road. Tell me, tell me what we're doing.