Hebrews 13. You know the first twelve chapters of Hebrews are laying down this foundation of just who Christ is and why the Hebrews, those who are the most zealous Jews Israelites, the descendants of Abram, should truly listen to their Old Testament and many proofs given from the Old Testament as to the validity of Christ's ministry. Well Thirteenth chapter is the so what chapter. Now that all that's been addressed, so what? How do we live our lives? And that's what it's addressing. We get to this fifth and sixth verse where we read this. It says, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto So as our discussion opener, I had asked the question, so what uh is your thoughts about covetousness. You know, as Americans we simply have a lot. This is an expensive place to live. If you're in Montgomery County, it's an even more expensive place place to live. If you're in Maryland in general, it's just expensive. And so what is covetousness? And I'm looking for some examples of covetous practices. And really what I'm trying to get to is where you draw the line. So covetous practices, covetousness. So we had a couple of uh uh folks online that responded first. Covetousness is a desire for things that we don't possess or need. And the old phrase keeping up with the Joneses. Maybe some of you have heard that Uh covetous practice like using a credit card to get things that we desire but don't have the money to pay for it. This insatiable desire. That's a really good example right there. I tell you there's a lot of people that uh that that fall into that snare. Uh covetousness, another writes, is an obsession to have things or someone that belongs to another, wealth, power, material possessions, even another's spouse. If left unchecked, it leads to lying, cheating, jealousy, and stealing, and also to violence. Think of David. That's a really good example from the Old Testament. This is the condition of being discontented and ungrateful. So those are some really good points about covetousness. Other ideas on covetous practices. What are your thoughts? Okay, sorry, dear in the headlights, right? I I asked myself that simple question. Okay, so give some examples, you know, and then trying not to quote the Bible just in my own words. And the tough part's when you come to try to draw the line. That's kind of where the active discussion should be. Yeah, there has to be a distinction between necessity and frivolity. Um you know, what what do I actually need um as opposed to you know what has utilitarian value as opposed to what is just a going to be here today and going tomorrow just you know Um a lot entertainment entertainment has its place, killing yourselves apart and rest, or is that thing, and yet entertainment in most instances is spent and done. It has no lasting Beyond the memory of what you did, um my brother and I don't want to take up over time here, but my brother one time was with a group of young people at an amusement park And he tracked how much time they spent in line as opposed to how much time they spent on the actual rides. You know, and and showed them what it actually cost them per ride and what it cost them to stand in line for an hour halfway to be on Sounds like an engineering mind if you can't put it in numbers, you know. Right time it though. I said last time I chart things out. But I very much like uh Joe your breakdown between I think we've used there's a to tired trite phrase, needs versus wants. We pat ourselves on our back. You know, needs versus wants. Unfortunately, all of our wants become needs Because it's uh a a need can be a want. I want this because I need it. But you've broken it to a need versus frivolity, which is a much better, sharper distinction. Uh you can want a need for a legitimate reason Uh to want to want doesn't make sense. Verbality. Yeah, that's a very good one. Other thoughts about examples of covetous practices or, you know, where you would draw the line. When when that uh when the target of your covetousness is the possession of somebody else. When the target of your covetousness is the possession of somebody else. Okay, that's interesting. Unpack that for me a little more. Like um coveting I think yeah people want things, people need things, they come up with whatever reason that justifies either. But If it's yours or somebody else's and I want that, which is common in the world and they figure out how to get that before they actually manage to get that, that's definitely cost a lot. Okay. Yeah, you're hitting up that part of the phrase that talks about being content with such things as you have. You know, kind of looking inside of your tent and keeping your eyes there. Yeah, that's good. I like that. And that spurns another question, because we're talking about covetousness. Can you be covetous of your own stuff? What do you think? Is that possible? It can become an idol. Ah. Yeah, your own stuff can become an idol Yeah. Absolutely can. Do you think uh let me cast it a little differently. Uh y y you thought through that very quickly and came up with a really d really juicy answer that kinda gets me to thinking a little bit too. Could a covetous person have a garage sale and let things go? Painful. It'd be painful, right. There was an infamous story, I one of the few books I purchased as a young person was the nineteen eighty four Guinness Book of World Records. I don't know why I have fascination for that sort of silly stuff. One of the wealthiest individuals who died the strangest death was the witch of Wall Street. Any of you know who this individual is? The Witch of Wall Street This is one of those strange factoids that got stuck in the lint trap of my mind back in the day. Her name was Hetty Green. H-E-T-T-I-E Green. She made billions in her day, 30s, 40s. I'm talking way back. And billions back then would be probably close to maybe trillions now, or at least hundreds of billions now. And all of her money at all time was in the market and she relentlessly focused on cutting costs. You know how she died? She froze on a park bench in New York She didn't have a place to live. She lived out and slept in the streets. She was literally a homeless person. Lisa, she had billions and she froze in a park bench. That's a great example of covetousness squared. Right? I'm not letting this go. Not letting this out of my fingers You know, and and so I hope today's thinking about this business of covetousness, particularly we as Americans, can think through, where is that line? You know, I as I read through the study and as I was preparing for it, I'll raise my hand. I was guilty of a covetous practice during the development of this. How bad is that? So I have a car that just turned one year old, and it has some new features. This is my first new car in 1920 years. So it's like handing a prisoner an iPhone. It's like, what is this thing? You know, it's just not really catching up with technology. And they have a little SD card slot where you can put in a navigation map And it brings up some other features in the dash that you might not have seen before. Plus it has a backup, you know, downloadable, I mean offline backup of navigation in case you're in an area where you don't have cell signal. Well I didn't buy it at the time I bought the car because it was $475. I said, nah, it ties to my phone. I use Google Maps, Apple Maps, has traffic. Great, I'll do with that. But here I am a year later. I don't know, Joey. They're looking kind of cheap. And uh and so I did. I bought one for twenty-six dollars Now I can justify myself. It's only $26. Did I need it? No. I already have GPS. Do I need the extra function? Do I need the extra? No It puts the speed limit in I can see the sign. I the GPS has it. It's so easy I mean that I think is the big driver for the American economy is covetousness Else why would not ads work that are sent to your mailbox and pop up on your screen? It's a desire to get things. So what are you know we're just looking for practical boundaries here? Yes. kind of the clarification, we become covetousness happy to become discontent with what God has already done. And we're gonna explore that, right? Yeah. That there is a connection in that verse. So let's look at it together because I think when we start to pull in a lot of other biblical information, I think we get a little clearer picture of what's going on here. Well There's the uh uh the danger of covetousness to avoid, embracing Christian contentedness, that's the next half our quiet yet ever-present resource speaking of the Lord and a right response to his presence. That's kind of the four pieces I've broken up here. Literally, the the language in that first phrase, let your covetousness be w let your conversation be without covetousness, boy, don't swap those out, literally is don't be fond of money as a way of life. Don't be fond of money as a way of life. In fact, this particular word covetousness is only used twice in the Bible The King James uses the word covetousness a lot, but it's a much broader term in the Greek that could encompass this particular sin of avarice, the specific love of money. as opposed to a broader one which would be greediness in general, or that which you find in the tenth commandment, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife Nor is man servant, maid servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything's thy neighbors. That's the tenth commandment. So it's a much broader term, uh, and it's an interesting one uh for those of you Greek lovers. Um you know what philanthropy is, right? A philanthropist, a lover of anthropist, man, humanity. A lover of the humanities. Philadelphia. Philadelphia is a lover of the brethren. There's a city named the city of Brotherly Love, Philadelphia, to the north of us here. There is uh uh and then there's this word Phil Argus. Argus is silver. So if you ever wondered in the chemical table why the letters for symbol the symbol for silver is AR, it comes back to this Greek term argus. It's silver It's a lover of silver we would call lover of money. Silver often used as a mint of coin. That's the word used here with an A in front of it. Ah, filler uh Argos. Uh don't be a lover of money. Be that y you want to be opposite of that. So that's what's going on here. You know, this is a primary warning Throughout the Old and New Testament. It is all over the place. The examples abound. They're just more than I can honestly go through. If you look for the word covet, coveting, covetous, covetousness, you're going to get several hundred references, and I'm not going to walk you through those. It would be interesting to read. It's a primary sin. It's a very big one. It's one that's common But here's a few that I pulled out, and I'm going to have you turn to some of them. Look at Psalm ten and verse three. This is an interesting one to consider. Then we're going to go to the New Testament, Colossians. Psalm 10 and verse 3 speaks of this. It's insightful. We read this. It says, the wicked Boasteth of his heart's desire. So notice the heart here. The heart's desire. There's a focus on the heart's desire. And he's wicked. He boasts about it. He desires this thing. So he's telling people what the desire of his heart is. He's wicking. And he blesses the covetous whom the Lord abhorreth. God abhors the covetous. So that's God's opinion of covetousness. He hates both the sin and the sinner. You know, this is one that drags drags a whole lot in that package. It's it's a it's a heart issue, and of course the Lord alone sees that. Do you think we bless covetous people in America? Yeah. Oh yeah, we do. Boy he's a successful man. Look at all the he he must know how to handle the stock market. Boy he's a successful whatever and oh you know the Lord's really blessed him. Look at his house. He's got a house full of junk We said the Lord's blessed him. If he's covetous, that's a big issue. Now, let me pause for a moment here. Some of the most godly men in scriptures were in fact wealthy individuals. God is not on a crusade against having literal physical riches. Abram was one of the greatest men of all the East. He had great wealth and riches. In fact, that was a selling point when the servant went to go find a bride for his master's son Isaac. So You know, he's like he's the Lord's blessed him richly. That was a Job was another individual who was great in wealth. But they could do so and not be covetousness. They could let it go And God proved that to us when he literally took it all away from Job in a heartbeat. Naked came I from my mother's womb, and naked shall I to the shall I return to the Lord. The Lord gives, the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord Well let's continue on. I'm going to read this one for you. It's Psalm 119. There's a lot of really good things in there. Incline my heart unto thy Testimonies, again there's that heart thing, and not unto covetousness. So there's an inclination of the heart that is natural in the unsaved individual towards covetousness. There's an inclination for that. You know, you see that in every nursery across America. Every nursery across America, you put all these little toddlers, kids and diapers, they can't get up and walk, maybe they can crawl a little bit And there's going to be one kid in the corner with all the toys around him. And he's beating off the other ones. He's got all. And if this one's having fun with it, what's he? I want that to. . It's natural. It is just so natural to us like drinking water. You know, we we see it, you know, uh uh There's a million examples I could give, and you all know them. Turn to Colossians 3, Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5. Colossians 3. 5 and then we're going to go to Luke 12. It's a great memory verse in Luke 12. Colossians 3. 5 We have a series of instructions about mortification. Mortifies you know there's morticians in the land. They they deal with dead things. Well we are to serve as a mortician in our life. We are to make certain things dead Colossians 3. 5, mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. And he's talking about elements inside of you. These are part desirous things, all right? Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, evil desires, and covetousness which is idolatry. So Perry, there's your go-to verse, it just nails it right there It just actually calls it out. Covetousness is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience. Wow. That's that's one of these you heard of Mom says to the kid, you're pushing my buttons. You're pushing my buttons. Well, this is one of God's buttons. He's putting a nice big red warning sign on it for us. Don't don't go down this path. He says it's idolatry. That's insightful to us. Because idolatry says, oh, this is my God, this is what's going to give me pleasure. This is what's going to give me relief. This is what's going to give me film of life. to uh rescue myself my earlier comment about my vehicle as I was showing it off a year ago and um uh I was quick to point out Look, it's just plastic, metal, rubber, and glass. It's not going to bring me more salvation than joy in the Lord. That's all it is. Yeah, it's a nice car. I enjoy it. That's fine. But it's not salvation Yeah. It will break. It already has bumps and scratches and dents. It it's gonna fall apart. It just does. And so you can't make it an idle. Do you think some people in America make cars that are idle? Yeah. What happens when you run your grocery cart inside of somebody's car in the parking lot? You watch that kind little mother become My goodness, like an MMA fighter. She's just coming after you. You dead in my car, you scratched it. Ah lose their ever-loving minds. Over a vehicle. Which is going to pick up road rocks and nails and other junk anyway. It's their idol. It's an idol. Luke 12, 15. You know, uh, this is a definitely an area of the Christian life of which to fight against. Luke 12, 15 is an excellent memory verse because the Pharisees who were covetous were deriding him And his answer was to them, he, Jesus, said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness. Why? Why, Jesus? Why do we take heed and beware of covishness? For a man's life consisteth not in the things which he possesses. That's not your life. If your stuff defines you, what happens when your stuff disappears? You're crushed. You're destroyed. You're gone. And how shallow can that be? If your stuff defines you and who you are, if you're known by your stuff, how shallow of an existence can that be? I guess your identity is mostly in China, because most of the stuff on those is made in China. But how silly that is. That's a great memory verse, by the way. Take heed and beware of covetousness, for man's life consisteth not From the abundance of things which he possesses. Uh, parents you can use that when it's time to get a big snow shovel and haul out some of the toys which somehow made their way into the basement I d I never bought toys for my kids, maybe a handful, but great day. So many of them flooded the house and just appeared. It's just astounding how many they have. Turn a few uh forward, a few chapters to Luke 16. Luke sixteen, another place again, where the Lord is going to address these people In Luke 16, 13, and I'm going to have to get going because again, there's just so much in here and the verse has much that we need to discuss. Luke 16, 13, Jesus says, no servant can serve two masters. That's interesting. He's talking about masters, those who to whom you obey. He says either he'll hate the one and love the other, or he'll hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon It's really about mastership, isn't it? It's about lordship. And that's what Jesus is getting at. And that's why God abhors it and hates it, because it's replacing him. He's the giver of life. He's the one that brought all this into existence Some man just cobbled it together and sold it to you. The thing can't possibly be God. Control or be controlled. Yeah, control or be controlled. Good way to describe that But the Pharisees who were covetous heard all these things and they derided him. And he said unto them, ye are they which justify yourselves before men. Isn't that something that's common? If you find yourself justifying a purchase, you might want to think twice about it. Maybe you're trying to fool yourself into thinking this is a need, as opposed to something frivolous. If you have something that works just as well. What's wrong with being content with it? Ye are they which justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is the abomination in the sight of God He's simply applying to them what we just read in the Old Testament. Apply mine thine heart into thy testimonies and not to covetousness. The wicked boast of his heart to desire and blesses the covetous, whom the Lord abhoreth. That's all Jesus is doing. He's applying that. to the very people that have a book that tells them about these things. Our last uh passage on uh it's really rich. It happens to be about the rich young ruler in Luke 18. You'll remember that account. You can turn to it if you'd like. I'm not going to read through it. But the Lord Jesus asks him When he comes to him and the rich young ruler says, what good thing must I do to be saved? And to inherit eternal life is what he asks. And Jesus said, well, you know the commandments, and he began to recite the commandments. He recited all except the last one. He didn't quote the tenth commandment. And so the rich young ruler's response was, you know, all these things I've kept from my youth up. Now Jesus is going to lower the boom on him. Great, go sell all that you have, give to the poor, come follow me, you'll have riches and treasures in heaven. He went away poor and sad. Because he never had the tenth commandment applied to him. The rich young ruler couldn't have a garage sale. It's not possible He loved his stuff. And so he's a very relevant example. 2 Peter 2. 14 speaks of the uh the solid marks of reprobation of the false prophets. They have eyes full of adultery that cannot cease from sin. Cannot cease from sin. They don't have that power Beguiling unstable souls, and heart they have exercised with covetous practices, cursed children. That's 2 Peter 2. 14. This covetousness, folks, is lethal to Christians Don't toy with it. It's lethal to you. It really is a deadly, deadly, deadly sin. I'll give you two proof texts for this. Why covetousness is lethal to Christianity. There's certain Poisons I can't put on my lawn because it'll kill every blade of grass out there for a long time. It's lethal. Luke 8. 14 is the passage, and you know it. It's the parable of the sower. You don't have to turn there, but just listen with an ear towards can you pick out covetousness in there? Can you pick it out Because the parable goes like this, as Jesus answers and describes what he means, because he's not teaching an agronomy lesson, he says, that which fall among thorns are they which are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit. It's a scary term, to perfection See, Christ is seeking fruit. I'm the vine, you're the branches, right? He's looking for fruit. But those who are choked. With the care of riches, and riches demand maintenance. Riches demand attention. They do. Riches be increased, you know, there be those that increase that eat them. There's a lot of takers, there's a lot of hands that come in, and you gotta be looking and and pretty soon it becomes the thing that you serve. You end up serving it, it ends up controlling you. 1 Timothy 6 is our next place I want us to turn to because it's a direct corollary to our passage and the only other place where this exact opposite word of our word used in Hebrews 13 is found. So let's get to that quickly. 1 Timothy 6 and verse 9. We are going to back up Because it's in a slightly different order than we have presented here in Hebrews, but it's all relevant. 1 Timothy 6, 9. But they That will, this is a purpose, this is a mind. They're minded. They that will be rich, those that desire to be rich, those that are purpose to be rich, I am going to go such and such a city, buy and sell and get gain. They that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many Foolish and hurtful lust. It's a gateway sin that opens the door to a larger trash dumpster that has a very deep pit and bottom to it. It says, many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perish. Folks, I think that's here and now. Right here and now. This lady froze on a park bench for crying out loud. Great day. How ridiculous is that? For the love of money, that phrase love of money, that phrase is one word, it's it's Phil Argus. It's the opposite of not loving money here. For the love of money is the root of all evil. All evil. That's a pretty big big statement. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. You know, is coveting hard to repent of? Why do you think some Christians might find it hard to repent of coveting? Why do people let's just start with people, why would people find it hard to repent of coveting? Turn the TV on. Yeah, all you gotta do is turn on the TV and it just comes right back. It's kind of a constant broadcast. You don't see constant broadcasts of You know, so how have you supported some nice you know missionary work today? And you know, what have you done to help you know widows in need? Or what have you done today to give to your neighbor? You don't find any of that out there It it's just not commonly advertised. The exact opposite is advertised. And so maybe we need to have less of a digestion of that stuff. Scripture says, Incline not mine heart unto covetousness, but to thy commandments. It's kind of what you put in front of your eyes, what you put in front of your children's eyes. It's lethal to Christianity, and so I warn you, as the Scriptures warns all of us. What we are to do, as Penny pointed out earlier, is that there is a opposite effect that to be content with such things as you have, to build this literally, and I'm gonna give the Vince interpretation here, or the Vince translation, to build a wall of satisfaction around what you already have. To build a wall of satisfaction. I'm not talking about pride or arrogance. I'm just saying, hasn't the Lord richly blessed here? I'm grateful for what I have. One fellow who's a notable figure on Wall Street and has represented a company for many years and one of the most successful ones out there made one of the most stunning insights I've heard about what drives men. And drives the economy of the market. It's not greed, you'd think greed. He says, oh no. He says the big sin that drives the market is envy. Because people just can't stand it when somebody else is making more money than them I love that comment because that I detected that. I took it with Holy Ghost inspired vision. Now when I look at my portfolio or my return, all I ask is, is it doing okay? Did it meet my needs? Yeah. Mm-hmm. It didn't make as much as somebody else. Well that's envy. Who cares? I'm glad for them. That's wonderful. But for me, I'm content. I'm happy. I made two percent I'm ahead. Who cares? I made five. I made negative three. Who cares? Did I meet my needs? I should be content. But what a telling comment. Envy drives it. We just can't stand it when somebody else makes more than us I'm fill-in-the-blank. Can't stand it when somebody has a better fill-in-the-blank than us. Envy. It's all part of the same ilk. of stuff. And back up in 1 Timothy 6 to a few verses that Joe will get you in a sec. 1 Timothy 6, 6 Yeah, as I mentioned, the apostle presents this in a little different order. He says in 1 Timothy 6 6, But godliness with contentment is what? Great gain. Great gain It really is, and I want to quickly get to that because I'm cutting that part short because this is the part that helps fend off covetousness Godliness with contentment is great gain. Use the word gain. I mean that's a mighty big term. Gain. You know, you'll never see that charted in any news pop up anywhere It says we brought nothing into this world and it's certain we can carry nothing out. I'm an engineer. I like to bound problems. My boss told me, Vince, you're you're overscoping the problem. You're trying to boil the ocean. Okay, boss, I'll narrow it down here. I'll just try to boil the Gulf of America. But here he puts it this way. You brought nothing in and you're taking nothing out. That encompasses the entire human existence that has no exceptions to it. for the rule. Death has had 100% victory across the human race as far as I can tell. And it says you brought nothing in, you carry nothing out. So what does that tell you? Stuff doesn't help Pro riches profit not, the scripture says, in the day of wrath. It doesn't. And you've always heard the joke about there's never a hearse beh there's never a U-hol truck behind a hearse. And having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. So be content with that. You can just simply ask, you know, do I have clothing this year? Yeah. Did I get fed? It's all good. Yeah, you gotta have a roof over your head. That's fine. It's kind of part of your raiment, I suppose. But I mean there's a there's a much lower level of contentedness Some of you have been foreign missionaries in here, have lived overseas. You see what these people don't have compared to America. And you know in even in that country there's other areas of people that really don't have And you don't have to go far. And you see there's the excess that we have, this embracement of Christian contentedness. The Apostle Paul says this, he says in Philippians 4. 11 I have learned in whatsoever state I am in therewith to be content. He says, I know, now he's speaking from an experiential view, I know how to be abased And how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I'm instructed, both to be full and to be hungry. The apostle at one point was doing great. He had that little trip across the uh a GNC and got shipwrecked on the island of Malta. Well he was there for three months. He had a three-month Mediterranean vacation, folks. They were serving him hand and foot Because he reached in and this the fire and the serpent bit him and they thought he was a god and you had to restrain him and say, no, no, really I'm not. I'm a man like you. But they treated him well. He had a great, great season there of all of his needs being met. It must have been a wonderful time. Three months And then he goes to Rome and he never returned home. So this this this business of being Christian contented, what is our enabler to it? I'm really short on time, so I've got to get to it. We have Now, our Lord and Savior being brought into the picture. And what are the items that are pointed out in Hebrews 13, 6? Why is it we are to be content? I have God. I have God. All right, well if you got God, what's missing? I I I can't find anything. He fills heaven and earth. He made it all. He's the maker of it all. He's the creator of all He's the sum of all righteousness, he's the sum of all perfection, he's the sum of all beauty, he's everything, and he's given you a promise Now we don't have him in full measure at the moment. We know that. We have the earnest of the Spirit. I don't literally have Jesus Christ standing next to me at this moment And so the items pointed out is the promise, a promise to not leave us, a promise to not forsake us, a promise to help, to be our helper. You know, things can get pretty dark before the Lord kicks in to help. Does that mean he wasn't able to help? No. No, he has a purpose in it. This is this is part, I think, folks, of what it means to learn to walk by faith and to live by faith. To hang on to these promises that even when times get dark and difficult, you still confess, the Lord's my helper, He'll not leave, He'll not forsake, and you wake up the next day and it got one step worse. And you remind yourself of the promises. He's not going to leave. He's not going to forsake. He'll be my helper. And you wake up the next week and you're three times worse. And greater catastrophes keep coming. And you keep reminding yourself: the Lord has promised. He'll not leave, he'll not forsake, he'll not suffer my foot to be moved, I will not stumble. And then And then he may choose to deliver. He does this to teach you something What do you suppose he's teaching from that? That he's capricious? He's toying with you? What might he be teaching somebody to not rescue until the last second? What might he be teaching? That Jeffrey? Humility? Yes, indeed. I think humility words, Marissa. Contentment? Yeah, you certainly have to learn in whatsoever state I'm in. It's an opportunity to exercise the grace of contentment. Because how can you say I know how to be content when I'm a base if you've never been abased? How can you say that? Does the P-word come in? Patience. Patience. He teaches you patience. And you know patience is an underrated Christian virtue, because folks, let me give you a little hint here. You're going to live forever. You have all the time in the world. You're never gonna die. You continue forever. What's the rush Do you believe that? You see, the wicked doesn't. He thinks, poof, I'm gone, I'm dead. He who dies with the most toys what? Wins. No, he who dies with the most toys dies. That's what happens. But you live forever. You're gonna win by default because you're Christian Doesn't that kind of put a little different spin on things? Doesn't that all of a sudden make you think, you know what? I am in a little higher position I am on a better precipice. I am in a better plateau. I'm walking a higher road Than the unsaved. Why would I want to stoop down into the gutter when I'm up on the highway? Why would I want to stoop to that? You need something here You can have it. Can a covetous person open up the doors of his house and say, if you have need, come to me and we'll talk about it. Could a covetous person do that? I laugh when certain wealthy men say that they have donated a good portion of their riches back to charity. But you don't look at what that charity is, and it's a non-profit that's run by their children. Oh how convenient. Hey hypocrite, that's ridiculous. Yeah. You're gonna get a gold lined coffin that still winds up in hell. This promise of not leaving nor forsaking thee is very personal This is where I like the King James, because it's I will never leave thee. Thee is singular, meaning you personally. God's talking about you Personally, I'm not per he's not talking about collectively, like he's kind of watching out, I'm still around and there's a lot of ants running around. No, he's with you personally in your situation. I will not leave Thee, I will not forsake thee. God said it to Jacob, Behold, I am with thee and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest. Moses to Israel, be strong of good courage, fear not For the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee, he will not fail thee, he will not forsake thee. Be not dismayed. Joshua said, as I was with God said to Joshua, as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Samuel said to Israel, the Lord will not forsake his people. For his great name's sake, that's why God doesn't leave you, because He's put his name on you. These are my people. They're to be redeemed by my son. I have called thee by thy name. My name. I've called thee by my name. Thou art mine. And I'm not leaving you because my name is on you My name is at stake. It's not because you're so great. Oh boy, we're gonna lose that employee. They're valuable. Put them insurance bot. Don't let Marissa leave. Oh no, she can't leave CVS. She's our top employee. Oh no, no, no, no No, no, no, that's not how God operates. His name is there, and he'll not forsake his name. Now great, Jeffrey. That that that's a security program that I see a secure attention to is like, well I can't screw that one up And so, how long does he support his people until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord God? That's what David said to Solomon. My son, be strong and of good courage, and not fear, nor be dismayed. The Lord thy God, even my God, will be with thee. He'll not fail thee nor forsake thee. until you've finished all the work of the service of the house of the Lord God. Folks, as long as we're on this side of eternity You're engaged in the business of somehow supporting the work of the service of God, you have a very sure promise he's not going to forsake or leave thee. He'll always be there. Until you until your time has come. He says, Well done, good and faithful servant. Enter to the joy of thy Lord. You won't leave or forsake thee. Well, I'll stop right there and uh maybe we'll cover Verse six next week. Shall we pray? Father God in heaven, please cause us to repent of covetousness wherever it shows up in our life, Lord, to know that thou art our God. Riches are but idols. Thou art the true and living God. Help us to use these things right, help us to commit them. uh for the purpose of fulfilling thy mission and to uh to just stare covetousness and greed and avarice, all of that stuff straight in the face and acknowledge it for what it is, it's idolatry. Uh we ask your blessings and aid to that end. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So thank you if you didn't erect