When we talk about the spiritual world, we'll be looking at the topics of angels and things of that nature. And the answer is, well, before Genesis I there wasn't a before. It's God the Father, it's God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And look at First Corinthians eight six. That shows that God the Father creates, God the Son creates, God the Holy Spirit creates, and that they were all involved in what we would call the very supernatural acts of creation and that that oxygen can go to every single cell in your body. Every cell in your body gets a new breath of oxygen at what frequency? Third point, he created the world to be dependent on him. There's a nice little kid song uh from uh a guy called the Donut Man that puts that to song. That grandmother or grandfather means something to somebody. You go into a CVS, you want to buy a balloon for somebody's birthday party, and there's this long green tank there, and all these little flat aluminum-shaped balloons there, aluminum-style balloons And what's even more astounding is that they're all, nearly all, without exception, are made of hydrogen and helium. And if you ask to buy one, they'll go over to that little helium tank and they'll open it up, and all the thing goes in this balloon, and there it is. Well somebody had to capture it, and somebody had to kind of really just shove it in there. You need a force from all directions. There's all these fine-tuned variables that specifically identify gravity, for instance. But he created, and there's a Latin phrase, maybe you've heard this before, ex nihilo, meaning out of nothing. The creation had to come into existence because God commanded it. If that framing isn't done right, you don't have a house. They're in fact quite expensive to redeem. They're very expensive, they're very costly, because they're image bearers, and there's much to be repaired. Boy, I'm loving it. I'll just go walk around underneath my trees, you know. And that's proven to be pretty good advice over the years. They actually link in a manner that makes it hard for oxygen to escape. There's no way that two ants could go, hey, you know what, if we hang on here we might do this. He's designed to hunt silently. But these are some other competing ideas that the world has for where this marvelous universe that we live in called the creation of God came from. And it somehow all came together, rearranged, and so forth into its present form. Well God insists that when He created the universe it was all good. And so for everything was basically God. Somehow peanut butter can become a butterfly, give it enough time. They want to cut out Moses. They're explicitly trying to do population control based on this idea. It justifies racism. The DNA of the great great great great great great great great great grandbaby mouse still had DNA to build a tail. They've tried this. and along with Magellan and proved, hey, this thing's round, that the church was stuck holding the bag on a dumb idea, and the uh Greeks and and whatnot and the explorers found out that the world's really round And it comes up along the eastern seaboard, it cuts across the Atlantic, and it goes all the way and dumps off right in front of uh England, which is why they have such foggy weather. I'll look at some of the substitutes for the doctrine of creation that the world has tried to come up with and they fail miserably. All right. I think I see three of them right in front of me here. He made it out of nothing? Do we read in Genesis 1 any constraint where God had to do this? plasma and quarks and neutrons and all he just he created all these things. Yeah, so he actually goes on to give a an indication that God continues to create, and you see that in the Creation Week he first spoke the universe into existence So you begin to see as, I'll call it confessions, because this is a statement of what we believe, that as the church Try to labor to articulate very clearly, no, dear brother and sister, this is what we believe. uh this Greek idea of spontaneous regeneration, which later became known as evolution, had already begun begun to affect the people of God. They were trying to allow for long ages. Surely they have more proof than we do. So John is very bold and makes a plain statement that this God man, the Lord Jesus Christ, made And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. Why is it important that the Bible teach that they all are creator? The entire universe itself and the very essence of man, the fact that man was made from the dust of the ground. Or is it gained to him that thou makest thy ways perfect? It says in the place in the Old Testament, I think it's one of the shorter prophets, God says, if I were hungry, I wouldn't ask you. Neither is worship with men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life and breath and all things. Others have gone in, and I'm looking at you two fellows like your grandmother from, oh my, it must have been eight or nine years ago she was in Not time yet. Then who shall those things be that you have stored up? I was driving at night, uh better mileage, it's cooler. sciences. where it's talked about that God made a path in the seas. You learn it from the scriptures. And then somebody shows up with a cement truck or some bricks and they lay that uh hard foundation down, and then you see the framing material. It speaks about God creating man. Now this is not a progression that implies that God is utilizing an evolutionary mechanism, because evolution of necessity depends on death and a lot of it to get to the stage where it's at. I think it's quite the opposite. They're unique creatures. For believers. Buy a ten dollar tree and dig a twenty dollar hole. By eight eight eight fifteen, eight thirty in the evening, you look close, you probably see this. I mean, all of these things, and I've just described a tiny, tiny, tiny sampling of things. and listen to see if you can hear this bird fly overhead. There are competing ideas. And that is something called the emanation theory. Right? They worship cows and goats and monkeys. I'm like, are you kidding me? hearts of saints, we have the earnest of the Spirit, but you're not God because you have the Spirit of God, right? It robs God of his sovereignty. Banks on the fact that you can have a jar of peanut butter and you seal the lid and as long as things don't get in there, when I open it, I've got good food. It's not, oh let's hang on to it. If you don't have to answer to God for your sins, then that means that death is a natural process, that it's not of moral consequence. at doing something very noble. There's no hell, no heaven, and likewise no hope. It ignores most major scientific discoveries in the past 100 years. hour and a half monologue like I did last time. That's Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 3, and then Colossians chapter 1 and verse 16. Hmm, very interesting. Uh that's not the reason whatsoever. He puts it this way. That is by its very nature unfit for the manifestation of the glory of his power, wisdom, and goodness. This is from the Westminster Confession of Faith, the fourth chapter in the first section. and then you got the dirt, and then God formed man from the dirt from the ground. has faced controversy over the years, and as heresy begins to creep in and cause trouble among the brethren, that those who are exercising themselves in doctrine with justification for why the Bible teaches a particular way. And I look down to say, I no, I think they meant six days. Alright, so there's some handful of definitions for you, and you can see how it would be difficult to try to articulate what the Bible says on a subject, but I thought those were pretty good. Alright, let me capture some general points about creation. God's Spirit, the Holy Spirit, made him. When you were knit in your mother's womb, God the Holy Spirit was active. When you go to Psalm 33, that's when you understand that the host of them were also made. He gets close, but he's not ultimately God. God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands A bunch of philosophers that are standing around to hear and tell some new thing, and indeed he told them something they hadn't heard before For we are also his offspring. who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and, watch this, upholding all things by the word of his power at the stars. I looked up and I was astounded. If you ever get a chance to really, really, really get a good 50 miles away from the nearest city, I mean really away into nowhere's ville. Now when you open that tank, the air from the room doesn't rush into the tank, the helium comes out, and you have to go, well now, how did all that helium get in there? holds it in. Five times their their height that they could on Earth, and because they have less gravity. In fact, it calls it the work of his fingers. It's interesting. called Mari Hall, and it's named after the father of oceanography. with cold air, so this evaporation comes up and it's very moist and foggy there. It absolutely had to. Not just sort of good, it was very good. And the truth I'm talking about is the passage we just read, Genesis 2. I think that's encouraging. We already know that we're a rebellious race of humans. If any man be in Christ, he's a new what? of Adam, earthly, and you're a new creature in Christ, bearing the image of the heavenly, that spiritual new man, that inward man. That act of creation I did, even especially so for my glory. What is occurring to you, the struggles, the trials, the confusion of life, the heartache, the disappointments? And and it matches up with this other natural maple tree that's already on the property. He fulfills everything. To make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hidden in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. As we look out at this creation with born-again eyes, you can see one thing, the manifold, the open, the evident wisdom of God. But together they can survive as a colony because they all link together. There's no the Bible says that they have no overseer or ruler, yet he gathers his food in the summer and has meat in the wintertime and can harvest it. owl would want. It says that matter has always existed. I remember being at a uh an event where there was an owl back up in the top of the little theater we were sitting at, and the handler for the bird says, now everybody be real quiet And he said the owl has several types of feathers on his wings. Now if you put all the black holes in the universe together, are they ever going to escape? I'll work through the logic with you later on that. thing called me. And above all these things. That's a problem. A process is a repeatable step of things, and random, by definition, isn't repeatable. Quote, a series of gradual progressive changes effected by means of resident forces. That sounds like the lie of the devil, straight from the pit, and it's a direct accusation that he made at the Garden of Eden, half God said. The same MO with the same catastrophic results. That lay the groundwork for Hitler and for Mussolini and for eugenics idea that says, well, we ought to really be giving a lot of birth control and pushing abortion in certain areas. Ray Comfort made a movie called Evolution Destroying the Foundations of Faith. Somebody watch it somewhere so that And the students are going, um you got the chemistry major going um Evolution's coffin. It wasn't working backwards. And the Bible does give us some insights to it, and so I hope you tune in for that next week So this is the overview and the introduction to creation in general. Anton, if you'd read Hebrews 11. I would just read that entire first chapter of Genesis and just wonder. Okay, Anton, next, Hebrews 11, 3. And we'll look at that in a a little bit more detail here after Yvonne reads his passage. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Excellent, thanks. And thus gave it an existence distinct from his own, and yet always dependent on him Pretty packed. It tells us when he did it in the beginning. is that ever since Mr. creatures. for the manifestation of the glory of his eternal power, wisdom, and goodness, in the beginning to create or make of nothing the world and all things therein, whether visible or invisible, in the space of six days, and all very good There wasn't a before. uh look at the ongoing act, creative act of God as opposed to strictly limited to that one event and creation. I would be quick to point out. It's helpful because it'll point you back to the scriptures and it'll give you a framework for why we believe what we believe. Who said, well, the the Westminster divines were very wise when they said in the space of six days, because they left that word days very loose. We would say stars even. Then we turn to John chapter 1 verse 3. It ascribes it to him. If God the Son were but a man created, or as the Mormons would put it, the first creature of God, a great one, a big one, a mighty one, sure they'll give him all the pecking order of privileges and rank and status over angels and all that stuff, but it doesn't make him God Creation is the free act of God. I'll have Chris read Job 22, 2, and 3. And all sin is against God because it's his law. That's very important that Jesus can't be listed as a creature. God has no pleasure if you're righteous. You know, the whole American economy is built on our supposed needs. That's just amazing. And it's amazing to me. And I'm going to stop right there. Just look up at the stars on a clear night. What happens? Then for my word to pass away. God created the material and the mass with time, not in time. have ships outfitted with certain observation equipment and he discovered that there are in fact currents in the ocean. In the beginning refers to the start of those things God says he created. God spake and boom, there it is. Let's look at some other things here. The conclusion at the end of everything God created in the previous chapter of Genesis, Genesis 1. Are there any two people of whom it can be said they are perfectly identical? By virtue of the fact that you're an image bearer of God, there is intrinsic value in you as a human being. And God Almighty took upon Himself to create you and you in particular for a unique reason Jesus Christ and will bring us in for his glory. Only you can bring to the glory of God. We're like trees planted in a forest. And yes, I gotta trim the branches and I gotta do all kinds of stuff, but they're the trees of my plant. the garments of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord. The apostle writes this. Till he has put all enemies under his feet. He wants to be and he will be all in all. To the intent now that unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God their little legs together and they kind of all form this big viscous ball. When the water comes, it begins to flood their infrastructure, all of their tunnels underneath. I think that's amazing. That's amazing to me. And God has many, many creatures like that. One of the ideas is that original matter is eternal. I mean not a fluff, not a ruffle. Which, by the way, I thought there were things called black holes that were so dense that even light couldn't escape from them Or God used this pre-existent material to create the world. God is in the trees, God is in the great wolf, God is in the bear, the Indians who talk about the spirit of the great wolf and the spirit of this animal and the spirit of that other animal. The Bible also says God created everything good, and the Bible says God will triumph over all evil at the end. It also kind of applies the theory of evolution to God. It can possibly give an answer for the survival of the fittest, possibly, and I say possibly, but it doesn't account for the arrival of the fittest. Theistic evolution is the worst of this because it says God is in fact in back of the universe, but he intervenes with unalterable laws of nature and physical forces only, with that, maybe a miracle or two. He wrote a book on the origin of species, and that's what the title is reflected today. on the origin of species by natural selection or the preservation of favored races in the struggle for life. If there's not a God in the universe, why not? That's how he ended his life. Right? And this is science because of why? That mice had baby mice. And they'll hold on to this ignorance because to let go means there must be a God. Evolution is a faith-based system, and it's the blindest faith that exists, because no one has ever witnessed it. That springs to life and builds the factories that build you. And God said, let there be light when there was light. Well it says in Genesis one two that the earth was without form and void and so in the beginning. There had to be something going on before Genesis 1. What else are you thinking, Edward? Everything. Without him we would have no existence. And there's light. Just wasn't her time. When I drove to California to go to my first job, I had to drive across Texas, the west part of Texas, and stopped at the border between Texas and New Mexico. uh with uh a fellow I was crossing the country with in my car and he says, Vince, she says, you've got to look up Period. thirteen, fourteen hundred years before Einstein proved that matter and time are related. the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified I saw an interesting internet video just recently. six to seven different creatures that he focuses on and the different aspects of it. So that idea just doesn't work. What experiment did you see that proved to you beyond the shadow of a doubt that evolution is true? Oh, but it took long periods of time. And they don't want that. And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. In the beginning, brought forth the whole visible and invisible universe without the use of pre-existent material Okay, Job says this. Candace, would you mind doing Psalm 33, 6? Now what do we refer to when we say the host of heaven? Or in him we live and move and have our being, as certain also of your own poets have said Everything we have, the very breath in our nostrils, is in fact a gift of God. where, you know, road signs like next gas seventy five miles are common, right? Made the stars also. It's his word that keeps all these things together. Fellow named Mari, uh I forget his first name, I think it's Robert, Margaret or Maurice, M-A-U-R-Y. You ever live in a place where there's a new development going up in your neighborhood? And this one really brought great encouragement to me this week. the the uh many facets of just human activity. The problem with this is that the Bible says God created things which did not exist before from nothing. And of course, evolution is the other competing idea of creation. The force exists, but it must be undirected and entirely random. And the evolutionary scientists know that. And therefore, if there's no God and no creator and no moral consequence, then there's no need for a Savior or for salvation. Whereby he, according to his sovereign will and for his glory, for his own glory People ask sometimes, well, what was in the universe before, you know, um Genesis one? Now, how does this improve upon our articulation of the Bible's teaching on creation? So I don't want to get stuck holding the bag with another dumb idea when evolution finally tanks. So here, Job, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and that's the New King James Version, I apologize for that, is making it clear that You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power for you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created. Who packed all of that hydrogen and helium in a ball in space where gas loves to expand to fill up the void? That's why all of these strong nuclear forces and weak nuclear forces and all these other things that you learn about in these physics classes if you get to college and start studying about these things, electromagnetic forces and all And as such, you are an image bearer of your Maker. You're very, very unique. Isaiah 61 in verse 3. Let's turn to 1 Corinthians 15, because again we have the entire triune Godhead involved in this. Then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. They were studying fire ants, and they were impressed at how fire ants survive. And they can float and go wherever. I want to now turn to the substitutes for the doctrine of creation. He speaks, that's an energy force that's becoming matter. So he was very clear that there were some races that evolution has brought along, and they're just a little further advanced than others. Genesis one, one through three. How would you define the doctrine of creation according to the Bible? That's quite impressive. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. We believe, and that the Bible teach, that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are creators or creator. Acts 17, 24, and 25 speaks pretty plainly as the Apostle Paul is speaking to these people on Mars Hill. Trach tube, everything. Hebrews 1 3, I'll read that real quick. Somebody had to compact that spherically, that means in a sphere, and put enough of it there together so that there's so much of it together that by its own mass it Their cells will be different. I have formed him, yea, I have made him. that he might be glorified. This is pretty obvious, if you think, from Einstein's theories. These are entirely random, minor changes, billions of years, from the goo to the zoo to you. It has no God, no purpose, no accountability. They just believe it. My good buddy Mr. What's interesting further is that I'm told, I haven't proved this myself, but I'm told, that his general theory of relativity also showed that you cannot have matter without time. It assumes, however, two coexistent infinite entities, which would be contradictory to logic. That's called a faith system without evidence. Tonight we're going to look at creation in general. God created everything. So notice that he created all things, and it's for his pleasure that they were created. Because this is all about science. If you went to get a science degree, you had to get a theology degree because that was considered the highlight of the study. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. So experience doesn't prove that to us. Partly you've owned material and I suppose he's saying that because man was created from the dust. That was especially true at the birth of Jesus, when the heavenly host appeared singing glory, hallelujah to Jesus Christ on his birth, enunciating his birth. So he is the one that if it's alive, it's quality. God's Word. The evolutionists have it the other way. Genesis 2. The final purpose of creation is for God's own glory. For the believer, notice what he says. The problem was this with this is that it denies God's infinity and it denies God's transcendence. Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 21, he says, Thy people also shall be all righteous. That doesn't work. They're in fact made of the Lord. And it's unfortunate that in our particular neighborhood, uh in the DC area and the eastern seaboard in general, we have so much nighttime light pollution Augustine had an interesting phrase. There was a flood upon the earth for exactly the reason the Bible said there was, for the judgment of God upon sin. They've said, well, surely external things will influence DNA. Man can make a lot of things, but we can't actually create anything except what God created everything. There's a lot in that. God's a gift of God. They're exactly 40 feet apart. And this thing just lit up his wings and you could not hear that owl fly overhead to save your life. The helium comes out and expands. She's still alive, to the best of my knowledge, right? The Lord did as he pleased or delighted, so he did as he pleased and he delighted. They'll say God does not or cannot exist, but matter is and must be eternal. What keeps this universe as a question? Okay. And you ought to just think about that sometime, that in your position in all the universe, there is none really like you. So let me ask a question. And to be very succinct about it, it goes further to say there frankly isn't anything that is made that he didn't make. You know, our opening verse was in Hebrews 11:3, wasn't it? He formed him from the dust, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. That's just amazing to me. And there are several other scientists who have made astounding discoveries based on things they've read that God puts in his word. He'll have all the glory. And you know what? It might become, you know, the next academic scientist. It justifies Hitler's regime and so forth. Professing themselves to be wise, very wise. The subsequent acts of creation use material that God created. We're going to make a trip through the book of Isaiah, so let's start with Isaiah 43 and verse 7. Burkhoff has this definition, and let's see if how well it fits. That act by which God produces the world and all that is in it, partly out of nothing and partly out of material He was at the peak of the evolutionary pile. 7 The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man, Adam, became a living soul. And God says, go to the ant thou slundered, study his ways, learn. Dude, T-bone, porterhouse, right there. That is pure information. They cut their baby tail mice, uh the my the tails off the baby mice, and so forth for many generations. That's a very insightful passage, and it's in that section of scripture known as the Hall of Faith. That's a pretty broad scope. They want to cut out the Lord Jesus Christ. So when it says he made the heavens, plural, he sort of em embraces everything to include angels. And for the next 30 minutes, we just lay on the hood of the car, was looking up at the stars, because I had never seen how many stars are actually out there. Abraham Lincoln said one time, the Lord must have loved the common man because he made so many of them. He made all that. And they're like, well, you know, quality of life, you know, we really ought to. Psalm thirty-three nine speaking of this creation that he made in verse six, it says in Psalm thirty-three nine, for he spake and it was done, he commanded, and it stood fast I don't think there is such a person as a common man. That's what we pay theologians for, I guess. The Word of God. He declares the greatness of the impact of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and that he is going to reign until he's put all enemies under his feet. He is outside of space and time. The information wasn't going back. It's an unacceptable alternative. I feel so bad about that, but that was because I didn't get proper chance to prepare. God created everything, okay. Einstein came along and gave us his famous theory that we can at least pretend to look like we know something and write it up on a chalkboard, but that energy is in fact a a direct equivalent to a whole lot of mass times the speed of light. Go ahead, Anton. Upholding all things by the word of his power. I just love that. It was nailed down, it was established. That drives me crazy. And it robs God of his holiness. What keeps it from flying apart? How do you get to that condition? There was nothing wrong with that creation that he made. It deprives the creature of their relative independence, freedom, and moral character. 3, and Yvonne, if you can belt out Colossians 1. Our faith does not stand the confession. Well, science just hasn't caught up to the Bible. There's nothing new under the sun. That's what we call it. So you've got who? It's that first half that's the punchline, isn't it? It's there was no requirement, no satisfaction that needed to be met from it. The same work ascribed to God the Father. It's because his word holds heaven and earth together. We have our being. Just kind of pat it, you know, just kind of touch it. There's another idea, and the uh uh this is popular among the Hindu. He committed suicide. We're going to look at some useful definitions of creation. They're trying to allow for the academics. Then we're going to get to my fourth point, the time of creation, or what does in the beginning mean? Do you realize that each and every one of you is individually created personally by God? Nobody plants a tree randomly or casually. They're just amazing. And what these Greeks would say, those who would assume that somehow there's a higher force that rearranged it, is that God is good, but matter is evil It was just a form of God in appearance. Famous to some people, not to me. I have seen people in the hospital that a few days before were quite healthy. You can't build a house without the frames. Creature. It was I mean stone dead silent. Now why is that a problem? So it's a free act of God. You know, it takes a lot of work to plant a tree. And there's billions of cans out there that, you know, when we do see a new life form, it's generally called contamination, lethal, and we throw it away and it's not positive. Maybe there was, you know, a big angelic battle or something. The fact that they're still around means something to somebody. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. He's very interested in that. I should be able to go and buy the material and hook it up pour in or do whatever. How would you define the doctrine of creation from these passages? He didn't need the world. How did God make the stars? I just want us to get that into our site one more time and just kind of marvel at it. When you hear, for instance, explanations of the Big Bang, they'll say that all the matter of the universe was packed into this one tiny pinhole thing. He says, even everyone that is called by my name, for I have created him for my glory. He knits them in the mother's womb. It is astounding the number and the variety of them Nothing times nothing is everything. There's something of value and worth. If something falls on, they'll surface back up to the top. What does that mean? I see all these people in India. He too is a creator. Still kicking. He said that God created cum tempore, meaning with time, not in tempore, not in time. You know, we see these things. That's called speculation. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. What is that? Don't let him buffalo you with that nonsense at the hospital about quality of life. What's wrong with survival of the fittest? Somebody said it's the truth. That is, what are all these definitions trying to hit upon? May ended a sermon. God. He's making a declaration that God the Holy Spirit made him, and it was his breath that gave him life. Sure. He has no pleasure if your ways are perfect. I mean it's a machine that does this, right? He's a new creature. Does that give you a renewed appreciation? I think it really powered me through my whole day on Thursday. It says, To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning. It was from a researcher at Georgia Tech Research Institute, GTRI. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. The electromagnetic spectrum he created. We have a soul. I could go on for a long time about that. The handler excuse me uncovered the mask over the owl, and they had a piece of cheese or something down there that the That's quite extensive. Edward, if you could do John chapter 1, verse 3. Texas tends to be a little warm. It goes into this balloon. There's some value in that, and I think that's encouraging. And the ones on the driveway are exactly 8 feet from the driveway. I'm quite sure that owl didn't sit around and figure out what kind of feathers he needed to grow. 7. If you ever want some really good entertainment for the kids, I highly recommend Dr. Sin would be natural and okay, not a problem. It's already within the animal. You've got why, according to his sovereign will. That's conversion. And of course we would recoil at that. Well really next week we'll get into some things that you might find particularly interesting. Out of nothing. Charged particles, all that stuff created. The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. So we have many disconnects. He created the world to be dependent on him. In other words, this wasn't sweat off of God's brow Maybe that old big empty lot finally somebody decided to build on it, and you see the foundation getting dug out and there's piles of dirt? Good advice. Emanation theory says this, that God and the world are essentially one. Thy soul is required of thee. He's keenly interested in that. The Greeks were big on this. This is also known as dualism. That is all that it is. He was actively involved. So here God makes it clear that it's a rhetorical question. It makes him directly responsible for the evil and the good. And if you believe in evolution, why not? And that's the only reason. Every second, every half second, every three seconds? Right? And he said, hmm, that's interesting. These are just old, dumb ideas that have been recirculated from the time of the Greeks. It's the blindest form of faith that exists on this planet. It's online. Those who labor in doctrine are supposed to go and pull everything together and boil it down. That's why you have these flyers and ads come through the mail all the time. Now do you see why Jesus says it's easier for heaven and earth to pass? If they were worthless, it wouldn't have required the blood of Jesus Christ to redeem us And they are dumping tons of shade on this lot. Um you know, the whole food industry He's very consistent with his thinking. This has got to be the greatest scientific hoax in our time. But to us there is but one God, the Father of whom are all things, and we in him. This was a finger operation for God. The discovery of DNA, a double helix, has absolutely got to put the death blow in Not in the Cluth House, who doesn't have any position in here. Well, if the Son and the Spirit were created, then they can't be equal with the Father. He doesn't need anything. What value is that to you as an individual human being? Yeah, but what he don't want to hang on. That's where he dwells. They know that evolution is a direct attack on the Bible Oh, let's go to Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 3. Because if you don't have a creation, you don't have a creator. It's an expression of what people believe. I think that's the purpose of a confession is to be very clear They don't want to stand with a stiff arm against the wise academic scientific community. Look at Job chapter 33 and verse 4. We have an existence. Well, we read in Genesis 1, quote, and he made the stars also. The moon's a smaller body. All of that God is working in a custom-fit way to bring you into his house as a particular vessel and treasure that Christ are all in all. And they can float on top of water, linked together like a mat, a floating mat of ants. This is what I call my review of bad ideas, and I'll go over this briefly. They're starving. Now this is a huge oxymoron. Do you know what the full title of Darwin's book is? Time itself did not exist. I have talked with people when I have done this study, this was back in 2005 or 2006. He's not needy. That's just what he wants to do. We see the creation and we see the manifold wisdom of God. And again, I'm appealing to Einstein here, the E equal MC squared thing. Perfect righteousness. And so if we believe in a triune God, we ought to expect to find passages. It expands. Psalm 148 and verse 5 says the same thing. Now, the researcher is blind. There's many other things that define the wisdom of God, how birds fly You're not going to have a bang. So they took mice. It pleased God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. It's because God simply hasn't said, nope, not time yet Therefore, it happened. He's got these certain kind of saw feathers on the leading edge of the wings, and just behind that he has another layer of feathers, and just behind that he's got the flight feathers. In him we live and move and have our being Somehow God will work in our lives, the lives of every individual child and daughter of Perhaps a higher force rearranged it. The same work ascribed to God the Holy Spirit Speaking of the Son, the Son of God Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. And the frame of the universe is the Word of God I think there are common sins, there's common behaviors, but every individual is a unique individual. You see some guy out here in shorts and and these shoes right here and I'm walking around touching my trees. Wonderful stuff. So to me that's pretty straightforward. Just wonder. And so you can see that early in that time, this idea of But we cannot say that human beings, because they're image-bearers of God, are absolutely worthless. You're a creature from the first time of the dust, from the earth. In fact, we would say that as children come forth and grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren, that they are all new And it's got plenty of reason to tank. We know the laws of gravity, how gravity works, the size of the mass, and how much pool it'll be so when the astronauts get to the moon they can jump We saw that He didn't need it. Ephesians chapter 3. No one times nothing equals everything But I want to introduce this topic of creation to you in general tonight. But someone has to shove it in there. Original matter is eternal. I mean, this is not hard. In a way he's always appearing and changing. Go ahead, Ivon. The series is part of an outline. It was the academic community back in Columbus's day that said the world was flat and the church bought into it, and once Columbus sailed the ocean blew Augustine was way ahead of his his days because he got that right. In fact, it was excellent. If you dig a ten dollar hole, it's gonna die. The worst by this branch of ideas is something called theistic evolution. And he asked one great question to all of these college students. And there's nothing I do external that packs information back into it Okay, you created everything out of nothing. No, you don't see that at all. There's another definition from a fellow named Wolebius. It's not like you're pouring out a bunch of water and it all kind of pools up at the bottom. I just walk around the evening sometime, have a nice good, full meal. Why was Hitler wrong if it's all about survival of the fittest? Pure actionable information. I tell you, even until I was a Christian for at least fifteen years, maybe even as much as twenty He's not the needer. But she recovered because it wasn't her time. That's the glue. I'm not trying to overturn what we've already talked about when it comes to total depravity. Matter was evil. They're bone thin. You know, it's not in vain when the Lord says of the rich man who tore down his barns and said, I'll build bigger, he says, Thou fool, this night thy soul is required of thee and I'm just so struck when I look out He was reading a passage in the Bible So in Genesis 1. I happen to have these maple trees out here that I'm very happy with. The world is a manifestation of God Himself. Expensive say it was in six days. Even identical twins have subtle differences between them. Talking about those who are called by his name, those who are created, those who have been born again, as it were. He's put all things under his feet. The most famous atheist out there is a fellow named Ernest Hemingway, and he was known for his excellent writing, of which I've read none. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the angelic realm? We have some real problems here They all three share that. It's a great one for the kids. I call that stupidity squared. How do you see it? I've had some time to s to spend in this study to actually be able to ask you questions and get some feedback rather than a As the whole body which would include second and third heaven and My dad told me that if you ever plant a tree, son, you And they even point out in the video, you know what's amazing is these ants don't really seem to have anybody that's in charge. Great for kids. God dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worship with men's hands as though he needs anything. 16. Didn't exist before. All of those things are finely tuned, and God dialed in the parameters for every single one of them The path in the sea. You know, just look at it and I do you drive down the road sometime, come out of here Dualism, that matter is infinite and God's infinite. Do you know what the full title is? We would say, no, there's something very wrong with that. They suppress the truth in unrighteousness. You got when, in the beginning. Oftentimes you see the phrase, the heavenly host. I wouldn't let you know. No man has power over the spirit to retain it in the day of death. Anyway, ignore facts. You're not a a visible form of Him. So that's an axiom around to say that things were done by random processes. I mean he's got seven heads. And maybe we're just little angels that have been cast into human form. So there's another plain statement, again, speaking of the Father and the Son as the ultimate creator. It used to be that theology was considered the prince of Oh well we're hosed. There was no noise Kept building tail. They cut their tail off So let's start off. And I stopped and So what keeps the universe from flying apart is the word of God itself. And he began to do studies. It was the commandment of the Lord. 31, God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. He seems to be interested in that Now the problem of that is huge because it's a direct denial of the first three chapters of Genesis. Colossians 1. If somebody asks you, what does the Bible teach about creation, what would you say? What are they trying to get at? Let's look at Revelation 4. And Yvonne, if you could cover Acts 17, 24, and 25. Elucidate on that sum, uh Dr. You are a unique individual But they are unique creatures He wants to make that happen. And they have an interesting survival technique. And they believe it. That hospital person has no right to stand up and play God, and that's nonsense. What is it that keeps this universe from flying apart? It had to happen. So it appeals to that. Many scientific discoveries have refuted the theory according to Darwin's own predictions as to what would cause his theory to fall. Out of nothing. What an amazing event. Now we turn to Psalm 33, 6. There's nothing that he needs. The very fact that you can breathe air and take it in. There's ocean currents. I don't open it well, hey look, hun, a new life form. We need a perfect righteousness. That type of place. Therefore Okay, so you're trying to draw a distinction between creating and making God didn't Right, okay. He's the giver, right? That's the underlying infrastructure. And we read, of course, let's go back and look at that again, Genesis chapter 2 and verse 7. These are everything. They love it. It's all about spiritual things. There was energy there. And that's of course a very large problem. Survival of the fittest justifies euthanasia. So that is an act of creation. And Yvonne, while you're there, read Acts 17 a few verses later in verse 28. He spoke in Genesis 1, and in fact in the Hebrew it's one word, light. And it still is Have you ever heard him talk about random processes? This was the work of his fingers. 1, God did not start his work using pre-existing material. You see a sequence and a progression going on here. In fact, if it rains and it totally floods their colony, they'll all link together, and when they do He thinks that this ant somehow has figured this out over millions of years. How do I reproduce that? I look fat compared to them. Man, in fact, could become God given enough time, so it fits right into certain other kinds of heretical teachings So that's Genesis 1. Not only did the Spirit of God make me personally, but it says by the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the hosts. Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 21. Ex nihilo, right? There's no culpability if I'm just a manifestation of God. And they checked the DNA. You cannot have time without matter and vice versa. Yeah. So creation is the work of the triune God. Now you know what that is. You don't have an exploding star do it. He didn't need this thing. How did that line up? 1 Corinthians 15 and in verse 28. I'll just read that to you, 9 and 10. When they get into trouble, say in the Amazon rainforest, where there's plenty of rain, You can't have two infinites, an infinite God and infinite eternal matter It wasn't that he was sitting around lonely and he decided, well, I think I'll make something because I'm just kind of bored And it is not entirely a very good defense against error. We watched it year after year and it's just really wonderful stuff. The Native American Indians in this country believe this. It is an actionable architecture document. They just kept losing them because these clowns kept cutting them off Dan, if you could read the first three verses of Genesis chapter one. 16. These stars are made of hydrogen, which is even lighter than helium Well he learned that from the scriptures. Thought that's very interesting. If it's alive, it's complex and it's quality. Okay, so where's the learning mechanism? Doesn't he might tell it? Joe B. It rivals the flat earth theory in Columbus's day. Invisible things like But like any good Bible teacher, a confession ought to be pointing you back to the scriptures. I I don't have any need from you. Uh but that's true. Now, when they open that tank Not hard for me. That the tree grows up, dies, falls down, now another one comes up, dies, he kind of comes and goes. It's for his will and his pleasure. There is a hall at the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency down in Bethesda, or now they're down in uh Fort Belvoir. Oh man, I'm loving it. He looks pretty smart. And uh I'm gonna give I've got seven general points about creation and time permitting That's interesting. He was completely silent. It's just to stir up covetousness. There's a current that goes around the Gulf Coast God used nothing. Transcendence means he is far Here's the full title. What experiment did you see? You got what? Now, may I ask you a question: What is different in this definition? They slipped in and then they passed very quickly What value is this truth to you as an individual human being? I've just told you about ants, stars, my trees, individual people. Energy was first, and then there was matter. Sorry, Ernie. The spiritual world. What I find fascinating And then I have a question. Verse 28. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. Yeah, they really go the further extent to say in the space of six days 11. That's very consistent. He began to You've got to give it lots of root room and a lot of place to grow You can bundle them together in the ball and squish them, and they just kind of squish and fall apart. Martin's Creatures That Defy Evolution. He did it for his own glory, and he insists on that. And the first one is this, that creation is the work of the triune God. And I probably should do some reading assignments here. Two by fours that are sixteen inch onsetter. It's all about how you think about life. Constant. So matters always existed somehow. God is infinite energy. If you don't have a creator, you don't have to answer to God for your sins. Now why did you add that? And here it says he upholds all things by the power of his word, and also time itself as a created thing. So you've got pantheism. That's an interesting statement. God says It seems good in his sight. This is not going to happen. Now this is prevalent in our day. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. Okay. So there is a record of the angels being made in Genesis 1. Vidal, if you could read that one. That's great. You know what I thought those were each good attempts at trying to capture it. Now let me ask you a question. He didn't need us. 1-3. The next two topics will be the spiritual world and the material world. Wolebius, W-O-L-L-E-B-I-U-S. And Anton, if you could do 1 Corinthians 8. Pike Didn't sweat. They all come together and they link It presupposes that something evolves. I can't. This is something God would have had to have told Adam. He says, creation is that free act of God He can't forgive sin. It ascribes the origin of life to spontaneous generation. He has no need there. There is a spiritual world. Okay, here's another definition You're very unique. And these cows are walking around. So that idea is not supported biblically and therefore it is false And it starts off with an explanation of creation. What's really neat about that are s several things. It's just constant. That's the framework. Psalm 148 and verse 5 teaches us So matter can't be eternal. They worship these things because they're God The whole visible and invisible universe. So he's trying to The ants just died. So when you get a chance to read it, just refresh us of what passage you're reading so those who take notes know where we're at. He made it all. There's two infinites. And in fact, sin then becomes a quote-unquote figment of your imagination. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that thou art righteous They have a nice warm current that shows up and they're in a northern latitude with So God times nothing is everything. Why? I go out my front door and I just beaming, just looking at those things, look at those trees. They give new labels, but underneath the hood, it's the same bankrupt idea When God, as it were, quote unquote, calls your number, there's not a lot you can do about it. I'm loving those trees. Who can argue with that? So we're going to hit on some key scripture verses up front. That's the first big point. The time of creation. What does that say to you? You would say he made a grand attempt He's fully sufficient in and of himself. It would have just dissipated and disappeared everywhere. And the question is very simple. That's a force, that's a cylindrical force that comes out and pushes it one way. He did all of these things for His glory. When he shall excuse me, and when all things shall be subdued unto him And God is that energy. Okay, who's got Job 22? It just fills up that balloon. That's why those stars stay together. How much work can you do with your fingers? We know that their DNA definitely has a different stamp in it. People worship trees. I've heard all kinds of wild ideas and stories. You fulfill a very unique role. This is not going to happen. But you know, physical, fleshly things, oh that's that's all that It's not reproducible. So that they found it necessary to say in the space of six days. That's the framing material. It's all formed by random processes. It justifies abortion. It does exist. It's just a constant stream. Uh no, that doesn't just happen. Ernest Hemingway committed suicide. I just did whatever God happened to direct in this particular instance. I just so impressed those trees. He couldn't forgive sin. That's why Hebrews says it's framed by the Word of God. How did that fit thing arrive? Notice verse 25, for he must reign I guarantee you that ant has not figured it out. Notice again how he speaks of this. It's the same tactics Got seven heads. It could have meant long periods of time This is nonsense So if there was no matter, there was no time. Second What does in the beginning mean? That's framing because the whole house is gonna hang on that He's got three series on this, and there's like uh They shall inherit the land forever. Why? They're healthy By the way, here's how it happened. That shouldn't make it plural How dare we go contrary to their findings? He did it sovereignly 6. Well, because it's an emanation of God This is not his, as it were, home. It's always available. It's not observable. That free act of God Let me ask a question. I think we know how that goes. They're not worthless. Well That just doesn't work Things you can see, things you can't see. That's correct Right? And I think there's something encouraging about that. That's a big one. Maybe you've dreamed a few up yourself And this is especially true He has no need for any external stuff. Love it. The last I checked Let's make sure those children are killed. Fingers. Why is it important, do you think, that Can't answer that I'm going to need three readers. It's just not explicitly called out. Because only God can forgive sin. God made him and he wired him that way. He would have had to have given that to him. This isn't a lot. I understand this verse. He's pleased to dwell in the Hmm. Now That doesn't work. I get it.