Father, this morning we thank you for the privilege we have to gather to worship the great God of heaven. We thank you, Lord, as we were so well reminded in Sunday school that we have an authoritative and preserved word. That not one jot or one tittle has passed from the law, Lord, for there is yet that which is to be fulfilled And Lord, we thank you for the glorious promise. Lord, bless thy word to our hearts today. Create within thy people worship that is acceptable in thy sight. Free us from the cares of this life and the thoughts of other things. May we turn our eyes to Jesus Christ and worship him in all of his glory, in his truth, in his righteousness. O Father, may we glory in nothing but the cross of Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is sort of a collage of verses. I can give you the references after service if you like them. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercies. In thy fear will I worship toward thy holy hill. As for me, I will call upon God, and the Lord shall save me. As for man, his days are as grass. As for me, I will behold thy faith and face in righteousness. But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity, redeem me, and be merciful unto me. But as for me, my prayer is unto the Lord. As for our Redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel, as for me, I will call upon God, and he shall save us. Glorious review, glorious review. Please turn to your blue song book this morning to our opening hymn A familiar one, I trust, number 13. Oh, worship the king. Oh, worship the king. Well you parents with small children, you can teach your kids hymns at night before you go to bed. That's a great activity in the cold of winter or in the heat of summer at bedtime exercise. They can Just start to learn these songs like I did with our children. We sing number 13, Oh, Worship the King, all glorious above, all six stanzas. And gratefully, his power and his love are shield and defender being. Ancient of days are young splendour and girded with praise Whose hell art is white Who cannot each place? His periods of Ratna deep. The twelve shore and dark is done for the wings of us. Almighty my power has found it a hold, established it as by a Jesus safety. And found an action so I see I help it for him for some hand raised up It breathes in the air, it shines in the light, it screams from the building, it stands through the Nor won't be to tell my good tease now standard, how curvy and our maker defender. Oh, measure less sight in a whole love, while we shall be light. With your adoration shall they as to thy place. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. I wasn't just giving a trite introduction about that. That is a marvelous hymn that can be taught the children and you can memorize it. It's really not that difficult to memorize. Uh uh adults should have it knocked out in a month. But every night we can sit uh in bed with your little ones and go over it and it's uh it it's it's a fantastic hymn and uh I enjoy it very much. So thank you Penny for selecting it. playing as well. Brother Anton, if you would, please uh for the confessional instruction today. Good morning. Good morning. Let's go ahead and turn to the back of our bulletin. This morning we're looking at the 23rd article titled, Wherein Our Justification Before God Consists And this is the first portion of it, Article 23A. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that our salvation consists in the remission of our sins for Jesus Christ's sake. And that therein our righteousness before God is implied, as David and Paul teach us. Declaring this to be the happiness of man, that God imputes righteousness to him without works. And the same apostle saith that we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. In Psalm 32, verses 1 and 2, we read, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. And so this is what this article is looking at. The blessedness of the man who has a clear debt, has their sins fully paid. The article is looking at the believers' justification before the Lord. In this first portion it speaks of the happiness or the blessedness of the man whose sins are forgiven. The world and many professing Christians just uh don't understand the point of being a Christian. They think it's to get a little bit extra out of life or perhaps to throw on a bit of piety or religiosity into your own schedule that might make you feel good, like you're doing something nice. And even the whole concept of sin, a lot of people a lot of Christians who were never truly converted never really had a taste of that true grace of God will just use the claim that Christ pays their sins as something of a leave me alone. Well I've already believed. That's okay. I'm not worried about hell. But if you've truly been converted, if you've truly tasted of the grace of God, you see what a blessing it is to not have that sin death sin weight upon you. But yeah, the world doesn't see the real benefit because they don't understand the real problem. They don't understand how grievous it is to contain your sin. Not only the weight of the guilt of what you've done, but also the punishment that's coming. And you know, when you think about sin and transgression, it's one thing to trans transgress against your teacher, a school teacher. You know, if you do that, what what will this teacher do to you? They might put you in detention, you know, or they might fail your class and you have to take it again. But it's a whole different thing if you offend a police officer or a president. They might actually use their authority to come after you with brutal force to take away your life. And so there's a difference between who you're offending. But then when you think of actually offending the Lord Himself who created heaven and earth That's a totally different thing, and the scripture says it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. And um yeah, we read of uh in the scriptures how when you're a sinner, when you're at a state of sin before the Lord, you're at enmity with God. You're considered his enemy, even in your mind. In Colossians 1 21 it says, And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled In due time, if sin is not forgiven, you would end up in hell. You'd be tormented by a fire that's never quenched and by a worm that never dies. And everybody who is righteous, everybody who is standing with the Lord and with them, all of his holy angels, would be rejoicing over your rightful eternal condemnation. It would be a right thing for the Lord to condemn you. And so truly, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. It's a huge thing that your sin has been put away Your sin gives you a scary sentence and there's nothing that you can do about it. You can't work to clear out your debt. That would be another offense to the Lord. It's uh it's like trying to bribe a judge. Well, hey judge, I know I did this, but hey I can do these good things and that should be able to clear me out of this uh uh rough sentence that you've given me it doesn't work. Neither can you demand God to save you. Well God you just have to save me. You're required to do it. You must do this for me. No, it doesn't work like that. The only route of salvation that we read of in Scripture is through Jesus Christ. He has to impute his righteousness unto you. He has to have paid all of your sin debt on the cross. That's the only way. That's the only thing that we read of. Once you realize the weight of your sin and how it is that Christ saves sinners, it will change your your heart. It will change your life It'll give you an a great interest in this Christ that we read of in the scriptures. It'll give you a great joy to trust in him and to seek him for salvation. It'll give you a great joy to be his servant by grace. It'll give you a great joy to gather with his saints, and it'll give you a great joy to know his will and to actually do it, to labor for him. It's amazing to meditate how God, on Christ's behalf, is willing to pardon his sheep. It's amazing how merciful he is, knowing that he didn't have to do that. And yet he was willing to, through Christ, to pardon the the sin of his people. And I'll leave you with Micah seven, verse eighteen, meditating on that Point says, Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth iniquity and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He retaineth not his anger forever, because he delighteth in mercy Thank you. Thank you, brother. Folks, where'd you really be this morning? Do you ever see somebody has a bumper sticker? I'd rather be fishing or I'd rather be this, that, and the other. Uh wow. Be with God's people for worship. Where would you rather be? You know that that is I don't mean to get to preaching yet, it's not my turn yet, but the marks of the believer. You know, I I I know that when I was first truly saved, I had an overwhelming urge to pray. That I'd never had before. I just had to pray. Well, let us pray together now. Gracious Father, we thank you for who you are. You are not a God to be trifled with, as our brother has just expounded to us. You are not a judge that can be bought off or bribed. But you are the righteous and holy God, and no sin can come before you. You are the judge of all the universe. You are the God who is angry with the wicked every day. And yet you are the God who loved the elect so much that you sent your only begotten Son to die for us. Lord, we thank you and praise you. For Lord, we did not find this grace because we strove for it or were smarter or wise. But rather, you were found of those that sought you not. We were brought into this grace. And Lord, we thank you. And praise you and worship before you. Bless our assembly today, we pray, O Father. We thank you, Lord, for the promise that you will meet with your people. And so, Lord, may you remove the blindness and the scales from our eyes, that we might behold the glories of Christ as revealed in the Word of God. And may we worship in spirit and in truth. Father, we do pray for the needs of the congregation at this time. Lord, we know that there are those that are not with us today because of some grievous health issues. And we thank you, Lord, that there is a measure of recovery. But Lord, we continue to pray, Lord, that you would strengthen. Father, we pray for that one in the hospital this morning who had a a surgery. And Lord, we pray that you would strengthen him, Father. Lord, we pray that you would raise him up according to his will. Lord, be with his dear wife that cares for him Be with his in-laws that are very concerned for his well-being, and Lord, for their children as well. O Father, may you visit them with your mercy and your grace, and O Lord, with your salvation. Father, we pray for our dear brother who has labored among us in the Word and the Gospel. And is today continuing to recover. Lord, I pray that you would grant strength to his body. Lord, I pray for his dear precious wife, who has been such an example to the believer. Lord, that you would bless them uh abundantly with your presence with them and with your healing hand. Father, we have uh several in our congregation that are and and related to our congregation, uh brothers and sisters, father, that are in various stages of cancer And Lord, we thank you, Lord, that though doctors cannot fully understand and explain cancer, you know everything about it. It is no mystery to you. And Lord, we thank you for medications and for the techniques of our modern medical age, but oh Father, we put no faith whatsoever in those things. But rather, we believe that you were able to heal in an instant. Or Lord, you may choose to use means for the healing of your people. But Lord, by one means or another, we pray, O Father, for healing. We pray for those that are greatly fatigued and beset upon both by the deterioration of these bodies through the curse and through the treatments they're receiving. which weigh heavily upon them. Father, I pray that you would give strength, energy, and vigor, O Lord. Father, we pray for those that mourn. We pray, Lord, for the comforting of hearts. Lord, some mourn in recent losses. And uh Lord, I remember my father, who died all the way back in 91. And Lord, that memory is with me every June 25th. Lord, we have widows in our congregation. Their spouses long gone on to glory, they remain here. And the days and hours can be very long and lonely. But Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have given a ministry dictated in your word to the widows. But they are to instruct the younger. And so, Father, bless them and sustain them in that vital ministry of instruction and prayer that you've given to them and bless them in it. And help us as a congregation to uphold them. Father, we rejoice, Lord, that when you sent the disciples out without person script, they lacked nothing. And we your people could testify. We have had times of thin wallets. We have had times of declining investments in bank accounts We have all spent times when we looked at the things around us and began to say, Lord, how will we meet and make ends meet? And yet, Father, we thank you that you have faithfully supplied every need of your people. Not always in the way we would expect or demand, not always in the timing we would desire. But Father, you have never left us. You have never failed us. And so, Lord, you know the financial concerns within the congregation today. Lord, there are heavy burdens. And Lord, you've told us to cast all our care upon you, for you care for us. And so, Lord, we commit the physical needs. The financial needs of your people to you, trusting, Lord, that as for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in Him. Father, we do pray for our lost loved ones. Lord, I believe everyone here can think of one or two friends, family, loved ones. that is this day without Christ and bound for an eternity in the fires of hell, except they are reached by the grace of God Father, we thank you that the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And Lord, we pray that our own loved ones would be among thine own lost sheep and let And may they be returned to the shepherd, the bishop, the soul. Bless us your people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Acts chapter 15 for our responsive reading. Once you've located Acts 15 in your Bible, please rise. We'll be responsibly reading the first twenty one verses of Acts fifteen. And certain men, which came down from Judea, taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas And certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem about this question. And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Venice and Samaria declaring the conversion of the Gentiles. And they caused great joy unto all the brethren. And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church and of the apostles and elders. And they declared all things that God had done with them. But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying that it was needful to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses. And the apostles and elders came together for to consider this matter. And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up and said unto them Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God made choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, which knoweth the hearts, beareth the witness, giving us the Holy Ghost, even as He did unto us, and put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they. Then all the multitude kept silence. And give audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them. And after they had held their peace James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me. Simeon has declared how God at first did declare the Gentiles to take out of them a people for his name. And to this agree the words of the prophets, as it is written. After this I will return and will build again the tabernacle of David. Which has fallen down. And I will build again the ruins thereof. And I will set it up. That the residue of men might seek after the Lord. And all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things. No, known unto God for all his works from the beginning of the world. Wherefore my sentence is that we trouble not them, which from among the Gentiles are turned to God. But they are right unto them. That they abstain from pollution from idols and from fornication and from things strangled and from blood. And altogether has in every city them that preach Be read in the synagogues every Sabbath day. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Our sermon psalm today comes to us from our Blue Song Book. It's one of the beauties of the Trinity. It has a lot of songs. that are adaptations of a psalm. This one is number 526, O Lord, by thee delivered. 526. O Lord, by thee delivered. It's to the tune of Elacom, which you know as I sing, the mighty power of God. Number 526, and we sing all five stanzas and the Amen. I came with all the storm. My God thou hast got the glory on my call. Oh Lord my God, I saw the doubt still I stay now more from the It may come under His thing shall praise, his anger last a moment, his favor all our days. For sorrow thy goddess, make every fore, but joy that will last when God Some morning life A prosperous is I posted on shall remain for Lord. By thy good favour, my cause thou dost maintain. I soon was so introduced For thou hast hide thy grace, I cried to thee Jehovah, I saw Jehovah's grace. Prophet by parish, and life thou dost not spare Shall thus read me thy praises shall live I should be wet, O Lord, all beers, and my exhibition came as thou mayest me. My helping mercy, Lord, of him My grief is turned to last to be my face. My praise, who has praised was my song, and burdened me with praise and now no longer star. My heart, thy praise will say O Lord, my God, forever, my thanks to thee I pray. Beautiful, beautiful adaptation. That's a marvelous song, soul meeting. Pastor? Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the book of Galatians and the sixth chapter. the sixth chapter of Galatians, and I'm going to read verses 11 through the end of the chapter through the 18th. And our text this morning will actually be the 14th verse, but we cannot and will not endeavor just to rip the verse out of the text and simply look at that one verse. But understanding what was taking place around verse 14 gives us a fuller picture of the teaching. of verse 14. So I'm going to start reading at verse 11 and read through verse number 18 of the final chapter of the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter 6. Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised. only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. For neither they themselves, who are circumcised, keep the law But desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me. And I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision. but a new creature. And as many as walk according to this rule Peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. From henceforth, let no man trouble me. For I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Father, we thank you that the entrance into thy word giveth light. And so, Father, as we enter into thy word today, may you give us light. May your spirit illumine the passage to our hearts. May we, O Lord, be rebuked. May we, O Lord, be edified. May we, O Lord, be brought to rejoicing. Perfect that which concerneth us, O Lord. Father, we thank you that this is the very inspired, infallible, inerrant, and preserved Word of God. We can trust it. We can rely on it. It is your message to our hearts. And so, Father, this day, may you open our hearts to your word And may you open your word to our hearts. Point us to Christ. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text is that verse fourteen. But God forbid that I should glory Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. I have heard this verse preached many times But I don't know if I've ever heard it preached in this context. It's always kind of been taken like John 3. 16 and tried to make standalone Rather than look at the verses around it and find out what was going on that caused Paul to Write this verse under the divine inspiration. And uh it's been pointed out to me that I I tend to say Paul wrote this and John wrote that and Peter without Fully explaining, you know what I mean, but none of these men wrote anything. The Holy Spirit directed them and gave them the words, but they were the human instrumentality that was used by God to put these words into the form that we still have them today. You note that Paul says there, and again I did it already, but he says there in verse number 11, ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. And you'll find all kinds of explanations and reasons what Paul means by a large letter. And some people say, well, he was almost blind, so he wrote in great big script. Folks, I believe the true understanding here is the extent to which he deals with the topic. I've read some books that were well over a thousand pages. Okay. Paul wrote a large letter. He didn't just write a paragraph and say, okay, this is not important. You know, enough to have a further exposition. But this entire book deals with a matter of life and death. The book of Galatians, if you want to sum it down into its core thought, is this Salvation is by grace through faith without works. But we read there in our call, our responsive reading in Acts chapter 15. That the Judaizers have come along and said, you have to be circumcised. And they're in the, I believe it's the fifth verse of Acts 15. It even says that the believing Pharisees, the Pharisees which believe, were saying, you have to be circumcised. And that's what Paul has been dealing with in this passage. If you look back to the very beginning of the book and the first chapter of Galatians and verses 6 and 7, or 6 through 8 There we read, I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him, removed from Christ, that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel. Which is not another, but there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. And so Paul is dealing with this beloved church to whom he has written an extensive exposition of grace. Stand fast in the liberty where Christ hath made you free, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage. It's in this book I've written to you a large letter because it's a very important point. If you miss this point, you're lost. Salvation is by grace without your works. Salvation is by grace through faith without your circumcision. Salvation is by grace through faith without anything being added to it. And so Paul writes a large letter because the topic is very important. And he writes it with his own hand, because he dearly loves those to whom it's written. Do you ever get a letter from someone you love very dearly and who loves you very dearly but it's been typed? Uh I love my dad very dearly and I don't mean this to criticism of my dad, but my dad typed everything. He just typed. And I have letters he wrote to me when I was a missionary in Jamaica. Very encouraging letters. But he didn't even sign them. At the end of the letter, he just typed Dad. But there's something something special about a letter written in someone's hand. I have a in my bill fold a little piece of paper. That Penny Lingle wrote her name, address, and phone number on and gave it to me on our second date. And it has been in every bill fold I've carried ever since. I've moved it from one to the other to the other. It's very precious to me. It's in her own hand. It was a message that said, if you want to write to me, you can write to me. If you want to call me, you can call me. If you want to have fellowship with me, this is who I am. This is how you reach me. Now, Paul, in his great love for these Galatians, says, I've written to you a very large letter with my own hand. Why? Because he has a great burden for you. For their salvation. And because there are evil men who have come in and have begun to pollute the faith of these young believers, you've got to be circumcised if you want to be saved. And then Paul gives their motives there in verse 12 and 13. Paul says They're under inspiration in verse 12. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised. lest uh only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross. He says they want to make a show of the flesh And they're afraid of the Jews. The Jews will make fun of them. The Jews will ridicule them. Remember back in Acts 5, or 15, and verse 5, we saw that some of the ones that were doing this were Pharisees. They had not fully separated themselves from the Jews. And so they're saying, well, these new believers, they've got to be circumcised if they're going to be part of our Jewish religion. Paul's saying, No, no, no, no, no, it's not a Jewish religion. And Peter rises up, and Peter says, Wait a minute. When God made choice among men, God showed me that the Gentiles too are to believe. This is not Israel, this is the church, this is a new entity. And so These false prophets, these Judaizers were teaching that the Gentiles must perform one good work to be saved. And that good work was that they must be circumcised. If you look back to chapter 5, I've already required quoted the verse, but look back to verse 1 of chapter 5 What does Paul say in this same context, in this same book? Stand fast therefore in the liberty where Christ hath made you free, made us free, and be not entangled again in the yoke of bondage. Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ profits you nothing. You see the context of 5-1. How often have you had that verse ripped out of contact and just stood alone? But you've got to look at the verses around it. Verse six or verse three of chapter five. For I testify again to every man that is circumcised that he is a debtor to the whole law Christ has become of no effect unto you, whosoever ye are that are justified by the law, justified by circumcision, ye are fallen from grace. For though we through the are for we through the Spirit wait for the hope of the righteousness by faith. For in Jesus Christ, neither circumcision, that's your Jewishness, availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, that's your Gentileness, but faith which worketh by. Love. And if you look at our own context, one of the verses we read there in chapter six, verse fifteen, for in Jesus Christ For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. And so we find here in the context as we approach verse 14 the problem they were facing. People, even those that claim to be believers, were trying to add to grace through faith. Grace through faith, but you must be circumcised. And that's not what Scripture taught. We find there their motive in verse 12, as many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh. And then again in verse 12, that they may, or verse 13, that they may glory in your flesh. These Judaizers were looking to build up in the flesh. They were looking for a reputation. I'm going to say more about that in just a moment. And then Peter warns of the false apostles, and he says that they will make merchandise of you. This is in 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 1 through 3. And remember back to our responsive reading, who was it that stood up and put the end of the question on the There in the Council of Jerusalem was Peter, the same one who's writing here in 2 Peter 2. 2 Peter 2, verse 2 one through three. But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies Bring in that which sends us all to hell. Damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves strift swift destruction. And many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of, and through covetousness. They shall with feigned words make merchandise of you. Okay, we've seen from Galatians that they want to make a show in the flesh. And from Peter that they make merchandise of you. What does this mean? How many people would you have saved at your church last week? Our church has baptized five hundred souls in the last fifteen years. We only got twenty people on Sunday, but we baptized five hundred. Our church has sent out thirty-three preachers. Boasting of the flesh. Well how many people got saved at your revival? Well, number one, we don't have revivals. And number two, God looketh on the hearts. We look on the eyes. We are delighted when someone makes a profession of faith, but I'm not going to tell them they're saved. The Holy Spirit's got to tell them You see, there is this making of merchandise of souls and glorying in the flesh. Look at all that we've done. Look, we've had all these people walk the soul-dust trail Look what we've done. Lord, Lord, if not we prophesied. And so they make a show in the flesh. If you're going to be saved, you have to be baptized. They will say. If you're going to be saved, you have to be baptized our way. You ever heard that one? I've heard that one quite a bit. in being being a not not an immersionist. I've heard that one quite a bit. Oh, you're not you're not really baptizing. And I won't even go into all the ramifications there. Here you go, folks If you don't come to the Mass, you're not saved. If you don't confess to the priest, you're not saved. You've got to count your rosary beads. You've got to bow to the altar and bow down to a statue of Mary. You've got to follow our traditions, or you are not saved. Saved. Satan doesn't have any new tools in his toolbox. His devices are just the same as they used to be. If you don't speak in tongues, you're not You see, they make a show of the flesh. They make merchandise of the people that claim to be And so there in verse thirteen again, neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. They don't even keep keep their own words. Now, that's all introduction. That's all background to verse 14 where I really want to spend Our time. But we have to understand that when Paul says, God forbid that I should glory, he's just pointed out what the false teachers glory in. They glory in numbers. They glory in rigid adherence to the law that they don't keep themselves. They glory in all these things. But Paul says, God. Forbid. Folks, that's a hard, hard term. God forbid that I should glory saved in the cross of our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. Now, who was Paul? Well he was a Pharisee. Probably some of these Pharisees in uh in Acts fifteen had been his friends. Maybe had been his companions. But he says, God forbid that I should glory. Paul had reason to glory. God used him for the penning of so many verse books Paul was taught directly by Christ the gospel. Paul's conversion was a dramatic conversion. If somebody had reason to boast, Paul had reason to boast. That word glory is the same word as boast, by the way. But Paul says, God forbid, that I should glory saved in the cross of our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. As a sinner, God forbid that I should glory. Paul says in 1 Timothy chapter 1 Who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Jesus Christ came into the world. Folks, Paul was still a sinner. Greatly used of God, but still still a sinner. I am still a sinner. And folks, as a sinner, what am I going to boast in? The Lord, it didn't do that last week. Well Lord, I'm sure taking care of that one. No. Paul says, I persecuted the church. I did all these things. If I look at myself, I say, God be merciful to a sinner. How many of these televangelists, I hope you don't watch them, have you ever heard stand on the platform and tell you they're sinners? You won't hear that from that crowd. They'll tell you about how many crowd the crowd they had at their crusade. They'll tell you about all the good works they're doing, but they won't stand there and say, folks, your pastor's a sinner. But that's what Paul's done. As a sinner, God forbid that I should glory in anything but the cross of our Lord Jesus. Christ. For by grace you save through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And Paul uses that same boast word there in Ephesians two and verse nine. Romans five, seven, for scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man will Some will even dare to die, but God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. As a sinner, God forbid that I should boast, save in the cross. As a believer As a believer, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross Romans 3 verse 27. Where is boasting then? The same word. Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? Nay, but by the law of faith. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law Oh folks, as a believer, I can't say, well, look how good I'm doing in my Christian walk. I read my Bible through every year Well, as a believer, I can boast in nothing but the crucified. I can boast in nothing but Him The cross of Jesus Christ is O Hymn. In the cross of Christ I glory. The cross of Jesus Christ. Again, in Romans 4 and verses 1 through 3, what shall we say then that our that Abraham our father has pertaining to the flesh has found? For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory. And that word glory is again our same word, but not after God. For what saith the Scripture, Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Folks, I want you to turn to one verse in the Old Testament, Jeremiah 9, verse 24. Turn with me to Jeremiah 9, verse 24. I don't often have you turn, I'm only going to read one verse. But this is the verse that if you mark your Bible, you need to mark this one. Memorize this one. This verse is so pertinent. Jeremiah 9, verse 24. I'll give you a moment to turn because I would like it to be in front of your eyes. Put your Bible marker there and go back to it this afternoon. Jeremiah 9, verse 24. But let him that glorieth glory in this. That he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord, which exercised loving kindness judgment and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord Oh folks, if you're going to glory, glory in this. Glory in this alone, that I understand and know God. As a believer, God forbid that I should glory in anything but in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 1 34, that according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. And there in 1 Corinthians, Paul was pointing back to Jeremiah and I. God forbid that I should glory as a sinner. God forbid that I should glory as a believer. But further, as a minister of the gospel, God forbid that I should glory in anything but the cross. Look there again at our text where uh he says there in verse twelve, many desire to make a f so a fair show in the flesh, verse thirteen, that they may glory in your flesh, but God forbid that I And I made reference earlier to First Timothy one, but I want to go to it again. First Timothy one, verse twelve, and verse sixteen. There Paul says in 1 Timothy 1. 12, and I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who hath enabled me. for he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Brother Vince and I have meditated on that verse over lunch more than a few times. Oh Lord, you've counted us faithful. We are incapable of doing that which is put before us, but we're here because you've counted us faithful. Putting us into the ministry. And then verse twelve, Paul, or verse sixteen of First Timothy one, albeit for this cause I obtained mercy. That in me first Christ Jesus might show forth all long suffering for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. Paul says here, why has God done this in my life? Well God has done this in Paul's life to make him a pattern to those that would believe. Hear this one who has been a Pharisee, who, if any man could claim merits of the flesh, Paul could. But what things were gained to me, those I count but lost. Yea, I count all things but done, dung that I may win Christ. As a minister of the gospel, God forbid that I should glory in anything but the cross of Jesus Christ. You will not believe how many pastors have to show you a picture of their building. And tell you how many people attend their worship services and how many assistant pastors they have. And how, as I mentioned before, how many missionaries our churches sent out. Glorying in the flesh But there's a very important verse we dare not miss that going back to our text. Look down to verse 17 of chapter 6. of Galatians. Paul says, from henceforth, in other words, let's put a let's put a tack in this thing. Let's end this argument of those who he said, I'm amazed that you're so soon removed from the gospel. In verse 17, from henceforth, let no man trouble me. For I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that word marks is the Greek word stigmata. It's the word that a stigma comes from. We think of a stigma boy that guy's got a stigma on him. His reputation follows him Stigmata. Paul says, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. It doesn't mean that he had nail prints in his hands and a si s a scar in his side, though I'm sure he did have the marks from being stoned. Mm-hmm. And it is inevitable that he had the marks from being beaten multiple times when he said, I bear in my body the marks of Christ. But more importantly, what Paul is saying there Is my body is his. I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. My entire being is given to the service of Christ, and my body bears testimony. My body bears witness. My body is stigmatized. For the cause of Jesus Christ there good as a Christian. Paul says that I'm gonna glory in anything I'm going to glory in the cross of Christ. And these false prophets and false teachers don't bother me anymore. I belong to Him. That's what Paul Is saved there. And so, first of all, we find, God forbid, that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. By way of transition, I would like to read two verses from chapter 2. You're welcome to turn to them if you'd like. Galatians 2. 16 and 2. 20. In 2. 16 of this same book, the same context, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, not the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. You see the whole context of this book is pointed to the same question. And then verse 20 of chapter 2, I am Christ crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. You see why he wrote this extensively? Why he didn't leave anything else So God forbid that I should glory in anything save the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified. Unto me. You see, for the child of God, when Christ died on the cross, he killed the world. You talk about a BU bunker bomb whatever that goes down 300 foot and blows up everything? That's what he accomplished on the cross. Utterly obliterated. By the cross of Christ, the world is crucified to me. Well, folks, we just live by that rule. All the nonsense that the world says, look ye over here, look ye over there, this is what you need, this is what you want, this is what what it's gotta be Well, God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom all that stuff is dead. By whom the world is crucified unto me. Folks, how can you compare the world's glory with the glories of Christ? Are you going to glory in the cross of Christ, or are you going to glory in the things of this world? The world's fame is shame. Let me say it again. The world's fame is Shame. And I'm not going to start naming big political or sports figures or entertainment figures this morning. But folks, every one of us can probably think of somebody who had a great big reputation and now their name's Dart. Because it turned out that they were vile, wicked, they were idols to young people, and yet the stuff they were doing was horrible, nasty, unbelievable. Folks, if you get the world's fame, you'll get the world's shame along with it. But Paul says, no, I'm not going to glory in anything but the cross because the world is dead to me. The world's power is weakness. Some people glory in their power. Folks The world's power is weakness. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise and the weak things of the world to confine the mighty. The world's power is weakness. Where are kings and kingdoms now? Where is the Roman Empire? Where is the higher heritage of Alexander the Great? You realize there was a time when Spain ruled the world? Spain was the superpower? Where's Spain today? Folks, where will the United States be in a hundred years? You see, the world's power is weakness. But folks, the power of the cross never fades. The power of the cross never gets weaker. The power of the cross never loses its glory. The power of the cross is never shamed. We may be shamed for our reliance on the cross. But it never fails. The world's fame is shame, the world's power is weakness, and the world's success is failure. The world's success is failure. If you know the answer to this question, please don't blurt it out. Who won the Super Bowl last year? Who cares? Yeah, who cares? What difference does it make? You know, my father told me that so many times. I would be so excited because I'd heard about some sports victory I was very much into basketball and soccer as a teenager. And Dad would say, what difference is it going to make a hundred years from now? Or next year? Who cares? Who won the Nobel Prize last year? Who made the greatest scientific discovery in the last hundred years? Who built the largest company? Where are the Rockefellers and the Carnegies? You see, folks, the world's success is failure. The world's power is weakness. The world's fame is shame. And the world's finances are fleeting. They don't last forever. If riches increase, set not thy heart upon them. Albert Barnes, in his commentary on this verse, said, money can't buy health. Money can't relieve pain and money can't re can't extend life. Well truth that truth that is. What shall profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? And so Paul testifies that Christ is crucified, has crucified the world on his behalf. Paul said in Philippians 3 that he's made conformable unto the death of Christ. And so, God forbid that I should glory Saving the cross of Jesus Christ, saving the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. Satan and his world have no hold on me. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound God forbid. How shall they that are dead to sin live any longer therein? I am crucified with Christ, yet I live Yet not I, but Christ, liveth in me. The world is crucified to me, and I am crucified to the world. I thought about bringing my high school Bible with me. actually high school and college in the first part of of ministry. I did pull it out of of the the shelf and look at it this week. It's inscribed, Happy Birthday, May 11, 1980, love mom and dad. And in the back leaf of it, I wrote, I, Joe McKnight, am dead, March eighth, nineteen eighty. Lord keep me dead. That came from an excellent youth leader that I had as a teenager who encouraged the young people to open the back of their Bible and make a tombstone Put their name on it and the date of their death. And every time Satan tempts you, he said, Go back to your tombstone and say, No, here's the grave. I'm dead. I'm dead. I cannot do these things. Folks, we're crucified to the world. Set a tombstone. Seal the grave to those things. God forbid, how's that they are dead to sin? Likewise, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed into sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, let's make application of this passage in three points. You thought we were done with points, didn't you? First of all, to truly glory in the cross, what does it mean to glory in the cross? How do I glory in the cross of Christ? To truly glory in the cross, the Lord Jesus Christ must be our Lord. Look what the verse says. God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of thee, Lord. Is that what it says? No. That's not what it says. God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, not the Lord, not some God that's out there, but rather a God that is my God. A God that has applied his grace to my heart, the God through whose faith I am saved. It's a personal thing here. You see, I believe those Pharisees that believed, they believed in the Lord Jesus Christ as opposed to my Lord Jesus. You see folks, before you can truly glory in the cross of Christ and not in the flesh, you've got to be bound to the cross. You have to be crucified on that cross. He's got to be your Lord and not just the Lord. And folks, America is filled with churches that worship the Lord rather than my Lord. And they talk about the Lord further than our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul is reminding these Galatian believers that the reason mean circumcision means nothing to them, the works of the law mean nothing to them, is they are bound to Christ and He is their Lord, not just the Lord. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall find rest to your souls. James 4, 7, submit yourselves therefore unto God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. In Luke 6, verse 45 and 46, a good man out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And the evil man, out of the evil treasures of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. And why call ye me good, or why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? First of all, it must be personal. Secondly If we are to truly glory in the cross, we must love the one who suffered. Love not the world. Neither things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. You see, you cannot love Christ and love the world. You cannot love Christ and love God the Father. You cannot be divided in your loves. God doesn't have many churches, He has one. The Old Testament practice of a multiplicity of lives was put away, of multiplicity of wives was put away with the creation of the church. You see, in the Old Testament, where God allowed multiplicity of lies, God had people that were not part of Israel. There were proselytes, there were others that believed that were not part of Israel, but they believed in Jehovah. But when it comes to the church, it's one bride. It's now exclusive. And so that is the point in the history of the of theology where God refined marriage to one husband, one wife. It's beautiful. And again, we don't have time to go into all that. But folks, to glory in the Christ and the cross means that you love the one that is crucified. John 20. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre and seeing two angels in white, sitting, the one of the head, at the other the feet, where the body of Jesus had laid. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou And she said to them, Because they've taken away my Lord, and I know not where they played it. Nothing else in the world mattered to her. And where is Jesus? She wasn't thinking about reputation. She wasn't afraid of Roman soldiers She wasn't afraid of the Jewish hierarchy. All she cared about, where is my Lord? Simon, Simon, son of Jonas. Lovest thou me more than these? If you are going to truly glory in the cross, it's got to be your cross. If you were truly to glory in the cross, you've got to lay hold you've got to love the one that suffered. And then finally, if you truly are going to glory in the cross, you have to lay hold on the benefits of the cross and never let them go. To glory in the cross of Christ is to appropriate to your own soul the benefits of the cross. The righteousness of Christ is applied to you. To me. The grace which he showed has redeemed me. The belief, the faith in what he did, he died for sin. He died for my sin. The glory of the cross is to have everything pointed there, not to what I did last year, not to my good works. Not to my circumcision, not to my baptism, not to my rosary, not to my church membership, not to my tithing, not to anything else you can claim But the cross work, the work of the cross, that is where I will glory. That is where I will boast. Because that is all that matters. An old preacher, I don't know who he was, but I've heard the phrase many times, said his advice to young preachers was open the Bible at any point and run for the cross. Open the Bible to any chapter and run for the cross. That's good preaching, folks. Lay hold on the redemption. Lay hold on the righteousness. And lay hold on the riches of the cross. Isaiah 53 verse 3. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our, notice the personal pronouns there, for our iniquity. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. It's my cross. It's my cross. Christ. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. But to conclude and to wrap it all up, look there at verse 16 of Galatians 6, which we have not touched on yet. And as many as walk according to this rule, what rule? Well, the rule of the cross. Not concerning yourselves with anything, not boasting anything but the cross And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them. The peace of God that passeth all understanding. The plea peace of God that all is right between my soul and the Savior. The peace that my soul is eternally secure. The peace that I'm in his hand and no man can pluck me thence. Peace be upon them and mercy. I didn't buy my way here. I didn't earn my way here. I don't deserve to be here. But I'm in the Father's hand by mercy. And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. Why did Paul put that little phrase, the Israel of God, in there? Remember, I've given you the illustration of marriage, which in the Old Testament there was multiplicity, but in the New Testament there was one Remember, we've seen the combat that Paul is having here with the law, with circumcision, and he's saying, no, no, no, grace through faith in Christ. And now he says the Israel of God. He doesn't say Israel, but he qualifies it. The Israel of God. And Paul elsewhere has declared, they are not all Israel that are of Israel, but the children of faith. These are the sons of Abraham. And see, the Israel of God is that new creation, the church. It is those who glory in nothing but the cross. And through that cross, the world is crucified to them, and they are crucified to the world. Folks, let us glory in the cross of Jesus Christ and in nothing else. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word and your truth. Bless your word to the hearts of your people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. And style Amen, brother. Thank you so much for that. We turn to our closing hymn. 454. My faith looks up to thee. 454 In our blue songbook. 454. I trust you know the tune will sing all four stanzas. Maybe I want to read our energy. I wish to raise some more IT. As thou has thy morning, so may I thought the trees for speaker? Darkness turns away, Time sorrow stays away. Let's say you're God's freedom, all their beasts. Oh mountain, all mountain, please we see it.