Good morning everyone. Those who brave the travel and those online, thanks for tuning in. We are in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 9 We finished up last week with Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever. What a tremendous encouragement Then we get, as we continue into this 13th chapter, all kinds of little personal admonitions, direct admonitions to these early Hebrew Christians and by extension to us as well, those who are Jews in the in the spirit. Well our verse reads as follows in 139, and then we'll get to our discussion question. We read this, be not carried about. with diverse and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace, and not with meats which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. So the title, if you were to put one on this Sunday school lesson, would be Dangerous Diversity. Diversity, inclusion, all of that is still somewhat prevalent in our current vernacular, at least in America. And uh we want to talk a little bit about what this passage speaks of in particular to the church, but I have an opening question I went easy this time. This is not a particularly difficult question. It's not really that hard. We had some online uh listeners uh come up with some answers on this. Um and it reads as follows. Here's the question. You're standing in the field, it's a windstorm. You got basically a strong hurricane coming right overhead. You're right in the strongest part of the wind It's going 90 miles an hour, 90 mile an hour gusts sustained, say at 60, 65. You don't have any place to get into, you don't have anything to hang on to. What might happen to your position? Well, we have somebody online say, I would think that I'd lose my footing, the ability to see due to the debris, that's a good point, a lot of debris flying around, and possibly get hurt by other flying objects. Uh the other A lady from Florida said this, you'll eventually be flat on the ground, even if not by choice. What are your thoughts? You're in a windstorm, 90 mile an hour gusts You'll never see that hat again. You'll never see that hat again. Yeah, that's true. There are probably certain articles of clothing, maybe something you're hanging on to, that's just not gonna survive. Well, I had a follow-up question. Again, these are low ball questions. Sometimes you gotta make them easy so we don't overtax our minds too often in the morning. People will quit coming. Alright, you're on a ship in the middle of a harbor. It's a tide that's going out. The ship is not tethered to an anchor, but instead it's tied to a large piece of floating driftwood. Uh after two hours, where do you think the ship's gonna be? It won't be in the harbor. Out to sea. Out to sea? Yeah, who's to say? Used to say. You know, there's a favorite fishing spot that Gabe and I used to enjoy down at uh the Potomac called Fletcher's Boathouse. You can rent a boat And it's um it's a great way, it's a launch point into the Potomac, which otherwise has very sharp rocky shores, steep banks. Uh one part the Potomac narrows to about an eight foot wide chasm underneath one of the bridges and then where we launch at spans out to about quarter to a half a mile wide, but all that water still flows through that little narrow part there. It's got some really interesting currents. You really learn to respect water when you see that. But where you launch at is very, very, very shallow. You can really only get out. when there's uh a high tide, it's a hey morning rick. It's a tidal estuary and so the the it's tidal rivers and so the river also rises and falls with the tide. And if you try to get out when it's low, you're stuck in the mud. Well let me ask another question about your ship. Does the ship feel like it's moving if it's still next to the driftwood? I mean it's anchored to the driftwood. See, I'm tied on. There's no anchor to the driftwood. Huh? There's no anchor to the driftwood. Yeah, there's the ship may be anchored to the driftwood, but the driftwood itself has no anchor. Does the ship feel like it's moving even though it's there? You couldn't tell. Yeah, it's moving with me. Everything's fine. All right. Silly illustrations, I know. I'm just trying to keep it low. Somebody wrote, uh, yes, you'd be moving during the wave swells. And uh The other person in PG County said, I'm guessing after two hours the ship the ship would drift away, driftwood and all. And that kind of I think is the simplest illustration I could get when it comes to the instability of error. That's really what this text is talking about. It's in a chiastic form, which the Hebrews should be familiar with It you know, don't be carried about with strange doctrines, that's the negative. It's good to be established with grace, that's the part in the middle, and the backside talks about meats that haven't profited them that have been occupied in it. So there's this interesting triage and that triade, and that's kind of the verbal way of making something bold. It's the part in the middle that really is being emphasized. Let's talk about this instability of error. That phrase, be not carried about, again, as you know, I'm a bit of a word nut. It's come over into our English language. It has to do with the periphery. You know, you're scanning the periphery of the building. That means you're looking at the outer edges. And the idea here in in our vernacular here is that this would be a fringe sect. That's something that's kind of, we would say, boy, their teaching is way out there. You know, it's something that's kind of on the edges. It it touches a little bit into Christianity and to the doctrines of the scriptures, but it's kind of really So far out in left field there's not a hot dog vendor. And uh we we find this same language in Ephesians 4 And I want you to take a look at that. Turn now to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 14. We're going to look at Ephesians and then we'll later turn to Jude. But for now let's look at that because we're going to just pick up some of the language In scriptures concerning these felonious, erroneous teachings, Ephesians 4. 14, we read this: that we henceforth be no more children. Tossed to and fro, and carried about, that's our word periphery, carried about, with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive. If you're not familiar with Hebrews 4, now you know where I got the idea by winds blowing. Let me look let me ask a question here. So so look carefully at Ephesians 4. 14. And what are the key words that are used to describe someone caught in a false doctrine. What are some of the key words that are used here? Yeah, yeah. But but still, still. Buffeted about there's these winds that they're carried with. Yeah, carried with the wind. Yeah. What are some other key words this passage uses that describe somebody caught in this? Children, toss To and fro. Children. Children, yeah. Tossed to and fro. So what's the common feature between children and winds and which would be tossed to and fro? What's kind of the common feature there? Not prudent. Not prudent. Okay, expand on that a little bit. Uh what it like uh taking candy from a stranger Okay. Not responsible. Not responsible? Yeah, a child might uh take candy from a stranger, uh they they just they don't they don't they don't seem to have discernment. Okay. Not stable. Yeah. See we're even using physical terms to describe a person's mental or spiritual disposition as well, uh not stable, uh instability. Um That certainly could lead to being tossed to and fro. Yeah. Yes, somebody else then? Okay. You get the idea here is that There's no gravitas. We say when some individuals are very serious individuals, they have some gravitas to them. They're not going to be moved from their position very easily. Let's describe the experience of somebody that's affected by false doctrine, but in your own words. In other words, don't say, well, they're like a child tossed to and fro. That's what this says. But describe the experience of someone. Rick, you started with highly unstable. Uh what are some other ways that people can be affected by false doctrine? What might that look like? Being caught up in a petty debate Caught up in a petty debate. Yeah. Argue. Something that's will not get done stage. Yeah. I was gonna say convinced of the improbable. Convinced of the improbable. Okay. No no foundation under what You're absolutely sure this is true, but there's nothing it's based upon. Whereas true faith is based on the word. If God's word says it, then we have a foundation. Yeah. Uh they they might think they're attached to something, but it might be like that driftwood. It it's something that doesn't have any probably yeah, very very very significant weight to it. Yeah. Um do you believe the Okay, easily deceived. Okay. How does that so someone who is like a child who's easily deceived, how would that manifest itself? Uh how would you what kind of it's easy for them to Maybe we one thing because one person says it, but then they hear another person say it and they meet that because that sounds really good. I like that, yeah. They're kind of bouncing back and forth. Um itching ears. Oh, itching ears. Kinda like Mars Hill. They can't wait to hear and tell some new thing. Uh yeah, that those are all very good. You know, uh I I thought of a few things. Uh I think Penny you might have touched on it. Like another one comes in his own name and they're moved in that way for a while. Could they even be moved by the truth? You're a very powerful preacher. Boy, I like that guy. He preaches well, and then they hear somebody else on the radio. Oh, I like that too. And they they kinda bounce around if you've been in Pastor McKnight's position for a while and others who have teeth uh been able to serve the Lord by way of teaching, you find those that Um, I don't know, I call it the new every two. Every two years they get a new church. They're just constantly church hopping and moving around and and they walk in, roses, flowers, unicorns, and you know, it's all lovely and And then uh by the end it's ugh, ugly, nasty, terrible people, horrible, and they and wash, rinse, repeat. They keep doing the same thing over and over again. Um I uh have likened it to this way, kind of like the Facebook or the YouTube addict. They believe every video that pops up in their feed. You know, oh well that's right. I heard it. I heard it from From this AI doctor on YouTube, it must be right. I mean he may be pitching some conventional wisdom. Every heretic has his verse. But uh it's not really sound. And they get excited for the advice. It may sound good. They share it with other people, but they never check it out themselves. They don't seem to have any kind of practices to exercise discernment, much like a child. It's just they're eas that's why they're called con men. They're easily convinced of this individual's point. So, you know, even before the scriptures were completed There was a multitude of false teachings that were plaguing the church. As is all over the New Testament. It really is. It's in quite a few places because if it's left unchallenged It can creep into the church and begin to take root. It's it's it's You know, like if uh there's a hurricane coming and I happen to leave all the windows in my house open. It's an easy thing to shut the window and lock it, but if I leave it open You know, you might get a significant pressure difference, it might blow the roof off. You know, you can have a wind of doctrine that blows through that left unchallenged can affect the whole structure. I want you to turn now to the book of Jude. It's before the book of Revelation. So if you find Revelation, just back up. It's a very tiny epistle. And what I find very interesting is that Jude and 2 Peter both describe the false prophets. It's God's glossary of false prophets. A lot of instructive terms in here for us. Now, to be sure, folks, a teacher such as myself may occasionally, inadvertently, uh speak something that's incorrect Uh we can make an application. Um the worst thing I'll do all I do is make a stupid joke from the pulpit and offend a bunch of people, but that's It just happens, Freddie, I don't know. And um but you know, give a wrong opinion on something. That's why it's dangerous to talk politics in the pulpit because the winds of change blow to and fro and then you find out that politician you liked was a child molester and you know who knows what, and then you're defending a guy later that turns out to be a disaster. But I'm talking about teachers who intentionally are trying to manipulate. I do make a distinction between the pulpit and the pew, because the danger here is to the man and the woman, the Juan and Maria in the pew. That's really where the danger is. And of course you need to be, those of you in the pew, and I've been in the pew myself for many years, still am, really, I'll sit down after this and listen. I'm just warning you about the message that comes from here, and I think only Christianity has that message that says, check them out. It's okay to check them out Don't have rose pasture. Don't pull out the skewer and put vents on a spit and turn him around in the pit for a while. I'm talking about discernment. Every chicken has its bones in it. Just eat the meat, throw away the bones. You don't have to get hung up that you didn't get nuggets. That's Sunday. Okay, well it's okay to just toss out a few bones. Let's read now Jude, and I'm going to start in verse 3 and 4, and then we're going to skip down to verse 12. Verse 3 of Jude, this is only one chapter. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye All of you should earnestly contend for the faith. We are to be earnest contenders for the faith which was once delivered. It's not re-delivered and repackaged. It's not made applicable for this generation. It's once delivered to the saints. For there are certain men crept in unawares. We didn't notice it. Leadership didn't notice it. Who were before of old ordained to this condemnation? They are ungodly men. They're nice guys. Tall, handsome. Business successful, dress nice. But they don't talk about God. The scriptures are not fitted in their lips. Ungodly men. Turning, perverting, twisting the grace of our God into lasciviousness. That's unbridled lust. And denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Alright, so this is the context of Jude. The rest of the book is describing these individuals. Now we're going to jump down to verse 12 and 13, and then we will speak a little bit more about it, but I just want to look at 12 and 13 because I'm going to Ask you a question, what are some winds of doctrine that we see and hear of today? In Jude 12 and 13, we read this, chapter 1, 12 and 13. These are spots in your feasts of charity. Wow, they're in the midst. That's a scary thought. When they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear. And no fear of God. Clouds they are without water, carried about of winds, trees whose fruit withereth They are without fruit. They have no fruit of the spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control, without such. You'll not see the kingdom of God. Without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots. These people are spiritually dead. But they're right here in a religious Assembly. Gathering. How can that be? I got a blueberry garden. If I see a dead bush out there, I'm not tolerating it. Verse 13, raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. You know, what are some winds of doctrine that we see and hear today? What are some common winds of doctrine that are out there today? Those of you who have been in the faith for a while, you've probably encountered some Name it and claim it. Oh yeah, the name it and claim it gospel, right. The prosperity gospel, right, right. You know, God didn't want you to be poor Jeff, you have to name it and claim it. I he said I'm an inheritant heaven and earth. I want my piece of earth right now. That building you're in is mine. I'm going to name it and claim it. It's mine. Yeah, that's a false teaching. The whole worship leader system. Okay, amplify that. Well the that worship is based on how I feel about having been at church today, as opposed to worship being generated within the heart by God. Worship has has become an emotion, not a you're touching on a really interesting one, the whole worship leader concept these days. Ken Hamm at Answers in Genesis does a lot of traveling and speaking in many churches And he wrote in an article about five years ago that he would be told in advance, hey, you got 20 minutes to speak from our pulpit. That's great. uh you know we like to hear you, hear what you have to say. And he'd get there and he'd say, you know, uh can you cut it down to like ten? We don't want to cut into worship. Now what they meant by that was we're gonna have the song leader up there Invariably it's some gal, not against women. Uh I think I married one. But it's some fleshly gal up there That's waving her arms about and you got of course the you know the requisite drum set and the bass guitarists and and all the other uh cool hip dressed people and they're just singing. Fog machine, yeah I forgot the fog machine and the lights, yeah you gotta have that uh because we're really getting the emotions churned up here. You know they would say, well yeah, we're we're getting in the spirit But it's sensual. These are sensual. They have not the spirit. It's a different spirit. That's a good one. That's one that's kind of on the periphery. It's it's it's on the periphery, but it's not It's not centered, it's not established in what true worship is. Absolutely. What are some other false winds of doctrine that you hear today? Uh Lisa and Joey, go ahead. Faith. Faith. Faith? Um I wanna say the false phase. Okay. I can't think of an example. Maybe like the people who have snakes and stuff like that, if the snakes bite them, you know, because they didn't have faith Okay, I gotcha. Right. Those who look to the promises of miracles in scriptures and over-physicalize them, if I can make a word, they they don't show that mapping to the greatest miracle which is the new birth. Uh there's always some nut job every year, Joey, who dies of handling snakes in Texas. I mean there's you know his grandfather died of of handling a A poisonous copperhead, his father died, but he's still gonna do it because it says it'll uh hold serpents and it'll not harm them. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, the uh uh the the Word of Faith movement is actually another one. Yeah. Uh would uh teachings of uh divine miracles or There were prophets. You know, today there's prophets, the apostolic movement that they say, well we're uh there were prophets then, there's prophets now. I think that would fall into that camp Uh there's probably others you can think of as well. I listed you know I had a long list because I've seen plenty of them. Tongues, miracles, prophets, prosperity gospel Roman Catholicism, right? That's That's on the periphery, but it's a works gospel. Looks really official. I had a government guy tell me one time, yeah, you know, Christianity should just figure out the Roman church, the Roman Catholic Church, they won. Yeah, they won What's he judging it based on? External appearance, financial wealth, you know, appearance of prosperity. Uh Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, these are other people that maybe are outside, but You know, the the Mormons cling tenaciously to the King James Bible with their footnotes in it. You know, that would be another one that's very much on the periphery there. And of course you've got other nutjob cases, Scientology, New Age, Islam Islam holds Christ Jesus as a prophet, just not greater. He's just equal to Mohammed. He's not one to whom Muhammad will bow down in punishment when that day comes. Well Let's continue in Jude and look at 14 to 21. And I'm just going to give a running commentary of God's description of false teachings and false prophets because there's an awful lot that speaks about them. Jude chapter 1 verse 14. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, spoke in advance of these, because this is a living word, he's still talking to us. saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed And all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. You know, some of these people are very vehement and very harsh against the true gospel. They will start off a Bible study by saying, well, I know this text may sound like it's saying X, but it really isn't. It's saying Y, and after having dismissed the plain teaching of Scripture, they then proceed down their error And you're like, well, wait a minute, we just, like the car that got off on the wrong exit, you're kind of looking back at the sun. Wait, how did we make that turn again? What happened there? We just zip past it real quick. It continues. 16. These are murmurers. They complain a lot. Why do they complain? Because if they run everybody else down, they're the only ones left standing up. That's a really common tactic. They're murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts. There's no restraint. They have a grace that teaches lasciviousness. Hey. Christ died for everybody. I'm forgiven. He loves me. All's good. Nothing I can do to change that. All's good. I'll live however I want to. That's a false grace. And their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration in in advantage. Having men's persons in admiration because of advantage. What's that talking about? Well, I was preaching the other day at the Presidential Leadership Forum and Name Drop, Name Drop, Name Drop was there, and I was on stage with Name Drop, Name Drop, Name Drop You've heard that. Why are they quoting these other people? Because it sounds like they have preeminence. They have rank. They have stature. Don't listen to this Joe and Vince fellow. Who do they know? They're a couple of nobodies out in in in In in Dorfwood or what where's that name of the place they were at? You don't want to listen to these people. Oh, with the people who have reputation, my son. I'm sure Nebuchadnezzar and Pharaoh would have said the same thing We continue. But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ? How that day told you, Jesus and the apostles said, There will be mockers in the last time. Who should walk after their own ungodly lust? Boy. What adjective has been hammered throughout this short section here Verse 15 has got the word ungodly in it three times. Here we have it again in 18. Ungodly. To be ungodly is to simply, like the psalmist says in Psalm 1, God is not in all their thoughts. They don't meditate on him. They don't think about him. The first thing that comes out of their mouth is not a passage of scripture to support their point or even a phrase. They're going to appeal to Dr. So-and-so. Doctor. The right Reverend Dr. So-and-so. I'm tired of these titles. I just really am. Why? Do you think Jesus told his apostles, hey fellows Chose you here. Okay, but you gotta go off to the school over here somewhere first and pay and get into debt. Go get into debt. You know, seminary ain't cheap. Get into debt And then when you've learned all that stuff, come back and and you know we'll try to find a place to parachute you in and you can minister there. They perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant fishermen This is how God operates. I was just thinking, yeah, so many churches now we use uh the pastor calls himself the bishop. And then he makes his wife the c pastor. First lady. Yeah. I mean, even co pastors, I mean the women It's it's crazy. And it's it's a lot. Sounds almost like a coverifter, doesn't it? Yes. You're absolutely right. There's nothing new under the sun. Right. Look folks, I'm not against education, right? There's plenty of ignorance to go around the world. There's nothing wrong with that. But scripture says I have more learning, more understanding than all my teachers, for I meditate on my precepts. This is the ultimate this was you know the Bible back in the day was called the prince, the the chief of all the sciences So if you study geology, earth physics, planetary it was called the chief of all sciences. Our American universities began as the Washington Seminary. Oh, Harvard, Princeton. All the major Ivy League institutions began as seminaries, absolutely. We continue here just briefly and and I just want to keep touching on this because it's incredible. Verse 19, it says, These be they who separate themselves. They were never excommunicated, they just pulled themselves out. They separated themselves sensual, having not the spirit. I think we mentioned that a little earlier. But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, Praying in the Holy Ghost, keeping yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. So this is the running commentary of God concerning these various winds of doctrine. And you know, if you haven't searched the scriptures daily to see whether these things are so To validate what you hear. You know, when you hear a very clever spiritual magician come along, you you can get slipped away Do you have a comment? No. Oh, okay, sorry. Just like that ninety mile an hour gust that might just hit you when you unexpected. You can get pushed, you can get moved. It does happen, but there is an anchor that we have. It's called the anchor of grace. And that's in 139B. It's a good thing that the heart be established with race. Established is that word that has to do with where your feet are anchored to. There's actually something that ties you down, that holds you. Not with meats that haven't profited them but have been occupied there. And let's be clear now, God's not talking about a physical, fleshly heart pumping blood through your body. It's not what he's talking about with a heart. Heart in this context is referring to like the center and the seat of your spiritual life, the soul, your mind. It's referring to the the fountain and seat of the thoughts, passions, desires, appetites, affections, purposes, endeavors, uh to the understanding, the faculty, the seat of the intelligence, the will and character. That's from an enhanced dictionary. I thought all those are good. Those are good illustrations, good, good references. And meats, folks, refers to doctrine. It's referring to doctrine. You know, Jesus said, Except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. But we know that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. Jesus is not telling his disciples to be carnivores or or or uh well what's the word um can't even think of the name cannibals, thank you, but rather to feast on the Word of God. That's the feast that we have. It said there earlier in Jude, they're feasting with you. It's talking about this right here. All right. Well If somebody claims to be unmoved by a diverse wind of doctrine because they're settled in a erroneous position, are they okay? They're not moved into another position. They're not jumping around. They're anchored into their wrong position. They're anchored in the wrong position They're like that ship tied to that driftwood. The driftwood's right there with me. I haven't left it. And still there. But they're still wrong. They're still wrong. The prophets of Baal believe what they believe enough to cut themselves with knives Yeah, prophets of Baal. Yes. There are those who seem to be quite stable. You know, uh I've often marveled at uh different people I've worked with over the years who were religious, some quietly, some a little more openly. And I've uh had the uh privilege of working with some extraordinary individuals, one of which was a fellow uh named Kent. And he was a devout Mormon, had a picture of his family on the wall, they had lots of children Very nice, very upright. He was very kind. I'd work for him on a program any day. Wouldn't follow his gospel These people seem to have it together. Things just seem to be nice. They have very nice family, nice attachment. It seems like it'd be a nice place to bring up your children. But it's driftwood. It's a shiny driftwood. It's a shiny log. And that's part of the allure. Right? The devil took Jesus up into a high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and said, I'll give you all this if you bow down and worship me. You know, the devil has some tools at his asset, one of them happens to be money. He doesn't mind throwing a bunch of money at you Mm-hmm. That kinda reminds me what comes to my mind when we're talking about even the um Israelites, remember they were sacrificing their children Yes. There's lots of bad positions that result in very, very bad behavior. Now Let's uh let me mention a couple of verses to you here because our verse is talking about being established with grace. If you're gonna tie your anchor to anything, you need to be established with grace. And we're gonna describe that We read in Acts 20 and verse 32, Brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. Grace can build you up. Grace is something that builds, it's constructed, it's helpful, it's not floating, it's not stagnant It's a tap. 2 Timothy the apostle talking to his young protege, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. All true doctrine has the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. His life, his work, his teaching, as the foundation. But what do we mean by grace? What do we mean by grace? There's a lot of different types of grace that are out there. That's even twisted. Well, I have a few minutes left, so I'm going to give you a biblical view of grace. I'm going to boil it down for you real short and simple. I'm going to try to make it very direct. There is a biblical foundation for what constitutes grace. It's not merely an offer from God that man can accept or reject. That's not the grace of the Bible. It's not out there in the marketplace of false gods jumping up and down on the shelf, choose me, pick me, whatever. It has nothing to do with your choice. That's not the the kingmaker. You're not the kingmaker, Jeffrey. Just not Wish you were, but you're not. I can influence you, but you're not, and you can influence me. It's the sovereign effectual power of God that actually saves sinners. That's what God's grace is Yes, it's God's riches at Christ's expense, that cross it, but the grace of God comes, it's a regenerating grace. It's an effectual grace. It's a grace that that creates change. It's a new heart. It's not a lane change on the road to hell. You know, people join Alcoholics Anonymous and they can get cleaned up. They can knock off the bottle because they talk about some higher power. Well that doesn't mean they're saved. Okay, they got delivered from booze. Now they're given over to extreme hard work or self-righteousness or you name it. It's just a lane change on the road, broad road that leads to destruction. The grace of God is sovereign. Scriptures underscores that salvation is of the Lord. That's the grace of the Bible. It's of the Lord. It's not from you. It rejects this popular idea that God loves everybody. And tries to save everybody, but he's limited by man's free will. God's frustrated. He's sitting up there, oh if only, if only, if only, since when do you hear God say if only It's he's not an if only God. And if you believe that it's up to man to make the final decision, well why do you pray for your unsaved relatives Go pray to your unsaved relatives. Oh, won't you choose God? Go beg them, go beseech them, because God can't do anything about it, apparently. But no, he does. He has everything to do with salvation It's the Holy Spirit who saves everybody. But if the Holy Spirit tries to save everybody and fails, God's not that powerful after all, is he? He's a weak God. Instead, God successively saves exactly whom he intends to save. All that the Father hath given me, implication God gave some people to Christ the Son. shall come unto me, and him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. There's got to be a coming. There will be a coming. Just like Lazarus. Lazarus come forth. He heard, he came forth. How did he hear? He's dead D E A D dead. His sister complained, and I think God delayed a bit, just so his sister would say, Lord, it's been four days and he stinks. This old boy is dead. They knew he was dead. And Christ called him out. Lazarus come forth. And he did come forth. And he said to them that stood nearby, loose him and let him go. Take those grave clothes off. That's what believers do to a newborn saint. They take off those old grave clothes, those old dead works of the world that have been constraining him, wrapping them up. Grace is particular. Scripture teaches that God's grace is directed to a specific people known as the elect. Pastor Byrd makes the point that when he was fighting in Vietnam, he knew he was fighting for He knew who his men, and his men who died, knew who they were fighting for. They were dying for their country. Even so the Lord Jesus. He died for his country His country over the elect, out of every kindred, tribe, tongue, and nation. He knows who he's dying for. He's not randomly dying for some individual because if one ounce of Christ's blood is shed in vain, that cannot be Christ doesn't do anything in vain. You read of the cross of nothing but a complete success, 100% victory, not a partial success, and that to a high degree of failure, if in fact he died for everybody. Christ's love and intentions are specific. Just like Boaz knew of his intentions towards Ruth, he knew what he wanted. He was pursuing her. Christ knew what he would do for his church from eternity past. It's all grace. Grace is effectual because the Bible teaches the Holy Spirit doesn't woo man, he doesn't strive in vain, because if the Spirit exercises grace, it results in life. Oh yes, men resist the spirit. That's just their natural position. They just, just like a dead corpse in a grave resists life. That's just his natural state. That's not saying That's not giving any strength to the dead thing. That's just the the status quo. Of course men resist God. They always resist God. But you cannot resist him effectually. If he moves When he kicks the door open, brother, it's open. When he shuts the door, it's shut. And you can't change it. And if he brings life in the heart and no amount of bad preaching can stop One good word of grace that'll convert somebody. That God may get the glory and not us. That's how he operates. That's how he operates To teach otherwise is to claim that salvation is not of the Lord at all, but rather it's the response and the work of man that saves. That's the grace of the Bible. That's what salvation. We're saved by grace, folks. I'm talking about what God does to save men It's a foundation because it's rooted in God's eternal purpose and covenant, not in human history, not in human decision. The Godhead had a council in eternity passed, and we kind of get glimpses of that language in Zechariah and in other places. Where God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit covenanted and agreed that this is the plan of salvation. The Son would come in human form and be the sacrifice The Spirit would come afterwards to draw men. And preemptively in the Old Testament as well. All working to the same purpose. If the Father elected people, but the Son died for more than what the Father elected, he's out of sync with God's plan. If the Spirit's wooing people for whom Christ didn't die, he's out of sync with God's plan. I'm reading a book called The Guns of August. It's a history of the thinking of the leaders during World War I You talk about dysfunction in the battlefield. They were totally working at cross purposes. The Germans had some mistakes, but the French even more so. And the British were constantly retreating. Don't ever engage in a serious way. Just kind of show up and wave and follow. They were it was totally backwards. It was just a a a huge mess, Jeffrey it it's not often mentioned this passage. God let um particularly the free willers who thought they were going, who think they can somehow do something. In uh in the book of Genesis, in the very beginning, God actively prevented Adam and Eve from touching the tree of life so that he would have to save the tree. actively put the flaming sword there to prevent that. So he's not just the uh God of salvation with I mean he is. I'm not diminishing that, but the free will people who think they can somehow do something God showed them in the very beginning that you know you're not going to do it on your own. Yeah, Jeffrey, you're describing that um Um I don't want to say it. That scenario, shortly after the fall, when Adam and Eve ate of that tree of the knowledge of good and evil, to which they were forbidden. That then God, as he cast them out of the garden, placed an angel with a flaming sword to guard the way to the tree of life. He in fact said, And lo, now behold, the man has become as one of us. To know good and evil. They knew good, they didn't know evil. Now they're about to learn a bunch of evil. Evil being death And now lest they lest the man reach forth his hand and take from the tree of life, therefore the man casts the the Lord cast the man out of the garden. Yeah, he didn't he didn't want man by his own arm to save himself. Absolutely. Cannot happen. The teaching of absolute free will is another gospel. It's another gospel. It's not the gospel of scripture. Man has a will. But man's will is not free. Man's will is bound by sin. And so man can choose to do anything evil, but man cannot choose to do good. There's none that's doing good. No, no, There's none to understand it. There's none to seek after God. The only way that man will ever seek after God is if God's grace changes him. That's the key word he used earlier, that God's grace makes a dramatic change. Yeah, free will is actually the title of a head of doctrine and too much is loaded in that phrase and I like to ask people, well, if man's will is free, it's free from what If I sit down at a restaurant, my mouth doesn't just jump up, well yes, I'll have liver and onions. No, I don't like liver and onions. It's not free from my nature If you present a head of lettuce and a carcass of meat in front of a lion, the lion ain't going for the lettuce. He will freely choose that carcass every time. That's his nature. And man's nature is evil. And evil, of course, leads to self-righteousness. And so man likes self-righteousness. I'll look good. He'll he he's a good fig leaf sower from day one. He loves sowing fig leaves That's easy to get. Grace is the foundation because it relies entirely on God's work alone. We're saved because God has done it all. All that's required for entrance into heaven is entirely given to us for free by Christ. It's a humbling doctrine. It's a very humbling doctrine. And it can be a fearful one because men may come, well, what if God hasn't chosen me? Well, you better start beseeching the Lord. You better start begging like the Syrophoenician woman. She kept coming. Because only somebody who's truly an elect of God will be worried about that. Only that one will truly be worried about it. The unsaved will kick against it, will argue against it, will hate it, they'll say, nope, I don't like that, and perish in their unbelief, tied to their driftway. Well let's close there. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this portion of Scripture concerning being carried about of different winds. Oh Lord God, may only A cool, gentle breeze of nourishing grace flow from this pulpit, both today and evermore. In Jesus' name. Amen.