Get to for quite some time. And uh I we're taking a pause from the book of Hebrews. Uh we finished the seventh chapter. Today I'm going to Consider yourselves uh auditing a class, not actually taking the course. So you're just here to gain awareness, but I'm actually going through this Book that I had purchased for my birthday. My kids graciously gave it to me. It's called The Mysterious Numbers of the Hebrew Kings. It was written by a fellow named Edwin Thiel He uh has a very fascinating background. He uh wrote his dissertation with the same title in 1944, so this is 80 years ago And he has since uh continued to work on it up through the third revision, which came out in uh 1982, and he died in 1986 at the age of 91. So he lived a good long while He believed the Word of God was accurate, and he sought to resolve the confusion that you find when you go into the Old Testament of the absolute and the relative durations of the king's reigns. And uh he assumed uh that the word of God is correct, and but a lot of people have tried to resolve this. So that's who he is. His approach is very fascinating. What he did is that he said that he's going to rely strictly on the biblical data. What does the Bible say about this subject? As confusing as it may be, and try to develop a framework that assumes the royal scribes of their day accurately captured the dates in their ancient royal records using their frame of thinking at that time. You know, our calendar has changed over the years. We used to have a Julian calendar system, now we have a Gregorian calendar system. So calendars change over time. And Julian is even later than the time period we're talking about, which is a thousand years before Christ came. So there's a lot of changes that have taken place, and the sands of time have simply buried that framework from view. So over 38 years, he developed a very rigorous framework first, and then, lo and behold, he sought to compare that to these well-established dates from Assyrian records and archaeology. And if it matched, great. And if it didn't, he would try to adjust his framework or see, you know, what might need some tuning. But he didn't start with the Assyrians. He started with just the Bible and tried to develop. It took him a decade, a decade to crack the nut. I mean ten years. Can you imagine? Focused work. Ten years on a very naughty subject that was elusive to a great many people. Even back in the early church era, it was elusive. Let me read to you a quote from the book of the early Christi uh Christian uh uh historian. His name is Jerome. He's more known in the Roman Catholic circles. And listen to what he read. Now it's in Latin, but I have an English translation. He says, quote, read all the books of the Old and New Testament. And you will find such a discord, meaning non-harmony, as to the number of years, such a confusion as to the duration of the reigns of the kings of Judah and Israel that to attempt to clear up this question will appear rather the occupation of a man of leisure than of a scholar Basically saying it's a waste of time to go trying to figure this out. It's hopelessly lost. So this was somebody who is in the third century, some 19 uh some thousands of years, I can't do my math quickly, uh 1800 years prior to us, who was much closer to the Old Testament era, we're talking really ancient times. And he was basically saying, yeah, not not sure we can get there from here. Well, what is an example of this problem that I'm talking about? What what are we really dealing with? Well, I do have um In your bullet uh no, it's not in your bulletin. You might want to open your Bible if you haven't. Turn to 2 Kings 8. 25. If you have your Bible, open it to 2 Kings 8. 25 and I'll show you Some examples. And you also have a Sunday school handout. Don't turn to that yet, the one with all the diagrams and the arrows. You want to go to your Bible. Go to your Bible and look at 2 Kings 8. 25. So this is an example. You know, the Bible gives great precision, it's known as dual dating, for the accession, the arising to the throne of the Hebrew kings, but they don't add up. So just by way of memory, while you're turning to 2 Kings 8. 25, the book of the Kings is the record of the kings of Israel. That's the northern kingdom. This is after Solomon, after the split. of the kingdom. Ten tribes are to the north, their capital is Samaria. All of these royal records, you could say their archives, their national archives, is in the book of 1 and 2 Kings. The book of 1 and 2 Chronicles are the kings of Judah, the lower two tribes, and they would date each other's kings. So when an Israel king came to power, Judah would make note of that and reference their kings, and vice versa. But let's just look at Israel themselves, all right, how Israel is handling things, even within the same country. We read in 2 Kings 8. 25. In the twelfth year of Joram, the son of Ahad, king of Israel, did Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, begin to reign. Alright? So this is uh Noting when Ahaziah, the king of Judah, came to throne. So Israel has no change of king, Judah does, and they're just noting it. Okay? And then you go on to the 9th chapter of 2 Kings, so flip a page or look over a column to chapter 9 and verse 29 of 2 Kings. And it says, and in the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, did begin Ahaziah to reign over Judah. Well now, wait a minute. We just read that it was the 12th year of Joram, king of Israel, and then less than a handful of verses later, it says the 11th year. Well, which is it, 12 or 11? It's interesting because the Septuagint changes the 12 to the 11 to make it match. They say, well, there's obviously an error, but they're erasing a very important clue in ancient Hebrew chronology by changing that 12 to an 11. Masoretic text keeps it twelve. So how do you resolve that? Another problem is when did Israel's king Joram, also known as Jehoram, begin to reign in the second year When did he begin to reign? So this is also gets confusing with the kings. Sometimes you had two kings in office that had the same name. You would have one called Jehoram in Israel and another guy called Jehoram in Judah. And what would you do? Well, they would give an abbreviation to the one king versus the other. So the one that was in Israel, they would call him Joram The one that was in Judah would be known as Jehoram. Or sometimes they'd also refer to Israel's king as Jehoram, his official birth name So that kind of adds a little confusion here. If you get over that, and that's an easy one to get over, let's get to the question. When did he begin to reign? Was it the second year of Jehoram or the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat? Now I know I'm getting into a lot of numbers today. And if you don't like numbers, that's okay. Just calm down, take a deep breath. You're just auditing the class. There's no pop quiz today, all right? I'm not going to ask you to do that. I just want to Give you an appreciation for the topic. Well, uh, if you're in your Bible, you can go to 2 Kings 1. 17. In 2 Kings 1. 17 We read this. So he, that is Ahaziah, died according to the word of the Lord, which Elijah had spoken. So we already learned when Ahaziah came to the throne uh previously. And then it says, and Jehoram, now this is referring to Joram, so this would be uh the Israelite king, because we're in 2 Kings, reigned in his stead. And when did he do that? In the second year of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. So here, Israel is dating their king to when Judah's king was ruling, the second year of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat. Alright, then you have in 2 Kings 3. 1, just a few chapters later. Jehoram, the son of Ahab, began to reign over Israel, or in 2 Kings 3. 1 now, in Samaria, the 18th year of Jehoshaphat, and reigned 12 years. So now it's dating it to Jehoshaphat, but it says the second year of Jehoram, son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, which one is it? Is it his son or the father? Doesn't seem to make sense that you're dating it that way. Why would you I mean it's just a few chapters later. Presumably it's the same scribe or the son of the scribe, they would have very quick access to those records. There's a pretty significant deviation there. And then in Chapter 8, verse 16 of 2 Kings, we read this. In the fifth year of Joram, the son of Ahad, king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah. Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign. Now we have a totally different connection of when Jehoram. So it's really confusing, isn't it? It's trying to make sense of it is a head twister Furthermore, other problems have been found. There are, if you add up the durations between two fixed points. In Judah's history and Israel's history. So let's assume that it's the same event in time that hit both countries. For instance, the split of the kingdom when uh Rehoboam went one way, Jeroboam went the other. And and we know that they both ascended to the throne at the same time And take that all the way down to another point in time when Jehu killed both kings simultaneously. Now I begin to illustrate this on the handout that you have, so now you can follow along in the handout in section A. The problems dating the Hebrew Kings. And again, I'm indebted to the work of Dr. Thiel. I call him a doctor. He doesn't claim to have a doctorate, but with the level of work he's done, boy, he's a doctor in my book. So let's look at two fixed points in their mutual history. So Solomon's reign ends, you get Jeroboam and Rehoboam. Jeroboam over Israel, Rehoboam and Judah. Alright. Now let's take that all the way down to when Joram and Ahaziah were killed in the same battle. By Jehu. Jehu killed them both in the same battle, and you can read about that later in the Kings. When did that happen? Well, if you add up Israel's record all the way down To the durations of the kings you get ninety-eight years and seven days. But if you look at Judah's record, you get ninety-five years Wait a minute, these are two fixed points in time. We know there hasn't been a three-year gap anywhere from the beginning or the end, but it doesn't seem to add up. What's going on? Furthermore, you go to the next set of two fixed points. This same event, after Jehu kills both Israel and Judah's kings. He comes to the throne in Israel, and in Judah, a wicked woman named Athelia, she was the daughter of Jezebel. She comes to the throne. They came to the throne at the same time. Again, we know they ascended simultaneously. Now you take it all the way to when Israel in Samaria, the capital city, fell to the Assyrians. Because that's specifically dated in the scripture that it was the uh it was the ninth year of Hoshea And the sixth year of Hezekiah, Judah's king. So the scriptures in two places specifically notes that when Samaria fell, it gives the dates of both kings. So those are, again. Fixed points. You add up those years. For Israel, you get 143 years and seven months. And for Judah, you get 166 years. You say, well, are we close? Lo and behold, you go look at the Assyrian records. Now the Assyrians had a solar calendar. They used, it was a lunar calendar, but they also noted eclipses. Well, we can go back astronomically, you know, wind the clock backward of the Earth and the rotation and all that to figure out when those eclipses occurred. And the Syria gives us 120 years. So we're way off on this. We're nowhere close. And so you can see that there's some significant differences that are uh there for somebody who's trying to be honest with the scriptures, somebody who's trying to honestly assert there's no errors in the Bible. Well this happens to be one area That the unbeliever pokes that, because they're all over the Egyptologists and the secular historians and the Assyriologists and the You know, come on, it's math, you bunch of Luddites. What is it about solar eclipses you don't understand? You stupid Christians, you can't you're just following some dumb old book that was retrofitted. Worse yet, the Septuagint changes certain dates. as well as does uh Josephus, the historian, to try to rescue the Word of God from error. We'll just fix a few dates. And it only messes things up worse. So enter Mr. Thiel. And he is really, really brilliant. So my question to you is How would you go about reconciling this? If somebody confronted you with this, and this today is the most amount of information you heard, you don't hear the next 30 minutes of explanation. How would you try to reconcile this? You're a Christian. You believe the Word of God is accurate. You believe every Word of God is pure. How would you defend this? What approach might you take? Any thoughts? I would throw my hands up in the air and say it doesn't matter. Okay, it doesn't matter. All right. Well, that's interesting, and uh there are some people that do that, but the best quote I have from the book, and I don't want to beat you up, but you know, I love your I love your forwardness though. That's that's an admirable trait A quote from the book is: chronology is the backbone of history. If you can't get the chronology right, you can't get the history right. And if the history can be shown to be incorrect, Therefore, I can doubt the history of the scriptures. It's a nice moral book, but you can't say it's accurate across the board. Just ignore the history part. That's wrong Well, there's a lot of stuff that can come with that that might be tough. But that is an approach people take. You're absolutely right. Well you begin with with positing the fact that God is infallible and man is fallible You know, so um you you you you posit the word of God before before man's God is correct. Man is incorrect. These secular historians uh must have screwed something up because God records the the actual record. And that is an approach that has been taken. But I watched a a documentary last night on the flood. And it was was a attack on the global flood. Sure. And they put up the Chronicles of Gildamesh and said, ah, see, here we have a pre-biblical account. Um but the problem was not a pre-Biblical account, the problem is both accounts come from the same source, which is the Sons of Noah. Yep. And the Bible is the older source. Again, not yet soft track. But but man's approach is to try to criticize the Word of God. The believer's approach is is to say, No, God said it, I believe it. And if I gave y'all another 20 minutes, you'd probably come up with all the variety of approaches that have been tried. Let me just read them to you Either duration of the reins is right and the start-stop dates are wrong, or the other way around, the start and stop dates are right and the duration is wrong. That's one approach that's been taken Others say there has to be some undocumented period of chaos between the kings where we don't know. And then when the king came in, now we start recording, and so that's why we have an extra period If they do that, it makes the Bible's account 50 years longer than other records. Others have said, well, we need to force fit the chronology of the contemporary nations back into the Bible. If you do that, it makes the Bible's record about 50 years shorter. Other people say the Bible is right, the secular Oriental historians are wrong. Problem there is when you're comparing to the Assyrian records which note eclipses, it's kind of hard to fake an eclipse. That is a God-given signkeeper. So that's a tough one to try to change. Some say there were scribal errors. There were intentional changes made to improve a king's legacy. You know, he ruled eight years. That doesn't sound good enough. I actually ruled 15 years, you know, they just changed it to make the king look better You know, the pharaohs of Egypt were prone to aggrandizing themselves. Maybe Israel's kings did the same. It's a fool's game. Who cares? That's another approach that people take. So these are the struggles and the challenges that Dr. Thiel faced, but he was a very serious-minded Christian who devoted his entire life. Folks, I can't emphasize to you, and I'm I'm not trying to give glory to feel. But there are some brethren who have scholarly researched a very difficult question for your benefit And you can purchase it and have it as a reference on your shelf. If this isn't on your bookshelf, I highly encourage you to do that. Because if somebody starts complaining, ah, the dates are wrong, say Just go read this. Just shut up. Go in a corner. Go read this because you're ignorant. And ignorance is what Mr. Thiel accepted. He said this. Basically, the we don't know how their calendar system worked, but the Hebrew scribes, their royal officials, were at least being normally honest. They possess sound historical data. They endeavored to preserve history to the best of their ability. He just made that a starting assumption. The word of God is accurate. Now, how do we get a framework? So that was his approach. And by starting to question himself and question and to acknowledge the fact I am dumb in a certain area. We've lost how these calendars work to the sands of time. Are there vital clues that we can stop and look at to help us understand? Now, to help introduce you to this framework This is where we get to this week's discussion question. And I'm going to start with a really simple example When a baby is born, a newborn infant, all right, how old is he on the day of his birth? Any thoughts? He's zero, all right. How old is he on the day of his birth? Is that the only answer? Is everybody agreed zero? A couple of hours. He's a couple of hours, right. We weep right. Do you do you count the umbilical cord or when he screams? When do you count it? All right, very good. Yep. Penny? Says he's nine months old, all right. One year old. One year old. Alright, I appreciate the culture that you're born. Yeah. We'll be one year old. Yes, so even though, so there's three different answers here, and I appreciate you very much for giving that. So there's zero, which is how we Americans date it. He has not lived out a full year, and we're dating it from an observable event. Alright, you can't observe conception. At least you're not supposed to. And then uh but he's actually been alive for nine months, but some will say we'll count the nine months as a full year, and therefore he has been a year in existence. All three are right, frankly. It just depends on your way of measuring his age. Here's another one for you. And a baby was born. A child was born on February 29th, 2020. February 29th. I hope you caught that So this year, how old is that child? In twenty twenty four? Yeah. Four years. Four years of o of age, okay. Now for three years there wasn't a February twenty-ninth. You just didn't have that day because there's a leap year. So some would kid the fellow, hey, you're finally one year old, because your February 29th birthday finally came around So then you have to deal with solar differences, right? The moon as it goes about. You know, technically our calendar would be much improved. Joey, if we went to a 13-month system and had 28 even days every month, and for one day a year we had intermission, say New Year's. Just call the day intermission. And every leaf year you have two days of intermission. That would make the calendar work fine. Forget this 28 days, you know, the knuckle trying to figure out how many days are in the month. Just 28 days every month and 13 months and forget it That would be super simple. But we don't do it that way. We have a goofy calendar system. Alright, so we have a Gregorian calendar system. Now let's talk about the difference in how the Chinese will date and how we would date. And I appreciate that example very much. So the newborn, nine months of life, he's well into his first year of existence, his body physically is one year old, exactly three months after his birth date, his physical body. However, we tie his accession, and there's a word I'm introducing to you, his accession into life. Alright, we count that at birth, not at conception, and the record of his age is counted in arrears. In other words, we antedate the child. We antedate him. Okay? His annual calendar begins in the day and month of his birth, and it's based on the Gregorian challenge calendar, and that calendar changes by a day every four years. So do you see how even in our system we don't even think twice about this? You you go to a a dollar store to get a birthday card. They have year one, year two, year three. They don't say For the Gregorian calendar system here try I don't have that. Well it turns out that that concept Just by asking questions. How would the ancients dated things? Don't project your Western thinking back Which is only 200 years old, back thousands of years and say, well, that's how they must have done it. Oh no, that's not how they did it. So Dr. Thiel came up with a framework, And the simple question that we discussed illustrates the four yardsticks he discovered that are used to date the Hebrew kings. There's four yardsticks, alright? Now, before we get to your second point in the handout, let me just read them to you. Here's the questions he addressed. He said, number one, when did the ancient king When did the ancient king begin to count the years of his reign? Some nations use the non-accession year. Now that's another term you're going to lose. Non-accession. That's the antedating system like we do with our birthdays. However, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Persians, and it turns out Judah used something called the accession year or the post-dating system, like the Chinese would use. They used a post-dating system. So Judah uses one, Israel uses another. Now why would Israel be so rebellious as to totally change their calendar system? Well, if anything, God records Judah was pretty rebellious across the board, and they probably said, phonie on your calendar system, we're having ours. And it got better. Did the king begin counting his years from the day he sat on the throne or from the start of the calendar year? Much like the Chinese, the start of the calendar year. But when did the calendar year start? Well it turns out that the nations did not use one calendar. Some the Hebrews had two calendars. One began with Nisan in the spring That's when they would start. The others had Tishri, which was in the fall. That's when their calendar started. That's a six-month difference. That half-year difference adds up over time, and it really affects how you're going to view things. Judah used Tishri to Tishri, Israel used Nisan to Nisan. And then you have to ask, did the neighboring nation use the same calendar? Well we're going to find out that between Israel and Judah, not always. In fact, they often use very different calendars Did the nation ever change its calendar system to better align with the neighbor? And let me give you an example of that. My home state of Texas. We're Texas. We got our own time zone. Now in that time zone, it turns out that we've got a little bit of rebellion going on out in the West. El Paso, because there's a vast stretch of desert and no man's land between El Paso and the Interstate 5 Corridor, or whatever that main strip is, and 35 corridor. That El Paso is tied to New Mexico's time zone. They're in their own time zone because that's their nearest neighbor. They have more business with New Mexico than With our fellow Texans that are oh so five hours through the dust away. So sometimes nations out of convenience, out of allegiance, out of whatever reason, would adjust their calendar system to those with whom they have reaffiliations with. And it turns out that Judah over time changed his calendar system And the biggest hint for that was the very first example I gave you, when Judah changed its calendar system from Judah was at the accession year and they went to the non-accession year And it reflected a change from the scribes because of the change of the kings. It was a very interesting clue that he gave, and it fits forward. Alright, well look at your handout. And you can see these different methods. So uh in section B, the Hebrew calendar differences, if you're using an accession year system like Judah is doing You have this strange-looking chart in front of you. Now I know it looks like a heartbeat chart and the patient's dead, but that's not what this is representing. The little dip represents a year. So the line to the first dip would be his accession year. That would be year zero. That's how we count the age of our kids' lives, right? We'll say he's a few months old or whatever. And then after he's been on the throne for a year, he begins counting this as my first year. But in Israel, the non-accession system. The first year was the, he would be on the throne one minute, and it's counted as the first year of the king. That would be the non-accession system. Do you see the difference between the two calendars as you progress forward? The non-accession system is always one year higher if you're using that approach to the calendar system. Now, guess what? If your calendar didn't even start on the same day, that's going to throw another wrench in it as well So if you say you're January, meaning the beginning of your calendar, I'm just using January to reference the start of our calendar. If it's in the spring, in Tishri, which is what Judah did, Then your first year leads up to that, and then you see that every year you've got one, two, three, four, five. But in Israel, who used Nisan as the start of their calendar, which is in the fall, in the harvest time. What happens? Well, you see that it's off by six months. There's a period of time when year one may overlap, but there's a six-month period when it doesn't. So this is the principle that's involved here. Now, that's as far as I'm going to go with that. And there's other technical details that he also discovered which have to do with co-regencies. You might recall reading sometimes when somebody ascended to the throne and they were eight years old. Folks, I know in America it seems like we have an eight-year-old ruling over us. Uh and we in fact may have an eight-year-old ruling over us. I think I put more hope in the eight-year-old at this point. But when you read about it in the Bible That is a good indicator that there would be a co-regency. The eight-year-old may have the crown, and he may be seated on the throne, and that's when he's been anointed, but he's going to have a co-regent, typically the father, who will reign with him for a period of time. That kind of addresses the second example that I gave you. When did Jehoram come to the throne? in the year of Joram or Jehoshaphat. There was a co-regency there. And you have to understand those because that will shrink that timeline that we saw earlier that looked to be too long. It works out very nicely. So that is the summary, in short, of the four yardsticks that Mr. Thiel discovered can be used to decipher all of these dates. And it's fascinating. And he goes through here with meticulous detail. giving illustrations and diagrams and he looks at it from multiple angles and the amount of research in this is just off the charts phenomenal and I highly recommend you get if you're interested in this topic Um and you ask me a question I can't answer. I'm going to point you to this book and say, have fun, knock yourself out. I enjoyed reading it. It was really fascinating. So now let's get to the uh Now the next point, how do we apply his framework to our problems above? And this is number C on the backside of Yulou Handout. I put it in orange to apply his framework to try to answer our question So at the top you have the record from the Book of Chronicles as to How long each of these kings lived? How long, excuse me, they reigned. So Rehoboam reigned 17 years. And then you have Abijah reigned three years. The sum total, we're now at twenty. Asa Uh in his second year Jeroboam came up, so now we're at 22 years, etc. And if you add up those dates, as we indicated before, You get to 79 years. But in Israel, when you count their kings and you go forward, you get 86 years. Well, it turns out that you're you have an excess number of years for Israel. Israel is off by seven years. However, when you say, well How does Field's framework kick in? Well if one is using an accession system, which is what can I get this mixed up? Judah used. And the non-accession system, which is what Israel used, the, looking back at number B, your non-accession system is always going to be higher than one year. How many kings did Israel have during that time? Well you go back and count Jeroboam, Nadab, Besha, Elah, Zimri, Zimri and Amri were together, Ahab and Ahaziah You had seven kings. How many years difference do we have between the two records? Seven years. So let's sum it up. This is what the little table is down below. According to Israel, you had official years 86, but actual years were 79. According to Judah, your official years and your actual years matched. They actually were both during a 79-year period. He resolved the dilemma by simply acknowledging that they had two different calendar systems to how they date. It fits perfectly. It fits perfectly. And it's a great method of cross-dating. It's somewhat like I'll give you a little silly story today. I'm almost embarrassed to say this. I'm looking in my closet and I'm realizing I need a change. I need to upgrade. You know how it is, Jim, you just kind of get wearing the same clothes. You love that shirt. I don't care if it's got holes in it. I love that shirt. This belt, I love this belt. Yeah, it's worn out So I'm thinking, I need a new belt, right? I need a new belt. Now y'all don't even see my belt on Sundays, but in my mind, I'm looking at this thing, I need a new belt. So I'm ordering a belt off Amazon. Turns out that belts are not only measured by length, but by width And I'm looking for a 1. 25-inch belt, 1 14 inch. Well, where is everything made when you buy it from Amazon? Where is it made? China. Right. Alright. So well it turns out the Chinese are more comfortable in millimeters. than they are in inches. So when I order 1. 25 inches, for whatever reason, I get 1. 25 inches plus 316 of an inch I've learned if I want to order the belt correctly, I better measure it in millimeters. And so I measured one in 31 millimeters, and I got exactly the belt size I wanted. So sometimes having two systems can help. Because you just refer to the other one. Anyway, that's I don't even know the value of that example. But anyway, you get where I'm trying to go, that there's different samples here. Alright, so this is the approach that was taken, and if you're looking for answers to resolve other potential dilemmas, I point you to this. He has worked through every single issue. He um there have been uh three major attempts to give a biblical timeline and Mr. Thiels is considered the gold standard starting point, and it's the one that everybody goes to to either beat it up or try to change it. He himself, again, he labored on this until he was 88 years old, and he died at age 91, three years after public he published this book, ladies, at 88 years old. How are you doing on your book, Mom? Your book coming along okay? This guy was in what book? Yeah. This guy was really a servant of the Lord. By his own admission, at the very end of the book, he says, I have been able to resolve every single date. He has tied it to the Assyrian uh um Eponem list, uh don't know if you recall a bulletin some time back where I looked at how the Assyrian archaeologists uh dated things, and they had Eponems, which was an appointed ruler who summarily recorded in one line the main events of that king for that year and solar events. So the Assyrian eponymous is tied to the solar calendar. He syncs perfectly with that He syncs very well with the canon of Ptolemy. This was, again, a solar-based calendar from the rulers of Babylon and Persia So we're talking a lot of neighboring ancient Eries and Erie cities, all of whom Israel had interaction with. And he synchronized all of them that. And he gives in the appendix a summary list of all their documents and records. He shows the touch points. He gives an absolute date. So he can say with certainty that Rhiaboam came to the throne in 930, 931 B. C. And there's a reason why they say 3031. That's considered a scholarly accurate citation. He refines Bishop Usher's timeline. Bishop Usher is the other one who in the fourth century came up with the chronology of the earth. He refined that timeline and took it a step higher. And more importantly, he refutes the Septuagint. And the Septuagint is what the Catholics use as their Old Testament. And the Septuagint. And I put this in your handout in item D here, how others have mangled the character the calendar. And he points this out very interestingly You can just scan through that and you can see where they have changed the reigns of these kings. And he concludes that this does not appear to be by any improved understanding of their calendar or the framework, this appears to be randomly changing things based on immediate context. Just literally scribal intention to change. without any scholarly study into how the calendar system worked. So there's some good six places between the Masoretic text, which is what Mr. Thiel asserts is accurate, and it is And the Septuagint. He shows uh six different places where they change it. That is the basis of the Roman Catholic Bibles. So your Roman Catholic friends are at a significant loss when someone comes to them and says, well, you're Your Bible has errors in it because it's historically inaccurate. They can actually assert that with authority, and they would be unable to refute that. Of course, the Catholics would care less about error. They could thrive on it. This two has the lie, it's about six foot tall. Uh that's total contrary to everything else. Although they do admit that his spear was like a weaver's beam, you know, weights so and such and such, you know, s shackles and the I just be almost possible for a six foot tall man to throw the spear that that the Septuagint says it has. but it misses its height entirely. And the professors up at Biblical said, well, uh Jewish people are known to be very short people, so six foot Goliath. My wife's doctor is six foot four, he's just Jewish. Fonds is name Jewish is convenient, it's over six foot. But for some reason we're supposed to think everybody everybody Jewish is a little guy. But they're not. But that's that's the excuse that the biblical theological gave often Halffield Pennsylvania. Hmm. My son-in-law bought the whole thing. Yeah, well he lies only six foot. Others will look thank you for that. Others will look at the writings of Josephus. Josephus was a First century Jew who documented the annals and the history and the record of the Jewish people for their now conquering captains, the Romans. He was partly doing it to save his neck and uh partly doing it to truly capture Israel's history. He likewise adjusts the years. His were not as blatant, he adjusted it you know, uh one or two, uh you know, I see at most, one year difference. But he also tweaked it, and again, no consistent rhyme or reason as to why he changed that. So like I said, I've really been interested in in covering this for a while, but let's get back to the big question, who cares? Who really cares? So biblical chronology is an area which, if it's not trusted, it can be used to undermine the credibility of the Old Testament and the Bible. If you can't trust the history and the numbers in the scriptures, then how it calls into question how you can trust anything else in the scriptures. In fact, this very matter is not some hypothetical or theoretical problem. This was the point of the sphere I should say the point of the bullet that shattered the previous church which we attempted to start. The pastor's wife was talking with my wife, trying to explain to her why she used the ESV, and my poor dear wife was still stuck using the King James. And she asserted that, well, you know, in the Old Testament there's all kinds of errors. There's errors in the dates of the kings. It's just historically inaccurate. This is the wife of the pastor. Now She, uh, like many other pastors' wives, had a part-time job. She worked as a manager at McDonald's. Her husband was a theologian. Folks, I seriously doubt McDonald's taught her that. I'm kind of thinking her husband taught her that, but when you ask him, he had a very nice way to dance around the issue and to wax eloquent. And it was the fog machine gem that came out And my wife and I would look at each other after he left the room and she asked me, what did he say? And I said, I don't know, what did he say? Neither one of us could figure out whether there were I heard words, I think the words were in English Casting doubt on the scriptures. This was the first place. And then it came to the end of the book of Mark. Well, I don't know about handling snakes and all these miracles, and I don't know about that. Where does it stop? It doesn't. It's a little insidious thing that creeps in. Any of you ever have a mice, a mouse, get in your house? Do they kick down the door? Do mice kick down the door? I I maybe in DC he got rabs jeopards. I think I'll give you an exception there. The DC rats could kick down your door. Groundhogs are rodent. Groundhogs are might have been. I haven't had a groundhog in the house. Maybe your house will get bigger holes in the yard. Yes, yeah They creep in. They find the tiniest of holes. And you get mice in a place and they bring diseases with them. You can get the bubonic plague from mice. By the way, that's resurfacing in some parts of the nation right now. So the little foxes, Solomon says, spoil the garden. It's the little foxes that creep in. So This is something that is you need to appreciate that it's a long unresolved issue. It has been incorrectly fixed by others. They do not understand the Hebrew dating methods, folks. The scribes of the Masoretic text faithfully copied what was written, whether they understood it or not. And I would urge you the same thing as well. It's easy to generate a lie quickly. That doesn't take much effort at all. There's no scholar scholarship requirements or advanced degree required to manufacture a lie. Just Pull something out of thin air and start to repeat it often and frequently. And you say it long enough and loud enough and guess what? People who are not anchored Can get moved by it. And I'm telling you, if somebody is telling you there's an error in the Bible, you need to reject it instantly. It may take you, like Mr. Thiel, a decade to figure out the answer. But you may have some more important things in life to go about. So I'm suggesting to you that don't believe, I'm telling you, don't believe this idiotic assertion. that God got it wrong. It's in there, it's curiously written, and you can believe every word of it. I was told that the genealogies you can't add them up and come up with a young earth. You know, there's just so many gaps and so many and so I said to a seminary student whose name I won't mention here because he was a relative of mine I said him uh so there's gaps in the genealogy and genes. Oh yeah, oh yeah. I said lots of gaps, oh absolutely, yeah, absolutely lots of gaps. And I said, okay I opened up his Bible to Genesis and I said, just show me one gap. And he just staring at me. He s he said, Well, the professor never told us where the gaps were. I said he must have told me where one of them was. I'll get back to you on that one. Did he get back to you? No, he divorced my wife. He divorced my daughter instead. No, there's there's there's no gaps. He read usher and I'm about halfway through that as as as a help for you, but he Bishop Usher's work is very uh admirable and he had access to a lot of historical documents that we wouldn't even know about unless his writings cited them And so his work is not to be dismissed. Again, Mr. Thiel just updated his work and it's considered now the the the the the gold standard basis. Uh and uh it really is a book you ought to have on your bookshelf. And he's from our Generation, right? I mean died in 1986. That ain't too long ago. So I hope that was helpful to you. I hope you learned something today. I've always been fascinated by this topic and want to share it with you and uh kind of arm you up with that. So stop with that In whom the godless world has blinded the minds of them that believe not. Those who are are blinded to the truth will very readily believe any lie that comes along. But the truth does not penetrate because it cannot, because they aren't too hard. You know, you and I had a uh a discussion early this week of which I won't get into all the the the content of, but you made a statement in there that uh it's very arrogant to seek to reject the tradition uh of you know your as it were older brothers in the faith uh particular and especially the ones who put it in writing the you know the the authors uh the penmen I call them of the Old Testament. There's a lot lost to the sands of time, but what God saw that was important, God recorded and God captured And there is an answer, and if you're patient and you're really intrigued by it, you can come to a solution. But don't start off with saying, now there's errors in the Bible. That needs to be dead from the get there. Well, let's close in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you for this tremendous work that you've given to us by your servant, Mr. Thiel. It does anything that shores up the validity and the accuracy of your scripture to help prove to our rationalistic unbelieving generation is a benefit to us. Lord, help us simply to have that faith, that trust in thee, for that is ultimately the test. Bless our worshipper today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.