Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the Old Testament book of First Chronicles and chapter number twenty-one. The 21st chapter of the book of 1 Chronicles. I'm going to read the entire chapter. There are 30 verses But it is all one account. And this morning's message may be a little bit different than some. I tend to like expository preaching. to go line upon line and precept upon precept, verse by verse. This morning we're going to have a lot of application. So the exposition is largely simply the reading of the scripture itself. And then we will see five ways in which this passage applies to the believer day by day. If you have your place now in the 21st chapter of 1 Chronicles, I'll begin with verse 1. And Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. And David said unto Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel from Beersheba, even to Dan, and bring the number of them to me, that I may know it. And Joab answered, The Lord make his people an hundred times so many more as they be. But my lord the king, are not they are they not all my lord's servants? Why then doth my lord require this thing? Why will he be a cause of trespass in Israel? Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew the sword. And Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew the sword. But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them, for the king's word was abominable to Joab. And God was displeased with this thing. Therefore, he smote Israel. And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. But now I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy servant. For I have done very foolishly. And the Lord spake unto Gaia Gad David's seer, saying, Go and tell David, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three things, choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. So Gad came to David and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, choose thee. Either three years, famine, or three months to be destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies overtake thee. Or else, three days, the sword of the Lord, even the pestilence in the land And the angel of the Lord destroying through all out all the coast of Israel. Now therefore, advise thyself what word I shall bring again to him that sent me. And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait Let me fall now into the hand of the Lord, for very great are his mercies, but let me not fall into the hand of man. So the Lord sent pestilence upon Israel, and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men. And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it. And as he was destroying, the Lord beheld And he repented him of the evil, and said unto the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand. And the angel of the Lord stood by the threshing floor of Onan the Jebusite. And David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of the Lord stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel, who were clothed in satcloths, fell upon their faces. David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? Even I it is that have trespassed and done evil indeed. But as for these sheep, what have they done? Let thine hand, I pray thee, O Lord my God, be on me and on my father's house. But not on thy people that they should be plagued. And the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David, That David should go up and set up an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of Onan the Jebusite. And David went up at that saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the Lord. And Onan turned back and saw the angel and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Onan was threshing wheat. And as David came to Onan, Onan looked up and looked and saw David and went out of the threshing floor and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. And David said unto Onan, Grant me the place of this threshing floor, that I may build an altar therein unto the Lord. Thou shalt grant it me for the full price that the plague may be stayed from the people. And Ornan said unto David, Take it thee And let my Lord the King do that which is good in his eyes. Lo, I give it thee, I give thee the oxen also for the burnt offering, and the threshing instruments for the wood. And the wheat for the meat offering I give it all. And David said unto Ordan, Nay But I will verily buy it for the full price, for I will not take that which is thine for the Lord, nor offer burnt offerings without cost. So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight. And David built there an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offering and peace offering and called upon the Lord. And he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of the burnt offering. And the Lord commanded the angel, and he put up his sword again unto the sheath thereof. At that time David saw that the Lord had answered him in the threshing floor of Ornan, the Jebusite. Then he sacrificed there. For the tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering, were at that season in the high places at Gibeon But David could not go before it to inquire the Lord, for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of the Lord. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this word, which really needs no exposition, for it is so clear and so powerful. So convicting to the hearts of your people. We thank you for it. Father, now bless this word to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. You see why I say that passage really needs no exposition. We know what it says. The story is powerful. The story is mighty. The story is terrifying. David was the man after God's own heart. David was the man who committed adultery with Vathsheba. David is the man who murdered Uriah. David is the man who numbered Israel. If David, if Peter If these men we hold in revere in Scripture, if they could sin so vilely, what about me? What about you? This text, first of all, should stand as a great warning to every child of God That we are all susceptible to sin. David was the man after God's own heart. And yet David's heart was deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know how wicked my heart is? And if David's heart could be this wicked, then I must be sober. I must be vigilant. Because my adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. If you look at the first verse of the text, it says that Satan stood up against Israel. Remember Job? Job was a man greatly blessed of God. And yet Satan stood up against Job as well, didn't he? And you remember when God question when it talks about Satan coming in, uh the the passage is um I've got the verse in front of me here. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whitce cometh thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said from going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it. I think when Peter gave us that warning, be sober and vigilant, because your adversary of the devil is a roaring lion walketh about, he was thinking about Job. Because Satan there is described himself as walking through the earth and going up and down in it If David, the man after God's own heart, could fall so violently, so vilely, what about every believer? We must take from this story a great warning. But also, my friend, I believe we can see in this account that God's chosen spiritual leaders are Satan's favorite targets. What is the description of Job? Well, we find in Job chapter one, verse five, and it was so in the days of their feasting that were going about that Job sent and sanctified them and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. This did Job continually. What was Job doing? He was sacrificing for his sons because he said, My sons may have sinned. Job was standing in the priest's office. Before the establishment of the priesthood, Job was serving as the priest. He was the priest in his family. He was the pastor of his house church. Every Christian husband stands spiritually in the same office as Job. He is the pastor of his home. We talked in in Sunday school about the uh believing spouse being sanctified, or the unbelieving spouse being being san unbelieving spouse being sanctified. Well, that's exactly what we're talking about here. The the father, the husband, stands in that priestly office for the family. He is the pastor of his home, and he is under attack. And so we need to pray for our pastors. We need to pray for our husbands and fathers For we find in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse eleven and following. Now these things happened unto them. Now it's referring to Israel in the wilderness, but I believe we can aptly apply this verse to every account of the Old Testament. Every Old Testament account, these things happened for our examples And they are written for our admonition. These things are placed in Scripture that we may see the example of failure and be admonished. Be put on guard. Wherefore, let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 12. And again we find in Acts chapter 20 and verse 28, take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. That's not just pastors. It's husbands and fathers. Husbands and fathers, take heed to yourself and to your family, because God has made you an overseer. God ordained the husband to be the leader in the home. God has made you an overseer to heed yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers to feed the Church of God. Which he hath purchased with his own blood. I mentioned ministers already, but consider Hebrews 13, verse 7. Remember them which had the rule over you Who have spoken unto you in the Word of God, whose faith follow, consider the end of their conversation. Remember those that are your pastors Remember those that are your spiritual leaders. Remember them in prayer. Wives pray for your husbands. Pray for your husbands. If your husband is not what you want him to be, pray that God will transform him because you can't do it. He ain't gonna reform him. But God can. In Jeremiah three, verse fifteen, God declares, and I will give you pastors according to my own heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding. I came across that verse um About 22 years old when I was first in a pastoral position. And uh God said, I'll give you pastors according to my heart, my prayers. God, make me a pastor according to your heart That your people may be fed with knowledge and understanding. And then again in Ephesians four, starting in verse eleven, and he gave some apostles and some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. If Satan can get in the midst of that. What can he do? And so we find, first of all, that we're all susceptible. David, the man after God's own heart, was susceptible. Pastors are more susceptible. Husbands are more susceptible. Then the third thing we would learn under this heading that we're all susceptible to sin is we must follow God rather than man. Don't put your trust in man. David was the man after God's own heart. But he brought great harm to the people of God. Don't put your trust in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. I'm not going to get into politics here. Because we're speaking in the spiritual realm, not the physical realm. Don't put your trust in a pastor. Don't put your trust in a man, rather be like the Bereans, for we find in Acts 1711 that these, the Bereans, were more noble than those of Thessalica in that they receive the word with all readiness of mind and search the scriptures daily whether these things were so Doesn't matter what preacher you trust in, that you hear some word from him, check it by the word of God. And if the word of God and the pastor's word do not agree, believe the word of God. And further, Christ said, Search the scriptures for in them you think that you have eternal life, and they testify of me. They don't testify of your pastor. They don't testify of some Pope. They testify of Christ. But also, folks, I would submit to you that there are no living Christian heroes. Let me say it again, there are no living Christian heroes. We find in Hebrews 11 the heroes of the faith, they're all dead. And I enjoy reading the writings of godly men of past generations. The writings of the Puritans can be great inspiration to us, and we can to some degree revere those men, but they're dead. Most of you know that I attended Bob Jones University, and Bob Jones University had a habit of naming buildings after people. But they came to the conclusion they could not name any buildings after a living person. Because they didn't want to have a building named after somebody who had departed from the faith. You see, if you're trusting in some preacher you're hearing on TV How many of them have recently fallen into horrible sin? There are no living Christian heroes. And so, we must follow God rather than men. The first thing we see here is that every one of us are susceptible to sin. The second thing that would have us to learn from this account of David is pride's our greatest enemy. Yes, I know the love of money is the root of all evil. But pride is our greatest enemy. Pride is the thing that Satan most often uses to trip up men Look there at verse 2 of 1 Chronicles 21. And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go number Israel from Beersheba, even the Dan, and bring the number of them to me, that I may know it. What's wrong with a census? Isn't it a good idea to know how many people you have? Well, Scripture tells us what is wrong with what David did. God declared that no man would know the number. God declared that no man would know the number of the people of Israel. Genesis 15, verse 3 And Abraham said, Behold, thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in my house is mine heir. Verse five And he brought that's God, he brought him abroad and said, Look now toward the heavens and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be You notice in our responsive reading that the verse that Brother Vince pointed out actually was the verse that brought me to that being our responsive reading for today. God tells the stars by their name. You see, David, by numbering the people, is desiring to know something that God declared, I'm the only one that knows that. What happened in the Garden of Eden? Ye shall not surely die. God knows that in the day ye eat thereof, ye shall be as wise, knowing good and evil. God tempted Eve to know, or sorry, Satan tempted Eve to know something that only God knew. And it's the same thing here that Satan is tempting David with. David, you need to know how many there are. You need to know what's in your bank account, David. He didn't know how strong you are. David, if your army's big enough, you can beat everybody. No. How could Israel beat everybody? Well, one would chase a thousand because God was with them. Now we do find in Scripture In the book of Leviticus, that they did number the people, but that was for the purpose of the worship. It was the purpose of for the redemption of the people. And folks, this is beautiful because we find in Scripture that God does know the number of his people. I already referenced Psalm 147, verse 4, 2 Timothy 2, 19. Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his. How many believers are there? I don't know. But God knows. The sin of pride, as I said, goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. David was warned. Look at the text again in verses 3 and 4. And Joab answered, The Lord make his people a hundred times so many more as they be But my Lord the King, are they not all my Lord's servants? Why then doth my Lord require this thing? Why will he be the cause of trespass in Israel? Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab. Folks, what sin have you ever committed that you weren't warned about? You know, when we sin we know we're sinning. When David said, Cleanse thou me from secret faults, he wasn't talking about cleanse me from things that I didn't know were sin. He's talking about cleanse me from the things I try to hide. The things that I know are wrong and yet I persist. Joab was one of the most trusted advisors of King David. And Joab said, My Lord the King, may God multiply his people. May God give his people victory. May He make them more than they are. But don't do this. Don't do this. And folks, how many times? How many times the Spirit of God says to the heart of the believer, don't do that. Stop! And yet we in our pride say, I know better than God. And we push ahead and do the very thing. It's interesting our confessional reading this morning dealt with obedience to the civil authorities. And in our text we find a legitimate example of civil disobedience. Look with me at verses five and six. And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And all of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew the sword. And Joe and Judah was 400,000 or 403 score and 10,000 men that drew the sword. But Levi, that's the tribe of the priesthood That's the tribe that belongs specially to God. But Levi and Benjamin, that is the smallest tribe. That is the tribe that was almost wiped out already because of their sin. But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them, for the king's word was abominable. To Joab. Joab demonstrated godly and proper civil disobedience. David never did know the number. Because Joab deliberately held back. He disobeyed the king's command. Because he it was an abomination to him to violate the truth of God, the word of God. And so first of all, we see that we are all susceptible to sin. Secondly, we see that pride is our greatest enemy. But the third thing I'd have you to see is that sin will affect everyone around you. Your sin, husband, father, priest of the home, pastor of your family, your sin will affect everyone around you. Verse 7. And God was displeased with this thing. Therefore he smote Israel. It doesn't say he smote David. Smote Israel. He smote the entire nation. Remember, David's son, born out of sin with Bathsheba, died. What sin had that baby committed other than being born the sin with the sin of Adam? And if a child's life was snuffed out. Because of the sin of David. The sins of the father, husband will affect the wife and children. We are judged for our own sin, but our sins affect all around us. Many children's lives have been destroyed by the sins of their father. It's been said that the greatest gift and the greatest lesson that you can ever give to your son is to love your son's mother. It's the greatest gift you can give to your children is to love their mother. To demonstrate to your children the relationship between Christ and the church, which is never violated. Which is a self sacrificing love. Which is a giving of yourself for your wife There's no greater inheritance. Millions of dollars can't replace that lesson. But how often do we see families destroyed, families within churches that are split up and the children wrecked? Not because of their own sin, but because of the sin of their father. David sinned, and God smote Israel. Seventy thousand died. Look at verse twelve. Either three years famine Or three months destroyed before your foes, or three days the sword of the Lord. Folks, think about this. Would three years of famine have any effect on the palace? I guarantee you, if there were three years of famine, David would eat well. He was the king. Three months destroyed by your foes. Well, in three months they weren't going to capture the palace. A lot of soldiers would die, but David would be safe in the palace. Three days the sword of the Lord. Well there was three days of the sword of the Lord, but it didn't hit David. It hit 70,000 for the people. You see, the retribution was not from David. It was on others around him. And so our sin will always affect others And the judgment will fall on others. 70,000, verse 14, who were innocent, died because of David's sin. The great condemnation that came upon David because of his sin is seen though. If you look at verse 17, verse 17 is a sad verse. It is a pitiful, pitiful verse. And David said unto God, is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? Even I, it is, that have sinned and done this evil indeed. But as for these sheep, what have they done? As for these sheep, what have they done? Brother Vince and I are terrified by the fact that we're not sheep owners. We don't own any sheep. We are given the responsibility for caring for the sheep, but the sheep belong to God. And if the sheep are not are malnourished spiritually, we will answer before the throne of God. Because we're to make foolproof of the ministry. Here, David, who was given the glorious privilege Of going from a shepherd boy in the field to the shepherd of all Israel is watching the angel of God with a sword stretched out over Jerusalem, ready to destroy. And he says, what have these sheep done? May God deliver us from the day when we see our children suffering. And our wives suffering. And our congregation's suffering because of our failure before God. We have to say, God, what have these sheep done? I'm the one that sinned. It was me. Fourthly, we find that repentance will cost you Repentance is available, but repentance is not without a price. David comes to the feel, the threshing floor of Onan, Ornan, the Jebutite. And David says to Ornan, let me buy this threshing floor for an altar. Hornan being a loyal, faithful subject of David, says, oh no. Oh no, I'll give you the threshing floor. I'll give you my oxen for the sacrifice. I'll give you the instruments of the threshing for the wood, and I'll give you the wheat for the offering. I'll give them to you. David says in verse 22, thou shalt grant it to me for the full price. And in verse 24, and the king said unto Ornan, Nay, but I will verily buy it for the full price. For I will not take that which is thine for the Lord, nor offer burnt offerings without cost. So David gave Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight. Folks, repentance is available. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But true repentance is going to cost you something. You see, repentance is not saying, God, I'm sorry for what I did, and then going out and doing it again. That's not repentance. That's not repentance at all. You see, repentance is going to change your life. Repentance is going to cost your pocket. Repentance is going to cost your attitude. Repentance is going to cost your pride. Repentance is going to cost your practice. You see, to repent is always available And the price of our redemption is paid. But repentance is a very costly matter. You see, a free repentance has no value. A free repentance is not a true repentance at all. David could have taken the oxen. He could have taken the threshing floor, he could have offered a sacrifice and gone back to his palace as unrepentant as he was. But folks, if God really deals with your heart, it costs you. It's painful. And it's costly. Repentance will cost you. And so we see that we're all susceptible that sin is our great enemy. That our sin affects more than just ourselves, that repentance is very costly. Remember Zacchaeus? In Luke 19, verse 8 and 9, and Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I take in anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to thy house. God knew Zacchaeus was serious. God saw through all the hypocrisies and pride of man. But the final thing I'd have us to see is that God is ever merciful. God is ever merciful. The mercy of God is seen throughout this chapter of Great Judgment. Look at verse 8. And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have done this thing. But now I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy servant. For I have done very foolishly. Memorize that verse. Oh God, that's so foolish. Oh God, that was so stupid. God, that was so wicked and so vile. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? God, help me to truly repent of this thing. I'll pay whatever price repentance costs. God is ever merciful. Verse thirteen And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait. Let me fall now into the hand of the Lord, for very gracious are his mercies. But let me not fall into the hand of man. Oh God, let me fall into your hand and not into man's hand. You know a lot of people prayed this A lot of people sitting in a jail cell waiting trial have prayed this. Oh Lord, let me fall into your hand now. Well, it's too late for that, buddy. You you know, you're gonna have to pay the price. The guy that blows his mind on drugs doesn't get a new man new brain when he repents. David's talking about the mercies of God eternally. Lord, don't let me fall into the hands of man, but let me fall in your mercies for you're ever gracious. Verse 15, and God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it And as he was destroying, the Lord beheld, and he, that's God, repented him of the evil. God said, Oh, I can't destroy them. Oh, they're my sheep. Yes, David, my appointed shepherd. Yes, David, my pastor, has sinned, and the people suffer because of it, the sheep suffer. And he said unto the angel that destroyer, it is enough, stay now thy hand. Folks, my God, I told you I wasn't going to get political and I won't. But may God apply that verse to this nation. May God stay his hand and hold back the judgment we so justly deserve. Because our leaders, our rulers, have murdered millions of babies. Have removed prayer and Bible reading from our schools, have called good evil and evil good. God's not woke, folks. And the angel that destroyed, it is enough now. Stay thy hand. And the angel of the Lord stood at the threshing floor of O Nan. Look at verse 17. David said, It is not that I commanded the people to be numbered. I, even I, have son sinned and done this evil indeed. He's not making excuses, is he? He's not trying to say, well, you know, this is true confession, folks. This is true repentance. And so, in verse 27, and the Lord commanded the angel, and he put up his sword again to his sheath. thereof. God's ever merciful. In Psalm 130 and verse three and four we read If thou, O Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. Micah 7 verse 18 Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy. 1 John 1, verse 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If the man after God's own heart could fall, so can you. The greatest enemy you have is not without, it's within. It is your own pride. Your sin will affect everyone around you. God is ever merciful. There is repentance for those that Come to him. Let us stab the prayer. Father, we thank you for thy word and thy truth. Lord, bless it to our hearts this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.