Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to 1 Chronicles chapter 13, the 13th chapter of 1 Chronicles. I've not sung that particular psalm for many, many years. Uh but boy, that's a good one, isn't it? Uh may we may we teach that psalm to our children and sing it with them often. First Chronicles thirteen and the scripture reading this morning Is in many ways itself the message. And I believe that is always appropriate because, surprise, surprise, I have nothing inspired to say today. But when we read the Word of God, we are reading the very inspired and preserved Word. The scripture reading this morning is a little bit longer than often. I've timed it. It's four and a half minutes. It's unfortunate and sad that a four and a half minute scripture reading seems long often to God's people. And so I would encourage you to read along with me as we read God's Word. And may God's Word be a blessing to your heart today, for truly these verses spanning three chapters. have been a great rebuke and challenge to me as as I've seen the message that is contained in this context. If you have your place now, we're beginning in 1 Chronicles 13, and I'll begin with the first verse of this chapter, and then we're going to take selected verses from 13, 14, and 15. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds and with every leader. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, if it seem good unto you, and that it be of the Lord our God. Let us send abroad unto our brethren everywhere that they are left in the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in their cities and suburbs that they may gather themselves unto us. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we inquired not at it in the days of Saul And all the congregation that said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. So David gathered all Israel together from Sihor of Egypt, even under the entering of Hemak, to bring the ark of God from Kirjath Jiram. And David went up and all Israel to Bala, that is to Kirjathum, which belongeth unto Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God the Lord, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is called on it. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab. And Uzzah and Ahio drove the cart. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with singing, and with harp, and with psaltery, and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him, because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. Wherefore that place is called Peraz Uzzah to this day. And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? Now go to chapter 14, the next chapter, and there we'll begin with verse 8. Chapter 14, verse 8. And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. That's not to seek his good, that's to seek his harm. And David heard of it and went out against them. And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephium And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto him, Go up, for I will deliver them into thine hand. So they came to Baal Pyrism, and David smote them there. Then David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by my hand, like the breaking forth of waters. Therefore they tell the name of the place Baal Pearsim. And when they had left their gods there, David gave commandment, and they were burned with fire. And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the valley. Therefore, David inquired again of God. And God said unto him, Go not up after them. Turn away from them and come upon them again over against the mulberry trees. And it shall be that when thou hearest the sound of going in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle For God is going forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. David therefore did as God commanded him And they smote the host of the Philistines from Gilead even to Gazer. And the fame of David went out unto all lands, and the Lord brought the fear of him upon all lands. nations. Now go to chapter 15, verse 1. Chapter 15, verse 1 through 3, and then we'll drop down to verse 11. Chapter fifteen, verse one. And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites For them hath the Lord chosen to carry the ark of God and to minister unto him forever. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord unto his place, which he had prepared for it. Now go to verse eleven. 1 Chronicles 15, 11. And David called for Zadok and Abinathar the priest. And for the Levites, for Uriel and Azhiah, and Joel, and Shimei, and Eliah, and Abinadab And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites. Sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren that ye may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I had prepared for it. For because ye did it not at the first The Lord our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order. For that we sought him not after the due order. The priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel And the children of Israel, uh and the children of the Levites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of God. God folks you get the picture here. In chapter thirteen We find David talking to all the leaders. Hey guys, I've got a good idea. Let's bring up the ark. If it be God's will. And they didn't follow anything that God commanded. And Azza died. Then we come to chapter 14. The ark is still off. And their enemies come upon them, and when the enemy comes in, the first thing David says is says, Lord, should I go up or should I not? God says, go up. And David obeyed. And then the enemy comes again. And again David says, Lord, what should I do? And God says, stay. Don't do it. Don't go up Go stand by the mulberry tree. And God says, in your obedience of standing by the mulberry tree, I will lead you. And you will hear the sound of what men would say is a wind passing through the top of the mulberry tree. But know that it's more than just a breeze. It is the presence of God going with you. And God gave a great victory, and David learned a marvelous lesson. Seek the Lord! And don't move without his command. And so in chapter 15, we come back to the matter of the ark. And David says, oh my, I am afraid of God. What's God's word say about this? Oh, Levites. Also wasn't a Levite A heo wasn't a Levite. The Levites, and not on a cart, but on their shoulders. And when David learned to seek the Lord and to obey God's command, great blessing was brought on the people. Now that's the sermon. But let us make application to it. The first application that we find from this story, and folks, it's one story. It's not fighting the Philistines and bringing up the ark. It's all connected. It all flows one to another as God is step-by-step training David. The first lesson we learn is this: their intentions were good. But their execution was evil. Their intentions were good, but the execution of that which they wanted to do was sin. And how often men will set about to do something good, but they're totally disobedient to God in the way they do it. And it is not acceptable The old saying it's never right to do wrong to get a chance to do right. We are to follow God's way And so, in verse 3 of chapter 13, David says, Let us bring up the ark of our God, for we inquired not at it in the days of Saul. You see, David has a good intention here. In Saul's days, we did not inquire the ark. We didn't pay any attention to it. And God meets with us there between the cherubims on the mercy seat. David had good intentions, but then he rushed ahead in his own way. Psalm 132 records for us David's longing for the ark and for worship. There we read the Lord, remember David and his afflictions, for how he swear unto the Lord and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up to my bed. I will not give sleep to mine eyes or slumber to my eyelids until I find a place of for the Lord and habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. David says, I'm not going to go to my house. I'm not going to sleep until I find a place of habitation for God. David's heart was in the right place. But he did not do it according to God's law. He did not pay attention to God's will. And how often have we seen ministries that have gotten themselves into shipwreck? Because they had some grand plan, but they didn't check it by the Word of God. They didn't read the instruction manual. Have any of you ever tried to put something together without reading the instructions? Ended up with a total mess. I won't ask how many have actually ruined the product by putting it together wrong before you read the manual. Their intention was good, but the execu the execution was sin. In number seven, we find Moses giving carts and oxen. And he gives carts and oxen to these ones and these ones, but to the sons of Korah, we read, but unto the sons of Kohath, excuse me, unto the sons of Kohath. He gave none because the sir their sir the service of the sanctuary belonged unto them that they should bear upon their shoulders. That's uh number 79 if you're if you're scribbling down references. They were to bear the ark upon their shoulders And then we find Uzzah. Uzzah, it appears, was a very religious, godly man. And we read there in 1 Chronicles that the oxen stumbled. And in the 2nd Samuel 6 and verse 6, parallel passage, it says that the oxen shook the ark. And Azza sees the ark rocking on the cart. Remember, it wasn't supposed to be on the cart. He sees it rocking, and his desire is: I'm going to help God. And he put forth his hand to the ark, but the ark was never to be touched by human hands. And folks, sometimes we may want to have an earnest desire to do something to help God. But you can't help God with the arm of flesh. And you can't help God with man's designs. There was a big push back in the 60s and 70s to have all kinds of trinkets to get people to come to church. And all kinds of giveaways. If you come to church this Sunday, we're giving out gift certificates for the ice cream shop. If you come to church this week, we're going to do this. We've got this promotion and that promotion. And come on, you've got to come get this thing. And we're going to preach to them while they're here. But you see, the gospel is its own sugar. The gospel of Jesus Christ is its own attraction. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not a bait and switch. And so here, Uzzah, apparently a godly man, died because he put his hand where did not belong. So the first lesson is the intentions were good, but the execution was evil. And then we think of the early church. You realize the early church decided, let's sell all of our goods and put them all in one pile. And here let me give a plug for for Sunday school. If you miss the Sunday school lesson, you're missing a lot. And our brother Venge's Lord Willie, at some point, well the next week or sometime in the future is going to discuss Christians and socialism. So don't miss it. But here they decide to sell all their goods, have all things in common. Along comes Anites and Sapphira, and they want to be apart, but they didn't quite want to give everything. And folks, I would say again that the temptation that was put before Ananias of Sapphira was the fault of the apostles. Because God never told them to have all things in common. And you see, what they were doing was they were trying to eliminate poverty. Which elimination of poverty is a good and admirable thing. And the church has an obligation and a responsibility to care for the poor and give to the poor, but Jesus Christ had told them you'll never eliminate poverty. For you find in Mark fourteen and verse seven, Jesus said, For ye have the poor with you always. And so the apostles with good intentions were trying to do something that God said cannot be done. The Old Testament gives all kinds of instructions for the care of the poor and giving to the poor, but you're not going to eliminate it. And so by the apostles putting their hand where they weren't supposed to have it, Adanius and Sapphira died. Just as used. And so the intentions were good, but the execution was sin. The second thing we'd find is this. That men may be in agreement with themselves without being in agreement with God. Just because a church council decides to do something doesn't mean it's right. Just because a board of elders and deacons decides this is what we're going to do Men may be in agreement with each other without being in agreement with God. Look at chapter 13 again, verses 1 and 2 and verse 4. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, and with every leader. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem good unto you, and that it be of the Lord, and then verse four, and all the congregation Said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. Just because everybody's in agreement doesn't mean it's the will of God. And again, how often have you seen a situation where a church has been wrecked because the majority decide, let's go this way or that way? imagine. Number three. We find that they had great religious fervor in what they did. Look at chapter thirteen, verse eight. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, with singing, and with harp, and with psaltery, and with timbrel, and with cymbals and trumpets. They were really excited about this program they had going. They had a lot of religious fervor in what they did. They were fully sincere. But God was not in it. Turn back to Exodus with me, Exodus thirty-two. Exodus chapter thirty-two I'll give you a moment. I see a lot of people scribbling notes. I'll give you a moment to get to Exodus. It's good to see people scribbling notes. Exodus 32 and verse 6. And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings which are in the ears of your wives and of your sons and of your daughters, and bring them unto me. And all the people break off the golden earrings which were in their ears and brought them unto Aaron And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf, and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made a proclamation and said, tomorrow is a feast to Jehovah! And they rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. You want to shout hallelujah? Because they've got a great religious movement going on here. Wow. There was a lot of enthusiasm in what they did. But the Lord was not in it. And so we do not judge a religious movement by its excitement. We saw the ad Asbury revival a few months ago. Boy, there was an awful lot of excitement there. But the Lord wasn't in it So their intentions were good, but the execution was sin. Men may be in agreement with each other, but not in agreement with God. There was great religious fervor in what they did. Number four, the cost of not seeking the Lord is very high. The cost of not seeking the Lord is very high. And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark. for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him, because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before the Lord. Lord. The price was very high. I've already mentioned Ananias and Sapphira, who died in disobedience to the Lord. King Saul 1 Chronicles 10, so Saul died for his transgression which he committed against the Lord, even against the word of the Lord, which he kept not And also for asking counsel of one that had a familiar spirit to inquire of it. And inquired not of the Lord. Therefore he slew him Why did God kill Saul, King Saul? Because he inquired not of the Lord. If you notice the title of our message today, it's David Learns to Seek the Lord Remember Nadab and Abahu, their intentions were good, but they did not seek the Lord. They offered strange fire and were killed. But the last thing we see, their intentions were good, but the execution was sin. Men were in agreement with each other, but not in agreement with God. There was great religious fervor in what they did. The cost of not seeking the Lord is very high, but finally the reward for seeking the Lord is very great. The reward is very great. Look over to chapter 15 and verse 11. Chapter 15 and verse 11. And David called for Zadok and Abathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Aziah, and Joel, and Shimeiah, and Eliel and Abinadab. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites, sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it. For because ye did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach upon us For that we sought him not after due order. Oh, folks, we didn't do it right the first time But God's giving us another chance. Uzzah will never see the Ark of God in Jerusalem. But God's given us another opportunity. You see, between the death of Uzzah and the bringing of the ark, we have the story of the mulberry trees. David learned to seek the Lord. Look to chapter 14, verse 10. Chapter 14, verse 10. And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the Lord said unto him, Go up. for I will deliver them into thine hand. So they came to Belpyrzim, and David smote them there. And David said God hath broken in upon mine enemies by my hand, like the breaking forth of waters. Therefore they called the name of the place Baal Pyrzem David said, I sought the Lord, and God has broken in on mine enemies by my hand, like the breaking of waters. Isn't that a glorious term? The breaking of waters The commentators are all over the place on this. Some of them said, well, it's like a great river that spreads off into little streams. Well, that doesn't often happen, does it? The water tends to come together into a river. If you look at the path of the Susquehanna, it starts off in those streams and becomes a great river. Others say, well, it's like Like a a a clay pitcher that is broken and the water gushes out and you'll never get the water back. You know, no sense crying over spilled milk, I think, is the term we use. But that one doesn't fit as well. But I believe the true meaning of this text goes back to the flood. For we find in Genesis 7 and verse 11, in the 600th year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, The same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened You see, David sought the Lord against the Philistines, and he could say, My God has broken on them with waters. The judgment of God fell on the Philistines. Just as it fell on those before the flood, just as it fell on the Egyptians at the Jordan. My God has broken on them like the breaking of waters. Look at verse 12 of chapter 14. And when they had left their gods there, David gave commandments, and they were burned. They burned them with fire. God's enemies were defeated, and the gods of the enemies were burned with fire. Verse 15. And it shall be, when thou shalt hear the sound of going in the tops of the mulberry trees, then thou shalt go to battle. For God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. Folks, as Mission Bible Church If we are ever to have a building, we dare not go until God goes in the mulberry trees. If we are ever to see Gen Z be a great tool in the hand of God, it must be because God is gone before in the tops of the mulberry trees. If we are to see our unsaved loved ones saved, it will not be because of our efforts, but it will be because God has gone before us in the tops of the mulberry trees. You see, when God is working, man is put aside. And may God ever work and we get out of the way to let God have his way. There was great reward in seeking the Lord. In conclusion, turn to chapter 16. We haven't been there yet. Turn to chapter sixteen and just five verses there and we'll close. Chapter 16 of 1 Chronicles, verse 1. So they brought the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And they offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before God. Verse seven. Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the Lord in the hand of Asaph and his brethren. Give unto the Lord, give thanks unto the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people, sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk of all his wondrous works. Give ye in the holy name, or glory ye in the His holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord, seek the Lord in his strength, seek his face continually. What is it that David acknowledges after they bring up the ark? Seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. And those last two verses, glory in his holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord in his strength. Seek his face continually. Have you heard them before today? If you listen closely to our call to worship, Psalm 105, verses 3 and 4, it's word for word quoted right here. You see, folks, we may have all kinds of grand schemes and good ideas, but they are all of nothing unless we seek the Lord Folks, are you considering buying a house? Seek the Lord. Are you considering buying a car? Seek the Lord. Need a dryer? Seek the Lord. Should I do this or should I do it not do it? Seek the Lord. You see, for the child of God, our pathway is not our choosing. But rather seek the Lord in all things big and small. Seek His direction. For if we go without His direction, we go into folly. But if we follow the leading of the Lord, He will give us. A pathway of joy. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, forgive us, for I am sure all of us, and I know I have at times run off in what seemed right to man, but it was not of thee. Father, may we learn to always seek the Lord, for there we find the path of blessing. Bless us your people. Use us for your glory. Bless Mission Bible Church. May we indeed be as a city set on a hill. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.