Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please. The book of Proverbs and chapter 10. The tenth chapter. of the book of Proverbs, and we're going to focus our attention, I said the tenth chapter, sorry, the 24th chapter. of Proverbs, and we're going to focus our attention on the tenth verse of that chapter. I'm going to read the first 10 verses of the chapter and make a few comments along the way. Now I'll actually read down through verse 12 before we end the reading, but I'm going to kind of do a little bit of overview of the previous verses that lead up to verse 10 of Proverbs 24. The first verse of the chapter says, Be not envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them. Don't envy the wicked. They're all around us. They are often more than all around us. There are times when they're even among us. But don't envy the wicked men, nor desire to be with them. And we find this concept often in scripture in the 73rd Psalm we find, but as for me my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipp my steps had well nigh slipped, for I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. And yet how easy it is for us as the children of God to begin to fret ourselves against evil men and to be envious of the way of the wicked. And so this this 24th proverb begins, be not envious against evil men, new desire to be with them. And then it continues in verse 2 to give us the reason, for their heart studieth destruction. And their lips talk of mischief. That word study means to apply themselves. Their heart studies destruction. It does not just study to to Makes it show that it's approved unto God, workmen that need not to be ashamed, as were instructed. It does not study to be quiet, as we are instructed, as the children of God, but the way of these wicked men it studieth to destruction. Verse three, through wisdom and house is builded, and by understanding it is established. We are desiring as a small little body, as a little smoking flax, as a little church plant. We are endeavoring to establish a house of worship. We are endeavoring to establish a place where the children of God can come and be fed and edified and strengthened. We are endeavoring to establish a place where the lost sheep of the shepherd can be brought in and pointed to the Savior and helped to grow. It happens by wisdom. Where does wisdom come from? Certainly doesn't come from me. And don't be offended, but it doesn't come from you either. The fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And if we are to have wisdom as a small little body as we endeavor to do a work for our God, it must not be our own wisdom. Or our own understanding. But oh my friends, there is great wisdom with the omniscient one. There is great wisdom with our God, and our ways are not his ways, and his ways are not our ways. Oh, may we be directed always by his ways May he direct our step steps. May we as Little Mission Bible Church walk in the wisdom of our great God. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not. And the context of James 1 is that of tribulation. He says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. This is the next verse. And that's what we're going to come to in verse 10 of Proverbs 24. Tribulations and trials. Look at verse 4 of the chapter. And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches By the knowledge of God, our assembly will grow. The chambers will be full. We'll run out of chairs and need more hymn books. As God blesses and brings together those of like precious faith for the worship of the great God. Verse 5, a wise man is strong, yea, a man of knowledge increaseth in strength. A wise man is strong. We don't have the strength for that which we're endeavoring to do. We don't have the ability in ourselves to see the work of God go forward. But we know a wise man. Ah, we know the wisest of all. And by his strength the work shall be done. Verse six For by wise counsel shall they make war, and in the multitude of counselors there is safety. Wisdom is too high for the fool, he openeth not his mouth in the gate. He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person. The thought of the full of foolishness is sin. And the scorner is an abomination unto men. If thou faint in the day of adversity Thy strength is small. And that is our text for this morning. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. We're going to look at verses 11 and 12. at our conclusion. But let us consider this day of adversity. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. What do we learn first from that, from that? Well, we learn the certainty of adversity. The certainty of it. The Bible says it doesn't say a day of adversity might come, and you better be ready for it. And if you faint, your strength's small. It says no. If thou faint in the day of adversity, it is an assumed Peace of knowledge. There will be days of adversity. And Christ told his disciples in John 17, verse 14 I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Paul said to Timothy, Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Psalm 34, verse 19, many are the afflictions of the righteous But the Lord delivereth out of them all. Peter, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial that is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you, but count it all joy And so troubles and tribulations, they are assumed in the Word of God. It is certain that problems will come. Now We serve a God who controls all things. Yes, he does. We serve a God who is never surprised. We are often surprised. We serve a God who is never disappointed. We serve a God who never Looks back and says, well, if I hadn't done it this way, it wouldn't have happened that way as we do. We serve a perfect, all-wise, all-powerful, omnipotent. God who works all things after the counsel of his own will. And so why, and I'm preaching it myself this morning, why do I get so frustrated in adversity? It is certain to come. And quite frankly, if we're not suffering some adversity in the work of God, we're probably not doing the work of God. Because when we begin to go forward in the service of Jesus Christ, Satan's not going to like that. The adversary, the devil, is going to come after us. My father used to say any dead fish can float down the stream. But it takes a live fish to swim up the stream And if we're just floating down the stream of the world, Satan doesn't care a thing against us, but if we're swimming against the current If we're swimming against the current of this age, if we're swimming against the temptations that come, we're going to have Persecution. Yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. And so we shouldn't be surprised, because Scripture tells us that adversities and trials are certain to come. They're going to tell. There's a reference work that's called Notes on the Family Bible. It was actually put out by the American Bible in track. society many, many years ago. And I read this in there and I just thought I would share it with you. It says, God sends upon men adversity. for the purpose of exercising their faith and fortitude and thus increasing these graces. But he who faints under the discipline loses the benefit of it. God sends trials and tribulations against us to strengthen our faith and our fortitude to do what is right, but the one who faints under the discipline loses the benefit. Hmm. When I was in high school I played uh played soccer and basketball, and we had to run. And we would start off the beginning of practice b before school even started and all we did was run and we would run and we'd run and we'd run and run. Why? Because that building of strength was essential for that which we were going to do. But what happened to the guy who would be running and well he would just kind of take a shortcut and end up at the end with the rest of the team, but he hadn't really run. No, he didn't get the benefit. And how often we want to take a shortcut through the trials. How often we say, Lord, it's enough, I can't take it anymore, let me out of the trial. Rather, and I'm preaching to myself, folks, rather than saying, Lord What exercise of faith am I to learn in the trial? How is this adversity, this difficulty designed to strengthen my fortitude, to sharpen my steal for the service of God. If we faint in the day of adversity, our strength. Our strength is small. And then Matthew Henry said of this verse, In the day of adversity we are apt to faint, to droop, and to be discouraged, to desist from our work, and to despair of relief. Our spirits sink, and then our hands droop down, our knees grow feeble, and we become unfit for anything What an act of scripture. Boy, the trial comes and just can't go on. If we faint in the day of adversity, our strength is small. And so we learn, folks, that the divert that the adversity is not the problem. The adversity is not the problem. God allows the adversity. God allowed Job to be tempted. For Job's betterment, God allows the problems we face in order to make us more like Him, so the adversity is not the problem. The fainting is the problem. The failure to endure is the problem. We complain about the adversity But O God, give us grace, not the faint in the adversity that He has ordained. Consider Paul's testimony. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And I'm just I'll read just a few verses there for you. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 1, therefore, seeing we have this ministry As we receive mercy, we faint not. And then in verse 4 or verse 8, we are troubled on every side, yet not in distress, perplexed but not in despair, persecuted. He goes on, verse 16, for which cause we faint not. Hm. Though our outward man perish, yet is our inward man renewed day by day. For our light affliction. How many of you have been shipwrecked? Beaten Prison stoned? Our our light affliction? Who uh I uh I was stoned twice, but I was in the house and the house was keeping the stones off me. Uh Yeah. Our light affliction, which we thought for a minute, work with a far more eternal weight of glory. Well we look not on the things that are seen, but the things which are not seen. There's the things which are seen for temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And so, the problem is not the adversity, but rather the problem is our fainting in the adversity. But then look further what we're told in this text. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. And so there's a certainty of adversity, but then there's a cause of fainting. What is the cause of our fainting? It is the smallness of our strength. It is the smallness of our strength. But look what it says. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If we faint in the day of adversity, our strength is small. God's strength is not small. Let there be light. Red Sea Park. Fiery furnace. You start naming the mighty acts of God. His strength is not small, but if we faint in the day of adversity My faint is str my faith is strong. My strength is small. But then look further. If we faint in the millennium adversity, If we faint in the years of adversity, we considered uh Joseph spending two more years in the dungeon there a few weeks ago? No, God calls it the day of adversity. And it doesn't mean that our adversity is only going to last for a 24-hour period. But when we talk about a day, what are we doing When we speak of a day, we are simply delineating a period of time. Okay? It begins here, it ends there. Okay. We are creatures of time. God is timeless. A thousand years as a day with him, and a day is a thousand years. But Scripture teaches us that our trials are not forever. Our life's a vapor that appears for a little while and vanishes away, and our life may be filled with problems, but still there's a beginning to the trial and there's an end. If we faint in the time that God has ordained for our adversity. Why do we have a 24-hour day? Because God ordained the sun and the moon. The sun to give light by day, the moon to give light by night. It was God ordained. There is a day of adversity that the child of God will face, and God knows the beginning of it, and God knows the end of it And those two parameters of time are in his control and not in our own. And so if we faint in the day of adversity, our strength is small But it's our strength that's small, not his. God is our refuge and our strength, the very present help in time of trouble. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him, and I am helped, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and my so with my song will I praise him, the lure is the strength and the saving strength of his anointed. Psalm twenty-eight, verses seven and eight And so there's a certainty of adversity, there's a cause of fainting, but then there's a cure for weakness. There's a cure for the weakness of our strength. Our strength must not be in ourselves If we faint in the day of adversity, if thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. Remember, Samson? Samson with his Nazarite vow and his hair never being cut. Samson who went out and killed a lion. Samson who put the gates of the city on his back and walked away with him. Samson, who took the jawbone of an axe and slew a thousand men. Great Samson. But how sad is the account of Samson? For Samson, knowing his vow, goes to a harlot named Rahab. And she begins to tempt him and she begins to ply him until finally he says, Well, if you if you weave my locks into a weaver's beam, I'll be weak. And he should have known better, but then he tells her, oh well, my hair is the secret of my strength. And though he said his hair was the secret of his strength, he did not believe that his hair was the secret of his strength And the proof of that is found in Judges sixteen, verses twenty and twenty-one. I I see so you turn it. If you'd like to turn over there, it's a good passage to implant in your mind. Judges chapter sixteen And verse 20 and 21. Delilah has cut off his hair and has called in the Philistines And verse 20 of Judges 16, and she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep and said, I will go out as at other times before And shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him. His hair was gone. But he didn't understand that the Lord was gone as well. And so Samson says, I've always been strong, I've always been mighty. Look at what I can do. Who needs the Lord? I'll shake myself as another times, shake myself out of sleep, and I'll go out just as I've gone before. But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza and bound him with fetters of brass. and he did grind in the prison house. Ah, there was a man. Who trusted in his own strength rather than leaning on the strength of the Lord. But Scripture also gives us three examples of men Who did not trust in their own strength. All they faltered, they were as human as any of us And I love the fact that the great hearers of faith are shown to be men. David was a man after God's own heart. David was a murderous adulterer. Peter was a great servant of God, but he denied his Lord. Peter's my favorite Bible character. I I love Peter because he had so much energy and always wanted to be serving the Lord, and yet he fell flat on his face so many times. And I think most of us can identify with that. We want to do the right thing and yet how we mess it up. But let's consider three examples of men who found their strength in the Lord. The first example Is that of Paul? And then have you turn over to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and in the first verse of 2 Corinthians 12, Paul talks about a man that was caught up into the third heaven. Paul is speaking of himself. He doesn't call himself that because he's not trying to draw attention to himself, but unto God Himself. It gives this amazing account. Paul being caught up into the third heaven and meeting there with God. We read in our responsive reading that he was one born out of due time, or not responsive reading, but our creed that as one born out of due time. Paul being caught up to the third heaven there is like Moses on the mountain, receiving the Ten Commandments written with the hand of God, and Moses came down and his face glowed, and they had to put a veil over his face. But Paul was a man who knew great tribulation. And in verse 7 of 2 Corinthians 12, Paul said And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, this great vision he seen, There is given unto me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, lest I should be exalted above measure For this thing I sought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Okay, what do we find there? It was certain the trial could come. God ordained the trial. Paul says, take it away, take it away, take it away. And God says, no, the day begins and ends at my command. I'm not going to take away the trial now, but rather I'm going to give you sufficient grace For the trial. You see how it fits into the pattern we see there in Proverbs 24. It is a day. The trial is ordained. The trial has a purpose To strengthen Paul. And the trial is punctuated by the beginning and the ending that God has ordained. Paul prays three times, let it end, let it in, let it end, and God says, No, not yet. Mm-hmm. No. No. You haven't finished your lap. Remember I talked about soccer practice You haven't finished your lap. You haven't made it to the finish line yet. If you're to gain the benefit of the exercise, you have to complete the exercise. So God says, my grace is sufficient for thee. My strength, not Paul's strength, God's strength, is made perfect in Paul's weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in infirmities that the power That God's strength, that the power of Christ, might rest upon me. Because in my own strength I'll never finish the lap. In my own strength, I'll never enjoy the trial. I'll never gain the spiritual benefit that God has ordained in the trial. Unless the power of Christ rests on me. Therefore, will I take pleasures in infirmities, folks? I don't take pleasure in infirmities Oh, how to be like Paul and take pleasure in infirmity. I grumble and I complain. I fret and I stew. Paul says, I will take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, and necessities, in persecutions, and distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, Then am I strong. Oh, what a contradiction from everything or from a human standpoint, and yet what a glorious truth from the standpoint of the grace of God. When I am about to collapse in the trial and I rest in him. When I am weak When I'm ready to faint in the day of adversity because my strength is small, and then I turn to his strength instead, then am I strong. He calls this trial a messenger of Satan to buffet him. And now we turn our minds again back to Job. Here's all Job's friends, saying Job, you're a wicked bowel sinner. And Job says in his heart, I know I've done right. Why is this happening? Well God allowed a messenger of Satan to buffet Job for his strengthening. and for its perfection in the things of God. My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. And Paul would later say in Philippians 4. 13, I can do all things Through Christ which strengtheneth me. And then we have another example of a godly man who found strength in God in the middle of his weakness. Elijah the prophet, 1 Kings 19, if you'd like to turn there. Elijah the prophet is running from wicked Jezebel. God has fed Elijah first by ravens and then by a widow woman. who had enough meal and enough oil to make one cake for her and her son and then starve to death. Consider that miracle. Have you ever seen a bird with a piece of bread? Have you ever seen a bird fight over his piece of bread? Have you ever watched seagulls running one another off as they fight over bits of bread that people have thrown to them? Have you ever seen a bird fly to a prophet and give up his bread? It's on as unnatural as it possibly could be. But here are these ravens, they don't swallow the bread down whole. They carry the bread at God's command to a prophet. How glorious that is! What great miracles Elijah has seen. Elijah should never falter. He should never be weak in faith. Look at all God has done for him. Look at all God's done for me. Why do I grumble and complain? Why do I become weak in times of trial? And God told Elijah, it will not rain except by your word. And there's a famine in the land because of the drought. And Oahab says, are you the one that troubles Israel? And Elijah says, no, I haven't troubled Israel, but you have. Elijah challenges the prophets of Baal in the mountain, and we know the story when the fire of God fell Poor old weak Ahab runs back to Jezebel and he tells Jezebel everything that Elijah has done. Elijah hadn't done a thing. It's all the power of God. And Elijah, after slaying the prophets of Baal, after calling down fire from heaven, after being fed from an empty barrel and crews of oil, after being fed by ravens. He runs. He runs for his life. Though gods do so to me and more also if I make not thy life like one of them by this time tomorrow. And he runs for his life. Picking up the story from Scripture in 1 Kings 19 and verse 4, but he himself First Kings 19, 4. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord Do you ever say that? Three times I've assault the Lord. No. No. Elijah, you haven't fenced your lap. You see the connection. Elijah, there's more for you to learn in this trial. The trial is ordained of God. The trial is to make you better in the service of God. You haven't finished the trial. God has set the beginning and the end. It is enough now, O Lord. Take down my life from me, for I'm not better than my father's. And my father, my earthly father, used to call this the most foolish verse in the Bible. But my dad said this is the most foolish prayer in the Bible because if Jez if if Ahab for get it right. If Elijah really wanted to die, why was he running? Jezebel would answer the prayer. She had already vowed to kill him. The most foolish prayer in the Bible. You know? The answer's there if you really want to die But we know what he was praying. Verse 5 And he lay down and slept under a juniper tree, and behold, an angel touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake, bacon on the coals, and a cruise of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again. And the angel of the Lord came unto him a second time and touched him, and said, Arise and eat. Because the journey is too hard for thee. What happened there? Remember what Paul said I prayed three times that the trial would end, but God said, My grace is sufficient for thee. God gave Paul exactly what he needed to endure the trial. He gave him the grace. Elijah says, Take my life from me, for I'm not better than my father's. God gives him rest and food. God gives him, he says, take my life from me, but rather God gives him what he needs to live. The poor servant of God is tired and hungry. He doesn't need a sermon. He needs some food and some sleep. And God gives him exactly what he needed in the middle of the trial. Isn't that beautiful? God gave Paul exactly what he needed in the middle of the trial. Here God gives Elijah exactly what he needs in the middle of the trial. He needs to eat and sleep. And after he's eaten and slept He still needs to eat and sleep again, but the second time after he eats and sleeps, verse 8. And he arose and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb, the mouth of God. He eats and sleeps. The second time he eats and sleeps, but then he doesn't need to eat again for 40 days. That's not the strength of man, that is the strength of God. And so he prays to die, but God gives him what he needs to live, and then God gives him supernatural strength. And so God completed the work. God did what he did do. When he got to Horeb, the trial was over. God ordained the beginning, God ordained the end. So that's the second example that we bring to our attention. The third example of this God-given strength. is found in Judges chapter 6 and verse eleven. Judges chapter 6. And in verse 11, beginning to read, we find the story of Gideon God had given the children of Israel over to the Midianites, we find in the first part of the chapter, because of their sin, because of their rebellion against God, God gave them into the hand of the Midianites. And in verse 11 of chapter 16, of chapter 6 of Judges, and there came an angel of the Lord, and you notice that with we keep finding this phrase, an angel of the Lord. The Lord spoke to Paul. The angel of the Lord comes to Elijah. Here the angel of the Lord comes and sat down under an oak tree which was in Orpha that pertained unto Joash, the Abizerite And his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And we know that this was Christ here in the verse from chapter verses 22 and 23 down the chapter. We won't go to those verses, but it is very clear that this was indeed Uh the pre-incarnate Christ and Gideon says, I'm going to die because I've seen the Lord. Verse 13. And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord If the Lord be with us, if Jehovah's with us, why then is all this befallen us? Lord, if you're with us, why? If you're with us, why? Lord, it's not great. It's not what we wanted. It's not what we expected. It's not what we planned. It's not we're going to do all these things and we're wise. Lord, if you're with us, why am I out here having to thresh grain in secret to hide it from the Midianites? They're not your people. They're goats. They're not sheep. And where be all the miracles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? Where are the miracles, Lord? You're great and powerful. Why has this happened? Where are the miracles of the Lord? But now the Lord hath forsaken us. Was he right or wrong? But now the Lord hath forsaken us And delivered us into the hand of the Midianites. God, where are you? Why is this happening? Where are the miracles? Where is our God? You know what's happened to Gideon? He's fainting in the day of adversity because his strength is small. He's fainting. Yeah. The trial has come, and Gideon is fainting in the day of adversity because his strength is small. What was Gideon's strength? I'm going to threshbrain in secret. So the next I'm going to do what I can do. Rather than waiting to see what the Lord would do. Verse 14. And the Lord looked upon him. Isn't that glorious? I just love that. Those five words make it all better, don't they? And the Lord looked on him. The Lord saw him. The Lord knew where he was. The Lord knew what the Midianites were doing. The Lord knew all about it. He says, Lord, where are the promises? Where are the miracles? Where are you? Look on set up right here. I haven't gone anywhere. The Lord looked on him and said Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee. I'm here! I haven't left you. What was the might in which Gideon was to go in? It was the presence of the Lord. It's the presence of God. Verse 15. And he said to them, Oh my Lord, where shall uh wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my father is poor in Manasseh, and I'm the least of my father's house. Lord, I can't do it! Lord, it's too great. You're saying you're with me and I'm going to overcome the Midianites? Lord, I can't do it. I'm too weak. Verse sixteen, And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee. And thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man What was the problem? Gideon was in the trial. Gideon said, Lord, the trial's enough. Can't take anymore. God says, you haven't finished your lap. You're trusting in the wrong strength. You're trusting in your own strength. You're threshing grain in secret to defeat the Midianites when I have a great thing for you to do. And we know the story. Gideon starts out with three thousand men. And 3,000 men. That's a pretty good army. No, too many. Well, 10,000, we're still in pretty good shape here, folks. We're strong. Ten thousand of us. We can beat up the Midianites. No, Gideon. No. No. You're trusting the men. 300, Gideon. Okay, we've got a we've got a guerrilla force here. Let's get us some swords and some daggers and some shields and some N sixteens. No, Gideon. Torches and pitchers. Where one person would challenge someone to a a duel and the person was challenged got to choose the weapons. You could choose swords, you could choose pistols, you Giddy, you've been challenged, but I'm gonna pick the weapons too. Swords and pitchers. Three hundred men with swords and pitchers. They went on the mountain. And at the command, the sword of the Lord and of Gideon, the pitchers were broken and the light shined. And you know how many people Gideon and his men had to slay? No, the Midi Knight slaves them killed themselves. They turned on themselves in panic and started killing each other. And a great battle is won, not in the strength of Gideon, but in the strength of the Lord. You see, the David Berthy will come. The problem in the adversity is we're trusting in our own strength. The solution to the adversity is the strength of the Lord. And so how like Paul and Elijah and Gideon, we say, Lord, end the trial right now. God says, no, I set the beginning, I set the end, you haven't finished your course, you haven't completed your task. There's more yet to be done. You see, Paul had to finish his course. And when he came to the end of his life, what did he say? I have kept the faith. I have finished my course. Therefore, a crown of righteousness is laid And in the rest of Paul's course he wrote most of the New Testament. And we've been at it today Elijah had to return to Mount Moriah. Why? The prophets of Baal have been killed. But the worship of Jehovah has not yet been established. The children of Israel were sheep without a shepherd. God took the prophet from the wilderness. Instead of taking his life, he gave him Bread and water. Forty days travel on that one meal until he came back to the mountain of God to leave the children of God in the way. of the worship of Job to re-establish. Remember on the mountain he had to rebuild the altar of Job. Gideon had to lead three hundred men with pitchers and lamps for the defeat of the Midian. Each one was prepared for greater service by the trial they endured. But let us bring the conclusion of the message by turning back to our text there in Proverbs 24. And I did not read verses 11 and 12. But I believe they are have great application to us in the trials that we face today, as a congregation and as individuals as well. Proverbs 24 and verse 10. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain, if thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not. Doth not he that pondereth the hearts consider it? And he that keepeth the soul, doth not he know it? And shall he not render to every man according to his works? Immediately following this command not to faint in adversity, it's not put forth as a command, but it's a warning. If we faint in the day of adversity, our strength is small, there is the admonition If we say, oh, I didn't know they were dying, didn't know anything about it, and we do not put ourselves forward for their deliverance, doth not he that pondereth the hearts know. You see, supporting that the man wants to die and after this the judgment. We are blessed to have the gospel of Jesus Christ. We are meeting here in a community today where the gospel is not known. We know that all around us there are people that are appointed unto death and they're about to die. Oh, they may be very healthy in body, but their souls are sick in sin. The cancer of sin is eating at the soul. And we have the cure, the balm of Gilead. And so if we, as a congregation facing adversity and trials, if we do not let our light shine, If we do not put our candle on a candlestick, if we hide our light under a bushel and say, well, we didn't know about them, he that pondereth the hearts knows, he considers. And so God brings us through adversity, God brings us through a trial, but just as we've seen with these three examples of the scripture and there are many more, the trial always has a purpose. It always better fits us for the service of God. God knows the beginning. God knows the end. We've got to finish the lap. We've got to do what we've got to go through the trial as God ordains. But God will have something for us to do at the end. And so, may we be faithful because a small little congregation, a little smoking flax. May we be faithful to be a witness and a testimony. We've chosen the name Mission Bible Church. May we be an evangelistic tool in the hand of God. When I say unto the wicked, Ezekiel three, thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked may from w wicked from his wicked way to save his life. The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thy hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked man and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity. But thou hast delivered thy soul. May we be faithful to finish the course of the trials, not trusting in our own strength, but trusting in the Lord alone. Let us stand for prayer.