Our fourth study in homosexuality today was G. A was homosexuality and marriage. B was uh the beginnings and endings, C is uh I forgot what C was, it was last week. Confront oh the condemnation of homosexuality This week is dealing with homosexuals. This is really more of a QA session. If you will observe your handout. You will notice that there are a series of questions. I'm reasonably prepared to answer those questions. Are you looking at your hand up? You've got to be looking at your handout, because those are the ones. If you just wing any old question at me, I may wing any old answer back at you. But if you want, what we could do, and this is where your chance of input is I can march my way down in the order that I've got, and I probably won't get to them all today. In fact, I don't intend to rush to get to them all today If there are some that you have a burning question to address, feel free to ask those. And if you have a burning question which I haven't prepared for, I might be able to beat it into something close that I have answered. I can take it from there So how would y'all like to do this? Would you want me to march through them one at a time, or do you want to jump around and ask different ones and kind of direct the teacher or the answerer of questions to your call? Why don't we just decide as we go? Well, um it's kind of hard to go when you don't know which path you're going down. We're right at the fork in the road. Okay. Well which fork of the road would you like to take? You want to march down a path or you want to start asking questions? You you're the pattern. Yes, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, questions are always fair game. Absolutely. So what I have is a list of questions before you all just read them so those online know what we're looking at. How do we confront homosexuals that we know or meet? How can I present God's truth as compared to the lies of homosexuality? How do we work alongside homosexuals on the job? My printout, I managed to print it so that it would confuse me endlessly because I have to flip up to get to the next one. So this will be even more challenging. What is fundamentally wrong with homosexuality? What's a good arsenal of verses to explain why it's an abomination? Seven arguments homosexuals use to criticize Christians. Everything from the world is full of wars and slavery, why worry about that? We shouldn't listen to the Old Testament. Um uh God created me this way, God overthrew the sodomites because they were inhospitable. David and Jonathan loved each other, they must have been homosexual. Jesus was homosexual. Jesus never condemned homosexuality. Those are ones that I've heard and encountered. Should churches and the Christian community just love them and affirm the gay lifestyle? My friend, son, daughter came out as lesbian or gay. What do I tell them? And of course, what are resources for further study? Those are the questions and I trust they will be useful. So first, how do we confront homosexuals that we know? For that we meet. Well, there is a Well I I haven't I had uh worked with a person, the librarian was homosexual. She was married to a woman. I did not know and I she was somehow our conversation came up and said, Well ha she doesn't have children, she says I said, You will have someone because she's married Yeah, that you said no, I'm not going to have any children. Okay. So let's talk about how to address somebody like that. I get tired of my wife, my wife. Yeah, yeah. We encounter people like that. So how do we confront somebody? So first of all, understand When I read the question, I'm not asking you the question, I'm talking about the question I'm gonna ask, I'm gonna answer, is transformation at the end of the day is not up to you We don't have the ability, we don't have the power, we don't have we there's no smart argument we can develop to change a person's heart. Changing human behavior is difficult. Ask any software developer And I get sick of it when I hear software developers say, well just have the users do something different. I'm like, you don't understand. People use technology are not going to do something different. They don't like to do something different. You can't force them to do something different. You have to entice them. You have to make it easier for them to use. But I'm getting into technology. We're dealing with homosexualities and we're dealing at the end of the day with a heart issue. It is a heart issue. You try telling somebody who wants to get into a divorce, oh you shouldn't have a divorce, God hates divorce. How many words can you give them to stop that person from getting a divorce You can give them every good argument in the day. If their heart is set for it, God says, because the hardness of your heart. And in homosexuality, you've got the same set of circumstances. So number one, understand transformation is not up to you But I do know someone who can change hearts. And I do know the tools of his trade to change hearts. It's the Word of God. Now, I also know that the Apostle Paul said, I planted Apollos water. God gave the increase. God oftentimes uses several tools in his house to change a person if he should so desire to change a person. So You're not a one-stop shop. You're a tool. You're there. You do your job. Move on. If you confronted them, if you gave them any amount of thus saith the Lord, You've done your job. That's sufficient. But don't expect, oh, I just wish I had some. You don't have that power. That's really not in your power So, what you can do is you can grab a socially distant cup of coffee and sit down with them and gently challenge that co-worker. You can uh the the word of God uh promises us that his word does not return into him void. Isaiah 55, 11. You can give them scriptures. You don't necessarily have to say, well, in the Bible, Romans 1 says, you don't have to tell them the reference or the address. You can just say, well I've discovered that and you can quote thus saith the Lord. And if they ask where, you can say, well, it's in the Bible You can uh uh just bear in mind they're not going to go look up the scriptures if you give them the references. That's wasted time You know, insisting on giving the references were things that man added. Those were added many years ago, just for the ease of being able to locate certain phrases and whatnot. Brother Bernie used to tell me that you want to make the argument between them and the Bible, not between them and your opinion. Your opinion doesn't matter. The argument has to be between them and the Bible. But the Bible says, so you can always say it's from the Bible, but the Bible says. But the Bible says, Well I don't like the Bible. Well okay, but the Bible says that's that's a shield, get past all that stuff. You're dealing with the heart. Yes, but you're addressing the heart. You're not trying to get to the head, you're trying to get to the heart. And there's a big difference. But they can't twist the word of God, ultimately. They will say it, but it penetrates. It penetrates. I don't think so. I I wish I could believe. Look at Isaiah 55. 11. Let's look at Isaiah 55. 11. That's a good one. I know what you're saying. And we're going to look at how they twist the word of God. We're going to look at that. But when you give them, thus saith the Lord, it's not a vain thing. Their response, the effectiveness of the Word of God does not depend on how they respond. Utterly independent of that. Because at the end of the day, they're dead. They're dead. But listen to what God says in Isaiah 55, 11. I have to back it up in verse 10. As the rain comes down and the snow from heaven And returns not thither. When the rain and snow come down, they don't turn around and go back up. Okay? But waters the earth and makes it bring forth in bud, that it may give seed to the sower and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. It shall accomplish that which I please. And it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. Now, let's think about this a little bit. When we declare, thus saith the Lord to somebody, They reject it, they twist it, it doesn't mean that, it means something else. Does that mean, when I gave them that witness, when I gave them, thus saith the Lord, that it's a failure? The answer is no, it's not a failure, because maybe God's purpose is not to save that individual. His purpose may be to add further condemnation to the individual. What was the whole reason they became homosexual to begin with? Does anybody remember from the first three lessons we went through? What was the whole fundamental reason? Hint, it was in Romans 1. They did not like to Retain God in their knowledge. They don't want to have God in their thinking anyway. That's what got them into that mess to begin with. So God is going to say, fine, I'm going to keep coming back to you. And I'm going to keep coming back to you. And I'm going to bring a Joe, a Vince, a Mrs. Ross, a Carol, and they're going to keep bringing the Word of God. And you keep rejecting it. And you know what? That's going to come back to haunt you. God's going to heap up condemnation. Does that accomplish the purpose of God? Yes, it does. Was that a vain witness? No, it was not. Did the person change? No, they didn't. Our God of the universe isn't playing around, folks. He's playing for keeps. When he brings his word, he expects a positive response and nothing less. And if he doesn't get that, he remembers it, and it upsets him. And he's deeply concerned about it. And he will vend he will uh render vengeance to his enemies and he will mark them as an enemy. This is a God hater This is a God rejector. This is a word hater. And so I'm going to bring more of my word to you. More of my word. He said of the Pharisees, fill you up then the measure of your fathers. In other words, keep going. I'm going to let you keep sinning all the way to the end. I'm going to let more sin, death, pile up onto you so deep. That when he comes in judgment, they are going to sink so fast and so grievous, just like Sodom and Gomorrah Where their destruction came in an instance. So his word never returns void. Don't assume that God loves everybody. He wants everybody to be saved. Because that's nonsense. If you believe that Then yeah, the word of the Lord looks pretty vain, doesn't it? Oh, I shared it with them. God loves you. I had them a happy sticker. God loves you. That's wonderful. They'll say, oh, I love myself too. That's great. I think I'll go out and rob a bank When we give out the Word of God, we expect a result. But we do not give the Word of God because of the expected result. We give the word of God because it is the word of God. Because God commands it. Right. It is the word of God. Yeah, correct. God will take care of the result of the word. We can give them arguments about the amount of diseases they're incurring upon their body. We can give them arguments about if they transition over and all the medical pain. We can give them all that. But remember God has blinded their eyes, right? Their ability to reason, their understanding. Where does understanding come from? It comes from above. Where does wisdom come from? It comes from above. Where does sense and justice and and All the good attributes of human existence comes from above. You reject God, they're rejecting all these things. They're rejecting logic, they're rejecting truth, they're rejecting wisdom, and so a fool is wiser in his own conceit than seven wise men that can render a reason. Right? He will not be converted. However, there are a few There are a few that will turn, and it's because of thus saith the Lord. I spoke this to my brother-in-law previously when we were speaking, I guess, and he said he's an Alicott Christian. And let me see. This is on the shelf. I like this. I don't like what this says. I put this over here. And you know, we had that conversation. I'm I believe in the whole authority the whole Bible as its entirety, but he doesn't. So you can't it seems like it's kinda hard to reach anybody who doesn't believe in the whole authority of God in the first place. Absolutely, especially if they call themselves a Christian and then they think that they can pick and choose what they like out of the Bible, right? And unfortunately, yeah, you're correct. That's not you that's just another indication that the person does not know God. So of course, of course. That's why of course he's gonna pick and choose. Yeah. Yeah of course he's gonna do that. An Alicott? Alicott, you know, when you go to a I don't know. Yeah. Well you can pick and choose what you want. Okay. If you go through the cafeteria hall. I don't want that. I want this. Just remember you're as you discuss with these people, there's some important things to remember is that you're not going to get anywhere by yelling at these people. You're not going to get anywhere by arguing with them. It's not about an argument. It's not about an argument. Um you have to treat them as humans. They're fellow humans. You can call them a brother. Either a brother in Christ or a brother in Adam. But they're a fellow member of the human race. All right? And you patiently explain the Bible's position and that it is a sinful mindset. And leave it at that. You can do that. The homosexual lifestyle is not as gay as they'd like it to be. It isn't as happy as they'd like it to be. They are living a nightmare. They are, as the old country western writer, songwriter put it, looking for love in all the wrong places. And it's not paying off. They're constantly looking for it. They can't find it. They can be highly emotional. They can be very depressed. Suicide rates among them are extremely high. So these are depressed people There on there's really a tiny minority that are very angry and militant. Others are just effeminate. And at the end of the day, it's a path of self-destruction. So just understand you're dealing with somebody who is going to a path of self-destruction. And by the way, you don't have to be uh attracted to someone of the opposite sex and that lifestyle to be in a path of self-destruction. I know I was on a path of self-destruction as an unsaved individual, very young in my life And it's not happy. When you're walking contrary to the ways of God, everything goes wrong. And so Yes, you can point out that it's a sinful lifestyle, but you can also point out the glories of Christ, the fullness of the atonement, that the Bible says such were some of you, that change is possible, that you can't change yourself. I can't change you, but I know one who can. His name is Jesus Christ. And if you but read his book, you can hold out the hope. You don't need to hold out the condemnation. We have a ministry of reconciliation, right? They need to be reconciled to God. So that's some ideas for you on how to approach someone who's a homosexual. Transformation is not up to you. Word of God doesn't return void. They're already living a disaster of a lifestyle and there's there's you don't need to shy back and holding out the hope. But God saves sinners. I wouldn't start off saying God loves you, because that's incorrect. You don't know if God loves them a lot. If they're an elective God, God loves them. If they're not an elective God, he certainly don't love them. I guarantee you that. That can come from as early in the womb. Jacob have I love, Esau have I hated. It's hard to understand, hard to see But I'm not going to let my feelings affect what the Word of God says. It says he hated Esau, and you can't get around that. He certainly could have saved Silent and Gomorrah. Chose not to do it. Chose to make him an example. Alright, so how can I present God's truths as compared to homosexuals' lies? How do I present that? Touched on it a little bit, given some general principles, but here is a way forward. Now if you want, uh of course the teacher's notes, you know, has all the full information. And if you go to holdingfast. net for this series, you can pull down the full outlines. If you want, ask me afterwards, I'll make you a copy that's uh printed correctly and you can look at it. But here's the basic approach that I would take. You can go like Jesus does at the beginning. There was a beginning. At the beginning, God made them male and female. No confusion. Real simple. I like simple. Male, female. This is simple. Okay? This is not hard. At the same time, he gave the basic principle of human relationship. It's called Marriage. And it's a lifelong covenantal relationship. This isn't something you can pop in out, pop out, pop in, pop. Who was that Hollywood gal that went in and out? She's like up to seven or eight marriages Taylor. Elizabeth Taylor. Yeah, Elizabeth Taylor. Yeah, right. She's just, I mean, it's just ridiculous, right? Um it's a lifelong covenant relationship between a man and between a woman Sexual intimacy, likewise, is only between a married man and a woman, therefore, even sex, any sex, even heterosexual sex, outside of marriage is forbidden. So God confines it to that. That's the basic. You can go with the basics. You know the basics, right? You can tell them the basics that this is what it was from the beginning In fact, God speaks against any heterosexual marriage of a believer to an unbeliever. God even limits it further than that. Do not be unequally yoked, he says So heterosexuality, male-female, is divinely affirmed and created and blessed by God, whereas homosexual behavior, let alone marriage, is strongly spoken against. Leviticus has it, Romans has it, 1 Corinthians has it, Matthew has it. So when the Bible speaks of marriage, fidelity is commended, infidelity is condemned. And the purpose of marriage, yes, it's all about having a family. It's all about having a family. That's the purpose. It's not to go have lots of fun, although fun may be there. Uh it's not to have a lot of headache, although headaches will come. It's to have a family. That's the point. That's to provide a stable environment. Stable environment for the children. And it's to instruct the children in godly ways. That's the purpose of it, that he might bring forth seed. That's the purpose So that's something that we want to think about. And you know these things, but that's a good way to approach it. Comments? Questions? No? Okay. All right, third question. How do we work alongside homosexuals in our jobs? Now I'm actually not insensitive to this question because I when I was a supervisor I was trying to hire shift positions and it was very difficult to hire 24-7 shift positions working that night shift to stop to find somebody. Who's willing to do it and at my particular situation needed to have a top-level, high-level security clearance. Came across this individual in the interview, I noticed she kind of dressed you know, with a man shirt and kind of had the butch crop hair, but otherwise seemed like she could do the job. And uh I was kinda on the fence, well this is a really hard position of staff or whatever. And my boss, you know, came into me and says, Man, she's gay, she's queer in a three-dollar bill. You know, are you sure you want to hire this person like I said, well I don't know. And so we talked to HR and they said, well you can't discriminate against as a person for that purpose, for that cause. There was enough court rulings already prior to the Supreme Court. So I did. And uh she turned out to be, he, she, it turned out to be one of the worst employees I've ever had. Uh what a raw headache. I mean uh I could go on and we can talk about the story there later, but uh eventually they eliminated themselves and moved on. Uh and uh I certainly wasn't trying to reach out to to make them come back. So how do we work alongside homosexuals in our job? All people are commanded to work According to scriptures, if any man does not work, let him not eat. They gotta work. They gotta do something. And so they have a job just like you to do. They have to work. Now, Christian schools, Christian environment, we can talk a little differently about that. Alright, that that's so there's freedom of association there. So you can have a business relationship with them. You can have a business relationship. If they make certain kind of reports, they give certain kind of numbers, hey, uh I need these reports or whatever. But you don't need to develop a close personal relationship with them. You don't have to go to their afterwork events and so forth. And I have found that some individuals who are allies, gay, they themselves are not gay, but they affirm the gay lifestyle, they're supportive of them. can be very intelligent, bright, capable people. These can be very smart and intelligent people. You know, they're not the knuckle-dragging idiots that, you know, we might some might paint them out to be. It's not the case at all. You don't want to affirm their lifestyle. You don't need to get into that. Just keep it as a business relationship. Hint, I do that for all my unsafe co-workers. There's plenty of things that the unsaved in the world do that I don't have to own up to. I did not like it when I became a supervisor that I was encouraged, yeah, you gotta take the staff out, you know, go to these after uh after work events. Go to the bar, buy it a round of drinks. I just I had a real problem with that, you know, for obvious reasons. And occasionally I would go, but I'm not there drinking with them or anything. It was just it's just very awkward. So just understand you step up in that supervisory role, there can be a corporate uh expectation that you want to treat them as family. Right? Treat them as family. You want the because a lot of people retreat to work when their home life is a wreck. They invest their life into work, they get very busy on their jobs, and they lay down their life for the sake of corporate America, and they'll really sink their time. And so corporate America knows this. They open up their arms, oh let's just make it fun and happy because they're very productive. Uh yeah, but uh they won't let me come in with my tracks to raise it as I would my house and to train them in my ways of the Lord. They won't let me do that. So you have to think about that. Try not to think of these individuals as toxic, since many sins fall into this category. So for instance, how would you treat people at work who are living together but they're not married? Maybe the secretary of the boss and some other co-worker, they're they're they've decided to shack up together. How are you going to treat them? They're fornicators Don't be deceived. Fornicators don't enter in the kingdom of heaven, just like homosexuals or effeminate, or abuses of themselves with mankind. No different. How would you treat a man who is going to marry a divorced woman? That would be adultery. How are you going to treat that individual? You're probably already working alongside some of these folks today if you're in the workplace. How would you deal with a very proud business executive? He's very proud. He's a proud individual. Man, I've met some fellow, one guy who was Nick, I'm not going to mention his full name. Uh he might be proud enough just to try to sue me for uh um uh defamation of character or something, but one of the most proudest individuals uh sharp, tight three-piece suit. He was a suit without a brain, I'm telling you. The guy that he was proud, proud. He had nothing to be proud of, but he was proud of his everything. God hates pride. He hates the proud And scripture speaks well in Psalm 1 of those who don't countenance the proud and don't admire them and honor them. You know, Daniel's three friends got thrown into a fiery furnace because a proud king didn't get what he wanted from them. So think of them that way. But let's talk about some flashpoints, a couple of bathrooms in the workplace. So you really want to insist from management that, you know, if you're going to do this, you need to have one hole stall, so you've got to put locks in the bathroom so I can go in, lock the door. It's just me in there. You you can't have just three for all come one come one all bathroom. Uh that's not going to work. And there needs to be a lock on that Uh or there has to be a lockable one-holder, I call it. Uh pronouns, that's the other thing. Uh they they have their own pronouns, you know. I'm I'm I'm I've seen some I can't even pronounce. XE. How do you pronounce X E? I don't know what that is. Well, Scriptures tells us to speak the truth and not to bear false witness from a Christian perspective. And so if somebody is male, And they want you to call them by a female pronoun, you can politely tell them that you do not have a habit of lying. And you'll use Mr. He and Him If the HR director calls you into their office and tells you to do otherwise, you have a choice. Next time you see this individual who and this male who insists on being called female, you can say Well, HR tells me to lie and calls you Ms. So-and-so. So HR has directed you to lie. Or you can look for your next job where they don't force you to lie. And you can put on your resume, they were, I'm leaving this company because they were forcing me to lie, and I'm not going to do that. And you can simply tell the next employer that I'm not into that. In fact, it's beginning to come full circle now, all of this demand for the uh LGBTQ woke agenda in corporate America, they're beginning to find out that When it comes to the bottom line, which is all about, which is what corporate America is all about, those in the woke agenda are tanking the salaries. They're tanking the company's profits. Bud Light was trying Budweiser was trying to feature some uh clown on their cans and they're down 25%. Think about it, corporation has lost 25%. of their revenue coming sailing right into the Fourth of July weekend, right over Memorial Day weekend, they are being castigated hard. They are being hit so hard that Target said, hey, let's put all that gay stuff to the back of the store. They are being hit hard. Turns out Bubba ain't gay. He ain't buying it. And so they're beginning to see, uh, yeah, this isn't all that great to insist on. So they've tried that experiment, but financially it's not paying off You can skip the pronoun altogether if you want. You can call them by their first name, even if it's misgendered. You know, some some men uh there are some names that can be Male or female taken either way. Uh what are some of those names that go that can be either one? Leslie. Leslie. I've seen some guys name name as Leslie and some gals name as Leslie. Leslie. That's not unusual. Their parents are you know brain dead and give their child a name. We don't know what it is coming out of the womb, so we'll just call it Leslie. Okay, mom and dad, you can you know be a little more patient, I guess. And I'm not picking on somebody named Leslie. I don't know anybody that name. I'm just that was the one given from this person that we're going to go with. Alright, so what next question, what is fundamentally wrong with homosexuality? I found Focus on the Family had a very nice link on their site that says 10 things everyone should know about a Christian view of homosexuality. And I thought this was a very good, succinct list. Number one, all humans are sinful. Let's start off and acknowledge we're all sinful. We're not coming to them because I'm better than you. You haven't achieved the measure of the stature of my level of goodness. You can't do that. That's not going to we can't even convey that Number two, Jesus was not silent on homosexuality. So we can cut that, pull the rug out from underneath them right off. the bat. He unequivocally said that to understand marriage and the sexual union you have to go back to the beginning. So Jesus was not silent on this business. Number three, there's only one option. Insofar as relationships, and that's the union between a husband and a wife. Number four, male and female complete God's image on earth They don't complete each other, although it's been said that way. They complete God's image. Male and female created he them. In the image of God created he them So together they form that complete image of God, which I thought to be interesting. It's not just the man, it's also the woman. Point number five, sex is indeed about babies. It's in establishing any relationship without any interest in or openness to babies is contrary to God's design. It is indeed about babies. Number six, children have a right to a father and a mother. They absolutely have a right to a father and mother. Everyone born can trace their origin to a mom and dad, no exceptions. I would hope that that's not too much argument. But in this day and age, who knows? One can be a Christian and struggle against sexual sins to include same-sex attraction. And I'm very careful with that phrase, because that's a very difficult one to talk about. Alright? Now it must they must recognize it as a sin, and progress must be being made against it by the power of the Spirit of God and the Word of God. I'm not saying someone who is in homosexual behavior twists the Word of God, rejects Christianity, rejects the authority in the Bible, that they are and could possibly be a Christian. No. They're bearing clear evidence of being a thorn, a briar, and not a Christian. However, for the moment, this may hurt your head. But for the moment, try to put yourself, this is really going to hurt your head. This is really going to hurt your head, your head too. Try to put yourself in the shoes of a homosexual that is an elect individual, and they are coming out of that lifestyle You know, we all have propensities towards sin. There are certain sin weaknesses we all have. Some individuals, and I don't know how the human mind works and hormones and all that, the amount of progesterone, estrogen, whatever in the individual bodies. But some individuals from their earliest of time think um I uh I just Prefer men. I just, you know, I think they're nice and and and cute. He's got nice hair and whatever. And they've now come to the point where they've realized, no, that's a sinful behavior. Don't don't fuel that. Turn away from it. So you were in a lifestyle where it was accepting, open. I mean you can drive a truck full of sin. Through the LGBTQ lifestyle. They're not going to pick on anything. There's no sin you can commit in that community that they will reject except for one, and that is becoming a Christian. Now you're a problem. So all of a sudden, as soon as they want to repent and turn to Christ, they've lost their community. They've lost that. There's no place to go. And so they turn to the church. And they come in the church's front doors. This is the people that they've been told hate homosexuals. We breathe fire and brimstone against them all the time. And so some churches sadly do not understand, well, maybe this person is trying to repent. Maybe they're coming here because they're just trying to learn, and they don't know the rules of the game just yet. So if they become offensive, we start beating on them and driving away. Well, their old community is beating on them and driving them away. Well, where do they go? Well Satan will simply give them a lane chains on the broad road to destruction. Not that one, we'll go down this one. So we do have to think about the individual and give some credence that they're willing to come, willing to listen, don't Turn that down. Everyone's sin which does so easily be set is different. You know, it's no different from the alcoholic and the homosexual. Boy. Yes, right. I I'll be honest with you, I love fine bourbon. Boy, I love bourbon. Bourbon is wonderful to me, but it is a disaster It has catastrophic consequences. It is horrific. It's horrible. And you just gotta stay away from it. Absolutely cannot touch it. Can't go near it. Just keep it away. Just cannot handle it. That's a sin of weakness. No, I don't drink bourbon. No, I don't have bourbon in the house, and I haven't touched this stuff for a mighty long time. Praise God. Thank you, Jesus. Alright. Eighth point from focus on the families list, what's fundamentally wrong. There are limitations on sexual intimacy. The Bible makes that clear. It's not a right. This is an interesting point. It's not a right. For single, engaged, and divorced Christians, it is abstinence, no exceptions, even loveless marriages. Sex is a gift, not a right. It's a gift, it's a gift of God Number nine, rewriting God's rules is never an option. You can't change the rules, right? There are some times, there are certain highways. Uh my mid county mid-county highway in Montgomery County is this big it it's it's a um it's an expressway. What is the what are the what are the roads called? that have a very wide grassy median to it, parkways. Mid-County Highway has a parkway It's got two huge fat lanes going south and two huge fat lanes going north and a 35 mile an hour speed limit. Are you kidding me? I'd love to go take that three Flip that tittle over to a five and get on with life. Oh, but I'm not going to go down that. There's a rant. You can't rewrite the rules now options. Number 10. People are more than their sexuality. And this is the god of the homosexuals. Their sexuality is their identity. That's their keyword. I identify as you they're telling you, this is my identity. Okay, for me, as an unsaved individual, it was the bottle. That was my identity That was my identity. Oh my life circled and surrounded the drink. Where's the next party? Who's got the best sale on a fifth of bourbon? Where is And it was all about that. And then when that is removed, there's a big void in the middle. And that's the time where Jesus Christ needs to appear. So Sexuality is more your identity you're more than your sexual identity. You need to find your identity in Jesus Christ, not in fulfilling lustful desires, nor in looking to man to fulfill what only God Himself can fulfill. So I thought that was a very good and helpful outline from folks in the family. They did a good job. Whoever the author was of that did a fine job. And again, happy to give you that. You can just look uh link and look at it on their site Alright, well I'm going to get to point E, and then next week we'll start at F. This is my fifth point here. So what's a good arsenal of verses to explain why homosexuality is an abomination? They know that. They've been told that. uh that's been hurled at them quite a lot. They they they don't like that, they reject it, they resist it. Some have come and done an interesting twist. Well first of all let's talk about that word abomination. So simply put An abomination is something that causes defilement. It causes defilement, right? To abominate something is to defile it, right? We don't use the term abominate. Uh it it it it's you can think of it in the verb form abominate something. Thou shalt not lie with mankind as with womankind it is an abomination, it defiles. It's a defilement. Now of course They receive in themselves the error that was recomm that was meet for their recompense that Romans talks about. There's all kinds of horrible diseases that come about uh in that kind of abominable union. And the every doctor working in an ER can tell you, oh yeah, there's a ton of sexually transmitted diseases that come through because of that lifestyle. And there's all kinds of cocktail of drugs that can be uh given to try to combat that. But boy, an ounce of prevention is worth a fifty pounds of cure. It just It's it's good. Good thing to avoid. So according to Nave's topic in the Bible, here's all the things that the Bible lists as abominable. That's quite interesting. It was a long list. I didn't know it was this long You should look at that word abominable or abominable. A-B-O-M Star. Look for all the abomination, abominable idolatry. Which by the way is covetousness. It defiles you because it says, Oh, I like this thing more than God. Remember the root cause of homosexuality? Even as they did not like to retain God in their in their thinking, in their mind. Unjust weights and measures. If you have an unjust weight, you know that's defining it. Uncleanness, incest. lying with a woman remensis, adultery, sodomy, offering children to sacrifice, sorcery, necromancer, that's somebody calling up the dead to talk to them, the hire of a whore and the price of the dog as a consecrated gift Cross-dressing, proud look, lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked imaginations, feet swift to run to mischief, false witness speaking lies. That would be an interesting one to tell somebody about the pr uh about the pronouns. Hi, I'm Carol. I'm I don't say Caroline, but that's terrible. I don't want to I'm Katharina, you know. Well you call me misses or call me she. Well well uh the if I if I if According to my Bible, a false witness speaking wise is an abomination, so if I did that, I'd be as abominable as you. Probably not a conversation starter, anyway. He that sows discord among brethren isn't is called an abomination. Those of a froward heart, the sacrifice of the wicked, the way of the wicked, the thoughts of the wicked. He that justifies the wicked and condemns the just, that's also an abomination, the scorner, and the prayer of one who turns his ear from hearing God's law. Wow. All those are listed as abominations. Homosexualities, you know the thing they like to point out as an abomination? Shrimp. You Christian, if you eat shrimp, you're partaking of something that's abominable. Because Leviticus 11 says, whatsoever hath no fins nor scales in the water, that shall be an abomination unto you. You hypocrite, you're eating shrimp. You should you embrace shrimp, you buy it and eat it by the by the pound. But that same section of scripture lists many creatures that were likewise unclean to the Jews. The eagle, the osophage, the osprey, the vulture, the kite after his kind, every raven after his kind, the owl, the night how hawk. The cuckaw, the hawk after his kind, the little owl, the cormorant, the great owl, the swan, the pelican, the gear eagle, the stork, heron, lapwing, and bat. How many of you have had any of those creatures ever in your life to eat? You're reading a hawk? Side order of bats? We know where that's gonna go. We know that these are ravenous creatures. They eat diseased or dead things or bugs laden with diseases. And these can be passed along to you and defile you. They can really wreck your system. So abomination simply means that which causes defilement. It can defile you. It can cause big problems. They're only taking verse they don't even open up the Bible and look. They are just hearing something that somebody else said in the echo chamber and they're slinging it out there as if though They've actually investigated. They haven't. But you can open up your Bible and you can say, well, that's interesting. Where does it say that? Well, I don't know. You go to no where does it say that? Can you show me in my Bible where it says that? You can call them on the carpet. Watch how quick they change subjects They'll change it to a different attack. That sounds like an a la carte Christianity. Yes. Absolutely, a la carte. Yeah, I'll pick uh I I I don't like that point. I'll pick this one but that one I won't Folks, I hope these were helpful. We've run out of time today. We'll address the other questions next week. The seven arguments homosexuals use to criticize the Christians. uh which I think is more appointed uh because those are very interesting. And uh uh churches and my sons and daughter came out how how do I how do I deal with it? How do I help? So I I hope that's helpful. And if you think of other questions, just because maybe I've got your thinking going, shoot them to me, right? And I'll try to include them for next week. Alright, and if you did not get this resource last week and you needed a copy, let me know. Gay marriage, right or wrong. I have one spare copy here, and I've ordered more, so uh yeah, by all means you should have one of these on your shelf. Um I'll give you a little hint. I use this book as the outline for the study. If you haven't figured that out yet, I cheat sometimes I'm sorry. But it was a very good resource. I've had a number of them over the years. I got about a dozen or so. And I found this one to be the most biblically based. And so uh and it's short, right? I mean you don't need A tome of that on your shelf. Joe, would you close us in prayer? Gracious Father, we thank you that it is the grace of God that brings us to repentance. And Father, we thank you, Lord, that uh as David as David prayed, keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me. And Father, we indeed are called upon to lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily beset us. And uh Lord, uh there is no sin of which we, even the elect, are incapable of, except for the restraint of grace. And Lord, you are able to restrain any sin in the life of the elect. And so, Father, we pray for those that are indeed chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. and yet are so entangled in the things of this world that they cannot look up. And Father, we pray that you would by your grace draw them out of their iniquity to Christ. And Lord help us as individual believers And as a church politic, as a group of believers that have banded together in this place for worship, calling ourselves Mission Bible Church. Lord, help us as a body to reach out to the lost, never to uh shun them because of their uh sin, but rather to uh confront them with the only source of redemption, which is the Word of God. Yes. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And so, Father, may we not be accepting of that which is an abomination to you And yet, Father, may we not shut out those that need so desperately the message that we have. And so, Father, give us wisdom. Give us grace. Indeed, may we be harmless, wise as serpents, but harmless as doves. Lord, it is our natural God given new nature to be repulsed by sin. And it is good that we, your people, are repulsed by sin. And yet, Lord, Christ had compassion on the woman taken in adultery when the religious Pharisees And so, Father, give us wisdom, give us grace, and use us for your glory. Prepare us now, Lord, to worship you in spirit and truth as we proceed into our worship service. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.