The Hebrews 11. We finally made it to this eleventh chapter. And I hope this is a very familiar portion of scripture to you. But there's a certain bit of intrigue to it, and I want to explore that a little bit, if we may. Hebrews 11, 1 and 2, and then we'll get into my question Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. We'll stop right there. Why do you suppose definitions are important? Why are examples useful? Any ideas? I'm trying to go easy on you. I think everything's important. How would it not be important? Why are definitions important They are, you I agree. Yeah, they are. Yes, they are important. Yeah, Doug? I think you want to make sure that when you're having a discussion you're not confused and people are thinking of different things when you're using the same term. So that's why it might be helpful to have to agree on one definition, same thing with examples, you know, can we agree on this example? Um then we can move forward and you know made further points or analysis of whatever people said. Yeah. So says the man who makes his living out of reviewing the fine credit in contracts to see if it's within the boundaries or not. So yes, definitions are incredibly important to contracts. You had something? Uh he pretty much said the same. Why are examples useful? I'll ask the teacher. So you know exactly what is expected of you and you don't spray off something in an alternative place. It would say, well if I'm giving my students a project that they have to do, I will show them an example of how the finished product should look so they know exactly what to expect and how to direct their efforts. Have you ever taken a math class where they only give the definitions? This is Lahupatal's rule for solving a particular derivative in calculus, but they don't give you an example. They told you exactly what it is and how to use it. How effective would you be at applying that arcane mathematical rule if you didn't have an example to follow? Would would any of you succeed in that How have any of you succeeded at doing math without examples? Probably Dr. Ross did. Dr. Ross probably didn't even need the definitions either. Yeah, the most powerful way to teach is by example. Show me an example, I can follow along and I can get it And the definition is there to give the ground framework around which any further discussions or the like could be had. Can you name some instances? I gave an example of math. Give me some examples, and Penny gave one of her class. There's a project due, she gave an example of what the finished product will look like, what be it a writing assignment or the like. What are some other places where you've seen um Definitions and examples used together to teach. What are some other ex ways you've seen that done? Okay, yeah, that's a good example. If you tell somebody to play something, now I'm not a musician, so I just have a big ear as I listen over the shoulders of some members of the Kluth house receiving instruction. to play something forte or with an arpeggio or do some syncopation. You can define what that means. But wouldn't it be oh so helpful if somebody pecked it out on the key so you could hear, ah, that's what it is, or a march, how it has to have a certain sharpness to it. Other places where both have been used. Well and then my friends would kill it. And it would come in and work it would be probation. You had a probationary period on your job. uh take command and it's he was controlled. So I said, okay, that's yeah. Okay. Let's try to explain data. Mm-hmm. So you may give them a definition of what the job requires to do, and then you may even show them an example of it. And of course, if they fail to meet both, then they're they're gone. Well, it turns out that this is what we have in front of us here. You know, I thought of some other ways. Um recently I purchased a car, and so you want to look at your requirements for what that vehicle is And then you want to see some examples of cars that meet those requirements. And maybe you turn to consumer reports to see how that car meets those requirements. Do other people like it, you know, because I'm not the only one that drives. There's lots of people that drive. And is it useful? Or maybe a contractor is going to build my house I can put down all the specifications, but I guarantee you I'll get 15 different houses if I get 13 different contractors they'll all read those interpretations differently, but if you have a prototype or some drawings that give an example of what you want it to look like, you've got a much better chance of success. in meeting that. So both the definition and example are useful. Well, it turns out that here in the book of Hebrews, we've reached this this pinnacle point. We've kind of climbed through a lot of hills and valleys and dales to get to this business. of who Christ is and what he's done and the impact he has and now he's coming up to a very big crescendo which is about faith And so we've landed on this gorgeous plateau called the Hall of Faith, Hebrews chapter 11. We're going to read a bunch of examples of the heroes of faith throughout Scripture. And it starts with a definition, which I find to be interesting. It's kind of straightforward. We understand the words, but the concepts are a little nuanced. And maybe it's a little elusive. You can quote it. Faith is the subject of things hope for the evidence of things not seen. But what does that mean? How is that different? How does that distinguish from other kinds of faiths? Because we've spoken last time that there are many different types of faiths. So Now we have to get into the definition, and then we're going to walk our way, and we'll start with the first example here in a bit. First of all, we look at that word substance. Faith is the substance. I know from doing math and word problems that if you see the word is in a math problem, you just put an equal sign That's how you can decompose that mathematical problem. You see the word is equal. Faith equals substance of things hoped for. Faith is substantive. So right off the bat, we don't have this idea of blind faith. Oh no, faith is substantive. It has a substance, a gravitas, a weight to it. There is something very, very weighty in it In fact, that word is usually rendered confidence. Faith is the confidence of things hoped for. It for instance appears in Hebrews 3. 14. We are made partakers of Christ. If we hold the beginning of our confidence, and that's our word substance, if we hold the beginning of our substance, our confidence, steadfast into the end. Well, what does all that mean? You know, it struck me that As it's written, it almost sounds like faith is what we're hoping for. But we don't have faith in faith, right? Just because I have a faith, I can't trust in that alone, because it says faith is the substance of things hoped for. By referring to as the substance, and here it's the substance of our hope, maybe we could render it this way. We could say the substance of hope Is what can be called faith. Just reverse it. The substance of hope is what we can call faith. It's the thing that we're hoping for. Now, it's also interesting. Because biblically speaking, the substance of our hope is Jesus Christ, right? He's the one upon whom our hope rests. He's the one upon whom our trusts Lie. He's the one to whom we look for all things, and we have faith in him. He's the object of our faith. Well, guess what? That word substance in the book of Hebrews is also translated person. That word substance is also translated person. And you find that in Hebrews chapter 1, the very opening sentence uses our very word substance. Hebrews one, God, verse two, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, verse 3, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his substance, of his person. Faith is the person of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. So that word substance is a very rich word. It's confidence. It's referring to Christ Himself. Christ in fact is the hope of our faith. And so that means our faith is alive. It's got a living connection To Jesus himself. And that's further shored up by the very next phrase where it says, it's the evidence of things not seen. What's evidence? When we say there's evidence, or I have some evidence, what are we talking about? Assurety. Results? Assurety. Assurety? Evidence. What is uh okay, it's the type of assurety. If you go to court and present evidence, what are you presenting? Well they have their truth and you have your truth. When you present evidence, what is that? What's it look like? I don't remember the word now. That's okay. Let's say uh uh somebody your neighbor shot your dog and uh you come in with a video of your neighbor shooting your dog. That video would be the evidence. Right? I've got the evidence. So it's something that's tangible witness of this thing. Yeah, i it's it's it's a piece of information or data that points to the reality, that points to truth, that shores it up that it's truth And I like that word proof and that piece of it because do we have the fullness of Christ in us right now? No. Scripture says we have the earnest of the spirit. We have a down payment. Here's some realtors here. You know exactly what a down payment is. It's not the whole price tag. It's a part, it's earnest, that says you're serious. It indicates seriousness. Hey, I think these folks are really gonna buy this place because they have put some earnest money down. Folks, I think Jesus Christ is really gonna purchase your soul because he's given you of his spirit. There's an earnest. But when you got the spirit, did a dove fly down from heaven and light on you? You didn't have that. There was a change and it was internal. In fact, it's something, I'm going to use the language here, something that was not seen. And so faith is the person, the substance, the evidence of something that's not seen. There in fact has been a work in you. So this very description here of faith points to something very different than the world might call faith. I've lost faith in the political system. Well I don't think you ever had it to begin with because it's not a living faith. I I don't know that I ever really trusted the political system. Why do we keep running to some bureaucrat to fix my local problems? Notice it says the things hoped for are not seen, and so this is beginning to offer a little bit of contrast between hope and faith. Faith Is seen. We're going to see a number of examples where faith comes out. You can tell the person believes, but this hope is something for that which is not seen. Can somebody I I'm maybe slicing the ham a little too thin here, but can somebody start to think, is there a difference between faith and hope? There's there's a nuance there, but What what might be the difference between faith and hope? Let's think about that a little bit. Any ideas? In in our life. we know, well, it's by faith that we know that Jesus Christ paid for the sins of his people because The word God says so his word. We weren't there. Now we hope that our name or we hope that we are accounted amongst the people that he came to say, amongst his people. We hope that our name is written in the book of life. We don't see it We only believe that Jesus Christ paid for our sins. So it's kind of one is like maybe an anchor and the other one is the thing that holds the anchor, maybe? Well we also have to uh have trust. We have to trust that which you say that you have faith in. You know, just saying it doesn't make necessarily mean that that you have it unless you believe it. Yeah, it would be odd for somebody to hope for something but not believe it Right. And the Bible doesn't present hope that way. I think Pastor recently preached something where hope is not uh well I'm hoping to win the lottery. I'm hoping no hope there is an assured thing. It's an expectation. It's the the um uh uh a a a bridegroom uh uh is waiting to see his bride on the wedding day And so he hopes she arrives on time. He knows she's going to show up. I think there's it's a weak example, but I'm looking for ways to try to put those two together. It isn't what you're getting to and it's it's nuanced and I can think of all kinds of exceptions, but in some ways isn't safe what we have right now in that future code. Okay, I can go with that. Yeah, I don't have a crisp answer. Like I said, this is a bit mysterious even to this day as you talk about it. It's the language being used. It's really hitting up something very different. It's that short definition. Most definitions are very short, right? You get a dictionary, it's boring reading. Because it's not meant to be. It's just a short. But then there's a ton of examples that are going to shore up what faith looks like. So Penny, you're pointing out there's a future hope. It's it's for something in the future. And and but faith is is right now. Yeah, that is looking for that's a nice distinction. Freddie, you have to say confidence. That's what I think. Confidence. Okay. Um You know, 1 Corinthians 13, I know you're familiar with this passage. If you've ever received a wedding invitation, it's that great love chapter. It's interesting, Hebrews exalts faith, which is the Apostle Paul's exalting love. It's kind of interesting that there's a little distinction there. First Corinthians thirteen, and thou abideth faith, hope, charity. That's that word agape love. These three. But the greatest of these is charity. Well now what we find from that is that The only thing that abides forever is love. Therefore, faith and hope are for right now. It's for our time right here and right now. We know that because Romans 8. 24 says this about hope. It says, we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. Hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why do you yet hope for it? Yeah. Right? I hope I get a glass of water. It's in your hand. What do you think? What do you see now? Anyway. But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it So that is a very nice description here of hope. It's for the here and now. It's something that you expect and intend to receive. I like some commentaries and I'll pull out a few little sentences that I thought were useful from two commentators that uh from time to time when I'm stumped looking for a a good turn of the phrase or maybe some other scriptures that point to it. This one's from Jameson Fawcett Brown. It's one sentence. It says, by faith alone We are sure of eternal things that they are. But by hope, we are confident that we shall have them. All hope presupposes faith. There's got to be faith to begin with, and then you can have hope. It's interesting that I like that. I like that a lot. Matthew Henry, another one who's very good. He says, faith and hope go together. And the same things that are the object of our hope are the object of our faith. It's a firm persuasion and expectation that God will perform all that He has promised to us in Christ. We have that expectation. And this persuasion is so strong that it gives the soul a kind of a possession, a present fruition of those things. gives them a subsistence, a substance in the soul by the first fruit and foretaste of them. I like that. It's you're so fully persuaded that these things are in fact yours. It's uh you've got a promissory note. Yep, it's good. I can take it to the bank. It's as good as gold But you don't really have it just yet. But you're fully persuaded that it's legitimate, that's viable. I couldn't leave the dealership until they wouldn't take a personal check. No, we don't trust that. We want a note from the bank. We want a cashier's check. You gotta go. Because when they get a cashier's check from a bank, now we believe it. Now we're persuaded. We have, as it were, a cashier's check. Heaven with God's name on it, sealed with the blood of Christ. We're fully persuaded of that. Is it possible to have faith without hope? What do you think? What would that look like? What would faith without hope look like? Double-minded. Double-minded I like that. Lopsided. Very lopsided, yeah. Well don't we have an example of that in AC of people that didn't see what they were waiting for? Yeah You know, that's kind of really got a wonder how how that works, you know. And he's a prominent saint that he went to everyday Joe Blow, as far as I could see But they meant to say they never saw the outcome that they were waiting for. Yeah, they were hoping, but their hope was misfounded And therefore they believed the wrong thing. They were hoping in a political salvation, a David, to rescue them from the Romans. But when the Messiah came, he wasn't what they were expecting. Verse 13, these all died in faith, not having received the promise, but having seen them afar off. They hadn't received it, but they'd seen afar off. But they had hope. Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I I'm uh I I'm still l poking a little bit at this oddity of Faith without hope. It's not faith without actually receiving the promises. I'm talking about a non-Christian. Somebody who has faith and not hope. Or they have hope but not faith. But they claim to be Christian. They claim to be a Jew. It's like you go to work. But you might not, you're not sure. You know that type is scary It's just real scary about it. There would certainly be a lot of fear. You're not really sure, or yeah, you're not quite confident. I I would guess an example might be is there may be those that believe that Jesus Christ was Maybe even the Messiah, maybe not, maybe that he existed, yet they didn't see him. Yet they still have to believe the Bible. Right, unless they don't see him. But if they don't believe that he is their Savior, then what do they have hope for? What is there hope for if he didn't come to save me? I'm still in despair Right. Right, right. Yeah, you're you're all you're all your observations are correct and I'm uh trying to use as much biblical like go ahead, Anton. Yeah, I was just gonna say um this might not be where you're going but I was thinking uh a believer without assurance. of their own salvation. So believe these things are true and yet they have no hope for themselves. They're not convinced that they're in the con Ah, yeah. That would be like Freddie was saying, somebody's scared all the time. They're just kind of running scared. They're not they're very fearful. They're very fearful, yeah. Um question is that sort of like with Catholicism? Yeah. Roman Catholicism is a good example of that. Because it's not in what's sure, it's not in Christ. You're hoping Mary is the one, but she's not. But yet there I don't believe in her. Yeah. It it's it is an alien concept and it was difficult for us as true Christians to understand what that looks like because it's so alien to us, Penny. She's the work salvation I had an aunt who was a good person and she looked at me and said, How can you dare tell me that you know you're going to have I've been such a good person, I've gone to the church and I've done this and I've supported that cause. But I can't know You're not telling. And so there was always that fear and that uncertainty. Even though she had a faith supposedly in the Bible and God, she had no return Yeah. Yeah. Biblical faith is very persuaded. It's a persuasion. It's a full persuasion. Without wavering. That's what Hebrews have always been talking about. I found I think the best example of faith without hope in one of the very earliest parables that the Lord Jesus gave. It's the parable of the sower. And let me let's walk through that together and see if you can see what I think is here. The instance I chose is the one from Mark chapter 4. It's in Matthew. I think Luke covers it as well Mark says this. He says, I'm just going to get right to the stony ground here, because that's what I believe is our example of somebody who has faith and not hope, or vice versa. Says this And some, this is the seed, fell on stony ground where it had not much earth. And immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth. Alright? The word comes, and there is a springing up, but it's on stony ground. When the sun was up, it was scorched, and because it had no root, now underline that part Had no root. Do you see roots on trees? No. They're underground. There may be some that crack up at the surface, but nor or of a grass or something. You don't see the root. It's not seen. Right? Because it had no root, it withered away. Jesus explains it, verse sixteen. These are they likewise which are sown on stony ground, who when they have heard the word immediately receive it with gladness. How do they receive it? By faith. Hey, I believe this. This is great. And they get all happy and excited. And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time, a little while Afterward, when affliction or persecution arises for the word's sake. You don't believe that Jesus stuff, do you? Somebody may challenge you. When affliction or persecution arises for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. The gospel becomes an offense to them They stumble. They throw the faith away. Why? They had no root. What was the root? Hope. Substance. They had no substance. Biblical faith has substance Biblical faith has evidence, evidence that leads to conviction. They have the evidence. This fellow had no evidence. It may be right. You know, when you go to a court and one side presents their view and somebody else presents their view, trying to weigh the two out Generally, the one with evidence that points to it and the other side can't answer it, you kind of go, well, I'm tipping the scales this way, because you've got evidence leaning towards that But if you had no evidence, no testimony, the Spirit bears witness with our Spirit. It bears witness. Notice that that court term. If you had no internal witness to your soul Of God speaking to you as He as you open the book. I'm not talking about an audible voice. I'm talking about you read the Word of God and you just The words leap off the page. They just bounce in your heart and your head and your soul is lifted up between heaven and earth. If you don't have that witness, that testimony, you don't have any substance. All you have is a stony ground hearer, which will rejoice for a while, but let a little bit of trouble, a little bit of difficulty A little bit of persecution come your way. And isn't that what he's been talking about earlier? Cast not therefore away your confidence, which has great recompense of reward. You have need of patience. After you've done the will of God, you might receive the promise. If any man, draw back, my soul will have no pleasure in him If we sin willfully after we receive the knowledge of the truth, all that's talking about the reprobate. It's talking about that stony ground here. He doesn't have a persuasion. There is no depth of conviction. It's not there. And it never was there. Only the reprobates slide away. But are we not likewise tempted? When you leave this property today, when you go off trip, try to remember this. Look in the back corner of my lot. On the neighbor's side are some dead trees. I have written the county. I have written the owner of that property. Hey, you got some dead trees. They're leaning over Moncaster Mill Road. They're gonna fall down in a windstorm. They're gonna hit the road and it's gonna take somebody out. The owner never responded, sent them pictures. The county said, well, it's not our lot. Can't do anything about it. Sure enough, this strong windstorm came. Thank God it was blowing from the northwest because it blew some of those trees over One tree fell towards the road, just leaning up against the side of the road, so I think somebody cleared it because it was plum leaning over the road. Why did that tree fall down in the strong wind? Had no root. Who's on the dad's two were rotten? Was rotten. See? And that's the Exhortation from Hebrew. That strong wind that came through affected every tree in the forest. Those with roots did not fall down. Those without fell over. And that's exactly what Hebrews is talking about. And so what we're going to read is all the examples of those who had faith. And what it looked like in their lives. This is the definition. It's a little obscure. We're kind of slicing hairs between what is faith and what is hope and proof and evidence and conviction and trying to get the nuances of that We're going to spend some time looking at examples of what that actually is. And the first one is this, for by it the elders obtained a good report. The elders To a Jewish audience, who would the elders be? The apostles. Oh no, they wouldn't count the apostles. The Jews wouldn't. Right. There was the scribes, the Pharisees, and the elders. Sadducees. Sadducees, right. This was among the the elders typically were like the heads of the tribes. They were the ones that were Uh the the the name-bearers. Israel was a very patriarchal society. You had the tribes named after the sons of Jacob, all the different tribes and so you had the heads of those tribes. The the old the the church, you could say the Old Testament leaders, they were um aged They weren't the youngers, they were the elders. Um They were godly fathers, heads of houses, historically referred to Jewish overseers. You see in ex- I've got two examples here. Exodus 24, 1. He said unto Moses, Come up unto the Lord, thou and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship ye afar off. So here A select number of the elders of Israel were requested and commanded to come up into the mount. This is the church, the Old Testament, the Jewish leadership. The elders Then you have in Numbers 11, 16, the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be elders of the people and officers over them, bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee. So this was the elders. Our text says, for by it the elders obtained a good report. You know, one thing that's interesting in Hebrews is that Hebrews speaks well of the high priest. The Apostle Paul ripped this one high priest, called him a whited sepulchre, and he said, Oh, I'm sorry I didn't know you were a high priest, I take that back. And he also wrote in Corinthians, he says, if they had known the Lord of glory, they wouldn't have crucified him. He's pointing out Paul often points out the downside of the priests and the elders. Hebrews speaks of them in a positive light, meaning those who did have a good testimony. There were some that obtained a good report. Do you have a comment, Freddie? I was just thinking um I think it was just yesterday I asked uh Jim Lee on this Friday. They were referring to the boat as the Pontest. I'm like, what is the Pontest? I looked it up and went high priest. And he sits. Right? Just like all of us will pass, but our high priest It's Christ. And so if he passed the door, there'll just be another person they call out for you. And somebody else is somebody else. So why would your faith be in him As opposed to God. Forever and ever. Maybe the Catholics can benefit from reading the book of Hebrews that the law maketh then priests who will die and cannot abide forever. So let me ask my last question here. How does somebody obtain a good reputation? What does it take for somebody, say a Christian even, to obtain a good reputation? Make a promise, follow through on it. Okay. Uh would that be a one-time deal? Uh-uh. Well it's better if there's consistency. Okay. Consistency, yeah. To develop a good reputation. What does it take? Or let me turn it on its head. Oh, Jim? Testimony? Because I mean if you think about it, then you won't see much testimony stuff going on there. But it was a time when people could You would be convinced by the testimony, at least you believe that who they are has something to stand on. Rather than just they just say, I know church. But they have a testimony to break God and say that I was You have some examples in mind of somebody you know? That right off top of my head. What Freddie knows about? My old pastor, remember Stephen. Okay. Yeah, he can see Ryan. Yeah. So when you said Pastor Stevenson had a good reputation. What did he do to get that? How much did he pay for that? Did he buy a little piece of paper off the internet? No. A lot of obedient living, his lifestyle. It was consistent his character. It was the same way all the time. Well these thirty years that I knew with him and then people before me. A very consistent character over a lifetime Yeah. Not he did me good one or two times. 'Cause a con man can do that, right? The the first dose of heroin's always free, right? He's generous, he's nice, but he's you know, but he's trying to get you hooked, he's trying to get you addicted, he doesn't have You ever had somebody seem to be nice up front? Oh yeah, I'll do this, I'll do that. I remember the paving contractor Miss Saba had him Came and paved and but he left a little dip in the back where water accumulated and I called him up and said, Hey, there's a dip back here. I it's not gonna drain, it's gonna collect mosquitoes and all that No worries, I got another job. I'm working down the street here later. I'll be back. We'll put a little you know patch on it. Try calling the number, disconnected. Not a good reputation. Did he sound good to me at the time? Yeah, did he carry on promise? Yeah, he he came, he paved. But that consistency. Let me just add a little bit to what you just said. What I've realized about this gentleman she's talking about, most church people didn't like him. If you can imagine that they always said something, he said, he said, he done. But he just kept performing that which the Bible says. In the face of opposition he still carried off. Did the faithful like him? Yes, the faithful did. The faithful did. Now what does a good reputation buy you? If you have a good reputation, what does that give you? I can't deny that, brother. You're spot on correct. Leadership. Yeah. He was the same all the time. Humble. He wasn't scary. He it was I don't I I don't even know one word to explain it, you know. He taught with boldness the truth. It was the same way all the time. So what it's all scripture. So what it bought him was a good reputation, was a good record. Yes, yes. You can verbally test that's what a testimony is. It's a record. It's a verbal record. Right. If somebody were to write a biography It would be a a positive report. One comment. So I'm thinking just to back up with what Boyd was sharing, there's that problem. Which says, when a man's ways please the Lord, he may get seen in the end. You know, I thought who are some elders that we can look to in the scriptures that have obtained a good report, a good reputation? That have a good testimony. And I I thought of two. There were two that came to mind. Says elders. Now there's a lot of examples that are given here. One is, of course, Job The Bible doesn't speak ill anywhere that I'm aware of of Job. God comes down and says, you know, gird up thy loins like a man, and I will demand of thee and you will answer me. But James to Uh even in Ezekiel, God says, though Noah, Job, and Daniel stood before me, yet I would not tolerate these people paraphrasing, indicating, if these three very righteous men were here, I I wouldn't Spare the Jews. Here, he says in Job 19, 23, listen to what he says here. He says, Oh, that my words were now written. Oh, that they were printed in a book, that they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth, and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold and not another. Though my reins be consumed within me. Were his words written in the book? Yes, they were. He got his request And what came out of his afflictions? The revelation of his roots. The revelation of his hope. He was moved greatly. I cannot fathom the death of one child. I cannot fathom the death of two children. I cannot fathom the depth of ten. children whom my wife has born to plant all of them into the grave same day. That's just beyond me That is a heavy, heavy wind. That is a mighty force that would rock All of us to seriously question. No wonder Job's wife said, curse God and die, because this is useless. She was thrown in the towel. Not Job Not Joe. He obtained a good report. And he declared, I know my Redeemer lives. He's gonna stand. I can be dead in the ground, in the most graphic language. My reins can be consumed within me. But these eyes will see that God. I know that. That was root He had great faith in spite of all these things. He obtained a good report. He obtained a good report. The other example is Nehemiah. Chapter 13, that last chapter of the book of Nehemiah, he's an administrator, he's a governor, he's a ruler, so he's not a prophet, he's not a king. He is an elder in Israel to to go about and to rebuild the tabernacle after the Assyrians and Babylonians have sacked it, and is he straightening things out? He says, Remember me, O my God, concerning this. Wipe not out my good deeds that I've done for the house of my God. And for the offices thereof. Verse 22, I commanded the Levites, they should cleanse themselves, come and keep the gates, sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember me, O God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of my of thy mercy. Well, God did remember him. God wrote a book about it. It's recorded in Holy Read. He obtained a good report. We read about it. You believe you're going to have a good report someday? is more than hope. Can you imagine that there might in fact just be in heaven a record of your life? For the good that has been done, a record. Look at the struggles and the trials. And they stood faithful. Look at the struggles and the trials that hit them later. And they stood faithful. Can you imagine? By faith they obtained a good, good, good report because they had a enduring hope. So we're going to look at other examples of those who likewise obtained a good report and the other wonderful things they did by a true, living faith. Trust you'll enjoy the series in Hebrews 11. It's going to be adviceful. Antonio, could you close us in prayer? Father in heaven, thank you Lord for granting us this time.