Turning to Second Samuel this morning, chapter twenty-four. Looking at verses This story is also recorded in First Chronicles twenty-one. Um there's just two major differences and one is that uh the Jebusite who has a threshing floor um it has a different name in First Chronicles, Ornan, and here it's Oranna. So that's that's people have more than one name sometimes And I will be referring to 1 Chronicles, and if you look so that you don't get lost, he just has a different name uh the uh the man that owns the threshing floor. And then uh you'll quickly realize realize another change uh as we go through through this. Second Samuel chapter twenty-two, verse one. And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And he moved David against them to say, go number Israel and Judah. Or take a census. For the king said to Joab, the captain of the host, which was with him, Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the number of the people. And Joab said unto the king, Now the Lord thy God, add of thy people how many so they be. A hundredfold, and that the eyes of my Lord the King may see it. Well, why doth my Lord the King delight in this thing? Joab wasn't happy with David going out into his census. Notwithstanding the king's word prevailed against Joab and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel. And then we're going to skip down to verse 8 where he's completed the numbering. So when they had gone through all the land, verse 8, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and 20 days. And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the king. And there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that drew the sword. And the men of Judah there were 500,000 men. And David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto Lord, I have sinned greatly in that I have done. And now I beseech thee, O Lord, take away the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very foolishly. For when David was up in the morning, the word of the Lord came unto the prophet Gad, David's seer, seer, another name for prophet. saying, Go and say unto David, Thus say the Lord, I offer thee three things. Choose the three, thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. So Gad came to David And he told him, and he said unto him, Shall seven years of famine come unto thee? That's a pretty stiff penalty for taking the sentence. Or wilt thou flee three months before thine enemies? That's not a good choice either. And while they're pursuing thee. Or that there be three days pestilence in thy land. Now advise and see what answer I shall return to him that is to the Lord that sent me. And David said unto Gad, I'm in a great strait. What kind of a choice is that to make? But let us fall now into the hand of the Lord, for his mercies are great, and let me not fall into the hand of man. So the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed. And there died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba seventy thousand men. And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it, the Lord repented him of the evil. And he said to the angel that destroyed the people, It's enough. Stay now thy hand. And the angel of the Lord was by the threshing place of Aranda. In 1 Chronicles, it says Ornan. The angel was by the threshing place of Arunnah the Jebusite. And David spake on the Lord when he saw the angel that smote the people. He said, Lo, I've sinned, I've done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? Let thine hand, I pray thee, be against me and against my father's house. And if you read the rest of the chapter, uh there's a few details there, but uh we will we'll stop the reading at the start. In verses 1 and 2 it says that again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Boy, God is always getting angry with Israel, isn't he? And Israel generally has done something following after Baal worship. uh marrying Philistines, they're always doing something. But God doesn't explain to us here what Israel has done. God doesn't have to explain to us why he is angry with Israel. God doesn't have to explain to us why he does things with us as well. Is it really required of God to justify Himself for every pestilence that breaks out in America? Is it really required of God to justify himself for every famine that strikes the land or the world? or every earthquake or every forest fire, does God have to justify Himself to us? The answer is no. God doesn't owe us an explanation, does he, friend? We're but the pots. He is the potter. And the pot does not say to the potter, What hast thou done? And here he does not tell us why he's angry with Israel either. God does not know us, owe us any explanations. for what is going on in our life either. Know this that if you're saved, it is for your good. And know this if you're saved, it is for his glory. And know this if you're not saved, well Then maybe you will never know what's going on in your life and why. Christ taught, is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? I mean he's the creator. Christ created all things. And he can do it as own as he so pleases. If if you build a little uh uh hot rod or and enter it in some sort of a derby, these little derby races we used to have as kids, you'd build a little wooden derby and put four wheels on it and race it down a hill and And if you won or you lost, if you lost, maybe you got mad and you set it on fire and you burned it on the ground. Uh can you not do with what you've created of your own? And so Christ says, Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own The last shall be first, Christ says. That talks about uh when he was hiring people to work in his vineyard, the last were paid as much as the first. But Christ says the last shall be first And perhaps the thief on the cross was one of the last to get saved in his last moments, a deathbed conversion almost. Can he not save someone under a deathbed? And will they not be glorified and may they not be blessed in heaven as much as somebody saves from the womb like Jeremiah? Christ said, The last shall be first, the first shall be last, and many shall be called, but few chosen. Matthew 20, 15 and 16. God can do with his own, his own creation, as he so pleases. He may make some of us rich. He may make it seems a lot more poor than he makes rich, doesn't it? Well, when we go through some tough times, we're going to need the best theology In our darkest moments, aren't we? And here's a theological point. In your darkest moments, at your toughest times, Christ says, Can I not do with my own? As I please. And that has to satisfy us until we reach eternity. That's a theology that most don't know and most don't want to live by. Well, we've got someone that we know is born blind. The scripture talks about someone born blind. Why was he born blind? And for most of those born blind, the scripture doesn't tell us why, but in the one instance, Christ said that my Father might be glorified. And then he healed the man born blind. People have been born deaf. People have been born crippled, or soon after, or Fibosheth was dropped by the nurse and was crippled in both his legs for all eternity. Why? Well, cannot God do with his own as he so pleases. And when national judgment is falling upon a nation, Maybe we should just suspect, like Israel here, that somewhere sin is in the mix. I marvel not that there might be some national judgment that falls upon America once in a while. How forest fires are burning out millions of acres out west and we'll have heavy rains flooding another area and dams getting ready to collapse. And we have the pestilence that sweeps across at different seasons of the year. People are very sick. People are dying in the in uh old folks' homes and retirement centers and And we say sometimes this is God's judgment. I wonder why God's judgment has been so lenient on this nation who calls itself a Christian. And has already killed some fifty to sixty million of their own onborn babies. Judgment hasn't hit here yet. But when it does We ought to say, cannot God do with his own as he so pleases? And here for Israel, God was angry again with Israel. I think sometimes America doesn't know what an angry God really looks like But like Jefferson said, if you go into the rotunda of Jefferson, he says, I tremble that we have a just God, and his justice will not cease forever And I I tremble to think what God's judgment will look like someday in this nation as well. Now I said to the Chronicles 21, 1 Chronicles 21 reads a little different than 2 Samuel 24. They're parallel passages, but this is the way it reads. in 1 Chronicles 21. It says that again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Alright. And God sent Satan to provoke David to number Israel and Judah. Wouldn't have seen Satan in the mix with you if Chronicles or the inspiration of the Holy Spirit did not share that with us. And so often that's just the case When things are not going well against the nation of Israel, or things are not going well with David and his family, or David, a man of God, makes a decision that seems so contrary to his advisors that Satan is in the mix And sometimes when we're trying to counsel people and share with them from the scriptures, and we think we've got all our verses lined up, and we think that everything we're telling you here will surely score, will surely make sense will surely take them to our side, and it doesn't, and we can't comprehend why that verse didn't clinch the deal, as it were. Maybe Satan is in the mix. And even some that you thought was a Christian and would listen to you, because you know you were older, you have been there. And you've got the verses that they don't have that maybe Satan is in the mix. God is not the author of sin here, we see. All God has to do is pull back from David the graciousness that has been in David's life. All God has to do is withdraw his restraints and Satan wastes little time coming into David's life. Satan wastes little time in enticing God's people and God's creatures. We see that with Eve. God no sooner steps away from the garden than the serpent comes into the garden and tempts Eve. Job is a man of God, raising his children in a righteous manner, but God pulls back and allows Satan what? To touch Satan's family, or rather to touch Job's family, and Satan does so. Christ confronts Peter in Luke 22. He says, Peter, Peter, Peter! Satan has desired your soul and has sift you, and I pray that he not. So much of this world doesn't even believe there is a Satan, a devil, a Lucifer. And he's won that battle with you already if you don't believe he really exists. It's amazing how many people, young people especially, and I maybe I should classify the thirties and forties, because they were walking around doing the same thing just a few years ago The force be with you and everybody believed that there was a force out there and you could call that force to be with you. There's a force out there, all right. There's the forces of God, there's the forces of evil, there's the forces of the prince of the power of the air, Lucifer, Satan, he's got numerous names, Abalon, Apollyon. He exists. And if you don't believe he exists, you've lost the battle already. If you don't believe you have an enemy of your souls, you've lost the battle already. Well here we find that Peter, Satan, was desiring to sift him and Job's family and Eve, and on it goes. He is a an aggressor and an active individual and an antagonist and he really really exists. And that's why Paul, when he's talking about those who have rule over us And David had rule over Israel. And David here is about to make a horrendous mistake. And Paul says in 1 Timothy 2. 2, pray for all those in authority over you, that we may live a quiet life. Those with authority over us, they may not be saved, or they may be saved as David is, but we need to pray for those with authority over us because when they make a mistake, the whole nation can suffer. You pray for your president. Whether he's a Democrat or Republican. Whether he's saved or he's not, he needs our prayers And here's David. He needs the prayers of his people. Otherwise they'll not live a quiet life. God was angry with Israel, but then he uses David to really stir up the nest, as it were. And when our ruler sin, as David hears about to sin, the nation will suffer for it And so Job understands this. Job's not a saved man, but he understands some things that are just not right. You know, saved people understand that murder's wrong See people understand that adultery is wrong, that rape is wrong, that stealing is you don't have to just save man to be able to go up to someone and say, you know what, I see something that I perceive that what you're about to do is wrong, that what you're about to do is bad, bad, bad. It's gonna have consequences. You don't want to do this. Some people say I'm not listening to him, he's not a Christian. I'm not listening to him. He hasn't been saved as long as I have I'm not listening to him. He doesn't go to my church. I'm not listening to him. He's got the same denomination as me. That's really wrong, friend. In the multitude of counselors, there is wisdom. And here Job had come with all the captains of the armies of Israel. And Jobed said unto the king, Why doth the Lord thy King delight in this thing? David had a great delight in counting and s and getting the numbers together of the people and and it was a great delight to him. He's adding up the numbers. There are pastors that way. You go to church conferences sometimes and the pastors saddle up to each other and say, so How many were in your church on Sunday? Yeah. Love to count the numbers. So uh how much was in your collection basket last Sunday? And churches will even put it up on the side, how much money they took in It doesn't just hit kings, it can hit pastors and parents and teenagers as well. Job said unto the king, why did the Lord the King delight in the thing? So what was David's thing? People said, Well, he was trying to count the people of Israel, and maybe it was a thing of pride. Hmm, how bad is that? Pride. God says, six things of the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. And the first one he lifts is a proud look. Why would God list that one first? I would have thought he'd let hands that shed innocent blood and feet that are swift to do cry. I mean, you would just think that the worst things would be listed first. Maybe it is one of the worst things. Pride. Now the commentators are all over the map about what David's sin was. Was it pride in the counting of the people of Israel? You know, how many people do I have to command in my army? How many people do I rule over as a king of Israel and the king of Judah? Was this pride? Well clearly Job and the captains knew what it was. And they knew that it was wrong. And they saw that the king was delighting in this thing. It never quite tells us what the thing is But the king's word prevailed against Job and against the captains of the host. Are you ever frustrated by people who will not listen to you when you really know the truth? Don't buy that Edsel. I mean people thought the Ford Edsel was the biggest thing coming down the flight. Oh my goodness, that's a car to buy. And it's it's it's a Oh, it's named after Ford's son, and it's gonna be the best thing they ever made, and you'll never regret it, you'll always get your money out of it. But some people knew better You know, the Lord Jesus Christ, he understands better than anyone that sometimes people don't want to listen to the truth. And he's got the truth. He he really has the truth and people don't want to listen to him. And sometimes people have the truth and they take people don't want to listen to us either. The two spies that came back from the promised land, they said, hey, the place is rich And it's it's it's a profitable place and God has given us a land of milk and honey. We need to go in there. And the other spies said no, and the people listened to the majority Instead of the minority. And the two spies, how frustrated it must have been to think, it's there, it's there for us. God told us to go. And how about Jeremiah? He says the people were going into captivity. Do you remember the message? And Jeremiah knows, because God has given the message. He knows the truth. We're going into captivity. Don't bother fighting it. It's just like telling us we're coming under Muslim uh tyranny and jihadism and don't bother fighting America. Just just give in to it, and that's the way it's gonna be. We couldn't, we'd hate that message But Jeremiah says to Israel, we're going to captivity. Don't fight it. Just go with the flow. That's the way it is. And they did not like it. And they fought it. And they paid dearly. And Jeremiah was right for the very distasteful message he had for the people of Israel. Lot told his wife, don't turn around. The angels said, don't turn around. They knew the truth. Samson's parents and Samson What's with this woman of this Philistine? A woman of the uncircumcised Philistine? Aren't there women among Israel that you could find instead? I mean they knew best. His parents they really knew the truth. Samson, find a woman from among you, that is her lights. It's hard. It's tough when you really know the truth and people are convinced that you don't So they said, you made your mistakes you're young, I want to make mine now. And you say, well, I paid dearly for my mistakes. I don't want you to pay that way Frustrating. And Job and the captains were surely not happy with David's choice. The Lord Jesus Christ understands better than anyone else the truth, and the people don't want to listen to him Christ said, had you believed Moses, you would have believed me. John 5. 46. Boy, people don't want to believe Moses, especially the first 11 chapters of Genesis. They want to believe about the flood. They want to believe about six-day creation. And Christ says, Your problem is not that you don't believe me. Your problem is you don't buy the first 11 chapters of Genesis. And the 12th and 13th chapters and on close. Christ says this. And he has the truth. They wouldn't listen. Christ said, I am the way. John 14, 6. There's no other way to the Father but through me, but they don't want to listen to that. Christ says repentance and remission of sins should be preached in my name among all the nations. There's no other name to preach, there's no other blood to be shed, there's no other gospel to be given There's no other but repentance and remission in my name. There's no other way to get repentance and remission of sins. Luke 24 and 47. And so reluctantly, after verse 4, Joab and the captains of the host, they went and they numbered the people of Israel. From Dan to Beersheba. In verse 8, when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and 20 days. I don't know if it takes that long to take a census or Joab and the captains, boy, their heart just wasn't in, well, here we go, went to Bathsheba, okay. Yeah, okay, I get the census and okay we've got to go up to Dan, that's all you up north, and you know, but it took him nine months and twenty days. And you know what struck me as I was reading this is David's just fine with this for nine months. And twenty days. And then it says in verse 10, and David's heart smote him. Well, it's about time. I mean they told him nine months and twenty days. It's kind of like when he has the affair with Bathsheba and the little baby is born And the baby is sick, and now the baby is dying, and it struck David's heart. And he asked God to forgive him, to save the little baby. The little baby dies But for nine months David's not praying about his sin with Bathsheba. Sometimes we're pretty hard on other people. That they don't see their mistakes. And we think that they should see them right now, or with by the weekend, or by the end of the month, or by the end of the year. And sometimes Saved people are really slow, are really slow to come to the conclusion that what they've done is sin. David, a man hath of God's own heart. And it's nine months and twenty days later when verse 10, and David's heart smote him after he numbered the people. And David said to the Lord, I have sinned greatly And I beseech thee, O Lord, take away the iniquity of thy servant, for I've done very foolishly. And in verse 17, I've done wickedly. You know what? He's pretty sincere. He he's come to the right conclusion and it's and he's developed uh pretty well. I've sinned greatly, I've sinned foolishly, I've sinned wickedly. He got it. It's a little late, but he got it. And David here, he talks about his sin, and and again, we don't know what this thing is that he delighted in so much. I mean if it's merely one, two, three, four, eight. He's counting people. I can think I I can think of sins. I think I've committed a whole lot worse than than counting heads I can think of sins that David's done. I think are whole. I think David commits adultery at Bathsheba, he kills Uriah, and what is David's payment? One baby dies. Hmm. David goes out and counts heads. And what happens? 70,000 people die of a pestilence. Ow! You know, God sees sin a whole lot different than we do. God doesn't just see the sin, but he sees the attitude. towards the sin. And David's attitude here was not just that he was sinning and it may have been a sin of pride and counting. But even Joab in the in the the The captain's hose said, why do you delight in this thing? It wasn't just a sin. He delighted in it Is there a sin that you delight in? Oh, I know we all sin. I sin. And there are some sins that really bother me, and some sins I struggle with, and some sins I I put them on the back burner for a long time. They don't show up too often, but they do pop up again once in a while, you know. And uh and then are there sins that we delight in? Oh, you'll pay for those, friend. Seventy thousand-fold David paid for this thing. that he delighted in. And David is at this point so hard on himself. I mean he says here, I have sinned greatly. Does that sound like one of your prayers of the Lord? When you find I've sinned greatly. I've sinned foolishly. I've sinned wickedly. Wow, he's hard on himself We ought to be harder on ourselves when we sin than we are on others. But it's usually the other way around, isn't it? We're we're usually a lot harder on somebody else that that commits a sin. You know, there are people out there that they're so proud of their accomplishments. You know, interviewing the sports, I'm so proud we won the game today, and it was my goal that did it. They're so proud of the talents they have, they're so proud of the grades they get in college, and they're so proud of their brains, you know, and they're you know and they're just so and they don't have any problem with that He said, you know, don't show pride goes for the fall. So the pride is a sin. Hey, this is the stuff that God gave me. I'm just proud of the fact that I can take the stuff that God gave me and I can turn around and I can I mean and they're just they're really good about it, right But when they hear somebody else bragging about their accomplishments, they go, oh man, I can't stand her. This is their bragging over there This is listening to her, just patting herself on the back and extolling her accomplishments. Oh, I can't stand a person like that. But it's okay when you do it, right? I mean we're we're we're so hard on other people when they sin, but we're not hard on ourselves. But David's hard on himself here Or how about this? The Bible says we're not to covet our neighbor's health, our neighbor's wife, our neighbor's ox, nor anything. We're not supposed to covet anything. And so we're driving down the road and, oh, what a nice new car over there. I'm not going to say anything to the wife about it, but whoa, love that color green. Yeah. And you drive down the road over there, oh, look at that new house we're building neighborhood. Oh wow Wow. Wife didn't hear me. She might think I'm not happy with the house that we got. And you just go around the world and you look at things and you And it's okay. It's not a great sin. I'm just admiring this or that. And I'm just quietly coveting something But we find it repulsive when somebody else says, hey man, check out Jerry's new wife. Oh blah, blah, blah, right? We find that's disgusting that he's covering the wife. And we look at it, he said, Hey, look at that new Lamborghini over there, man. I'd like to get me one of them. Maybe just take it for a spin once in a while. And and boy, I wish I had as much money as that person over there. And we go on and we find it repulsive. That they covet stuff. But where we cover it, we do it quietly and it's it's okay Right? David here is hard on his own sins. We need to be as hard on our sins as we are on the sins of others, and that's often not the case. So I'd ask you again, pilgrim, is there something you you delight in? Something that's a sin? Maybe it's just coveting something David coveted to know how many people he ruled over. David coveted to know how many people he could command at any time in combat. A truly tender heart will see the evil. In things that are labeled sin. I think today, as I listen to some of the neo-evangelical preachers out there, they don't see the evil inside of me. I've heard them say, you can be a sodomite, you can be a homosexual and still be a safe person. I said, how does that work? Well, you maybe aren't committing the sin You're just coveting to sin. Christ said if you look upon a woman with lust, you've already committed adultery. Whoa, that's pretty harsh. Oh, that's Christ's words. If you hate your brother, you've already committed murder. Whoa, I didn't kill him, I just don't like him. You've committed murder if you just hate your brother. And if you look upon someone You covet that person. You don't have to lie with them as man lies with mankind or womankind. You just have to covet it. And it's a sin. We need to recognize sins and not minimize those sins. Christ proclaims how did Christ minimize sin? Listen to what he said. Christ said, My blood is shed. For the remission of sins. That's any sin and all sins. Did Christ minimize sin? Minimize it. It takes my blood to cleanse you of it, Christ said. Not the blood of sheep and goats Not the blood of a bullock. It takes my blood to cleanse you of that sin that you think is nothing all that drastic or all that bad. I'm on a cross, nails to my hands, nails to my feet Sphere up here, the fifth rib. I mean, I'm suffering up here. And that's that's just the physical realm. There's a spiritual realm of suffering. I'm surrounded by demons and Satan and the harassment and the ridicule And you think your sin is minimal? I'm shedding my blood for your sin. If you're the only sinner in the world, He'd have crawl up on that cross and shed his blood for you. If the most minute sin that you've ever committed was the only sin you ever committed, he says, I would have to shed my blood for that sin Sin is repugnant. Sin is repulsive. Sin is abhorrent. It's horrendous. No matter what you think of sin, dear Christian, because we see so much of it. It took the blood of Christ to satisfy God's justice. Now, David, it's nine months and twenty days, but I'm going to give it to David. It struck and smote his heart before the prophet, the seer Gad, came to him and confronted him with his sin. Remember with Nathan he had to come and say, thou art the man, David, thou art the man. David hadn't repented of the sin of Uriah, the death of Uriah and Bathsheba, until Nathan the prophet came to, but here it strikes his heart. David has grown. He has a tender heart. In verse 11, it says, The word of the Lord came unto prophet Gad, saying, Verse 12, Go and say unto David, Thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three things. Choose one of them. David's already repented. A lot of people repent when they get caught. David repented before he got caught. But people repent when they get caught, so they'll lower the sentence in prison, you know Well let me tell you something. When you sin and you repent, God may not lower the cost. It's good that you repented, David. God loved you, and I'm going to take care of it, and you're going to be in heaven for all eternity. But David, you've repented nine months and twenty days later, but you repented before you were confronted. Oh bless you, David. By the way, David, I'm not cutting the sentence any later. You're either going to be chased by your enemies for three months You're going to go through seven years of famine, or pestilence is going to strike Judah and Israel and Jerusalem and people are going to die. Well, I appreciate that you confessed your sin before I sent Gad the seer to you Repenting is not a get out of jail free card. Sometimes God still is going to chasten us. Whom the Lord loveth, he chastened each and every one of us. And I think sometimes people say, Well, you know, I know what I'm about to do is sin. And I know God's gonna get me for it, and I've seen God get other people for doing what I'm about to do, but you know, I'm willing to take my sh I'm willing to take my shot out in the woodshed, whatever God wants to do to me. You know, if if He wants uh strike me sick for a couple of days, or if God wants me to all of a sudden be unemployed for seven years like a famine here, or if instead of uh being chased by my enemies uh I I'm assaulted by the criminal element of this world For the next three months I'm getting robbed, I'm getting mugged, my car is stolen. You know, are you willing to put up with all that stuff? Or maybe uh you'll be hospitalized for three days And most of your family and all of your friends and some that are going to die. I mean, you are you really ready to bargain with God? Yeah, I'm gonna sin and I'm gonna take the consequences. He loves me. God is love. It won't be all that bad Well, which rod would you have chosen here if you were David? Seven years of famine. Three months being chased by the Philistines. Three days pestilence. Wow. I get that over quicker, don't I? You know, you could have been chased by David's enemies and not lost 70,000 people. You could have had a famine, and you might have to go to Egypt to get corn and so forth, but nobody dies. Does he take the easy way out? Does he take the shortest way out? I don't know what David was thinking, but I'll tell you this. It is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God, Hebrews 10 and 31. It is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of an angry God. I can't say that enough. It is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of an angry God. And a living God. And so David does. Seventy thousand people. Verse 14, David said unto Gad, Let us fall in the hand of the Lord, for his mercies are great. I don't want to fall in the hand of the Philistines, their mercies aren't great. Let me fall in the hand of the Lord. That means Lord send the famine or send the pestilence wherever you think is best. I want to fall. You are a merciful God. I'm throwing myself at the mercy of you, Lord. Not the mercy of Philistines. They know no mercy So David just says, You pick, Lord, famine or pestilence, but not my enemies. He knew that if he had the enemies chasing him and his family, his army could forge. for food and and keep them protected. He probably couldn't forge for enough food for all of Israel. He probably couldn't protect all of Israel. Well he's got a good enough army that his family's not going to suffer His army will protect his family. The army will find enough food for his family. The general public will suffer, but David could have thought, I won't. But David chose what was best for his people, and not what was best for him. I mean, really. David said, I'll let the Philistines chase me. I'll go up to the cave of Dulum. We'll hide out up there. We got food and supplies. We'll be okay. But the rest of Israel wouldn't have been okay. Of the famine or the Philistines. But David chooses what is best for his people. That's what Christ chose for us on the cross, didn't he? He didn't choose what was best for him. He said to Lord, Oh for it, if this cup can be removed from me, remove it. Nevertheless, Lord, thy will be done. Christ chooses what is best for us, for his sheep, for his flock, for his church, for his bride. Not what was best for him. If it was best for him, he could have said, forget it. Let's start another planet. Start more creatures. Start all over again. I don't have to have this. But Christ chose what was best for us and not what was best for him and King David. He does the same thing here. He puts others first. How often, pilgrim, do you put others first? Not what's best for you, but what's best for them. David knew the Lord to be more merciful than his enemies. And so it says in verse 15, the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel, and it was from the morning even to the time appointed, and there died of the people seventy thousand men. Seventy thousand people died. How many of those do you think were David's relatives? How many of those do you think were David's some of David's mighty men from his army? You know, God has a way of punishing us with our sins in a way that we say, Oh boy, I can see where this is coming from. I mean David he's counting how big an army do I have and how many captains of the host I have and And how many generals do I have? And and the seventy thousand, you know what I suspect? A lot of those captains and generals died. And David thought about how he had all his children, he had all his grandchildren, and I suspect that a lot of his own children and grandchildren died. Seventy thousand people died. In other words, David says, How many do I have out there? I don't want to count them. How many in the army and how many people in Israel and how many people in Judah? I want to know the numbers. And so what happens? The first thing God does is say, I take seventy thousand off the top of that number right now. No. He said how it comes back to you. He said, I want to know the numbers and God said I'm going to reduce the numbers You read anything you can get by we're sinning. God has a way to bring it back on top of so that we we see the people out in Israel and they go, Oh, we miss Egypt Oh, we wish we had flesh to eat. God says, You want flesh to eat? He talks about that in Numbers, uh, Numbers chapter ones. I'll give you flesh to eat. I'll give you every quail that's coming out of your nostrils, and it'll be loathsome to you Jacob lies to his father. Oh, that's okay. I'll take the consequences. Well, then all your sons are going to lie to you and tell you Joseph's dead. Roll but one, anyway. Samson says, hey, I got a little eye problem here. I like looking at that Philistine girl down there. I like what I see. I see that Philistine girl. Oh, I see that that horrid over here in Gaza too. Oh, I see Delilo over here. I see this, and I see that and I see this. And the Philistines put out his eyes. Did you see what your sin brings upon you? Oh, so often we're going to see exactly that the consequences match the delight of the sin that we're so into. Some think that God and his hell is too steep a price to pay For sin. And so they diminish hell. Hell is just an absence from God. Hell is just a a a place where we no longer have that fellowship with the Lord Jesus. The unsaved don't want fellowship with Jesus. The unsaved don't want to be around God. In fact, they're separated from God right now. And to tell people that hell isn't a place of fire and it isn't a place of agony and a place of anguish and a flame and with a and with a wailing and the gnashing of teeth and where the worm died. No, no, no. Hell is just a place absent from God. You diminish hell because you don't comprehend The seriousness of sin, the repugnancy of sin, the depth and the breadth of sin. You don't understand that. So you think hell is just a little place off in a corner that maybe Hitler will end up down there. Not the rest of us. When you don't think that there's a hell as the scripture describes it, when you don't think there's a punishment as the scripture describes it, as Christ talks about it, Morty talks about heaven If you don't think there's a hell, then you must think that God just winks at sin I mean, if God doesn't punish sin, it must be because God doesn't think it's all that bad. You know, when there's famine out there and pestilence out there and floods out there and earthquakes out there, God's not doing this. Whoa, really? God doesn't wink at sin, but if God winks at sin, then you'll just keep on sinning Or perhaps you think God doesn't wink at sin, but God just doesn't catch everybody every time they sin. So God doesn't know everything, and maybe he won't catch me this week. He'll catch Fred or Jimmy or Janet or somebody else, you know, but you just won't catch everything. God doesn't know everything. And what you do is you end up getting rid of the scripture that talks about punishment And when when you think that God is just weakening itself or God doesn't catch everything or God that the Bible is exaggerating what God really thinks about sin and how God is going to punish sin, if that's what you think, then guess what? You unventually believe there's no bad news in the Bible. And if there's no bad news in the Bible, we don't need the good news. Because everybody's okay. God's just busy winking at everything. We think that God's winking at every As creatures is okay. That is what destroys societies. Go back to the scripture. What destroyed the Philistines, the Moabites, the Amorites, the Jebusites, the Phariseites The Romans, the Greeks, the Persians, and the Medes. It's because they didn't think the sin was all that bad. And it destroyed their societies So in verse 16. David saw this scene, by the way, in verse 16, and verse 17 it says he saw it. But David looks out, and the angel has stretched out his hand. He's already killed seventy thousand people from Dan to Bersheba. And now he has stopped on Mount Zion. He has stopped there at Jerusalem. And that it David saw the angel poised over Jerusalem with his hand and it doesn't say it, but probably with a flaming sword in it, and he is about to smack Jerusalem The angel stretched out his hand, verse 16, upon Jerusalem to destroy it. And the Lord repented of the evil, and he said to the angel, It's enough. Strain out your hand. And the angel of the Lord was by the threshing place of the Jebusite Go back a few hundred years, and Abraham was in the same place. If you look at 2 Chronicles 3, 1, the threshing floor that is mentioned here. is on Mount Moriah. And you go back to Genesis 22, and when Abraham's walking up with Isaac, he's going to sacrifice his son Isaac. And he's got the knife raised and he's ready to plunge it into the throat of his son. And the angel stayed his hand on Mount Moriah. And here on Mount Moriah at the threshing place of the Jebusite, he stays the hand. Of the angel, the destroying angel. And later in 2 Chronicles 3, we read that Solomon built the house of the Lord on Mount Moriah, where the threshing floor had been. And the Lord Jesus Christ at Jerusalem, Mount Moriah, He stayed the hand of judgment. For those that believe. If you're a saved pilgrim, that's the thing this morning that ought to delight you, not sin. But it's Mount Moriah with Abraham, it's Mount Moriah with the temple built by Solomon, it's Mount Moriah when David's out there and he has sinned and the angel's hand has said it's Mount Moriah where Christ stays the head of all the judgment against all those who are saved. That's the thing that ought to delight you this morning. He accomplished your restoration. Christ accomplishes your resurrection. Christ accomplishes your reunion with loved ones. Christ accomplishes the rewards and the pleasures forevermore. That ought to be what delights us this morning. That's the thing that delight us, and not sin. Whatever your thing is, whatever your sin is, may this this morning delight you. This thing. As we close. Let's pray. Father, we thank you today that there was a place called Mount Moriah. What a history where our Messiah came and performed miracles. And the miracle of salvation, the miracle of forgiveness, the miracle of placing repentance in our heart. Oh Lord, what a story. His story. Oh Lord, we thank you this day that That the things that are in our heart. Oh, there's some sin there, but oh Lord, we're so grateful that Christ is in the heart of so many here. May there not be an individual in this congregation this morning That is not delighted in the things of Scripture, in the things of Christ, in the things He has promised us for all eternity. We love Him. And it's in His name. we pray, Christ Jesus, our great God and Savior, the King of Kings, the King of Israel. In His name we pray. Amen.