Well as we begin this series on depravity, uh as I mentioned, this is the first of three parts. The first is the origin of sin. Next week, Lord Willing, we'll get into the the essential nature of sin, just how does it operate? And then thirdly, last Friday of this month we'll look at the transmission of sin and how it comes through A fellow named Burkhoff had this quote which I think is pretty good. He said, The problem of the origin of evil in the world has always been considered one of the profoundest problems of philosophy and theology Philosophers were constrained to face the problem and to seek an answer to the question as to the origin of all evil, particularly moral evil, in the world. To some, it seemed so much a part of life itself that they thought the solution for it in the natural constitution of things. It just happens to be that way. Others were convinced it had a voluntary origin in the free choice of man, either in the present or in some prior existence. End of quote. You all hear from time to time and famous atheists who will come on when some tremendous tragedy occurs and there's a uh very steep loss of life under some horrendous circumstances, where is God? Uh if God exists, why is there so much evil in the world I've never really wondered that myself, uh, because I had been taught total depravity uh from the earliest of my days, and I understood why there was so much evil in the world, because man is in the world. That's why. There's so much evil there, and it never was God's fault. But the doctrine, the teaching, what does the Bible teach concerning sin? From whence did it come? that has actually had quite a history of development over the era of the church. I'm going to give you a thumbnail sketch of the history of the development of this just so you get some sense of the background. And then we're going to get into some scriptures and some topics. And I've got some questions as we'll look at it. And we'll spend a lot of time in Genesis 3 a little later today. So the first is the very early church fathers, we're talking the first few centuries. They actually didn't have any definite teaching on this, no definite doctrines. And that's quite understandable. They were busy trying to stay alive, number one. Uh number two, they were spreading the basics of the gospel to all the world and known languages. And number three, their big what was the big struggle of the early church fathers? Does anybody remember? First several hundred years? Heresy. There was heresy. What in her what heresy in particular were they struggling against? Exactly. The deity of Christ, Arianism, that Jesus Christ was not fully God, they thought he was just a man, uh a creature, and sadly that heresy is still with us today. So they were busy dealing with that teaching and they weren't trying to develop the doctrine of sin, origin of sin, how does that come about? They obviously had, thus saith the Lord, they they knew that, but to stitch all the scriptures together and to present a cogent answer so that when they spoke it would be consistent throughout the Bible. That hadn't been really developed just yet. As you know if you're trying to study a topic, you're trying to marshal all the evidence of the Bible together and If you don't have printed material, you don't have a computer, it's kind of hard to do. So we give them a pass for taking a few hundred years to move on that. A disciple of Polycarp, a famous man named Irenaeus, he was the bishop of Lugdenum, and he pushed the idea of the voluntary transgression and fall of Adam in paradise. And he was opposing the Gnostics who came along. The Gnostics regarded all matter as evil, which, when touching a soul, renders it evil. So the early Gnostics began to pick up Gnostic from the word Genosis, meaning they thought salvation had to do with your knowledge of things, not an experience in Christ, not faith in Christ. Uh they were pushing this idea that, well, evil what's evil is anything material, matter, physical flesh, that's evil. It's the soul that's clean. And so the soul gets polluted when When flesh touches it, flesh is bad, soul is good. And so that was the idea they were, the Gnostics had. And Irenaeus was pushing back on that, saying, Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, we've got to go back to Adam. So he was starting to anchor it in certain key passages of Scripture. Later, a fellow named Origen came along, had some good things, had a lot of bad things too. He held a view that came from Plato, no surprise, uh he was a uh student of Plato's that men's souls sinned voluntarily in a prior existence and thus entered the world sinful. So he conjured up some kind of a uh prior existence of the human race and they sinned and from that God deposited souls into human clay and that's where sin came from. In other words it wasn't here, it was out there somewhere else That's a mixture of a religious and a platonic view. It wasn't widely accepted, but somehow it got revived in the 18th and 19th centuries The Greek church fathers in the third and fourth century discounted the connection between the sin of Adam and those of his descendants. They were saying, well, Adam's sin was unique and things descended differently over time. So that was a different set of views. During the Middle Ages, the Latin Church Fathers taught with ever increasing clarity that man's present sinful condition is explained by Adam's transgression. They really went back and they did a lot of study on Adam, looking at some comments. That the Apostle Paul under inspiration gave in Romans 5, and they started to get real clear on this matter. The Eastern Church, which would be the split between the Catholic and the Orthodox They eventually came around to some view that's called Pelagianism. Now, that's a whole nother study. Those are fairly well-known terms in the Reform camp. But the Pelagianism denies any vital connection between Adam's sin and our state. They say there's really, Adam was Adam, we're totally different. And they deny that connection. Semi-Pelagianism admits a connection to Adam, but we're not guilty. We're only polluted. And that idea survives to this day You might have heard it in this way, that man still has a spark of life in him, that there's still man's not dead in sins and trespasses. But there's still he still has a will. So he's injured. He he he really can't, you know, do what he needs to do, uh, but he's not totally out for the count. He's On the ocean floating, he's gone under twice, but he hasn't gone under three times, right? He's still able. That's semi-Pelagianism, that's Arminianism, and that's where that came from several hundred years ago. The Western Church, there's Eastern Church, Orthodox, Western Catholic, culminated in Augustinianism. So Augustine was a good church father in many respects Not perfect, none of them really were. He stressed the fact that man is both guilty and polluted in Adam. And the reformers picked up on that and said, Yep, you got it. That's very biblical. That's very consistent. Today, what we have is rationalism and the evolutionary view, which says that there's no doctrine of the fall of man, and the idea of sin is replaced with something called evil. Now, something that these rationalists will do, and again, these are not theologians by any stretch of the imagination. They're philosophers. The most famous of which is a fellow named Immanuel Kant. Maybe some of you have heard of Kant. Maybe you've read some of his stuff. I haven't, thankfully. He uh said that uh evil belongs to the supersensible sphere, and I'm still scratching my head to figure out what that means. Others have said evil is a necessary limitation of the universe. It relates to man's sensuous nature, it's human ignorance, or it's an evolutionary stepping stone. So that's a thumbnail of about 1900 years of thought when it comes to the origin of evil. And you can see there's, if you were to make a map, it's all over the map. And so tonight we're going to try to get anchored into some basics here from the scriptures. So let's do that. The first point is this. And we have to nail this down. God is not the author of sin. That has to be nailed down really hard and fast And before we move any further. And so let's look at some passages on that. Job chapter 34 and verse 10, and then we'll look at Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 3. If we have some volunteer readers, somebody can grab Job 34 and verse 10. And if somebody wants to look at Isaiah 6 and verse 3, old and young, it's okay. Who's got Job 34, 10? Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding, far be it from God that ye should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that ye should commit Job declares very plainly that it is an exceptionally far thing for God to do, any wickedness, and it is unthinkable for him to commit iniquity. Isaiah 6. 3, a famous passage. When King Isaiah died, the prophet saw the Lord sitting on a throne high and lifted up. He saw angels flying around him, and it was a phenomenal sight, and one of the things that he saw were these two angels crying out in verse 3, one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of His glory. We've studied holiness recently. We've looked at that, and the principal idea is that of separation. God is totally separate and distinct from anything that is defiled, anything unclean, anything sinful. Things frankly simply don't come into his mind. He doesn't uh he's he's not uh behind uh man's sinful actions or attitudes. All right, that's that's not the source. He's holy. That's part of his essential character and his nature There is no unrighteousness in God. Deuteronomy 32. 4 tells this. Deuteronomy 32. 4. Let's look at this. God is holy, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Deuteronomy 32 and verse 4 says this. It's a song of Moses. And he says, speaking of God, he is the rock. His work is perfect For all his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. And while we're there, you might look at the next verse. They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They are a perverse and crooked generation So there's a very clear distinction between how high and holy and separate and undefiled from sinners God Almighty is. He cannot commit iniquity. He doesn't lie. It's impossible for God to lie when God speaks to us about the way things were done in the universe. When he created the creation, he looked and declared what? Behold, it was good. In fact, it concludes in the last day. Very good. There wasn't any iniquity found in it. The evolutionary view has this idea that there was a lot of death, decay, and destruction in a pile of bones before Adam came along, meaning death was a natural consequence and g and God took advantage of that. uh and created man. He just picked one of the apes that happened to be close to man, which is nonsense. It's theologically bankrupt because that means that death is detached from the concept of sin. And that's an evolutionary idea that says, no, death has nothing to do with sin. Death has everything to do with sin. That's why we die, because we're sinners. That's why Jesus Christ came out of the grave with the same body he had on that didn't that saw no decay or corruption. There was no reason for it to decay. There was no reason for it to corrupt because it was sinless. He was the spotless Lamb of God. But the Bible says in Psalm 92 and verse 15, to declare that the Lord is upright, he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. So that's just a sampling of clear passages that speak to the fact that God's holy and there's no unrighteousness. Turn to James chapter 1 and verse 13. James chapter 1 and verse 13, where we find this, that he tempts no one. God is not a tempter of any man. James 1. 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, tempted with lusts, tempted with bad ideas. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. So the Bible is very clear that he is not the one that plants the seed of temptation in your mind to do evil that's simply not present. However, while we're on this point, let me just make a little brief aside. God does test people. He tests you not to see or watch you fall or stumble or fail. He tests you to demonstrate faith. So for instance, the Lord tested Abraham, saying, Go now sacrifice thy son on Mount Moriah. That was not a temptation, that was a test. It was an example and an opportunity for Abraham to demonstrate faith, and demonstrate he did, and of course God rescued him from the final stroke that would have killed his son. He didn't allow that to happen. Yes. Is it fair to say that testing usually would result in a positive outcome and then temptation would usually lead to That's an interesting question, uh you ask, is it fair to say that Testing would would normally result in a positive outcome, but temptation in a negative. I think you're going down the right path, just off the top of my head. Temptations are things that we should shy away from and not cater to, and if a Christian is successful in it, ends in a positive outcome. For instance, I think of Joseph when Potiphar's wife was uh uh enticing him. Uh that was a temptation, not of God. Ordained, yes. There's a mixture between those two. We'll get to providence later. We're just dealing with the origin of sin right now But he had a positive outcome because he trusted in the Lord and he did what was right. A test would be like Peter when the little maidservant girl as Peter warmed himself by the fire, you were with Jesus too, weren't you? And he said, No, I'm not, and cursing with an oath, went away. And the Lord Jesus looked at him. So that test he failed. So We can approach either of those and there can be a positive outcome, but you're getting at the intent, not the result. So I understood the nature of your question. That's that's a good one. Thank you. We find God's holy. There's no unrighteousness in him. He tempts no one, and he positively hates sin. This is something that's alien to us. Man drinks iniquity like water. Sin's quite comfortable to us. I don't know of any parent in this room who ever taught their children to lie. Now honey, here's what I want you to do. When daddy asks you this, I want you to say something else. But no, mommy, that would be lying. Well I know, but I want you to do that. Let me let's tea let me teach you how to lie, okay? Here's how it works Now this is called a white lie. Here's how we do that, right? No parent ever had to teach their children how they sort of get that from day one. It's almost wired in them, we could say And hence the question, what is the origin of sin? God positively hates sin. Deuteronomy 25 and verse 16. Let's look at that, and then we'll look at a few places in the Psalms. And then we'll look at a passage in Zechariah. So Deuteronomy 25, 16. Dan, if you've got that, belt that one out good and loud for us. For all that do such things and all that do unrighteously are an abomination unto the Lord thy God. Wow. All who behave unrighteously? Notice that word all. I think you can take that and run with it as far as you can. God says it's an abomination. We talk about homosexuality as an abomination, and it is. God says all who behave unrighteously is an abomination to God. It's a pretty broad term, isn't it? Psalm chapter five and verse four. Psalm chapter five and verse four. And I would read it off my notes, but I did this study at a time when I was using the New King James and I haven't retrofitted all my ver verses to the uh authorized version. So I'll read it here for you. Psalm chapter five and verse four. For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with thee. The foolish Shall not stand in my sight. Thou hatest all workers of iniquity. God hates all workers of iniquity. Psalm chapter 11, verse 5, one or two pages over, where we read, The Lord trieth the righteous. See there that ties into my Earlier comment about testing. The Lord tries the righteous, but the wicked and him that loves violence, his soul hateth. That just means he loves them a little less. Well, let's see how he loves them less in verse 6. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and a horrible tempest. This shall be the portion of their cuff. Sure doesn't sound like the love of God to me upon the head of the wicked. If somebody's wicked and they don't have Christ, they're in deep trouble with God because he absolutely positively hates sin. It's his character, it's his nature So you see it's an attack of the carnal mind. It's an attack of the sons of the devil who would want to make sin a light thing because they're attacking God's character. It's an attack of the doctrine of the devil, to say that sin is from God. All of these things are impugning God's character. They're trying to attack God. It's trying to undermine the truth of God. All of it is an attack. Ultimately, I have found, and Brother Bernie has uh hammered this in me, and over the years I have absolutely positively found it to be true. It doesn't matter what uh false gospel you might encounter, Jehovah Witnesses, Mormons, Pentecosts, Pentec Pentecostalists, uh you name it. I mean there's a uh uh You name any religion, Eastern Orthodox, Catholic, Roman Catholic, Church of Scientology, I'm trying to think of some real far out ones They all fall on this one doctrine, total depravity. All doctrines regarding salvation stand and rest and fall on total depravity. If man is not totally dead in sins and trespasses of his own accord We've got a totally different ballgame. We've if man has somehow still got some effort, some ability, some inclination, a spark of goodness, some potential light, if that's the case, then he really doesn't need God. It's a Home Depot salvation program. You can do it. God can help. You don't just need a little help. That's all. He just needs a little help. You can do it. It all stands and falls on that. Look at Zechariah chapter 8 and verse 17. The sentence begins in verse 16, so let me start there in Zechariah chapter 8 and verse 16. These are the things that ye shall do. Speak ye every man the truth to his neighbor. Execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates, and let none of you imagine evil in your hearts against his neighbor. It doesn't say about exercising, it says don't even imagine it. That's a pretty deep standard. And love no false oath, for all these are things that I hate, saith the Lord. So we see that God has a fairly high standard when it comes to sin and sinfulness. In fact, you and I look at these things and at first our sinful heart says, Well, no, I don't do that, and then With a little further reflection we go, wow, I'm busted. In fact, I did that today. So I'm busted. And it's very obvious that man has a sin nature Well, some have sought to um try to uh uh address sin and the origin of sin by uh looking outside of the created realm the at at at the beginning of Genesis and they try to go into the angelic realm and they say, well, maybe uh maybe it was the angel's fault. Maybe an angel made me do it You know, Flip Wilson back in the seventies had a statement, you know, the devil made me do it. He was a comedian, thankfully none of you know who he is. I'll never use that one again. That's great. But sin in the angelic world is something that has to be addressed because God created a host of angels. And he pronounced them all very good. We know they were creatures. And uh he created the uh it calls the host of heaven. I think that's where you can find the angelic host being created. But apparently a fall occurred in which legions of angels fell away from God, the exact time of which is unknown. Now there's two passages that indicate this. We're going to look at the first, Revelation chapter 12 and verse 9. Some have found this as a connection to the early Part of creation, I think a stronger one is in Jude, but we'll start with Revelation twelve and verse nine. We're talking about sin in the angelic world and we're showing where that came from, why it is that we see that there are good and bad angels. Because they factor into this whole business of sin as well. It says in verse 9: The great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceives the whole world, he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. So we see that there are a number of angels that are evil. They, for whatever reason, took up their cause with Satan, who appeared to be uh a chief angel of some sort and no place was found for them in heaven and they were simply cast out. Unfortunately for us, they were cast out here. And and so they're w roaming around us uh and and they're of course more than happy. to entice us in their direction. Jesus said very plainly that the devil was a murderer, quote, from the beginning. That was John 8. 44. The Apostle John says that he sins from the beginning in 1 John 3. 8. So we hear that Satan created good and yet Early in the in the in the course of uh history, he sinned, he fell, and uh he was a murderer from the beginning. We know his first victim was Eve. Uh he deceived her, and uh we we know the consequences of that. Now very little is said about whatever this sin was that the devil did that caused the fall, but we deduce that it is pride, and we'll look at a passage that speaks about that. For instance, the Apostle Paul warns Timothy to not appoint as a novice as a bishop Quote, lest being puffed up he fall into the condemnation of the devil, unquote. That's 1 Timothy 3. 6. So Satan apparently aspired to be like God in power and authority. He aspired to be like God in power and authority. And we see this in two places. The first is in the book of Jude. Jude chapter 1. There's only one chapter in Jude. And verse 6. Jude chapter one and verse six So here we read this about this evil angelic host. It says this, and the angels which kept not their first estate, that literally is the word beginning. First estate's perfect. their beginning state. They kept it not. They didn't keep it, but left their own habitation, he that is God, hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Now let me point out a couple of things here. Number one It doesn't say all angels. It said there were a parent number that didn't leave their first estate. Number two, angels didn't die right off the bat. They're immaterial. They don't have bodies. They're spirit beings, and so they are reserved in chains. Now, obviously that's not a physical chain. I don't expect to hear a clanking of stainless steel chains somewhere uh in a haunted house or some such nonsense. Uh that's that's not what we're we're we're thinking about here. This is some kind of restraining mechanism that God has on these cursed angels, and they are reserved by God unto the day of judgment. So I would point out to you that God has no salvation plan for these fallen angels. That ought to make your own salvation appear a little bit more precious, because angels which are greater in power and might than you or I, after all, one angel can knock out at least 185,000 Assyrians, and he didn't seem to break a sweat doing it. You would think God would want to redeem those creatures. But he didn't. They sinned? Fine. Fall. Judgment. Hell and destruction is prepared for you. That's your end state. There's no salvation plan for angels. They, in fact, desire to look into these things, the good angels, concerning the salvation of sinners. That's an amazing thing to me. Getting back to the main point, look at Isaiah chapter 14, where we see a rather apparent reference to Satan. in the garden. And this appears to have occurred prior to the temptation of Eve. And it's Isaiah chapter 14 and verse 12 And it's similar to the book of Ezekiel and chapter 28. Isaiah 14 and verse 12, we read this. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? Now, nearly every uh conservative Bible expositor has very clearly connected Lucifer with the devil And you'll see that as we go on here. How art thou cut down to the ground which didst weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thine heart, now notice notice the language that's coming out from the heart of the devil here. I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will set also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. Noticing a theme here. I will, I will, I will I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. In other words, he desires to be precisely as God. Verse 15, yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the pit. So this is some language, and again, when you have time, you can look at the corollary passage in Ezekiel 28. All of that appears to give us some good indication of the fall of the devil. So angels appear to have not been satisfied with the government and the power that was entrusted to them. And if the desire to be like God was their peculiar temptation, this would also explain why they tempted man on that point. So just food for thought there. Let's turn now to the record of the fall in Genesis 3. Genesis chapter 3. Yes. Yes. I've heard people reference it as King of Babylon. It can be both Satan and King of Babylon. It can be used as a Right. Yes, uh in some places that uh um verse four thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, uh when you uh um That's the interesting thing about prophecy is God can use the King of Babylon as an example, and he's acting very much like the devil himself, and so he's speaking past the King of Babylon, piercing him with his accusation. But he's getting right to somebody. He's acting identical to his master, the devil himself. So it wouldn't surprise me that you can see both in that account. Alright, Genesis chapter 3. This is where things start to take a turn, and we're all sadly familiar with it, but let's get it uh in front of our face again and we'll try to pay particular attention to the language. I've got some questions in here after this. And so kind of follow with me and be prepared for some questions. So let's go here in Genesis chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. Now the serpent. was more subtle than any beast of the field, which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat it Neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die. For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods. Literally the word Elohim, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired, to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat And gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened. And they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? And the man said, The woman, whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. All right Let's look at this a little slower here. Let me just ask some questions of you to see if you're picking up certain things through this most fascinating account. What is the first thing that strikes you as unusual in verse 1? Talking snake. Yeah, a talking snake. You know, what's with a talking snake? I mean, there's a lot of animals out there. We don't read that they were made in the image of man. Only man was, and man did the ability to communicate and talk. Man is the one who named all the animals. Adam did all that Uh and you know, and all the time they've been in the garden they might have heard birds chirping and monkeys uh making their noises and all of a sudden this talking snake comes up. Well, that was an interesting thing, but do donkeys normally talk? I've had a donkey, my my my dad had a donkey on the property. Her name was Ethel If she started talking, I would think that something really weird is going on here. Alright, second thing. Let's get on here. How did the serpent and Eve mangle God's commandment? They added to it. Okay, you're saying she he they added to it, so what was the addition? Well you said that they weren't allowed to touch Right, Eve said we can't touch it. Right. And yep, Satan uh didn't didn't bother correcting her on that point. It wasn't uh a thing of uh now how did the serpent uh mangle God's commandment? He told 'em that they wouldn't die. Yeah, he said you're not going to die. God said plainly in chapter two, verse seventeen, In the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Satan came along with a direct contradiction, you will not die In verse one even before that she said, Do God say that you shall not eat of every tree of the garden? Yep. Correct. And that's another trick the devil has. Imagine you're just created. Here's Adam and Eve. You're in your brand new garden and here you have The entire world full of trees and you can eat from every tree. Imagine you don't have to go to work. All you gotta do is wake up, go over to a tree, pull down some fruit, and eat it. I'm tired of the mangoes. Let's go over to the marrow trees Tired of bananas, let's go over here. Oh, there's some blueberries in season. Woo-hoo! We'll sleep by the blueberries for a while. Now we're time for this. And hey, this tree tastes like steak. I like this tree. This is good. I mean it who knows. I mean, you know, there might have been something out there like that, right? And yet the devil's gonna point at the one thing That they were not allowed to touch. And that's what he tempts you with. The one thing you're not allowed to do, he's going to wave it in front of you, make it seem so enticing. All right. What should Eve have done? It's easy for us to look in hindsight. Here's a talking snake. Here he's countering some things. What should Eve have done? Run away. Give you the home to the face because there's a little person. Yeah. If in doubt, seek your husband Well he was there with her, so he wasn't a whole lot of help. I'm not disagreeing with that answer, but uh unfortunately for uh Eve, uh Homer Simpson Adam was not doing a job. Um second John 1. 11 says, If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him Godspeed, for he that biddeth him Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds. You're correct. She should have rejected it What's particularly heinous about this is that Adam and Eve did not have a sin nature like you and I did. Like you and I do. They didn't have a propensity towards that. They didn't have raging lusts and all that sort of stuff in them. This was a very significant act of rebellion on their part. Right. They didn't have a sin nature. They couldn't point to, well, Adam is the one that, you know, kind of sent me down this path to begin with. Was the sin voluntary? Yep, very much was so. Adam and Eve had free will. They had free will. Had you and I been there, we would have done the same thing, sadly. But then she just said God made everything good. The universe was very good. Yes. Adam and Eve were righteous. But they had a mutable righteousness, meaning they could in fact throw it away. God gave them a free will that said, if you want to throw yourself off the cliff and blow it, I give you that ability. You have it. And so in fact he did. And that's the state he's in. Now we don't have free will. We have free agency. We're free to act according to our nature. When people say, oh, I believe in free will, I always want to ask, free from what? What is your will free from? If I go to a restaurant and I look at a menu and I see, oh if I see steak Waldorf salad I'm like, yeah, I want that. And as I'm ordering steak Waldorf salad, if uh what comes out of my mouth is, No, I want beef, liver, and onions, I go, Well where did that come from? I'm not gonna just pop up and say something totally contrary to my will and my nature. You put A dead animal, a dead lamb, and Angela's wonderful salad in front of a ravenous lion, I guarantee you what he's going to go for He's not going to go for the salad. He's going to go for the meat. Why? Because that's his nature. And so our nature also has changed. It was absolutely a voluntary sin. The first doctrine? What was the first doctrine of God that was ever denied? Scripture inerrancy. So one says inerrancy, one says don't touch it. The doctrine of don't touch it. I haven't heard that one. That's pretty good. That's a pretty good doctrine, Kiddle. I like that though. The doctrine that don't touch it. That's a good one. Of God that was denied. I guess that one that he gave Hath God said. Calling God's word into question, number one, shorten the heels of that as ye shall never die, the doctrine of hell Is that attack still here today? Better believe it. How did Adam blow it? Verse 6 hint. How did Adam blow it? He didn't question, he didn't refuse, he just took it from his friend and aided. He didn't question, he didn't refuse, right? He just kind of went along with it. You know, the Lord Jesus Christ has three offices. He's prophet, he's priest, and king. He's the only one who fulfilled all three of those Adam knows his role as prophet. He doesn't declare to his wife, thus saith the Lord, this is what God said, Eve. He was there with her. He blows his role as king. He doesn't defend her. And he blows his role as a priest, as an intercessor. He doesn't get in between and say, nope, let me take care of this. I'll deal with this. So he blows all three roles as prophet, priest, and king. And that's why the Lord Jesus Christ is called the second Adam, because he fulfills that role perfectly. He is our prophet. He does declare the Lord's words to us faithfully and true, and he tells us the truth. He is our king. He guards and defends and protects us from the evil one. The devil goes about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may. Devour. See God's got him on a leash. He can't devour his God's people. And he's also our priest. He intercedes on our behalf and we know about the atonement. Well let's look at some ramifications of Adam and Eve's sin. It doesn't take long before you get to Genesis chapter 6. Genesis chapter 6 and verse 5. When we talk about human nature being totally depraved, it doesn't mean that all men act as bad as they possibly could at any one point in time. There's always room for debasement. We can always get worse. Verse 5 of Genesis 6. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. That's a pretty difficult statement to swallow to find that that was the state of the human race. I don't think much has changed. I say that because of Psalm chapter 14 and verse 3. You say, well, that was a state at that time, and indeed it was. Is that the way it is now, today? Is it really like that now? Well, Psalm chapter 14. And verse two and three. And it's repeated in Psalm fifty-three, and God repeats it again in Romans three, so this is a pretty powerful testimony of God. Three places of the scriptures, Psalm chapter 14 and verses 2 and 3. The Lord looked down from heaven. Now remember, God dwells in eternity. God dwells in eternity. He's not in a place with an address, you know, one heaven's angel's way, you know, or something like that. He's in eternity. He's outside of time, he's outside of space. He looks at all of time like I look at this coffee table. It has a beginning and an end. The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men. Notice he says children of men. To see if there were any that did understand and seek God. He's looking down this corridor of time to see if there's anybody who understands, apart from the work of God, just pure man, if there's any that understand, verse three, they're all gone aside, they're all together become filthy. There's none that doeth good, and just so we don't miss what he means by none, he says, no, not one. And it's a sad state. It's a sad state. But this is what God's assessment was. He looks down, he says There isn't anybody that would possibly raise their hand to vote for Jesus, because you see, if God left it up to man's free will to choose for Jesus, that would be very unfair. That'd be like me going into a graveyard saying, if you just come out of your graves, I can make you alive. Well how's that going to happen? They're dead. I looked out across the graveyard and you know it was pretty quiet Is there anybody here that understands? Very a flicker of thought. Is there anybody with some with some really strong interest towards life and to live? Not seeing any there. Maybe I just picked a bad night, go a different night Right? Well that's what you're gonna get. You're gonna get a pretty pathetic response. The Apostle Paul And arguably one of the most prominent apostles in the New Testament, turn to Romans chapter 7. He makes this statement. And theologians have argued about whether he's talking about his saved state or unsaved state. I tend to think that he's talking about a saved man who is honestly assessing who he is. In verse 18, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing For to will is present with me, meaning this desire, this desire to do good things, the good things he's been talking about in verse 15 and verse 19, the good that I would I do not. He says, for to will is present with me. This is a saved individual. They want to do good. But how to perform that which is good I find not. We often find in our lives when we read the scriptures and we agree with God as a Christian that, you know, God's correct on this point. Boy, I'd I'd like to be in a position where I just I love people, where I really was just very compassionate and I could love all sorts of people. I I'd really like that. And I'd really like to be kind and patient with people. Don't you want to be like that? Very loving. Be known as a loving person. Know as a loving person. She's a loving lady. She's just a a dear woman and and no foul speech out of their mouth. Or this person is just characterized by by good sound speech and that's green. And I hear these things And you and I read these things, and we agree, as Christians, they are good. But how to perform that I don't find. It's a struggle. It's a struggle. It doesn't come naturally, right? It's a work of grace. God's got to work that grace in you. And he uses means, hearing of the word, the reading of the word, the preaching of the word, uh heard, the word spoken, enter into the ears. The devil uses the eye gate, God uses the ear gate. That's how God works on us. This is the Apostle Paul's assessment. In me in my flesh dwells no good thing. So he sees that in fact we by nature are totally depraved, that our nature is just in fact sinful. What other effect did we find from the garden? Well, we found that there was a loss of communion with God. So man lost the image of God in the In the sense of losing his original righteousness. We still have an image of God. It's broken, it's shattered, it's torn up But we've lost it. Ephesians 2 says this. And you hath he quickened, who were dead in sins and trespasses. We're dead in sins and trespasses, is what Ephesians tells us. Look at Ephesians 4. 18. Ephesians chapter 4, it's after Romans and Corinthians. You get to Galatians and then you get to Ephesians chapter 4. It speaks of us, and it says, that having the understanding darkened, were alienated from the life of God through ignorance, through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness. That's a pretty much a general description of an unsaved individual. This is just the nature. I can testify to it. I can sadly give testimony to my unsaved days in my college years and thankfully God allowed me to reap early and to uh and to spare me and uh and and rescue me from myself. You know, we also have a conscious awareness of sin. People in fact do have a conscious awareness because we read that in Genesis 3 when it said the eyes of them were both opened and they knew they were naked. They knew that now something is wrong. They knew now that this is kind of embarrassing. There's something wrong. And they went to fix it. They went to resolve it. And they tried to sew a covering for themselves. And what did they use? Fig leaves. Now I have a fig tree out here in the garden, and it does make nice big leaves. I mean they are pretty good size. And I suppose that I could stitch a few of these things together. I've often wondered why would they have chosen fig leaves? Because these things are kind of rough. I mean they're not exactly smooth. And when you pluck them off, they're going to get rough pretty quick and they're going to shrivel and they're going to dry. And that would be a miserable covering It's not going to work very well for very long at all. What was God's covering instead? Yeah, he slew an animal and he took the skin off of that animal and he used that to cover them. What a marvelous picture. What you want to bet it was a lamb. What you want to bet it was a spotless lamb. I'm pretty sure it was a spotless lamb. I'm pretty sure it was a lamb without spot and without blemish, and I'm pr Sure it was lamb's wool that clothed them So they had a conscious awareness of sin. They also had a consciousness of guilt. And that conscious knowledge and awareness of guilt found expression in a fear of God And an accusing conscience. Notice the fear of God. Go back to Genesis 3, and we'll keep looking at some aspects of this account. And we'll look and focus here on verse 10. Notice this fear of God. He was afraid of God. He says, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid. You know, there is a sense in which men today hear the Word of God when they hear the Bible. Why is it they are so raving, mad, livid to insist that you shut up? I don't want to hear that. Because it makes them afraid. They know it's the voice of God. They're created in his image, and they can't get away from it. They'll try to run, they'll do everything they can to suppress the truth and unrighteousness. They'll pull all the same tricks that the devil does. Half God said, they'll question it. You'll not die. There's no impact to this. I can ignore this safely as opposed to ignoring it at my peril, it creates a fear of God, and yet there's a sense in which they don't fear God. Because they're uh happy to run and do whatsoever they wish. But when the word of God comes and enters into their ears, that's why they insist. If I'm out there at a metro center and there's hundreds of people coming and going every minute from the metro stop. If I'm preaching about Barney the purple dinosaur, ain't nobody gonna say nothing to me. They're not going to bother you. Hey, that's neat stuff. Now can I buy one of those? That's great. I can sell Barney the Purple Dinosaur junk all day long. Ain't nobody gonna get offended. He ain't even real He's just a make-believe thing. Some guy's getting up in a costume, probably a different dude every week, gets up in this Barney the Purple Dinosaur costume and entertains kids on TV. Okay? He's not even real Now you start coming with thus saith the Lord and you're going to get in trouble. People watch the reaction. They'll turn away, they'll look to the ground, they'll be extra focused on their phone. They're very intent on something else. Uh-huh. Yeah, hate speech. Yeah, these days you may get accused of that. Notice verse 12. Notice the accusing conscience. The man said, the woman Whom thou gavest to be with me. She gave me the tree and I did eat. Notice the accusation. There's an accusing finger. There's a deflection. Adam's a good deflector. Ask my wife. I'm a great deflector. It's never my fault in this house. It's got to be somebody else's fault. Ask my wife. She understands this. She she's got Genesis 312 right there, you know, over my uh foot of my bed, whatever. I'm teasing. Um And so this is the conscious awareness of his sin, this loss of communion, this depraved nature that sets in. And it's not only spiritual, but it's also physical death. God said in verse 19 of Genesis 3, In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return to the ground. For out of it thou wast taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. Literally, Genesis 2. 17 can be rendered this way. In the day that thou eatest thereof, where it says, Thou shalt surely die, that phrase surely die, in the Hebrew literally means in dying you shall die. In dying you shall surely die. Did you notice that God said to Adam, In the day you eat thereof, you shall surely die? There was a death that second. And yet Adam lived another 900 some odd years What's the disconnect? No disconnect. He encountered an immediate spiritual death. He was spiritually dead in sins and trespasses Physically, still around. Physically, still walking. Physically, he can choose between the brown fig leaves or the green fig leaves, whatever suit he wants to wear to work the next day. He could do that. But he can't find his way back to God. Why? Because he's spiritually dead and it manifests itself, a guilty conscience, an accusing conscience. This is what we find uh from Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death, and we know about this. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. There's another place in Romans 1 I want to go to before we close out in our last um place here. We'll go back to Genesis 3. But in Romans 1, this Accusing nature that is part of the sinful state speaks is spoken of clearly here in Genesis 2. 14 as the apostles reasoning with this matter. He says when the Gentiles Genesis 21 Romans 2. 14 I'm looking at the word Gentiles when I said Genesis, and I'm actually in Romans 2. 14, thank you. Romans 2. 14. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law. These not having the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law in their hearts Their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. God doesn't believe in atheists. That's one of my favorite quotes from Ray Comfort. And all that they do proves the scriptures and the testimony of the Word of God to be absolutely accurate. They know inherently that it's wrong to steal. They know inherently that it's wrong to kill. I've wanted to have this discussion with an atheist. They go something like this. I see you brought your lunch today. Yes. Well you wouldn't mind if I took it because I I forgot to bring mine and I'm glad you brought yours because I'm hungry. Well no, you can't do that. Well why not? Who's to say I can't take it? On what basis? What moral basis would you say I can't take it? Because there's no right or wrong Right? Inherently he knows it would be wrong. He went through the labor and the work and the effort to make a lunch. If I were to take that phone, it would be unjust. We all have that sense. Same thing with lying. We like to lie, but we don't like to be lied to. You know, when the repairman says it's only going to cost $300, what? I got to replace the whole unit that's $800 I wouldn't have had you start if you'd told me. Up front? You don't like that. Oh, the car I can fix it for a few hundred dollars. Don't worry about it. And he gets into it. Oh man, really? Still more? Oh. We don't like it when people lie to us. Murder inherently is wrong. Adult, we all have that sense. God declares that. I've yet to find anybody that says, I don't mind if you steal from me. Sure, don't care. Not a big deal. Take whatever you want. Haven't found it. It doesn't exist. And their thoughts, the scripture says, they accuse others or they excuse themselves. I've known people, two people in particular, who worked as wardens in a jail. And their testimony is the same. They've never met a prisoner who honestly says, I belong in here. They all got an excuse. My lawyer this or whatever or man is a bum rapper. None of them own up to the to the fact that they actually belong in there Never mind the fact that an actual American jury of twelve of his so-called peers, who are typically liberal and are ready to release anybody, all voted with one accord, yea verily, you belong in jail. The worst of the worst. And what's even crazier still is there's still a sense of righteousness even in the prison. Because if you have a man put in prison who was a who was in there for child molestation Typically they have to put him in his own cell away from the others because the other prisoners will kill that guy. Even among them they have an honor system. You a child molester? Dude, that's w that's that no, that's not good. That's real bad. You real bad. You going down. When do they get so righteous and on such a great standard moral footing all of a sudden? In the meanwhile accusing or excusing one another. And lastly, Genesis 3. 22 The necessary result of this is that there was a change of residence. There was a change of residence Verse 22, the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become as one of us to know good and evil. And I'll explain that in a minute. And now lest he put forth his hand, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat and live forever. In other words, lest this sinful creature by his effort rescue, redeem, and save himself, lest salvation come by a fallen creature, that can't happen in the councils of heaven. Not a chance. Therefore, the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden to till the ground, to serve the ground, to be enslaved to the ground, from whence he was taken. So He drove out the man, and he placed at the east of the Garden of Eden cherubims, those are angels, and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life Several things I want to unpack here. Number one, the man has become as one of us. Does that mean God is sinful? No. Absolutely not. We've already covered that ground. Aren't you glad I covered that ground first? What does it mean is become as one of us? Well, obviously the one might be the God man, the Lord Jesus Christ. How did he become like Jesus Christ? Well, it was the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. They knew good. They didn't know evil. I think good and evil has something to do with everlasting life, everlasting damnation. They didn't want to know that. God had no purpose for them to know about that. But the Lord Jesus Christ was the one who came and endured eternal and everlasting punishment on your behalf and mine for the sins of his people that we might be redeemed to God. Man in his fallen state, are some people going to endure everlasting hell? Yes. Will they come out? Sadly? No. Because they're not perfectly righteous. Hell had no grip on Christ because he's perfectly righteous. Are there some that will know eternal and everlasting life? Praise to his glory. Yes, there will be some. That is the sense in which the Lord says he's become as one of us, like one of us. The word as implies like. He does not, he doesn't exactly become, we don't become gods, right? We become, we will see him like he is. Notice the other part, and I thought this was interesting, that the man was driven out of the garden, and God placed cherubims there. So there was a real garden of Eden. Don't look in the Middle East, we have no idea where it's at or where it could have been, because between that event and now was a global catastrophic flood that reshaped the face of this planet big time. And whatever the Garden of Eden would have had or would have been is all gone We're pumping oil out from the ground now. That's what's left of it. But what's interesting, I find, is that it almost doesn't matter what group or tribe or ethnicity of people you go to, they all depict angels looking like people but with wings. They all have that depiction. That's a very common depiction. It's not any other way. Why is that? I think it's because they saw them. They tried to go back. Hey, let's go back to the Garden of Eden. No, you can't. Why? Try. They go up, there's the angels. Standing there, guarding the way. You can't come back in. They would have seen them. Those angels were posted there all through that time, all the way up into the flood of Noah's day And God provided one more door for them to get into. And you enter into that door, and there's salvation in a brand new world. And that's what God did in the flood of Noah's day. And that door, if you can receive it, is Jesus Christ. You enter into that door. And there's salvation from a massive catastrophe coming. Questions, comments? Yeah, back to that verse that we were um kind of wrestling with. And the Lord Lord God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us Meaning to know good and evil. Yes, in that sense. Yes. And the word know means to experience. It's an experiential knowledge. He indeed is going to experience eternal life and eternal death. That was it. It was just a knowledge kind of thing. It was like man experiences. It's an experience. You're like you already labored in the beginning. God is pure, holy and good and And sin is just detestable in the sight, and you know. Well Isaiah 53. 11 says this, by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. Right. What is it that Jesus Christ did to justify many? It says by his knowledge. Well, he took upon him all of our sins. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? God forsook him. He actually endured evil. He went through the greatest evil that could come upon him. He's become as one of us to know good and evil. He's going to know something. He's going to learn something. For instance, you have Adam knew his wife Eve and she bore a son. Well he didn't just he didn't just know she was sitting there. There was an intimate relationship involved, right? by his knowledge. Even in the world we say this. Yeah, it's all that book knowledge, but until you actually do something, then you know it. Even we say that among ourselves, right? Right? That's what's going on there. Okay