Turn to your Bibles with me, please, to the Book of Psalms and the twenty-seventh Psalm. And as you're turning, let me first of all say Happy Father's Day to all of our fathers. And it's good to see a few visitors with us today that are visiting family for the Father's Day observance. Uh welcome, welcome. And we have one birthday today that we actually didn't mention. Uh Anton, happy birthday Our text this morning is going to be from the fourth verse of this psalm. But I'm going to read the entire psalm as we begin, and then on the back side of the notes we see, there's some other verses that we're going to consider as we begin to Seek the Lord's guidance and teaching as we consider this text. Psalm 27, and I'll read all 14 verses as we begin our time together. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. Though in hosts should encamp against me My heart shall not fear, though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock. And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy. I will sing, yea, I will sing praise unto the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When thou saidest, seek my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek Hide not thy face far from me. Put not thy servant away in thine anger. Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me, O God, of my salvation. When my father and my mother forsake me, then will the Lord take me up. Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain path because of mine enemies. Deliver me not over to the will of mine enemies, for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Let's bow for prayer. Our gracious God, our ever-loving Heavenly Father, now as we approach Thy Word, we come to this holy book. Realizing and understanding that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. And so, Father, if we are to understand anything within thy word today, if we are to gain any profit from it, it must be as thy spirit awakens the new man within us. And as thy spirit opens our ears to receive truth, and as thy spirit becomes the preacher, as thy spirit teaches truth to the hearts of thy people. And so, Father, we pray that you would open our hearts to receive your word and open your word unto our hearts. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In that fourth verse of Psalm twenty-seven, David declares that he has one desire And that one desire is to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of his life. We read the 23rd Psalm as our responsive reading. Today. And the last verse of the 23rd Psalm is, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. If you take your note sheet and flip it to the very back side, a staple in the Right hand top corner, all the verses there on the back deal with the house of the Lord. And it begins there with Psalm 27, 4, which is our text for this morning. And then the second one is Genesis 28, verses 16 and 17, where Jacob is leaving his own country because of the wrath of Esau. He has stolen Esau's birthright. And he lays down at night to sleep, and God gives him a vision of a ladder from the earth to the heaven, and the angels of God on that ladder coming down from heaven and reascending. And in verse 16 it says, And Jacob awake out of his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the house of God and the gate of heaven. And then the next thing on your sheet is when Solomon determines to build a tent the temple. And in verse 1 of 2 Chronicles chapter 2, Solomon determined to build an house. For the name of the Lord. And there highlighted in verse 6, he says, but who is able to build him a house? Seeing the heaven and heavens are cannot contain him. Who am I then that I should build an house save only to build to burn sacrifice unto him. And he says in that passage that our God is great. Therefore the house which we build must be great. And then the next passage is 2 Chronicles chapter 5, verses 13 and 14. And it came to pass as the trumpeters and singers were as one to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord. Then they lifted up their voices with the trumpet and the cymbals and instruments of music. And praised the Lord, saying, He is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Then the house was filled with a cloud Even the house of the Lord. So if the priest could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God. In John 2, Christ cleanses the temple of the money changers, and he says, You've made my house My father's house, a house of merchandise. In John 14, we have those beautiful comforting words. In my father's house are many mansions. And then Peter warns us of our behavior within the house of God. The time has come when judgment must begin at the house of God. And Hebrews tells us that Jesus is our high priest over the house of God. And then we've ended the sheet there with Psalm 23, which we've read. And so we have a disparate situation here. We have Jacob saying, This is the house of God right here at the foot of this ladder. We have Christ saying, I go to prepare a place for you, the house of God there. We have Solomon saying, I have built the house of God. We have David in the wilderness praying. I want to be in the house of God. And it seems through scripture that the house of God is scattered all over the place. So what is the unifying theme of the house of God? When David says in Psalm 24, or Psalm 27, verse 4 I want to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. What's the common thread? The commonality we find throughout Scripture In the references to the house of God, or the temple of God, or the tabernacle of the wilderness, or my father's house, heaven, it is the place where God dwells with his people. You see, God met Jacob on the plain when he saw the latter. God's presence came and filled the temple with a dedication. The temple that Christ cleansed was to be a place of worship, and man had made it a house of merchandise. And so Christ threw the money changers out. And Christ is left to prepare for us a place in heaven. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also And so that is the common thread that we find throughout these passages dealing with the house of God. Now, how does that relate? To Father's Day, because it is Father's Day. And how does all that funnel down by way of introduction to Psalm 274? Our English word house comes from an Old English root hus. It is a hus. And that word hus means a covering or a shelter, a place that is a refuge. Interestingly, our English word husband comes from the same root as our word house. A man and a woman come together, and the husband becomes the shelter, the refuge to the wife, and the two are joined together. And so when our translators of our King James Bible spoke of the house of God, they were using in 1611 that old root, hus The house of God is a shelter. It is a covering. And how often does David cry in the wilderness? Oh, to be in the sanctuary. Oh, to be in the house of God. To be in that place where I know that unbroken fellowship where God covers me And that fits our context here because David speaks in verses 5 and 6 of his enemies rising up against him, and he doesn't fear them, he doesn't worry about them Because he dwells in the house of the Lord all the days of his life. And so David says: one thing have I desired of the Lord. We don't know all the context of Psalm twenty-seven. Many of the Psalms tell us right in the t in the introduction to the Psalm that this is when David was in the wilderness or this is when a certain trial was taking place. Psalm 247 doesn't tell us that. A lot of the commentators think that was probably when Doeg was opposing David, but we really don't know. But what we do know is that he had enemies because he talks about them there. He had difficulties, he had problems And his desire is not to condemn the enemies, his desire is not to be wealthy, his desire is not anything else, but to dwell in the house of the Lord. And the first verse I've given you there on your sheet is Psalm 37, verse 4, in your notes: Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. Now when I was a a a teenager and a young man, I used to think of that verse that, you know what, if I delight in the Lord, the Lord's gonna give me whatever I want. But that's not what the verse is saying You see, the man who truly delights himself in the Lord will want what the Lord wants. And the man who truly delights himself in the Lord, the Lord will give him the desires of his heart. The Lord will give him a desire for good things. You see, any righteous desire can be put into a prayer. And anything you can't put into prayer isn't a righteous desire. It's a good litmus test for your lives. Fathers, what do you desire? What are you after? Better job, bigger house, nicer car, toys You see, the world is seeking after all these things, and today on Father's Day, there are fathers all over the place at car shows and boat shows and all these different things But what do you desire? David says one thing of my desire to the Lord, and that will I seek after. And why is it important? Because the day came when God said to Solomon, David's son, What do you want? Solomon, son of David, what do you desire above everything else? Solomon didn't say I want wealth. He didn't say I want recognition. Want triumph over my enemies. Solomon said, I want wisdom to lead the people of God. You see, because David the Father had learned godly desires, his son walked in his footsteps. Then it's important what we desire. It's important what we want. It's important the testimony that our children see if they see us as always greedy for the next thing. And always grabbing for the things of this earth. Our children will follow that example. But Solomon had seen in his father a godly desire. And so Solomon, there in 2 Chronicles 1, verses 17 through 7 through 12, he desires wisdom. And I'm giving you these sheets because We don't have time to go into all these passages, but hopefully during the week you can study that out further. He says, one thing have I desired in the Lord, and that will I seek after Question again, men. What are you seeking? What is the most important thing to you? What are you spending your energy on? What is the ultimate goal of your life? What motivates you? What gets you out of bed in the morning? As we say. In Ecclesiastes 5, verses 10 through 11, Solomon says, He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. Nor he that loveth abundance with increase, this is also vanity. When goods increase, then are they increased that eat them And what good is there to the owners thereof, saving, beholding them with their eyes? And then I've also given you there Ecclesiastes 6, verse 7, all the labor of a man is but It's for its mouth and yet its appetite is not filled. I think we understand that, don't we? Boy you eat donuts and donuts and donuts, but you still want more donuts. You you gobble all the things of this world with all the energies of your life, and they will never satisfy No rich man ever has enough. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, because where your treasure is, there will your heart be also But we find, and this is also on your sheet, that Solomon despaired of all his labors. Look there with me in Ecclesiastes 2, verse 11, and then verses 17 through 20. It's on your sheet. Solomon says, Then I looked at all the works that my hands had wrought, and all the labors I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. Verse 17, therefore I hated life, because the work that I wrought under the sun is grievous to me. For all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Yea, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun, because I should leave it unto a man that should be after me And who knoweth whether he shall be wise or a fool? I love that line. Yet shall he have rule over all my labors. You know what that sounds like to me? Sounds like a midlife crisis, doesn't it? It sounds like Solomon has been really busy and realized that all he was doing was a waste of time. Midlife crisis. Don't you hear that phrase a lot? I think Solomon is about ready to get a new job, to buy a shiny red, six-horsepower chariot. And to get wife one thousand and one. Because that's how they describe a midlife crisis. A man quits his job, he gets his a sports car, and he leaves his wife. You see, that is what comes of a man who seeks the things of this world. But here we have a father who's saying one thing of our desire to the Lord. That's what I'm going to seek after. That's what I'm going to pursue. That's what is going to make my life matter. I'm going to seek for the things of God. 1 Chronicles 16, verses 10 and 11. Glory in His holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord in his strength, seek his face continually. You see the contrast there between what Solomon was saying about all of his works and all of his labors Hebrews 11, verse 6, but without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. What reward are you looking for? You can get a beautiful big boat, but it will sink like the Titanic. You can get a beautiful car. Boy, I'd love to have my first car back. My first car was a 1963 Impala Convertible Supersport. Wow! Powerful! Loud! Rust. Rust. What shall it proper a man? Isaiah 55 Ho everyone that cur that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come ye buy and eat, yea, come by wine and milk without money, without price. Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which satisfieth not? Hearken diligently unto me, Isaiah says, and eat that which is good. And let your soul delight itself in fatness. And you know what fatness Isaiah is talking about? He's talking about one that has gorged himself on spiritual truth. He's talking about one who is fat with the blessings of God. Oh, not a fat bank account. Not a fat reputation, not the latest of the latest of the greatest. The one who is so blessed by God, his soul is fat. With the goodness of God. What are you seeking after? What do you desire? It is the Lord that satisfieth our mouth with good things. And so he describes his one desire this way, one thing about desire to the Lord, that will I seek after. That I might dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. And it's beautiful here that he says all the days of his life because Christ went to prepare a place for us, that's after our life. But David said, I'm not waiting to dwell in that fellowship and that union and that communion with God until I'm dead. I want it now. I desire every day to live in that sweet fellowship with God, to dwell in that place of union with Him. Psalm 65, verse 4: Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and causeest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts. There's not many men today in our world that desire to live all the days of their life in the house of the Lord. Brethren, friends, ladies too, but it's Father's Day, so we're addressing the men, but ladies too. If you desire to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of your life, That's not the desire of the old man. You know the old the old saying you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink And a few dogs will eat salad, but it's kind of hard to get your dog to eat salad. Why? Because it's not in his nature. But oh my friends, if you desire to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of your life, that's not a desire of the old man. That's a desire of someone who has been made a new creature in Christ. Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and causeest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts. He shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house. Even my holy temple. There's not a concern there for satisfaction with the things of this world. I sold cars for a while. And you had a lot of dissatisfied customers. A lot of buyer's remorse. You get a call two days later from somebody and And I saw several times where someone came in two, three days after they bought a brand new car with their brand new car and they traded it. And lost three, four thousand dollars in the deal because I really wish I had gotten green instead of blue. I really wish I had gotten the LT instead of the L S or the LTZ instead of the LT. There's never enough. It's never good enough. But here we find a man whose desire is to dwell in the place where God dwells. To dwell in the place where God fellowships with his people. And so I've given you there on your sheet, where is the house of the Lord? And we we covered this in the introduction, but I want you to consider the passage again We talked about John 14, too. In Psalm 11, verse 4, the Lord is his holy temple. His throne is in heaven. You see, I live on this earth today, and yet my heart is in heaven. My heart I pray daily. Is in fellowship with God. And so the house of the Lord is in heaven, but the house of the Lord is on earth as well. And we can dwell there every day. Anybody ever have problems? Ever have a bad day? I don't see any hands. Bunch of liars. There we go. There we go. We all have terrible days. When we come home, we say, what a terrible day. I wish the day was over, but it's not midnight yet. And tomorrow may be worse. You know what David had terrible days too. David had days in the wilderness. David had days that were just rotten days. Days he liked to throw away and forget about. But dear friends, it's possible to dwell in the house of the Lord, even in those days. To dwell in that blessing. To dwell in that fellowship, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord. The house of the Lord is in heaven, but the house of the Lord is also here on earth, where God meets daily with his people. And so in Psalm 42, verses 1 and 2, David said, As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so my soul panteth after thee, O my God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come? and appear before him. One thing about desire to the Lord, that will I seek after That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord. I love beauty. I love beautiful things and beautiful places. God has blessed me to have I mentioned last Sunday when we had our missionary Gary Johnson with us that that hymn from Greenland's Icy Mountains has that phrase, where every prospect pleases, and only man is vile. I used to drive across Jamaica and along the coast and just see the beautiful creation of God. And then I would go scuba diving and I would see beauty fish of every color, the rainbow. Glorious things that my God has made. I've seen the Grand Canyon and Yellowstone, Glacier National Park, and Geyser National Park. The Grand Tetons, the Painted Desert. Beautiful, beautiful things. Have you ever looked at your wife and She's beautiful. How'd she end up with me? Did you ever hold your firstborn child and look at this tiny little life And say this is beautiful. Oh how beautiful this is. How glorious Can't ever watch your your son kind of clumsy and gangly as a eight, nine, ten-year-old And then one day he steps up to a plate and knocks a ball out of the park. He sounds beautiful. Did you see my son knocked that thing way out of here? Did you ever listen to your child on a violin? And I'm not picking on anybody, I know we have some folks in the church that play violin, but listen to the squeaking of the horrible noise. And you think, will it ever end? But then one day they're in the room and you hear beautiful music coming out. Oh that's beautiful. Did you ever watch a 9, 10, 11, 12 year old girl, a little bit awkward, a little bit shy, and then one morning You look at them and they've just blossomed into beauty. And you think I need a baseball bat because the guys are coming! It's beauty! Beautiful things! And we love beautiful things. But what is more beautiful than the glory of the Lord? One thing, not multitudes, not what every other man in the world is seeking, one thing if I desire to the Lord, and I'm going to set my heart to seek after it with all of my heart. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, because in the house of the Lord I behold the beauty of the Lord. And there is nothing more beautiful. There is nothing more glorious because God created me in Adam that I might fellowship with him. That I might know communion with him and Adam before the fall walked with God and talked with God in the cool of the garden I was created for this purpose. And the house of God is the place where God meets with his people. The Garden of Eden was the house of God. But because of sin, Adam and Eve were cast out of the garden, and that fellowship was broken. Man was separated from God by his sin. But the child of God, redeemed and restored, can dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of his life, and there he beholds the beauty of the Lord. And it's far more beautiful than anything we can imagine on earth. Even our wives and our children. Help beautiful. Beautiful that is. Amen. You see, if you give up the desires of this world for the desires of the house of God, there you won't have a midlife crisis. There you won't be full of junk and empty of Him. But there the beauty and glory of God will fill and thrill your soul. And it won't matter if you live in a shack or a mansion. It won't let matter if you walk or drive a Lamborghini. There is satisfaction. There is beauty. To behold the beauty of the Lord. That word beauty we have there in a verse basically means delightfulness Behold, the delightfulness of the Lord. Delight thyself in the Lord, remember we saw earlier, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. It all fits together. It's all one unity. Psalm 84, verses 1 through 10, how amiable were how beautiful were thy courts, O Lord. Verse 4, Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, they shall still be praising thee. Verse 10 of Psalm 84, for a day in thy courts are better than a thousand, a day in the courts of the Lord, fellowship with God are better than a thousand anywhere else. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of righteousness. Or of wickedness, to dwell in the tents of wickedness. And so David desires one thing, and that one thing is to dwell in the house of the Lord, that he may behold the glory of the Lord. Remember what Christ prayed for his disciples in John 17, verse 4. Father, I will that they also whom thou giveth me may be with me where I am, may be in that fellowship, may dwell with me, may be with me where I am. That they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me, for thou hast loved me When I was a kid we used to sing that old song, When I've gone the last mile of the way, I will rest at the close of the day. I shall see the great king in his beauty When I've gone the last mile of the way. And that song actually comes from Isaiah 33, verse 17: Thine eye shall see the king in his beauty. But there's one thing more in our text for this morning. One thing of my desire to the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. And that inquiring in his temple doesn't mean we're always gimme, gimme, gimme. It's not talking about us always asking God for something more because if we're To this point in the text, God has changed our desires to be his own desires. But to inquire means to seek It means to search. That word is only used seven times in our Bible. And I've given you there on the sheet Ezekiel 34, because Ezekiel 34 best explains to us what he's saying there. Ezekiel 34, verses 11 and 12. For thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I even I will both search my sheep and seek them out. That's the same word as David used. As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered, so will I seek out, same word, my sheep. And will deliver them out of all places whither they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. You see, to inquire at his temple is to seek the Lord constantly To always be searching for him. Oh my God, where are you? Oh my God. Who are you? Oh my God, how can I know you? How can I be conformed to your image? How can I be found well pleasing in thy sight Lord, what would you have me to do today? Lord, how can I raise these sons and daughters that you've given me? Lord, how can I train them in the right way? How could I be more devoted? Oh my God, I seek thee and I seek thee early, morning and evening and at noon will I pray and cry aloud and my voice shall be heard. Oh God, I desire to dwell in your house all the day that I may see your beauty and that I may be constantly inquiring of my God, being more conformed to the image of Christ, being less of Adam and more of him. Ah, brethren, friends, if this is our desire, God will fill it. He's the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. If this is the aim of our lives, how different our lives will be, how different we'll treat our wives, how different the raising of our children will be, how different our congregation will be. If God's people truly seek the Lord, seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, for he will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. What are you seeking? The stand for prayer Father, bless your word and your truth to our hearts this day. Father, may you truly give us godly desires. May you bless the fathers of our congregation. O Lord, make us godly men, that we may stand in the gap for our children, that we may stand in the gap for our wives and our families. That we may be the testimony we should be for thee. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.