It is a great privilege to open God's Word to go this morning. Let us turn to the book of Jude. We have not been in our Jude study for the last few weeks. So we're returning to the book of Jude this morning. And for our scriptur reading, I'll read verses 8 through 11. The eighth through the eleventh verse of Jude We sometimes say Jude chapter 1, but there is no Jude chapter 2, just one chapter in this glorious book. Verse eight. Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh Despise dominions, and speak evil of dignities. Yet Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses Durst not bring against him railing accusations, but said, The Lord rebuke thee But these speak evil of things which they know not, but what they know naturally as brute beast, and those things they corrupt themselves. Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward. And perished in the gain-saying of Korah. Let us pray as we approach God's Word. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We thank you that all Scripture is given by the inspiration of God and is profitable. And so, Father, it is our prayer this morning that you would make these words inspired by thee profitable to the hearts of your people. Father, I thank you that I have nothing inspired to say and can claim no inspiration. Therefore, any blessing that may come forth through the message today cannot come from me. It must come from your Spirit. And so, Father, may your Spirit be the preacher today. May your Spirit open the word of truth to our hearts and bring to our minds those things which would be edifying to our souls. And in all things may Christ have the preeminence May your people see the glory of your word and Christ in the Word. And may we be totally unaware of human instrumentality or voices. Bless your people in your word today, we pray. Guide us into all truth. Instruct us in righteousness. Warn us of false prophets. Equip us to stand against the wiles of the devil. Enable us to resist the devil that he may flee. Free us from our own sinful pride and arrogance. Let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. Bless your truth to our hearts. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Very, very brief review, less than a moment. But if you look up to verses three and four of the chapter, we find the purpose for the writing of this book of Jude. Beloved verse 3, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and to exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints, for there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old, ordained this condemnation Ungodly men turning the grace of our Lord into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord and our Lord, only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Jude wrote this book because there were men crept in unawares. There were wolves in the sheepfold. Or as they used to say in North Carolina where most of my family originated before we moved to Maryland during the Depression, there's a fox in the hen house. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. And so Jude wrote this book that we would earnestly contend for the faith. Because there are wolves among the sheep, there are men crept in unaware. And so we come Through the first few verses, and we find the example of the children of Israel in verse 5 who rebelled against God's truth, would not submit themselves to God or God's ordained leaders, and they perished in the wilderness because when God said go into the land of Canaan, they did not believe that God would give them the land. And then in verse 6 we have the example of the angels which fell who also rebelled against God's ordained order. They rebelled against God's government. They rebelled against God's law. They wanted to be as gods. And so when Lucifer fell, they fell with him. And receive just judgment. They're reserved judgment. And then in verse 7, we find Sodom and Gomorrah And what was the case with Sodom and Gomorrah? Well, they as well rebelled against God's order, for God created man, male and female, and God said, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. But they did not like God's order. They would not submit to God's rule. And so they received just condemnation. And so we have the Foundation laid by Jew that this book is to warn us because there are evil men crept in unaware And he gives us these three examples of those which were exposed to the truth, but did not believe the truth. And then he says, likewise, verse 8. Likewise. And that word likewise is of course a connecting word. It ties verse 8 back to everything we see in verses 3 and 4 and the exposition of verse 5, 6, and 7. Likewise, these filthy dreamers, these evil men crept in unaware, these filthy dreamers Defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. These filthy dreamers. You'll notice the word filthy there is italicized In other words, it is added into our English text to make the text more understandable or to flow clearly, but that does not mean that it was an arbitrary insertion of man. Rather it means there is a concept in the original that they could not fully express because of the change from language to language. So they use this word filthy It is a word which means polluted. It is a word which means corrupted. It is a word which tells us that their dreaming is other than the command of God. Thus saith the Lord. But on the other hand, they are filthy dreamers. They imagine things which are not. They come up with new ideas and new concepts. They're always seeking new forms of evil, as we saw with the men of Sodom. Who even wanted to commit evil with two angels that showed up in their city. These or those who, like the fallen angels, could not accept God's authority. And they said, We will be like gods. And they fell Or like the children of Israel who said, Is the Lord able, you brought us into the wilderness that we might perish with hunger? You see, man is always seeking some new idea or some new revelation. And so they're called filthy dreamers. These men crept in unaware, bring in their own human concepts and ideas their own dreams, which Solomon warned us that a dream can come by much business But they bring in their own dreams and they come in and they try to corrupt the purity of the body of Christ. They're filthy dreamers. It's a good term. that is used to describe them. These filthy dreamers will tell you of their vision of a 900-foot Jesus that appeared to them and told them what to do. These filthy dreamers will tell you about a pair of g of spectacles that were given to them to read golden plates. They can't produce the golden plates, but they wrote down what they said, and you have the Book of Mormon. You see, these filthy dreamers attempt to add to the completed revelation of God. They come in, and their whole purpose is of Satan to bring corruption into the body of Christ. The Word of God warns us about lying prophets. And we find in Scripture that those that would not believe the truth, those that would not accept God's revelation, God would send them a strong delusion. In other words, their deception would come upon them as judgment from God because they would not receive the truth. And we find that with the children of Israel in the wilderness. The men of Sodom thought they were doing well. And even the angels that fell, these three illustrations that are giving them fit into every one of the things we're going to consider here. But remember God's judgment on wicked Ahab, when God Himself sent lying spirits to Ahab in 1 Kings chapter 22. Lying spirits to deceive them. You see, when men will not submit themselves to the truth of God, they subject themselves to all manner of evil. And the iniquity of man It's getting better and better, isn't it? No, it's waxing. Worse and worse. That waxing is an old term of the candle that you would dip it in the hot wax and pull it out and it's a little bit fatter. And you dip it in the hot wax and pull it out again, it's a little bit fatter. And every time you dip the candle, it gets larger and larger and larger. And man goes about his life adding to his iniquity day by day, piling more and more sin upon his back. And adding it to his account. And these filthy dreamers these filthy dreamers, Judas warning us are crept in unawares into the church, and they bring with them new doctrines and new revelations and new dreams and new filthiness that they add on. To the point where there are denominations today that are ordaining the sodomites. Let them be our priests. And there are whole churches today that they will not read the Word of God, they have another revelation that they read. And may I say that there are other churches that will claim to read the Word of God, and yet the very word they're reading is not the Word of God. It is man's corruption. It is a filthy dream. Brought in unaware by the corrupters and put forth as the Word of God. It's a substitute for the Word of God And so, likewise, these filthy dreamers were to be aware of them. And what is it that we read of them? Well, they defile the flesh. And I don't intend to spend a lot of time on this point. But we all have heard again and again and again some big name in religious circles, I don't say in the church. But I say in religious circles, some big name that has fallen into sexual immorality again and again and again. And I would not dare to say that a faithful man cannot fall. But I would say to you that these big names that end up in sexual immorality Were they believers in the first place? Or will they were they filthy dreamers crept in unaware? For such iniquity taking place under the guise of a man of God Filthy demon for demers. You're probably four leads of your Bible away from 2 Peter chapter 2. And you remember that 2 Peter 2 is the parallel passage to the book of Jude. So flip back to 2 Peter 2 and let me read there Peter's description of this same text. In 2 Peter 2 and verse 9, the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the de unto the day of judgment to be punished. But chiefly them that walked after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness and despise government Presumptuous they are and self-willed. They're not afraid to speak evil of dignities, having eyes full of adultery. What an apt description Peter gives us in the parallel of these filthy dreamers who defile the flesh. And bring into reproach the name of Christ. For they have claimed the name of Christ, and yet they are as evil and corrupt indeed. They're crept in unawares. They're filthy dreamers, and were warned of them. In Romans 1, Paul said, Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts. to dishonor their own bodies among themselves, who train change the truth of God into a lie. And worship and serve the creature more than the creator. But also we find that these false prophets despise dominion. They despise dominion. They rebel against God's order and government. What do we see with the children of Israel in the wilderness? Well, they rebelled against God's government. They rebelled against God's order. They did not want to follow God's law. And in verse eleven we have the example of Kor or Korah from the Old Testament. What was his story? Well he led a rebellion against Moses and Aaron, and he offered strange fire before God, not the fire of the incense that God had ordained, but his own fire, and the earth opened up and swallowed him And the priests that followed him, and not them alone, but their wives and their children and all that they had. Well, these false prophets despise dominion. They rebel against God's solemn rule. They despise God's dominion over his creation. What do we see in verse 5? Well the angels, verse 6 to 2, the angels which fell, they despised God's rule God can establish his rule, but we will be like God. They despise dominion The word dominion there in Jude 1 and verse 8 is the exact same word government that we find in 2 Peter 2, verse 10. That he spies government. Nobody's the boss of me. Nobody's going to rule over me. No one's going to tell me what to do. If I want to say I have a new revelation, who is God to say that those that add to this book, the curses of the book will be added to them. See, that's the mindset. If I want to make a golden calf and say, these be the gods that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, Then that's the way I will worship. If I don't want to assemble with a faithful body of believers, I will just walk in the woods, and that will be my church I will worship. You see, there are all kinds of inventions and ways in which man has said, I will not have the rule of God. I despise his government over me. And yet, those thoughts and those concepts had become mainstream in the churches of today. We will worship God the way we want. We will do what we want to do. This word dominion that we find in these two verses is only found four times in our New Testament. Three times it's translated dominion, as it is here. One time translated government, as it is in 2 Peter chapter 2. The other two times we find it are in Ephesians 1 verse 20, where God the Father said has set Jesus at his own right hand in heavenly places far above principalities and powers and might and dominion. and every name that is named. And then again in Colossians 1, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of his Son, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature For by him are all things created in heaven and in earth, visible and invisible, whether be thrones or dominions. So we see in all four times this word that's used, it's talking about things in the spiritual realm. It's talking about God's dominion, God's rule. And we're going to talk a little bit about civil government later on But these are terms that are applied to God's rule. And the examples we give them are men that rebelled against God's rule. You see, it's not that man is rebelling against man. It's that man is in rebellion against God. That's the problem. If man would submit himself to God, he would have no problem submitting himself to man's authority as well. But man is in rebellion against God. And that is what these filthy dreamers Likewise have brought in to the church. They've despised dominion. They've rebelled against God's rule. In Luke 15, we have the parable of the nobleman that goes into a far country and he leaves his affairs to the charge of his servants. And his servant says, We will not have this man to rule over us. That's exactly what James is warning of us here For the church today says we're not going to have God to rule over us. We're going to order our church the way we want to order our church. That's what the angels said. It's what Israel said in the wilderness. It's what the men of Sodom said as well. We will not have God to rule over us. And so consider the contemporary manifestations of this rebellion against God. I've already touched on some of them, but I want to go through them quickly. First of all, Apostle so-and-so. Watch out. Who's going to preach here today? God's Word very clearly gives us the qualifications of an apostle. An apostle, first of all, had to be personally chosen by Jesus Christ. An apostle had to be an eyewitness of the resurrection, and an apostle's ministry had to be confirmed by miracles, by the work of the Holy Spirit. And some people add to that that they had to be personal students of Jesus Christ, the fourth one, and I can agree with the fourth one as well. But let me let me tell you something, folks, there's not a man living today who can meet the qualifications of an apostle. So as soon as someone puts apostle so-and-so in front of their name, beware, Judas telling us. They're crept in unaware. And it's very likely that their sexual perversions are going to come out before long. That's right. Because they're false prophets. And typically the apostles are going to have for you some new revelation that you can't find anywhere else. Now, in business, that's a good thing. In business, you want to be the only store on the block that has a certain widget. But in the truth of God it's all here, it's all settled, and I have nothing new to say to you today. Because it's all right here. And by God's grace, I'll try to find some edification for you, but I can't do that. I can't edify you. Only the Spirit of God can edify you. And if God ordains to use the words of a foolish preacher to further those means, hallelujah, praise the Lord and not the preacher. Because it has nothing to do with the preacher. Christ told the disciples, feed my sheep. But what did the disciples have with which to feed the sheep? This and nothing else. This and nothing else. I don't need that, that's fine. Thank you. And so we're warned by Christ in Mark thirteen of false Christs and false prophets. For false Christs and false prophets shall arise and show signs and wonders, and to to seduce, if it were possible, even the very elect These false prophets, these filthy dreamers, add to or alter the revelation of God, the completed revelation of God. And I've already touched on this. They've got some new dream. or some new vision, or even some new version, or some new translation, or some new idea. And um It's not our topic for today, but there are Bibles that are now being printed for specific religious groups that will change specific verses that don't agree with the specific doctrines of these religious groups So let's let's take this a step further. I like to drive fast. So I have my set of laws and my set of speed limits. And you have your set of laws and your set of speed limits. And we have a great crash in the middle. There's one word of God. And it's established. But you see, when Evil men and seducers begin to come into the church and make their own little alterations and their own little changes and their own little adjustments. It breaks down the Word of God. So you do not have anything solid Or unchangeable or forever settled in heaven. These false prophets redefine truth And doctrine. They redefine it. They give truth a new definition. And we end up with salvation that is not by grace through faith But rather, it's through my own deeds. It's through my own works. If I do this or do that, now I have a way to heaven. One of the very popular ones today is to deny eternal hell. A loving God would not send someone to hell forever. But God's word says a loving God is also a just and righteous God who cannot tolerate sin. And therefore God will judge sin forever. They promote the will of man over the sovereignty of God. You see, a spirit that says God's not going to tell me what to do will also eventually say, I can tell God if I want to be saved. And I can tell him I don't want to be saved. And I can tell him when I want to be saved. They preach universalism. Well, everybody will be saved eventually. They redefine the nature of worship. They redefine the nature of worship. You see, I mentioned already those that say, well I just go out in the woods and I worship. God's word defines for us worship. Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. But today we have churches that are full of drama, but have a little play. But God's chosen the foolishness of preaching. You see how deceptive these things are. I enjoy drama. It's entertaining. But God has chosen the foolishness of preaching. And so the church must be aware that these things are always coming in. They substitute man's wisdom for the preaching of the word of God. Rather than the preaching of God's word, they have psychology. Pep talks, motivational seminars that are called the preaching of the Word of God. They substitute emotion for the work of the Holy Spirit. They substitute fleshly music for Psalms, hymns, and spiritual want psalms. They redefine the qualification for ministry. We today are recognizing our mothers and we're thankful for them. And no church is complete without a group of godly women. that are fulfilling the role that God has given them joyfully. We need them. But God has not ordained for women to usurp authority over a man in the pulpit. That's right. I remember in in Jamaica, there was a lady on TV talking about how wonderful it was that that the the women were so liberated and they could do this and they could do this and they could do this and they said I and we can even pastor our church. My one question is this: who gave you permission? Who changed the rules? Who changed the law? You see, they redefine doctrine to fit their own thinking. And I actually heard a vi I saw a video from this individual who was saying that the sin of Sodom was not sodomy, but rather the sin of Sodom was that they were not hospitable. That God judged Sodom because they didn't welcome these angels that came in. They weren't hospitable until God judged them. Men crept in unaware. And so these they despise government. They will not say, Thus saith the Lord, and we have no business to try to change it. They will not say, thus saith the Lord, and we must accept it as it's written. They will not submit themselves unto the law of God. And Paul gives us a great example of this in Acts chapter 13. I'm going to have you turn over there briefly. In Acts chapter 13. In verse six I appreciate Gabriel's work. He had that up on the screen, I'm sure, long before you got three pages into your turning. Acts 13 and verse 6. And when they had gone through the Isle of Pathmas, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew. whose name was Bar Jesus. Okay, look at the way that Paul describes him here. He's a sorcerer. In other words, the source of his spirit is not the spirit of God. He's getting his information from someplace else. He is a false prophet. He is Telling things, whether they be telling things current or telling things to come, whatever means of prophecy he's engaged in, but it's false It is not true. It is not thus, saith the Lord. And he's a Jew. He is part of the religious company. Okay, that's the way he's described. Verse 7, which was deputy of the uh his name was Bar Jesus, which was deputy of the country, um, which was with the deputy of the country, Sergis Paulus. Okay, no, Sergis Paulus is the deputy. He is the civil authority. A prudent man Who called for Barnabas and Saul and desired to hear the word of God. The word of God was to be preached This man was hungry for the word of God. What does Satan hate more than the Word of God? The first words recorded by Satan in the Word of God are God has not said He said to quote it, ye shall not surely die. Satan from the very beginning has contradicted the word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, and Satan hates. The Word of God. And so here we have a false prophet, a sorcerer, and we have a man who's hungry for truth. Verse 8. But Elamis, the sorcerer, for that is his name by interpretation, withstood them seeking to turn the deputy away from the faith. Now, the false prophets of our day would claim that they're trying to turn men to the faith. But what they're turning men to is a substitute faith. It is an other faith. It is anything. But repentance before Christ. Verse 9. Then Saul, who is called Paul, this is very early in Saul Paul's ministry. Then Saul, who was was called also called Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, look at the source of his information. Compare that with the false prophet who's a sorcerer. Filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him and said, Oh fool, oh fool of all subtlety, not full of truth. Not full of grace, full of all subtlety and mischief, thou child of the devil Thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? Now, this is what Jews warning us about. Remember we began in our introduction by reviewing the purpose of the writing of this book of Jude. Jude is warning us. Now this Elemus or Elamis or Sergius Paulus, it's pretty blatant what he's doing. But it's not always that clear. Satan is very subtle. Eve shows no fear of the serpent in the garden. They're crept in openly? No. They're crept in unawares. And then we find that these false prophets speak evil of dignities. Remember again that Israel murmured in the wilderness. And we find in Exodus 16, in their complaining against Moses and Aaron, God says they're not complaining against Moses and Aaron, they're complaining against me. And we remember in 1 Samuel when the children of Israel come to Samuel and they want a king, and God says to Samuel, They have not rejected you, they've rejected me. You see, their rebellion is not against man, their rebellion is against God. And so looking again at our text in Jude chapter 1. Verse 8. Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring railing accusation against him, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. But these speak evil of those things which they know not, but what they know naturally as brute beasts in those things, they corrupt themselves. I doubt that any of you regularly watch the false prophets on TV. But I would would venture to say that probably most of you have seen at some time or another, one of them rebuking the devil. Michael the Archangel wouldn't do that. He would not dare. But these speak evil of dignities. These speak evil of things they know not. Turn over to the parallel in 2 Peter 2. Again, probably just three or four pages of your Bible from where we are in Jude. 2 Peter chapter 2, and I'll start reading in verse 9 again. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust to the day of judgment to be punished But chiefly them that walk after their flesh in the lust of uncleanness despise governments, presumptuous they are, and self-willed. They are not afraid to speak evil of dignities, whereas angels which are greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord, but these as natural brute beasts made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of things that they understand not, and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. And so what is being spoken of here in Jude 1 and in 2 Peter 2, in speaking evil of dignities They speak evil of the spiritual powers. Remember, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. They speak evil of things that they don't understand. We'll cast out that soul demon that's making your back hurt. We'll cast out that unseen thing. We're gonna cast out the demon of your poverty today. We're gonna make you all rich right here and now. But you gotta put down your deposit to get it. And even even when I was a child, we used to sing a little song I've got the joy, joy, joy, joy down in my heart. But then one of the choruses says, and if the devil doesn't like it, he can sit on the tack. And I sang it as a child innocently, but I've come to realize, folks, we don't mess around with things we don't understand. Satan's a great deceiver. He wants to casualize the terrifying. He wants to familiarize the people of God with evil. And in a lot of these quote-unquote charismatic services, they talk far more about the devil than they do about the Lord. Because we have power over him, and we're gonna cast him out. We're gonna throw him away. But brother, that word that's translated dignities in Jude 1 and in 2 Peter 2. is only translated dignities in those two places. And it's glorious. It's exciting to see what we have here. Because that word dignities in Jude 1 and in 2 Peter 2 is the word glory. It's translated glory 146 times. It's translated glorious another ten times. It's translated honor, I believe, six or seven times. And it's only found 186 times total in our New Testament. Let me share with you some of the times we find that word. Matthew 25, 31. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory. And all the holy angels with him, and shall sit upon the throne of his glory. It's the same word that we have translated dignities here. And again, glory to God in the highest. It's the same word. And again in John 1. 14, and we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. In John 5. 41, I receive not honor from men. I receive not glory from men. Where's Christ's honor and glory come from? It comes from God the Father and not from men And then just before our passage in 2 Peter 2, in 2 Peter 1, Peter uses this word when he says, For he received from God the Father honor and glory. And I think Second Peter uses the word like four or five times, but it's always glory or honor in Second Peter. And so why does it say dignities here? Because the godly men that translated our New Testament came to this word in Jude and in 2 Peter 2. And they had seen this word throughout the New Testament. And it's always applied to the honor and glory due to God the Father. to God the Son, and in a few cases it's applied to angels. We find the same word when it says, Yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. It's the same word But it's always given to those to whom honor is due, but they find that word here applied to the evil spirits. And they said, they're not due that honor, that glory. And so in these two instances, they translated dignities. And what they're showing us here is this these false prophets who are evil, they're filthy dreamers, and they will not accept the dominion of God. And they're perverted in the flesh. These speak casually of things you don't understand. They speak casually of evil forces and of Satan. And yet Michael, he wouldn't do that. The archangel would not speak evil of these dignities, but they would not refer to them in the same way they referred to the glory of God. You see, God is holy. But there is unholy in this world. For Satan rebelled against God. And he led with him a company of angels, and we're not to speak lightly of them. It is not our power just to casually say, Come out, because that was given to the Apostles. And remember, we saw the qualification of the apostles, that the spirits will be subject to them. But I don't have the power to cast out a demon. We don't do exorcisms. Those things belong to God. But you see, when Men who call themselves men of God begin to stray away from the sound teaching of God's word, and they bring in their filthy dreams, and they begin to alter their doctrines. They come down to the point Whereas brute beasts that are only fit to be slaughtered, they begin to speak of things they don't understand. May God keep us pure. But how does this relate to civil authorities? We read this morning from the Belgian Confession, and it's interesting, it's 1561 for the Belgian Confession, long before the Westminster Confession. which is uh w another one of our standards of standards of of doctrine. But what does that mean? Because these these two verses are not specifically referring to civil authorities, but rather spiritual authorities, can we do what we want to do? Well, absolutely not. In Acts 23, we find the best example where Paul rebukes the chief priest. You see, Paul's been out of the scribes and Pharisees and the chief circle for a while. He doesn't even know who the chief priest is at this point. And Paul rebukes him. And Paul is confronted with the fact. And Paul refers back to Exodus chapter 22, verse 29. Curse not the revile not the gods, nor curse the rulers of the people. And Paul immediately says, I wist not, brethren, that this was the high priest, for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people. Let every man be subject to the higher powers, for the powers that be are ordained of God. I just kind of say this as a side point because these two verses are not telling us we have pe the freedom to Rebuke our civil authorities, but not God's authority, or not spiritual authority. We're to be in subjected to the higher powers as well. But these two verses are speaking specifically about these false prophets who likewise speak evil of things they have no idea what they're talking about. They speak evil of dignities. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. We wrestle against them. But be careful, folks, because these things are very, very deceptive. Submit yourselves therefore unto God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. We resist him, but we don't play around with him. Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary the devil is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking who he may devour, whom you resist steadfast in the faith. Not steadfast in the flesh. Steadfast in the flesh, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren which are in the world. Now we read verses 8 through 11 this morning for our scripture reading. In conclusion, I want to go to verse 11 Which illustrates for us exactly what the teaching is of verse 8 and what we've seen in the passage thus far. Verse 11 of Jude 1, excuse me. Woe unto them That word woe is an important word in Scripture. It's a word which means condemnation's coming. Look out. Careful. Woe unto them. For they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gain-saying of Kor. And I love the the parallelism. They've they have gone in the way. They ran greedily and they've perished. Cain tried to find favor with God apart from God's command. It is not recorded for us in Scripture, but we know that before it was recorded, Abraham knew of the sacrifice. And Abraham brought the sacrifice. And Abraham taught his children to sacrifice. And Abel brought a lamb for sacrifice, but Cain brought of the work of his own hands. What did Cain do? He despised governments. He rebelled against the command of God, just as Israel in the wilderness, just as the angels that fell, just as Sodom and Gomorrah. So these have run greedily after the error of Balaam, or of error of Cain, the going in the way of Cain. They've tried to establish their own form of religion rather than submitting themselves to the form that God has ordained. John tells us in 1 John 3, verse 12, Cain, who was of the wicked one, was not a child of God. He was not elect before the foundation of the world. He was of the wicked one. And then they have gone in the way of Balaam for reward. They ran greedily after the error of Balaam for reward. Balaam was in it for what he could get. That sounds like a lot of modern televangelists, doesn't it? With uh I won't mention their names, but three homes and the cheapest one costs like three point six million, I think it was. And the most expensive was like eleven or twelve million for these homes. Uh but God loves you. And I'll love you more if you send me some money. They've run greedily out of the way of Balaam. Balaam was in it for a war. God said, Balaam, don't go with these men, but Balaam really wants to go with Sabin. And so finally God says, okay, go, but but only say what I say to go. So Balaam was going not with explicit permission. He was kind of going on a sidetrack. And the angel meets him in the way, and his donkey Has to finally tell him, Balaam, I've been your donkey since I was young. I've never turned out of the way or crushed your foot or fallen under you before. But there's an angel and you can't even see him because you're so blind. Now these have gone in the way of Balaam for what they can get out of a reward. And the final illustration that Jude gives us in verse uh uh in this passage Is and they have they go I'm sorry, I lost my lost my train of thought there. Woe to them for they have gone in the way of Cain. and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam and perished in the gainsaying of Kor. And I mentioned Kor already, that's Korah from the Old Testament, who rebelled against God's order. God had established Moses and Aaron As the leadership. Korah was a priest. He was ordained into the priesthood. But he rebelled against God's order And he brought strange fire before God, and the earth swallowed him and his family and his children and all that followed him. They're perished in the way of Kura. Oh, they may still be on TV, but their the destruction is sure. Now today's examination of this passage may have been better suited to a Sunday school lesson than a sermon because uh It's it's in some ways not an exposition. My father used to say, you know the difference between teaching and preaching, preaching's louder. Well Brethren, there's a message for us here. There's meat here. Be sober, be vigilant. If Satan could deceive Eve, who talked with God in the evenings in the garden, how susceptible are we? May God give us grace not to seek after filthy dreams, but to follow His Word. May God give us grace not to be ruled by the lust of the flesh, but let us lust for righteousness alone. Let us hunger and thirst for righteousness. May God give us grace to submit to Him in every single area. Not to despise government. But to love it. O Lord, direct me. And that's what we find with David when he said, Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. And may we be careful not to speak evil of things we don't understand. For God has revealed to us everything we need to know today, but the secret things belong to God. So may God give us grace to learn much from this warning given to us in the book of Jude. Let us stand for prayer.