Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the one hundredth Psalm. Psalm one hundred One of the best known and loved of all the psalms, frequently referred to as the Old 100th, greatly loved Psalm. Let me read the five verses of the psalm for you, though you could probably recite them along with me. And then may God open this psalm to our hearts and show us his truth. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. Let us pray. Oh great God, Heavenly Father, we thank you for this marvelous psalm. given by inspiration, preserved for your people, applicable and profitable to our souls this day. Father, may your spirit bless your word to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Most of us have probably handled a piece of quartz at some time or another. We see a piece of quartz along the road and we walk past it. We kick it with our toe. We may pick it up and toss it like the young boys like to do with a piece of rock. Some of us at some time or another have handled a raw diamond, an uncut diamond A an uncut diamond can look very much like a piece of quartz. And I believe sometimes we become so familiar with certain passages of Scripture that we think of them as quartz instead of diamonds. We might kick it down the pathway because it's just another rock. And yet it's not just another rock. It's a diamond. And even a roll diamond, an uncut diamond, if you turn it to the light You'll begin to see the facets of it because a diamond naturally has some of those sharp sides to it But when that raw diamond is taken and it is shaped and polished and worked with a bit, then it becomes brilliant and beautiful. And the Word of God in many ways is the same. The natural man, just as the natural diamond, The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. Sadly, even the children of God, even we who are the redeemed, who are the blood bought, sometimes approach the Word of God as natural men. Remember the Apostle Paul who bemoaned the fact that though he was God's child and the Spirit of God was working in him. Yes, he yet he still realized that that natural man was always with him. I see another nature, another one that fights against the spiritual man. And so these psalms that we are most familiar with seem like corpse. And yet, as the Spirit of God opens them to us, and as we view them not in the natural man and in the intellect that has memorized them, but begin to view them As the Spirit of God opens them, suddenly that piece of quartz is shown not to be quartz at all. It is a diamond. It is rich. It is precious for the soul. So is this one hundredth psalm. Make a joyful noise under the Lord all yeah This is a psalm of thanksgiving. It is referred to in the title there as a psalm of praise. I don't know all the ins and outs of it. I I'm not a Hebrew scholar by any means, uh, but uh Spurgeon has indicated to us that this Sp Psalm's title, a psalm of praise, is actually unique to this particular psalm. There's a nuance there that the other psalms which are referred to as Psalms of Praise Do not bear. This one is special. It's a diamond. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. What does that mean? Well this phrase make a joyful noise literally means shout. In fact, this same word that's returning make a joyful noise is translated noise seven times. But shout twenty-three times in our Old Testament. Shout unto Jehovah Shout before the great king. In Psalm 32, verse 11, be glad in the Lord and rejoice Let the righteous shout for joy. And it's that same phrase, make a joyful noise. Let the righteous shout for joy. Now, there are a lot of churches today that are doing a lot of shouting. And I believe in saying amen when the Spirit of God is blessing your heart. But we're not talking about confusion here. We're not talking about a nonsense shout that is just a a emotional response and becomes a competition to see who can shout the loudest. But what we're talking about here is the people of God crying out in a great shout. Hallelujah! Huzan! Praise be to our God! You know you can't make a joyful noise quietly. When you truly make a joyful noise to the Lord, the spirit of the believer cries out and praise and worship to him who alone is worthy of praise and worship. You see, the world shouts a lot about a lot of things. The world can make a lot of noise And the noise of the world is a lot of nonsense. But here, we are to make a joyful noise A shout of worship and praise to the Lord. Ah, you see how the world shouts to their heroes. Go team go or whatever it may be. Make a joyful noise to Jehovah. Make a joyful noise to the Lord. Let me share with you just a few other verses. Psalm forty-seven verse one. Clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God. It's the same phrase as we have here. Psalm 63 or 65, verse 13 The pastures are clothed with flocks. They shout for joy. They also sing. Psalm 61, verse 1, make a joyful noise into the Lord. It's the same phrase. Psalm 81, verse 1, sing aloud unto our God, make a joyful noise, make a shout. Psalm 95 Verse 1, make a joyful noise. Verse 2, make a joyful noise. Psalm 89, verse 4, make a joyful noise. It's this shout to the Lord. Psalm 89, verse 6 make a joyful noise. And then it's also translated triumph in Psalm 41, verse 11. By this I shall know that thou favorest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. My enemy does not shout over me. It's this same concept of the victory of God. In Psalm 108, Moab is his washpot. Over Edom will I cast out my shoe. Over the uh Philistia will I triumph It's the same word, make a joyful noise. And so as we consider what it means to make a joyful noise in the Lord, we see it as a shout. It is a great shout of praise. But the diamond gets polished even further when we realize that this same make a joyful noise unto the Lord in Psalm 100, which means a shout, is the exact same word used in Joshua chapter 6. You see, the children of Israel were to compass Jericho. They were to march with the ark, and they were to march in silence. They were not to make a sound But then the command came, shout for Jehovah. Shout! They weren't shouting to defeat Jericho. They weren't shouting to break down the walls. They were shouting to their God. Shout for Jehovah! Shout unto the Lord. That's what Joshua says in Joshua 16, verse 6. And it came to pass at the seventh time when the priest blew with the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout, for the Lord hath given you the city. The shout at Jericho was a shout of praise. It was a shout of worship. They were worshiping God. They were praising Jehovah, their God, who gave them the victory. And in Joshua chapter 6, verse 10, I love this verse. Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout. Nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word pass out of your mouth until the day I bid you shout, then ye shall shout. In other words, keep quiet until I tell you to shout. But then when you're told to shout, really shout, shout out. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. That's a piece of quartz that we can pass by, and yet it's a diamond. Shout to Jehovah! Have you ever had any speech instruction or any singing instruction? If you've ever had speech instruction or drama instruction or singing instruction, they teach you that you speak from here. You don't speak from your throat. If you speak from your throat, you have a squeaky voice that doesn't make much sense. But would you speak from your diaphragm? It's a firm voice. Can you shout from your throat? No. A shout has to come from deep inside. The innermost man. You see, to make a joyful noise through the Lord is just not something that comes from here. It's something that comes from the innermost part of your being. To make a joyful noise is not something that's done casually. It's not something that's done thoughtlessly. It's not something that's done easily, but rather the entire being is drawn to praise God. Hallelujah! What a savior! Make a joyful shout unto the Lord. And I guarantee you that the Israelites around Jericho, when they were told to shout with a mighty shout They didn't just do it calmly. The enemy was before them. Jehovah, in the presence of the ark, was leading them. And they gave a mighty shout to the Lord. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. But when we consider this shout, this shout is a shout of triumph. But there's another nuance to this making of a joyful noise Because this same concept of a joint of this shout is a shout of welcome. This same term for shout can be used for a triumph. When the king comes, but people don't say, oh, there's the king. They shout to the king. They shout to the king. Consider with me the king of heaven. Sitting on a donkey. And the donkey's coming into the city. And what happened? The children shouted. The king has come. Messiah is here. Deliverance is at hand, and we're excited about it. Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, my friends, that was a shout It was a shout of joy. It was the making of a joyful noise to Jehovah, for the promised Redeemer has come. Oh my friends, we have reason to shout. We have reason to throw our entire beings into the praise of Jehovah. And that can't be a sad noise. For it says, make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Oh, what joy there is in the redemption that Jehovah has given to his people. Open up ye gates. Be lifted up. We read there in Psalm 24 in our call to worship this morning Lift up ye gates. The Messiah is entered into his people. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. But notice further there in that first verse that it says, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. That's a command. It is a command. To the Muslim, make a joyful noise to Jehovah. To the Buddhists, make a joyful noise to Jehovah. To the atheists, make a joyful noise to Jehovah. To the American Christian who's grown up in the society and, oh, we're Christian because we're a Christian nation, make a joyful noise to Jehovah's Right. To the redeemed child of God who's kicking around the corpse. Make a joyful noise to Jehovah. All ye lands, there are no exclusions to this first And it was for that reason that we sing the old one hundredth, all peoples that on earth do dwell. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. And so, or to make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. But then we come to the second verse Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Serve the Lord with gladness. Which one of us who are parents? Have never had the experience of telling our children to perform a certain task, and though the task may be performed, all the drudgery is at it. And yet we find the children of Israel Who brought the sacrifice of the Lord, and they said, Oh, what a weariness it is. The great God of heaven has caused our hearts to shout for the blessings of Jehovah. And yet, how our service becomes awareness. Serve the Lord with gladness. Did you ever ask a friend to do something for you? And they did it with weariness? And how did you feel about that? Well, I'm glad they did it. But I'm sorry I ask. I know they are my friends. And I would do anything for them. But it's obvious that to do for me is a burden. Jesus Christ has done everything for me. And when I have done my best, I am yet an unprofitable servant. So how can I serve the Lord with anything but gladness? And if I do it without gladness, is it truly service or is it obligation? Because you see, service and obligation are two different things. When we do things because it's an obligation, then we really had no choice. We've got to do it. But when we do things out of joyful service, it is an offering of praise. Serve the Lord with gladness. And we consider the 107th Psalm in verses 21 and 22. Oh, that man would praise the Lord for his goodness. And for his wonderful works to the children of men, and let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. But another comparison that stands very starkly with this 101st verse. Or 100 Psalm and the second verse. Serve the Lord with gladness is spoken to the people of God. But think with me to the second psalm. Which says, serve the Lord with fear. And that is spoken to the heathen. The context in the second Psalm is the heathen raging. The children of God here are called upon to serve the Lord with gladness, but the heathen are told serve the Lord with fear. And we go back to the first verse. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all ye laughs. Every creature is obligated to serve the Lord. Every creature has that obligation, but we've already made the contrast between obligation and true heartfelt service. And we read in our responsive reading, and the passages we had this morning were all designed to link together. In the responsive reading this morning, it mentioned the horse. And we read in Scripture that we're not to be is the horse that has to have a bit in his mouth. The child of God. Takes the yoke willingly, take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall receive rest of your soul. Yes, we take on our yoke of service, but we do so With singing and with gladness. We do not serve the Lord out of constraint, but we serve him with joy. And we're to come before his presence with singing. And we sang Isaac Watts' hymn this morning, come we that love the Lord, and let our joys be known. Join in a song with sweet accord and thus surround the throne. But that second verse says, let them refuse to sing. But never knew our God. Why is it that we come before his presence with singing and with joy? Well, because we're redeemed. The wicked hate God. The tares despise him. But to the child of God, he is altogether lovely. To the child of God, there is great joy. Because He is our God. Let those who refuse the God, those who sing who never knew our God, but children of the heavenly King may speak their joys abroad. Sing unto the Lord a new song We find repeatedly throughout the Psalms. And in Psalm 40, he hath brought me up out of a horrible pit and put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Know ye that the Lord he is God. Be it known unto you Jehovah is God. And he will not give his glory to another. The world has many gods. The world worships man. The world worships possessions. The world worships fame. The world worships position. The world worships their own families. The world finds many things to worship. And man will find something to worship because man was created for that purpose. Man was created to worship God But because of the fall, man lost the ability to do that which he was created for. Man can only worship God as God changes man. Man can only worship God as man is transformed from the old man to the new man. And that is why the sacrifice of Cain was rejected. And the sacrifice of Abel was accepted. Abel brought an acceptable sacrifice. He brought a sacrifice of blood, because without the shedding of blood, there is no remission for sin. And though Cain's sacrifice was beautiful, he was not worshiping Jehovah. He was worshiping the works of his hands. Abel brought a lamb. And so we're to know that Jehovah is God. We must worship him the way that he ordains to be worshipped. We do not come to him by another way. We worship him in spirit and truth. We are to know that he is God. Be still and know that I am God. I am God, and there is none other. No, I know not any. We read in Isaiah forty-four and verse eight Know ye is the Lord, but Jehovah he is Elohim. It is he that hath made us. No blob of flesh that came from an explosion. You don't have an explosion in a Swiss watch factory and the men that go in to clean up the results of the explosion find completed watches all over the place. because the explosion just blew the parts together and there it is. It is he that hath made us. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And we're not going to go deeply into this because we could we you know this we could spend a whole lot of time on the creation aspect that we find here. But just very briefly, first of all, God made us like himself. He made us in his own image. God made him made us for himself. He made us for his own pleasure. He did not make us for our own purposes. He made us for his own purpose. He did not make us to be the servants of sin. God made us by himself. He didn't have help or assistance. He didn't need billions of years to do it. God made us from nothing. He created all things. He made Adam from the dust of the earth, but he made the dust from which he made Adam. He made Eve from Adam from a rib. And he created the rib that he placed in Adam that he made from the dust. He made us from nothing. God did not begin did not begin with anything. And God maintains all that He created. In him we move and breathe and have our being. He upholdeth all things by the word of the word of his own, uh by the word of his power. And so Know ye that the Lord, that Jehovah, He is God. It is He that hath made us. And that is where our society stands today. before a diamond that they think is a piece of quartz. Our world today says God didn't make me. And the reason they say that God didn't make me is they do not know that the Lord He is God. And anyone who knows that Jehovah, he is Elohim, will instantly know God made me. And he did it exactly as he said that he did. He spoke it into existence. He didn't need theistic evolution. Or an intelligent design, or anything else that you want to bring in, it is He that hath made us. But there's so much more than just the fact that God created this body. He made me a human being. But the real reason I have to shout for Jehovah is he made me his child. And that's what the context tells us. It is a uh know yet the Lord he is God. It is he that hath made us and not we ourselves, we are his people and the sheep of his pasture This verse, I believe, is speaking more about God making me his people and his sheep than it even talks about him making this body. He made me his child. I have reason to shout for joy. Because I am not a goat. Because I am not a tear He made me one of his own sheep. He planted me his own wheat to bring forth fruit to his glory, and I had nothing to do with it. It is he that has made us, and not we ourselves. I didn't bring myself into this salvation. I was not wise enough to choose Christ. I did not make a decision. He made the decision for me. Before the foundation of the world, I was chosen in Christ And he has made me his own child. He has made me a sheep of his pasture. Oh, how I must make a joyful shout unto the Lord! How I must know that He alone is God, for He created the universe, He created all things, He created this body, and He made me His child. This is not quartz, it's diamond. This is a glorious truth. That we can so casually walk by and not see it. And so I am his child because he made me But then, hallelujah, I'm his child because he redeemed me. He made me twice I am twice his because I am his by right of creation and I am his by right of redemption. For you're bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. You're bought with a price. Be not the servants of men. We read in 1 Corinthians 7 verse 23, and what is the context? Serve the Lord with gladness. Don't be the servants of men. Rather, be the servants of the great God of heaven. Isaiah 43, verse 1. But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, he that formed thee, O Israel, fear not. For I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving And into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Now, we said that verse 1, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands, is a command to every man, woman, and child, to all nations. But this fourth verse It's a little bit different. The unbelievers cannot enter into his gates with thanksgiving. They have no right to these courts. The courts of the Lord are forbidden to the wicked. The wicked shall not enter therein. And this word Thanksgiving is a word which we must consider because we have a national holiday of Thanksgiving, which we celebrated this week. And because the word Thanksgiving is bandied about fairly re easily, it becomes to us a piece of quartz instead of a diamond. And yet, this word thanksgiving here in Psalm 100, verse 4, is an amazing word. This word thanksgiving carries with it the idea of a confession offering. In fact, that could be a literal translation, an offering of confession or an offering of sacrifice. The root of this word, the root it comes from, is a word which means to extend the hand. To put the hand forward. Come before his enter into his gates with a confession offering. with an offering of confession. To confess that he is God and to confess that I am not. To confess that he is holy, and to confess that I am not. To confess that he is worthy and that I am not. To confess that he is Lord and I am. That's right. See, this is not that which the unbeliever does or can do But rather, when this psalm begins to focus down and comes to this second command to enter at his gates of thanksgiving, it's speaking to those sheep of his pasture that we found in the previous slide. verse. We are commanded to enter into the gates of our God with the act with the sacrifice, the offering of confession. Psalm 118, verse 19. Open unto me the gates of righteousness, and I will go in unto them, and I will praise the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord into which the righteous shall enter. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me. Thou art become my salvation. Open ye the gates that the righteous nation which keepeth thy truth may enter in. Isaiah 26 and verse And so we enter into his gates with thanksgiving. We enter into the court of the king, and we do so with praise. We do so with praise. Oh, that men would praise the Lord. So often people gather in a place of worship. And their hearts and minds are filled with all the things of this world. And all the things they did in the week past and are going to do in the week to come. And people watch their watch because they've got a lot to do this afternoon. Oh, then they would praise the Lord. You see, you don't praise the Lord halfway. You don't praise the Lord with your own pleasure in mind. But we are commanded to enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Why should the believer enter into the courts of God with praise? Think about this. How do you get there in the first place? It's through the blood, folks. It's through the blood. We cannot enter into the courts of God except through the blood. Remember the Old Testament priests that went into the Holy of Holies with the blood of the sacrifice. And it's very emphatic that he went not without the blood, which he offered first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. We have a right to tread these courts, but that right is bought with blood. When Christ died on the cross, the veil of the temple was rent from top to bottom, showing to us that the way was opened And we enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into the courts of the very God of heaven, and the scepter is extended to God's people, because Jesus Christ has gone before us and he has paved the way with his blood. Do you see why we enter into his gates with praise? Or into his courts with praise? Do you see why when we gather for worship we begin our time with a moment of silent prayer, pleading that God will free our hearts and minds from all the chaos of this world? Because we enter into the worship, and the one we worship is worthy. And we enter through his great sacrifice He gave his life a ransom for my soul. Oh, what reason I have to enter into his gates of thanksgiving and into his courts of praise. To make a joyful noise unto the Lord, to come before his presence with singing, to be joyful and thankful. Before my God. And that is the next phrase. Be thankful unto Him. You ever had a great benefactor? A great benefactor who did marvelous things for you. Oh, how we must praise this God who gave his only begotten son a ransom for my soul. Oh how I must bless his name. You know what I'm not capable of blessing his name? What what true praise can I bring to his name Except that He create the fruit of my lips and create within me worship and praise that is acceptable unto Him. And yet The scepter is extended, and I have this great privilege. Oh, can I do anything but shout to Jehovah? Psalm 113. Praise ye the Lord. Praise, O ye servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun, even to the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. For the Lord is good. You know what? That's the message itself. If we came in to our service And we just said the Lord is good. And then we thought about it for an hour. We meditated on that truth. Oh, that's a diamond, folks. That's not quartz. It's a diamond. For the Lord is good. What an amazing declaration. The Lord is good. And his mercy is everlasting. He never runs short of it. The supply never ends. It doesn't get stale or moldy. It doesn't rust or wear out. It doesn't run dry like a stream. His mercy is from everlasting. And I love that word everlasting because we think of everlasting and eternal things as from this point forward. But I would submit to you, my friends, that the everlasting mercy of the Lord is timeless. God's everlasting mercy was extended to me before he created Adam. Because I was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. Think about that. That's a diamond. His everlasting mercy was extended to me before he created Adam, before he made the world, he ordained my redemption. That is everlasting mercy. That kind of mercy will never fail. And his truth is just like his mercy. Because it endures to all. generations. What inheritance would you like to leave to your children? Isn't this the best inheritance you can give? To share with them the truth that will endure to all generations, generation after generation. Oh dear friends, may we know that the Lord is God. May we know that He is our creator. He is our rightful owner because we did not create ourselves. He is the sovereign ruler, for we are his people. He is our benefactor, for we are the sheep of his pasture. He is good, and he is filled with everlasting. Mercy. Oh my friends, may God waken our hearts to this glorious truth. May the heart of God's people truly and unreservedly with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength shout to Jehovah. Make a joyful noise, as all the earth is commanded. But then may our hearts further be engaged to do that which the wicked cannot do. To enter into his courts with a sacrifice of confession and take a joyful noise to the Lord. Let us stand for prayer.