Not because it's getting easier, but because it's getting harder. We're surrounded, we're outnumbered, and we're outfinanced. What a great opportunity God has given us this day. United States Marine Corps, we're trained. When you're surrounded, you have the advantage because now you can attack the enemy in any direction. And we need to remember that as evangelists for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We're going to talk about a very touchy subject today. Matter of fact, this is a very dangerous subject to teach in many of our churches today. because they don't believe it. Did God really create in six literal days? Hopefully by the end of this uh two-hour session. Did I say two hours? No. No, it won't be that long, but I realize I'm the only thing standing between you and lunch. So you better be nice. We're going to take a look at this, and hopefully by the end of this session, you will be convinced, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that God did mean six literal days. Three independent studies. One done by Ancest and Genesis American Research Group, one done by the Barner Group, one done by the Nehemiah Institute, all came to the same conclusion with their studies. Then nearly 70% of our Christian youth lack confidence in the Bible and are leaving the church before they finish school. That is a very high casualty rate, and we cannot sustain that, because these will be the next leaders in America. We cannot afford to have our next generation of leaders not believe God's word, because this country will go down Pew Research. They're not a Christian organization. They do a lot of research and studies. And they did one called Why America's Nuns Left Religion Behind They no longer have any affiliation with any religion. Here's what they did found out in their research. Learning about evolution when I went to college was a main reason they left the church. Why is that? Nobody prepared them. We forgot to train our youth. We send them to church Our youth pastors train them on how to play games and how to play a guitar, but not in good sound doctrine. Rational thought makes religion go out the window. And lack of any sort of scientific evidence for a creator. Our youth don't have any of this information Something is tragically wrong with our churches and Christian universities today. For every church I get in like this that actually believes the Bible, there are at least ten churches in the area that would never have us in. Ten reasons millennials are backing away from God and Christianity. Dr. Alex McFarland, Director of Christian Worldview and Apologetics Enforced secular education the teaching of evolutionism, the teaching of moral relativism and tolerance. You know the most least tolerant places in this country are secular universities. They are intolerant to anything they do not believe. Six reasons young people leave the church, David Kingman, president of Barna Group. Anti-science Up to one-third say no church the church is out of date or out of step on scientific developments and debate. Why is that? We have all the science supporting the Bible. Why can't our youth defend it? Ken Ham and Avery Foley, why young people leave the church. These young people are not getting solid answers from church leaders and parents, but sadly are often told they can believe in the Big Bang. millions of years in evolution, they're then admonished to reinterpret or ignore Genesis while being told to trust Jesus. Do you see the contradiction? This is why nearly 70% lack trust in God's Word. Our church is not teaching them. Not this one. This is one of the ones that is doing the teaching. Our Christian schools, many of our Christian schools, matter of fact, a majority of our high school Christian school teachers do not have a biblical worldview. And it was recently found out that 52% of all the evangelical pastors in this country do not have a biblical worldview. We're in trouble, folks. Just think of it this way. There's a hill out there. Let's go get it. Let's not just stand by. We know there's things wrong in this country. Let's start working on the solutions. And stop saying we got problems. Yes, we have problems. Let's fix them. So I'm going to give you a quiz. When is the day a day? And here's your warning right there. I don't want any wrong answers here. Most people will give me when I do this with children, they'll just raise their hands just so they don't have to do push-ups Question number one. It took him three, a three-day journey to reach his destination. What does the word day mean there? Does it mean millions of years? Why not? Because of the context. It specifically states the word day in the context warrants a day, doesn't it? Okay? It took five days to build the tower. Could that mean a long period of time? No, it means a day. He worked morning and evening for three days to complete the task. What does the word day mean there? This side over here. I don't hear an answer. There's going to be repercussions. Twenty-four hours, right. You see, fear can just bring out the best in people. Genesis 22, verse 4, the quiz continues. Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. What does the word day mean there? Means a day, doesn't it? Anybody have any doubt about that? That word means a day. Leviticus chapter 9, verse 1. It came to pass on the eighth day that Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel. Is there any doubt the word day does not mean a day there? Cannot mean a long period of time. Numbers, number one, verse eighteen. And they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month. What does the word day mean there? It's obvious it means a day. Joshua chapter 4 verse 19. Now the people came up from the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month. Again, it's obvious. The word day means a day, not a million years. Nehemiah 8, verse 18. Also day by day, from the first day until the last day, he read from the book of the law of God. It means a day. No doubt about this. Questions. Does the Bible now give us enough information to determine how long the days of creation were? Have scientists really proven the earth is billions of years old? We saw in Sunday school. Not even close. What should Christians believe about creation? And does the age of the earth even matter? Is it a secondary doctrine we shouldn't talk about? When I get that from pastors, it's just a secondary doctrine or from other Christians. First question I ask them, what's the difference between a primary and secondary doctrine? You know they can't even tell me that. So how can they make the claim it's a secondary doctrine Let's do something called hermeneutics. This is one of those college words. Okay? Hermeneutics. What does it mean? The study of the interpretation of written text. It is a method of understanding and interpreting God's Word. So hermeneutics, first of all, context. That is one of the principles of how you understand language when it's written down. You must keep the words in the context where they are used. I'm not talking using someplace else to interpret it necessarily, but where they're used is your first method of understanding the context Or the main meaning of a word. The explicit contrains the implicit. What that means is something is explicitly stated, it has a higher priority than something that might be implied. The purpose of communication. What in the world is the purpose of communication? To convey an idea or a thought in an understandable way. Then we have the interpretation must be based on the author's intention, intended meaning, and not the reader's intent, which is often done And third, be sensitive to the type of literature or genre. In other words, is it poetic? Is it a parable? Is it narrative history? We need to be sensitive to that. Matter of fact, we're going to get a Hebrew lesson today, lesson in Hebrew. in Hebrew poetry. How's that sound? So let's look at the authority of Scripture, Genesis 1 verse 5. God called the light day and the darkness he called night. So the evening and the morning were the first day. What does the word day mean there? We're going to have to find that out. What does it mean? Could it mean a literal day, a million years, a long and indefinite period of time, or not enough information is given? Now don't forget the quiz you just had. Let's look at this. Genesis chapter 1. We read first day, second day, third day, fourth day, fifth day, sixth day. Anything significant there? And you were thinking yes, weren't you? Yes, there's a number with the word day in each case. That is very important here. Especially when we look at hermeneutics, context, the explicit communication. In context, what word is used there to describe time? The words day. Not millions of years, not a long period of time. But he specifically chose the word today. Now remember, these words were penned by men under what? The inspiration of the Holy Spirit. So we're talking about God's message to us. Not something somebody just scribbled their own thoughts. God told them to write down the word day. That's context. That's the explicit overwriting anything you might want to make it mean. Every time in the Old Testament, I emphasize, every time in the Old Testament we have a numbered word day, which occurs 410 times, it always means a day. There are no exceptions to that. When day is coupled with a number, it always means a day. Robert McCabe, Old Testament, Language and Literature The use of sequentially numbered days in Scripture is regularly used to reference literal and distinct days. The scriptural use of numerical qualifiers with a singular day unequivocally testifies to the literal nature of each day in the creation narrative. Here's a gentleman who understands languages Now let's go to another evidence. Evening and morning. God, remember this is coming from God now. This is what he wanted written down He defined the days, keep each day definite, beginning and definite, ending, evening and morning, first day, evening and second day. When we go to hermeneutics, the principles of understanding language, the context. The explicit, every time we see evening and morning in the Old Testament, it only means a day, never anything else This should end any possible doubt right here. But the problem is many of our Christian university professors do not believe God's word when it comes here. They've attempted to reinterpret God's word based on their own wisdom. Dr. Wang, PhD in Biblical Studies, professor of biblical Hebrew. In Genesis 1, Yom comes with evening and morning and is modified by a number. So it is obvious that the Hebrew text is describing a 24-hour day. See, if this doesn't mean a 24-hour day, what of all those quiz questions we had there? Can we reinterpret those? See, it was obvious in each case there that they meant a day. Why is it not obvious here? Because too many of our professors and church leaders want to blend in and be friends with the world and do not understand the science. Because the science does not support an old earth. Anybody here believe the Ten Commandments? Wait a minute, wait a minute. Can I pick on you just a moment? Okay. Do you believe really old things like that? I mean they're several thousand years old, aren't they? Haven't we discovered some new things since then? Anybody over here still believe them? Okay. We have these flat earthers who don't believe in good science over here. Incidentally, do you know there's a flat earth group going around today? I've ran into them. They actually do believe the earth is flat Yeah, yeah, I've had uh argue with some of them. I just tell 'em if you're ever taking a ride in the airplane. But how about this? Who wrote the Ten Commandments God did, didn't he? He penned these things down on the tablets himself. It wasn't Charlton Heston. Young people don't get that one. How about if we went to the Ten Commandments and we read 'em? Do you think you could understand them? Okay, why we got confidence both sides. How about the command that says, Thou shalt not steal? Does that really mean that, or is that open to our interpretation? You're not sure? No. It means that. Okay. Okay. How about the commandment that says thou shalt not murder? Does that really mean that, or is that open to our interpretation? It really means it. Okay? So God wrote these down and it and we can understand them. Everybody agree with that? Let's go to commandment number four. We already read that once today. In Exodus twenty verse eleven. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth and sea and all that is in them and rested the seventh day. Therefore the land the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. What does it say there? Six days. Who wrote this? God did. How do we apply hermenetics? Context and explicit rules. This means six days. Therefore, let's get a therefore in there. If you do not believe the days of creation were six literal days, then this commandment, commandment number four, does not mean what it literally states. And if commandment number four does not mean what it literally states, what about the other nine? We've been told and warned, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? First three chapters of Genesis the foundation for the entire rest of the Bible. and it's being destroyed within the church. Now, does the Bible explicitly state anywhere the earth is 6,000 years old? No, it doesn't. Where do we get 6,000 years sin? From the Bible. What, Mike? Are you contradicting yourself? No, let me show you how we do this. Genealogies. Genesis chapter 5, most unique set of genealogies anywhere. What do we find? When the person was born, how long they lived, when they died, and when the next person in the timeline was born. That is all the information you need to determine there are no gaps in there. Something very interesting happens here. When you line up these first names given in Genesis chapter 5, we see something very, very interesting. And that is that Adam was living at the same time as Noah's father. Adam lived a long time, didn't he? And Noah was living at the same time as Abraham's father. Their lifespans overlap. In other words, it would not make any difference if there's any gaps in here, since their lifespans overlap. You're going to come up with the same time period. Now, let's apply something here Let's do a little math. You ready for a little math? You're gonna have Hebrew lessons, we're gonna have math lessons We know that today, back to the time of Jesus Christ, is about 2,000 years. We have all the written records for that. We also have enough records to know that Jesus, back to Abraham, was about 2,000 years. So the only time in question is Abraham back to Adam. And we look at the genealogies of Genesis chapter 5. That is also about 2,000 years. So here comes our math problem. We add all that up. Nobody get for the age of the earth About 6,000 years. Pretty simple, wasn't it? How many got that math problem correct? Yes, yes. Oh, wait a minute, Mike. Wait a minute. You forgot something. Couldn't there have been millions of years of time before Adam? People are going to do whatever they can to get their millions of years in there. I've heard so many inventions. But isn't it possible there could have been a large period of time before Adam? No. Jesus takes care of that. In Mark 10, verse 6, Jesus Christ makes this statement. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. What is Jesus telling us here? that from the beginning of creation, man and woman were on this planet, not after millions of years. Is Jesus wrong? Because if he is, folks, then he's not our creator and he's not our Savior. See, the Bible gives a very airtight case for the age of this earth. It is about 6,000 years. But yet, we have many church leaders who just will not bow to God's word. They are so entrenched with the world. And a lot of them just don't want to hear this message. I know some Christian school leaders, principals, that don't even want to hear it. They say, well, we don't want to rock. Basically what they do is say, we don't want to rock the boat, because once we do, some of our supporters won't give Who are they friends with there? Money. Oh. Why are so cr so many Christians inconsistent? I see a lot of inconsistent Christians. Let me show you how I see this. How many of you believe that Jesus Christ suffered and died on that cross? Okay. But how many of you believe that he rose again on the third day? Why do you believe that? You didn't see it happen, did you? So why do you believe that? The Bible. This is one of those Bible thumpers again The Bible. We believe it because that's what it says in the Bible. Even though we didn't observe it, we believe it. Okay, let me make this a little harder on you. Did you know, according to all known science, you cannot be dead for three days and come back to life? So are you willing to go against all known science and still believe in the resurrection? Yes, you are. Christians don't do that. They'll believe that. Then why can't they believe that our God could create in six little days, as the Bible teaches? Do you see the inconsistencies? We're picking and choosing the miracles we want to believe, and the world sees that. And the world says, why should I believe your Bible when you don't? Our church today has become a stumbling block for people accepting Jesus Christ as their Savior. Incidentally, I get those tactics. It's called leading the witness. You know where I learned all that? I watch Matlock. So why does this issue matter? I don't know who that guy is with the red tie there, the white shirt, but Here's what I'm hearing from churches. Creation is a secondary doctrine. Just preach Jesus. And I say amen to that one. Because the whole Bible's about Him. Who's the creator? Jesus Christ. How's the last book of the Bible begin? The revelation of Jesus writes a whole book about him, so let's teach the whole book. It's too divisive. Yes, it is. The cross is divisive also. So why do we preach that? And I remember Jesus was pretty divisive. He overturned some tables once, didn't he? And he resulted to name calling once, too, didn't he? And his disciples come and say, did you not know that that offended them? And Jesus had a few words for that too. So let's start here. I want to show you why this whole issue matters. Let's get down to the very core here. What is the mission of the church? Every church, every church that calls themselves followers of Jesus Christ has the same mission. It's right here. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. That there is the mission of every Christian church. Everything we do should be geared towards that mission statement. Our Sunday school should be geared towards that mission statement. There's one verb and three participles in here. Mike, you're talking English class now. I don't remember that. participles and an ING. The word go there in Hebrew is going, meaning this is the ongoing process. The word teach there is a different word than you see the word teaching down below. There are two different words there. The word teach there also can mean disciple. That is the noun or the verb. That is the verb. It's the only verb here, folks. The verb says we are to disciple, to teach. Then you have teaching, which is a participle. Baptizing. And then nations, the word nations there, all people implies all people groups. So our mission of our all the churches is to go out and disciple You give them the gospel and you don't stop there. You continue to disciple them. You continue, as it says here, to teach them all along the way, and then you send them out. To do the witnessing. This is the grounds we have for discipling. Building them up, training them. Jesus trains twelve and sent them out. Paul trained Timothy, Titus, and Epaphras. And what did he do? He sent them out. He sent Titus to the nation of the island of Crete. Why? Because it says they were liars. All kinds of heresy was coming in. Sent Timothy to the land. Why? Because they had problems in there. There were false doctrines coming in. Paul didn't go in there, he let Timothy go in there. Then he said Epathras. Oh, the Colossae, Book of Colossians. Why? Paul didn't go. Paul was in prison. But he had trained Paphers up and said, you go and you do the teaching. That is the biblical model, folks, not necessarily building megachurches and bringing everybody in. The model is train your people up so they can efficiently go out and do the witnessing. This is the training ground. Christian universities should be the training grounds. But you start talking to these people who graduate from Christian universities, more than half of them can't even present the gospel effectively. Something is tragically wrong. They've become like the world, all academics, and they use a little Bible now and then. Now, in order to carry this out, in order to carry this mission out. We must know the gospel. I'm going to make sure we go through the entire gospel. It's hard to do a talk without that. In other words, we must know the gospel. We must be able to share the gospel. We must be able to defend the gospel. That should be one of the main things for every youth pastor in this country. But it isn't, because youth pastors can't. do this either. So let's go through the gospel. I'm coming out with a video on this. You know, a lot of graphics. So it'll be out in about a week, a week and a half. This is how I'm saying we need to be teaching the gospel. You might add some other things in there, but if we're going to talk about the full context of the gospel Now there's many ways you can present it to somebody when you're talking to them. But when we teach it to our people, let's make sure we understand the full context of the gospel. And I like to start in John three sixteen. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Why do I start there? Because most Christians are familiar with that verse. There's only been one church where nobody knew that verse. They never invited me back. I was an offense to them. By giving the gospel. But that's where I start. We're on good even footings there, right there. But then what about John 3. 17? That's a very important verse here. Don't stop there. John 3. 17 when we teach. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but the world through him might be Saved. That word saved there. I've got bold and underline. It is key to understanding the gospel message. Why do we need to be saved? And what do we need to be saved from? We have to know how to answer those questions. That's why we need to start teasing the full context. In order to answer that question, why do we need to be saved? What do we need to be saved from? What book of the Bible will we go to? Genesis. So I'm going to give a little bit of the bad news. Now, the first part of this is not bad news, but in order to understand and appreciate the good news of the gospel, we must fully understand the bad news. So we'll start here. Genesis 1:1. In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Why is that so important? Well, that right there tells us God is the creator of all things. That means he is the Lord. It is why we call him Lord. Since he is the creator, he sets the standards for how we are to live. So right there, he has the authority over everything. He is an absolute sovereign ruler over his creation. That's why that verse is so important, because we understand who he is. And then it says, His creation is perfect. He looks back on his six days in creation and pronounces it very good. The word there in Hebrew means exceedingly. His creation was perfect, no death before then. And then, after six days of creation, he gives Adam and Eve one warning. Don't eat of the fruit of this tree. If you do, there's going to be a penalty. It is called death. So what do Adam and Eve do? They rebel. We have the first sin. And because of that rebellion, God keeps his promise, and death now enters all of creation. And all creation now comes under the curse. This is the bad news. We must know this. We must teach all of this so people will fully understand the gospel message. And be able to answer the questions when they're confronted. So now all creation is under the curse, and now we have death into creation. And the New Testament bears this out also in Romans 6. 2. The wages of sin is death. So when you go through this, what you're going to see is how both the Old Testament and the New Testament come together. in this gospel presentation. So both the Old Testament and New Testament tell us death came through one man. Then we look at who our God is. He's the creator of all things. But his standard is we must be perfect. That is his standard. We have to be perfect. But the Bible also teaches us in Romans 3. 23, no one is perfect, for all have sinned and all have fallen short of the glory of God. And then in Isaiah it tells us because of our sin, we are separated from a perfect and holy God. And at this point in the gospel teaching, we are without hope. We are all condemned for eternal punishment at this point in the gospel message. But God, who he is, in the good news, makes us a promise. He gives us a promise of victory and a savior, and that comes in Genesis 3. 15. He's made that promise to us. And the promise is fulfilled in John 3. 16 when he sends his only begotten son. Do you see how all this comes around? You must have the Old and New Testament to understand the full context of the gospel message. And then in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, we get the very core of the gospel message. Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. What Scriptures? The New Testament wasn't written yet. Right there, it tells us to understand the gospel, we've got to go to the Old Testament. And that's not being taught in most churches today. Jesus over and over again says, repent. Why? It's not repentance will give you salvation, but godly repentance leads to salvation. Over and over again says repent. This is not just saying you're sorry. Then he says something amazing. Romans 6. 23 This is a free gift. Wow. The salvation thing, it's a free gift. But we need to remember, a free gift is not automatic. It has to be accepted. And many are still choosing to reject God's free gift. And he says in Ephesians 2. 8. 9, Your works aren't good enough for this. You can't work your way to heaven, Father. You can't pay your way to heaven. This is a free gift. And he says this. Because how many of you run into people say, oh, God could never forgive me for what I've done. He could never forgive me. Romans 5. 8. God tells us, while we were still deadened our sins, He loved us. And he also tells us that his grace and his mercy is big enough to cover anything we have. Done. We are all sinners. Sin is sin. We don't categorize them. Sin is sin. One sin is enough to separate you from a perfect and holy God. But he says, his grace and mercy is big enough to cover anything you think you've done or might have done. That's who our God is. He reached out to us while we were still dead in our sins and said, my grace can cover everything. And it's a free gift. But then he says this. There's only one way to get this free gift. Only one way. And that's through my son, Jesus Christ. Book of Acts, there's no name, no other name under all heaven by which man can be saved. It's only through Jesus Christ. And there's his grace. It's big enough to cover anything. Then in Romans 1, 19 and 20, he tells us no one on this planet has an excuse for not believing in him. No one has an excuse. He has given us all the evidence. So no one has excuse for not believing in a greater God. There are no excuses. There's no such thing as an innocent native anywhere in this world. And then we conclude with this verse, Romans 10. 9. That if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. What does that verse mean? Confess means you're making a promise. What are you promising? To make Jesus Christ Lord of your life. Matthew 22, verse 37 says, we are to give our heart, soul, and mind over to him. Not just our heart and soul, but our mind. We're to give everything. That's what we're confessing. Jesus will be Lord of our life, then we'll be saved, saved from what? Eternal punishment. This is the full context of the gospel. We're coming out with that in graphic form in about a week, week and a half. It's eight and a half minutes long. And it's free. It's free to everybody. We're going to put it on YouTube also. That's the gospel That's what we need to be teaching our people. And they'll be better prepared to answer questions like, why did Jesus have to go to the cross? Why do you have to shed his blood? Here's what's happening. What millions of years does, it demolishes the whole foundation of the gospel and replaces it with man's wisdom. That's what millions of years does to God's word now. It does matter what we believe. It does matter what we believe about the ages. the earth. Do we have a good full gospel or do we have a mixed gospel, God's Word and man's wisdom? So literal interpretation, putting it in picture format. God's creation, six days, pronounced it perfect. Then comes the fall. Then comes death. That is the exact order the Bible reads. But we had millions of years in, we have millions of years of creation going on. Finally along come Adam and Eve. Then comes the fall. And what was going on for those millions of years of time? Death. Death before sin. That's what millions of years implies, folks. Death before sin, which demolishes the foundation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It substitutes it with man's wisdom versus God's word. This is a very serious situation here. So why does age matter? Well, it's the foundation for the gospel. Why did Jesus have to go to the cross? Now we can answer those questions. Why did Jesus have to conquer death? Incidentally, there couldn't have been millions of years of death before sin. Because in the Bible it says death is an enemy. It says very clearly the last enemy is death. So death is something wrong. It's evil. If there was death before sin, then who's the author of death? God? Because if he's the author of death, then there he has evil in his character and he's not all righteous. In other words, millions of years presents a different God too, doesn't it? So when you start putting this logic and reasoning together, millions of years is really not talking about the same God of the Bible. The Bible says there's no unrighteousness in him. But if he's the author of death, that means he's the author of evil. And he can only do what's within his character. That means his character contains evil in it. Wow, this is really pretty serious stuff, isn't it? What about Mark 10, verse 6? Is Jesus wrong? But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. What about the Ten Commandments? Can we really trust what they say? And when does the Bible mean what it really says and what who makes the rule? There's a lot to this issue now. Are we willing to hold fast to God's word? Are we going to bend? and start bringing the world into God's Word. Genesis 131, God saw everything it had made, and behold, it was very good. In the evening, morning with the sixth day. What does God very good mean? Does it mean millions of years of death, decay, disease, or does it mean perfect? This affects the very nature and character of God now. Jeffrey Tompkins, PhD in genetics. It seemed obvious to me that if I accepted the New Testament message of Christ's life, death, and resurrection, then I must also accept the biblical revelation regarding six days. See, even scientists understand this. Here's a physicist. If the story of the fall of man is mythology, then there's no need for a plan of salvation. So now, let's it's one thing to teach the six days of creation, but what happens when somebody comes back and argues against you? That's the level we have to go to. If all we do is teach our youth six days, they're going to get beat up. We've got to prepare them for how to answer challenges. So let's go through a few challenges. 2 Peter 3:8. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. Doesn't the Bible teach right there a day can be a long period of time? Mike, you're contradicting yourself. I'm confused. No. It's not teaching that. Let me show you why. It goes back to hermeneutics. Context. 2 Peter 3. A lot of people will use this against you. When we look at it, when we look at the context of 2 Peter 3, look at the verses above and the verses below. It's not referencing creation. 2 Peter 3 is not talking about the beginning. It's talking about the end times. It's talking about the characteristics of God. He created time. He's now bound by time. Has nothing to do with creation. And then who are my English teachers and English folks here? Anyone speaking English? There's a key word there, as. That word as turns this verse into a simile or like a figure of speech. Meaning it's not meant to be taken literally. And nowhere in Genesis 1 do we see the word as or alike. Let me give you an example here. I gotta pick up. Can I use you for an example? Okay. I watched him. He runs like a gazelle. Did I just call him an animal? No. I said he runs like a gazelle, which means he runs fast and he runs gracefully. That's true, isn't it? See, that's what we mean by a figure of speech. We paint a picture with words, but there's some reality behind it. That's exactly what is happening here Saying God is not bound by time. We are. It has nothing to do with the days of Genesis. So people, when they're using 2 Peter 3:8 to say the days of creation were long ages, are really taking God's word out of context. That's not good, folks. We're not supposed to do that. Here's another one challenge you might get. How could the first three days of creation be literal days that the sun was not created until day four? Wow, how are we going to handle that one? Ah, let's take a look at this. Let's read Genesis 1, verses 3 through 5. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good. And God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light day and the darkness he called night in the evening, the morning were the first day. So God created light, didn't he? Right there. It blessedly states on day one God created the earth. He also created light. What was that light? Well, I want to show you something. Notice the word light in verse 1 there. It says, and God said, let there be light. Then on day four, he creates the sun, moon, and the stars to give light. The word for light in this verse right here is a different word for light than we have on day four of creation. Let me show you something here. On day one, the word for light is or o-w-r. What that means is illuminescence. implying there's a light there but no light source. Interesting, isn't it? But on day four we have a different word, Hebrew word ma'or. which means an illuminary or there's an object out there giving light. So there's two different Hebrew words used here. What was that light on day one, day two, and day three? We don't know. There's many forms of light other than the sun and stars, electromagnetic waves. Um we can have nuclear explosions cause forms of light. We don't need the sun and the stars for light. God created light. Can our God do that? You betcha he can. If he can call everything to existence out of nothing, folks, he can create light out of nothing. He can have a light source there and not have any illuminar uh any object there The first day, what did the light need to shine on? What was in the universe? Just the earth. Did it need to shine everywhere No, it just needed to shine on the earth. So we're looking more like a flashlight type of light. And also don't forget God is light But when day four when he created the sun, moon, and stars, what was out there? Planets and stars and everything else. So it's more like a light bulb. So we're seeing different use here. And this is what I'm trying to get at 2 Timothy 2. 15, study to show ourselves approved. No, sometimes it's good to go back and look at what the words really mean. So the first three days of creation were literal 24 hours, 24 days. Wait a minute now. If we had light, Before the sun, moon, and stars, why did he have to create the sun, moon, and stars then? We already had day and night. Because it says in verses 3 through 5, there was day and there was night already without the sun, moon, and stars. So why did he have to create those? Well, the book of Genesis also tells us that. For signs and seasons and wonders. So we would have a way of determining all this. See the Bible answers all those questions. Why did He create the sun, moon, and the stars? For signs and seasons and wonders. We have a wonderful God there. So we can answer that question now. What was the light? Well we don't know for sure. But the Bible explicitly states God created light. And the Hebrews 11, 6 says, without faith it's impossible to please God. He can do things we can't. Now here's another one. This is a big one in our Christian universities. The Hebrew language is a poetic language. Therefore, we should not take Genesis literally. In other words, the Genesis creation account is not real history, it's poetry. Well, the Hebrew language is a very poetic language. Cannot deny that. It can be written poetically, it can be written in other genres, it can be written as narrative. Meaning real history. How do you tell the difference? Well, let's take a look at English any poets here. I'm going to give you one of the most famous I'm going to give it to you right here. You're going to get in church this morning. We identify by what? Rhymes. That's a big part of English poetry. Rhymes. Let me give you a very famous poem here. Are you ready for this? The lizard is a timid thing that cannot dance or fly or sing. He hunts for bugs beneath the floor and longs to be a dinosaur. That's kind of deep, isn't it? No. Note it, I only put this in there because it was short, and you can see the rhyme. That's predominantly what we use in English poetry. But that's not how Hebrew poetry is. Hebrew poetry doesn't do the rhyming. We use something called parallelism. Ooh, wow, what do you mean by that? A common literary feature of Hebrew approach in the Old Testament is called parallelism, in which the words of two or more lines of text are directly related in some way. And the typical example is Psalm 191. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork The first line, the heavens declare the glory of God, makes a statement. What is the second statement they're doing? It's saying the same thing using different words, isn't it? That is Hebrew poetry called parallelism. That's the main way of identifying Hebrew poetry. And guess what? We do not see any signs of parallelism. In Genesis chapter 1. It is not there at all. It is not written poetically. Even the order of the Components in there, subject, verb, object, are written in the narrative form, not the poetic form. So it's easy to recognize this is not poetry. And I know a lot of people out there saying it's poetry, it's poetry. Just remind them what parallelism is and context. Stephen Boyd, Dr. Stephen Boyd, PhD and Studies of Hebrew language. He was a Hebrew professor at Master's College. Reads the whole Bible and the Old Testament in Hebrew. Makes this. Now he did one of the most extensive studies ever done on verb forms in the Hebrew language. Now called up the university where he did this study and said, man's got it. He's verified it. And this was his uh output here. My findings in this step were that the probability that Genesis 1-1 through 2-3 is narrated is between. 9999 and 999987 at a 99. 5% confidence level. I conclude, therefore, that it is statistically indefensible to argue that the text is poetry. I know you understand those things. Yes. Folks, the probability this is poetry is almost uh zero, is what he's saying there. This is narrative. There is no poetic Hebrew in Genesis 1 there. It is narrative. James Johnson, what's a J D? Now I grew up it was a juvenile delinquent. But what does J D stand for? He's one of those lawyers. Can we trust him? He's one of the good ones. He's one of the good ones. He actually uh works at a at Institute for Creation Research. He makes this statement. He's also a professor of apologetics. He's a great apologist. The bottom line is that Genesis is not Hebrew poetry. Genesis is Hebrew narrative prose. In other words Genesis is a record of accurate, true history, not mysticism, not mystery, not myth. New Testament authors. Almost every one of them refer to Genesis chapters 1 through 11 as real history. There's just some examples. The New Testament references the first eleven chapters of Genesis as real history. Are they wrong? So we can come down to four conclusions. Now when I say four conclusions, you probably think we're almost at the end, but I've watched enough pastors. We might have another half hour to go. I've learned a lot of techniques from pastors. But I'm getting hungry. The Bible teaches a literal six-day creation. There's no legitimate biblical argument for long ages. Incidentally, if anybody wants these PowerPoint slides, I can give them to the pastor here, or I can put them on our website and you can download them all for free. So I'll have those up there probably Tuesday. Long ages change the foundation of the gospel, and 70% of Christian youth do not trust the Bible because they're not being taught. Our youth pastors need to teach what I just went through with the gospel. They need to hear this. They're not hearing it. So two questions. Who's going to train the next generation and what will they be trained to believe? Right now they're not getting the proper training in most places. Is the world going to get them or is Jesus going to get them? How are we going to train them? Again, what we're trying to do is offer these training courses. That's what our ministry does, Creation Training Initiative. We offer training courses so we can replicate ourselves. We're practicing what 2 Timothy 2. 2 says Where Paul trained Timothy. He says, Now Timothy, that I've trained you, you go out and train others. What makes our ministry work is we train others to go out and do exactly what I'm doing here today. So I can stay home with the grandchildren. If you want to help support us, we have some cards out there that you can pick up and mail in later. We do need support because we we lose money on these training courses. But we decide that's the way we're going to stay as a ministry. If we charge too much, people can't afford it. We give scholarships. Even our five-day class, we've given five hundred dollars scholarships for it. We're asking to see if churches will help sponsor somebody. We have a newsletter. And there's our website. And if you there's how you can get a hold of me. If you want my direct email, direct cell phone number, I have my business card out there also. And we'd like to hear from people. And I'm going to finish. Now I'm coming down to the very finish. I'll just leave that up there. One more thing. I grew up a non-Christian. I grew up an evolutionist. I was an evolutionist until I was 30 years old. I'm a slow learner. Didn't become a Christian until I was 30 years old. I also used to be an athlete. Knows the words used to be. How many of you understand the second law of thermodynamics? Here it is in action, right here. Kind of laughing all hard there. See now it's catching. One day I was in a gymnasium lifting weights. You have to lift weights. You want to run around circles faster, jump higher, and throw things further. I did the decathlon internationally. How many have heard of the name Bruce Jenner? He and I competed against each other. That's the level I competed at. Now I was in this gymnasium lifting weights one day, and a man came up and sat down beside me And for the first time in my life, somebody presented the gospel to me in a gymnasium. Are you allowed to do that in gymnasiums? Yes, you are. Then he asked me some questions. I answered all his questions wrong and ignored everything he had to tell me because I had no room in my life for God. Now walked away from him. Seven years after that, I was on a business trip to Indianapolis. I was the computers at the time. I got done work late one evening, got back to the hotel room. And I got in bed that night, and as I lie there, I finally understood the message that man gave me seven years earlier. And I got out of bed and I got on my knees and I professed Jesus Christ as my Lord and my Savior. After a while I got back in bed and I still couldn't go to sleep. I had a strong desire to teach the book of Genesis, which I had not even read yet. So I reached into the drawer in the hotel room, pulled out the Bible, and began reading Genesis chapter 1. Now as reading through that chapter, I thought to myself, if I can't believe or trust what's in this first chapter, There is no reason to read the rest of this book. Or maybe, I thought, maybe some of the stuff I learned at these universities may not be true. So I had the opportunity to travel all over the country. Now I'd stop and talk to scientists and professors wherever I could. Now I'd asked them questions about evolution. I soon found the patterns of their answers. They had a lot of great stories, but not one of them could directly answer my questions. So I thought, here's these people that tower above me in intelligence could not answer my basic questions If they can't do that, then why should I believe in evolution? Because when I turned to the Bible, I was finding answers. Now found something else in the Bible. Something evolution could never offer anybody. Hope. For the first time in my life, I had hope. Now, a number of years ago, my wife and I were on a six-week speaking tour on Six weeks every day for six straight weeks in the southeastern states, we were speaking in one or more churches or schools every day. We stopped in one place in Jacksonville, Florida. That night we were staying with the pastor. And after we got there, I sat across from this pastor and we began talking. We talked about the Bible. We talked about creation Then we started talking about some other things we had done. We found out we had both been in United States Marine Corps. And what you find out gives you an instant bond. So we began to reminisce what we had done. We found out we had both been stationed at Quanaco, Virginia, a large Marine Corps training race. So we reminisced about that summer. As we continued to talk, we found out we had both been stationed at Yuma, Arizona, a small Marine Corps air and missile base, and we reminisced about that. We continued to talk and talk, and all of a sudden he sat back in his chair and he stopped talking And he looked right at me and he said, This, I remember you. Do you remember me? Twenty-seven years ago in a gymnasium, I gave you the gospel presentation. God brought us back together again. You see, that man did what he was supposed to do. And what each and every one of us sitting here this day is commanded. And that is go out and give the truth. Do not worry about changing anybody's life because you can't do that. That's the Holy Spirit's job. Just give the truth. But we can't do that if we don't know it. Thank you.