At Hebrews chapter 2, and we're going to cover 11, 12, and 13, which is about as top speed as we're ever going to make it in this class. I keep telling myself it really would be nice just to go through and do a quick overview chapter at a time. I've tried that before in the book of Romans. Have one Bible study on one chapter of Romans. And you can do it, but boy, you really leave a lot out and you just kind of go, I wish I'd covered that. Oh, it would have been neat to cover this. I've never done a detailed study through the book of Hebrews. I've often said that if I were ever stranded on a desert island and I could only bring with me one book of the Bible, what book might that be? Maybe the book of Hebrews. Because think about it, you're getting both the Old and the New Testament in one book. There's so many quotes, and there's an explanation of what the Old is and a clear declaration of Christ. Uh and and so it really is marvelous. It's it's it's a fantastic passage. You know, I don't know why they don't hand out copies of Hebrews rather than the book of John. That would be a nice way to show things, but be it as it may. Let's read Hebrews 2 now, and we're going to begin actually in verse 10. And I'm going to go through verse 13. For it became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory. to make the captain of their salvation perfect for sufferings. For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one. For the which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. And again I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am the children which God hath given me. It's interesting How you find in Hebrews quotes from the Old Testament are interspersed. An assertion is made, and then there's some proof text of scripture given. There's no chapter or verse reference given, just a phrase that you'll find here. And as I began to Enter into this study, I have taken approach that works well when you're dealing with the Pauline epistles, Romans. Corinthians and so forth. Paul has a way of writing where he makes a point, and then the very last thing he says, he amplifies and talks about it. And then the very last thing he says, he amplifies and talks about it. And I tried that approach in here and I really got hung up for two days. Because whoever did write this, we don't really know exactly, other than God, under and they they were under inspiration. Um writing very differently. This is very ornate. And you have to stop and kind of pull back a little bit. So we're going to try to do that today. The first part though is in verse eleven, for both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one. He's talking about Sanctification. Well, that's an interesting doctrine. That's an interesting topic to look at. And this actually presents a little different view. First of all, it says we're united in sanctification. We're united in that. Uh you know, when you read verse 11, when I looked at it, it's helpful to ask questions. You might ask, well, why does it say sanctify? Because if you look at the context, you know, in verse 10 it ends with to make the captain of their salvation. Perfect through suffering, for both he that you think it would say, for both he that saves and they who are saved are all of one. And frankly, if it said that, it'd be theologically correct. But it says sanctify, not save. The context to me seems to be talking about salvation, but he skips right to sanctification. So I was really scratching my head a lot through that. It didn't fit my my thinking And that's so easy to come into scripture with my thinking. And sometimes you have to stop and say, well, what is it saying? And frankly, I think, well, I don't know, what do you think? Where does that old whole idea of sanctification come from in the context? Where where does it even come from? If you look at verse 10, where is he pulling out the thread of sanctification? Because I don't think he's just dropping it in there out of the blue. He says for. For those who can read. Exactly. So I'm not gonna torture you because I sat there doing the same thing like you were doing, looking, looking, thinking, studying, reading for a couple of days. Like where do you see sanctification in there? Maybe it's was supposed to say he that's sa he that's saved and they who are sanctified Sure, I would have liked that and I looked up that word sanctification. It's hagios both times. It is not the word satiros, which would be the Greek word for salvation. It's rightly translated sanctification. Yep, I went and poked at that, so yep, you're Walking down the same path. For two days I looked at this. I couldn't get it. You know where it's at? It's the last three words. Perfect through suffering. That's where he introduces the idea of sanctification. Perfect through suffering. And I thought, aha, what a wonderful explanation, a different viewpoint, if you will, of sanctification. To be perfected through suffering. Isn't that interesting? You know, the normal definition of sanctification is to set apart To make it special, I use this illustration jelly with my kids when they were young. Imagine a plate of cookies out here. Mom brings her fresh plate of chocolate chip cookies And they're all ready to dive in. I take my finger and I lick it and I touch one of those cookies. That cookie is sanctified for me. Ain't nobody else touching it. That one is set apart for me. That's what God does. He touches you and you're his. You're set apart for his service. You're special to him. And you see, for example, in Scriptures, let me just give you two examples. They're in your hand out there, Matthew twenty-three, seventeen, ye fools and blind, for weather is greater the gold, or the temple that sanctifies the gold. Now a temple is an inanimate object, so is the gold. But one is sanctifying the other. The temple makes the gold special because it's in the temple. The temple is more valuable more precious, of greater effect, of greater ramification, of greater import, than gold. And so the temple is sanctifying the gold. So there's an example. So perfect for suffering, can you expand on that a little bit? I will. Yeah, yeah, you're asking. Yeah, you are. Well you're asking you're you're you're you're you're itching for the answer. You gave the answer but you haven't ex Plain it yet, you correct I have it. So, um, yeah, I am talking about sanctification, how we might normally hear it, but then I'm going to pivot to what does he mean perfect through sufferings? So the other example that we typically see of sanctification comes from the book of Leviticus. Leviticus 8:30. We read this. Moses took of the anointing oil and of the blood which was upon the altar. And sprinkled it upon Aaron, upon his garments, upon his sons, upon his sons' garments with him. So these are the blood sprinklings that often occurred in the Old Testament. Why? It says, and he sanctified Aaron and his garments and his sons and his sons' garments with him. They were sanctified by the blood. Just any old animal blood didn't do it. had to be a correct one that the law of Moses required to be brought into the temple to be sacrificed. But that altar, because it was an altar unto the Lord, and the sprinkling of the blood, now takes on significance. It is a sign. of the blood of Jesus Christ that sanctifies the family, priests. We're made priests. And so that's typically how you see sanctification used, a making special, a setting apart. But here, with these last three words of verse 10 to be made perfect through sufferings We find another way to view sanctification. It's the perfection. Now let's try that out on a very similar passage. And this time I want you to turn now. Keep your place here. at this portion of Hebrews and turn to John chapter 17. The language is stunningly similar. In John 17, we're going to see a lot of parallels. But I'm gonna take some liberty here with it, and I'm going to change the word up, see if you see it fits. See if you see what I'm saying fits. John 17 and verse 19, we read this. And for their sakes, this is Jesus' prayer. He's praying to the Father. Judas has left, and he's about to go to the cross. He says, For their sakes, I sanctify myself. that they also might be sanctified through the truth. That's interesting. Let's uh keep going here, Lotus verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word, that they all may be one. Notice the unity that's also talked about there. As thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Now it's interesting is that verse 19. For their sakes, I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Let's replace that word sanctify with perfect through sufferings. All right? Let me read it that way. And for their sakes, I perfect through sufferings myself. Well, does that make sense? Well, yeah. What's he going to do? He's going to go to the cross. He's going to go to the cross. And isn't that what Hebrews says? The captain of their salvation, he was made perfect through sufferings. Well it's not that he had a bad day, hit his thumb with a hammer. No, he's going to go to the cross that they also might be perfected through sufferings, through or for the cause of the truth, or by the truth Believers are sanctified not because they just have a tough lot in life and they a credit card came up and they didn't have the money to pay for it or you know trivia, but because of the truth's sake, because of their testimony for Jesus, those are the kind of sufferings that are perfecting the believer. And so it's really, you just try it on. As you walk your way through the scriptures, you see that word sanctified. Think about the sense of being perfected through sufferings. Now I'm not talking about, again A perfection unto righteousness. That's not what I'm talking about. Jesus didn't need to be brought unto righteousness, eternal righteousness, by going to the cross. Though it was right that he went there, he had to die. That's why he came to to to save us, he had to pay to be the payment for our sins. So it's not that we're achieving righteousness, it's that we are going to experience, we're going to be conformed to the image of Christ. As he suffered, so are we. And so we're going to get to have our understanding brought around to his understanding. That I think you'll find, the longer you live as a Christian, that you'll begin to Better appreciate the things that Jesus went through and endured, and you'll better appreciate the things that God highly exalts and promotes. I could give some examples, but I'm going to run out of time, and I think I've got other things I want to cover here. Notice how nicely that verse 20 and 21 of John connected That they all may be one, as thou Father, art in me, I in thee, that they also may be one in us. There is this union He desires. Jesus desires a union He's not selling fire insurance. When I buy insurance from my insurance representative and my house catches on fire and he pays me some money because I had it insured He doesn't say, well, you can come in and live with me because your house caught on fire. Oh no. He just, it's an arm's length relationship. Here's your money. Not so with Jesus. The point of salvation is he's bringing many sons to glory. He's bringing and gathering together in one the family of God. I will be their God. They shall be my people. I will dwell in them And they shall will be together. There's this unity, there's this uniting together. And so this kind of explains Jesus' self-sanctification a little bit. He's praying for our sanctification, our suffering through, or for the cause of death. But it appears that The main point, if you turn now back to Hebrews 2, it seems that the main point, both in Jesus' prayer as well as in Hebrews 2 here, is that Christ is looking for a union in him. A union in him through sufferings, through that sanctification. We're united. Now, I was trying to think of some examples. some examples of how we as humans, on a human-level experience, just for the moment, just set Jesus and our discussion in Hebrews over here. Can you think of other experiences in life, as humans, where suffering, mutual suffering, brings you together? What are some experiences that you can think of that people might go through? Physical suffering? Any kind of suffering, sure. Could be physical. Could be also that uh We suffer what's going on in the world. Mm-hmm. What are some human experien when you say going on in the world, what are some human experiences that bring people together through suffering? in China. A whole bunch of believers are really forged through fire together. Okay. Alright, yeah, so believers in China? What are some other examples where people come together through suffering? Um there's two people who gone through this through the same hardship like two wives who've both lost husbands, they understand each other so they can come together and encourage one another. Two wives who both lost a husband, they can come together and talk, or widows who like to talk to other widowers, they you know can explain things Maybe you've been through a very fatal or grievous illness in the family, and you find another family. You know, they have these care networks that come together. They find it helpful. Uh one example I thought of was during the Civil War, the American Civil War at the Battle of Antietam. There was this horrific fight in the cornfields. Men of both sides were in hand-to-hand mortal combat. But those soldiers on either side who came out of that battle alive and unscathed, when their fellow soldiers heard, oh, you fought at the cornfields They they were impressed. There was a tight brotherhood. There was a tight bond there. Same is true in the military. You know, you bring military people in. They're from all walks of life. I mean they're just really a great cross-section of America. They go through a few battles and they lose a few of their own and man that's a tight group. There's nothing that unites that group tight that hung together and they suffered some very difficult things. Well, that's exactly what's happening with the Christians Oh, but we're not called soldiers. Yeah, we are. So am I a soldier of the cross, the hymn writer puts it, and that's a very biblical theme. Uh uh, you know, athletics football teams, when they grind their way out on the gridiron to get that championship ring. That team is pretty tight in college or whatever. So this is a common thing with humans that we do tend to get closer through. sufferings. So this is another way to look at sanctification, that there's a purpose, there's a purpose, sorry, for suffering to bring us us together, but also closer to our Older brother, and we're going to talk about Christ our brother now in verse 11, bringing us closer to him I was stunned with this statement in Hebrews 2. 11b, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. Wow. Full stop. Pause. Think about that. Three impressive words. He is not ashamed. You know he has every right to be. You have that one black sheep member of the family that you're really hoping doesn't show up at the holidays I could think back on the Kluth family from years gone past and some of my uncles were, shall we say, perhaps a little disreputable and we really seriously hope that they would just kind of stay down there in South Texas and not come up here. Um there's just some people sometimes on your work That you're sitting together with a bunch of other employees in the lunchroom having lunch and oh I hope they don't come and join us. They're an embarrassment to the company. Or you'd go, I'd go to the job site, we'd have some LGBTQ plus individuals with the purple hair and the green eyelashes and just all the weird look and you hope I don't run into that person. They're just a shame. Just shameful. But Christ is not ashamed to call us brethren, and I'm struck with that because he has every right to be ashamed of us. The Bible talks when Esau saw all that his father Jacob had done to bless all that Israel had done to bless Jacob at the giving of the blessing. How he received the greater blessing, and that he was not held in high esteem in his parents' view, that he went out and married two of the daughters of the sons of Heth, and they were a grief of mind to the parents They're a grief of mind. Maybe some of you have daughters-in-laws that you're just, uh, or sons-in-laws. You look at it and just go, uh, thank God I haven't experienced that. But there are those, and I speak with some that are just, they're grieved. They're just grieved at the choice. of the of mate that their children or grandchildren have taken in. Jesus Christ is not ashamed to call us brethren, but he has every right to be ashamed. Those words just sunk in and I was just excited about those for two or three days just thinking about that. He is not ashamed. At least he's not ashamed. He's not ashamed of you. He he can stand over this universe on his throne of glory. And he's pleased to say, Come up here. Stand with me. He's not ashamed. He's pleased to do that. He's he's over all these others who have all kinds of glory and reputation, the Elon Musk's and the Jamie Diamonds and the Mighty Man and the Gates and all. all these powerful, wealthy, influential, the Alexander the Greats and the Napoleon Bonaparte and Paul Pot, all the powerful, powerful people of the past He's ashamed of them. It doesn't really have anything to do with them. But me? Me? He's not ashamed? You know, behold the package deal of salvation here. And again, I'm really struck with some basics. Just reflect for a moment back on our passage in Hebrews 2. It says in verse 9 that he should taste death for every man. Okay, we're talking about those for whom he died Last week we read that he died. He ransomed them. They're ransomed. They're bought back. Now we're reading in verse 11. They're sanctified. For whom he died, he ransomed. They're sanctified. He's unashamed. He's not ashamed of them. We're united in brotherhood. He's one of our brothers. He says, yes, the struggles you face, I faced, and then some. The things that I have gone through, you've gone through too. He's not ashamed. We're in glory. We're in his army because he's the captain. He's our captain. We're in his dominion because it's under his feet. All of that is wrapped up in salvation. Do you see how it's presented here? It's somewhat laid out as a narrative. It's laid out in a way to exalt Christ. Here's how the Apostle Paul puts it. It's in your handout. It's in Romans 5. And I this is my go-to package to prove That salvation is a package deal. It says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. You see, if you had any strength, Christ didn't die for you. He died for those who were without strength For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure. For a good man, some would even dare to die. Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love. toward us. Now while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, and now here we go. Much more than being now justified by his blood. Saved from wrath through him, if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled was saved by His life Not only so, we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. That's all the package of salvation. All of that is there because of his death. Is love, justified, saved from wrath. We're not enemies, we're reconciled to God, and we rejoice in him, and we've received the atonement. A package deal. There's the salvation of Christ is so full, I don't think any one passage of Scripture can cover all of it. Hebrews rounds it out We're united in a brotherhood. We're a son we're brought into glory. You don't find those themes here in Romans 5 It's not to say that Paul's teaching a different doctrine. No, no. He's on a particular theme that he wants to cover. But here, this united in brotherhood, united in sanctification, because he has suffered, we will suffer, though not nearly to the same extent. He's not ashamed of us, and you know what? We're not ashamed of him either. You remember those words that he spoke about one time When he said, Whosoever is ashamed of me in my words in this evil and adulterous generation, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father and of the holy angels. Yeah, we're not ashamed of Christ. The Apostle Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God and to salvation, everyone that believes. And so because he's not ashamed of us, of course we're not ashamed of him. It's a high honor. It's a high honor. There are some people that could care less about you There's plenty of people in this world who think you're insignificant, you don't count, you don't have enough money in your bank account, you don't have enough political capital, you don't have enough sway, and they really don't think much about you. Not Jesus Not Jesus. Your name comes up, he goes, ah, yeah, that one. There's a smile on the face. Oh yes. Yeah. That's my boy. One thing the grandmothers love to do is run around with pictures of the grandkids or great-grandkids, if God gives them length of days. They love to show that That's the only time in life you can be bald, fat, toothless, and drooling and people will like you. Okay? That's it. And you're not ashamed. Look at this, isn't that great? drooling all over himself. It's a mess. Yeah, not ashamed. We go on in verses 12 and 13. This is, again, another passage that I stared at for a while. trying to figure out what's going on, because now he wants to give some proofs. And I thought at first what he's trying to do is give proof for the fact that Christ is our brother. So we have three sets of proof texts here. Three sets of proof texts. And I'd be hard-pressed to find them all talking about Christ as our brother Certainly the first one does, saying, verse 12, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. Yes, talking about my brethren. We're going to look at that for a second. But then I will put my trust in him Well what does that have to how does that verse support brotherhood? Hint, it doesn't. So why has he got it there? Why is that proof text there You know, if you don't understand something in scriptures, don't read over it too quickly. Stop, pause. But I want to find out. What website can I go to? Don't do that. Stop, pray, think, ask, search, dig. It may take a year. What's the rush? You're gonna live forever, aren't you? We're in an awful big rush for people who have eternal life. Time doesn't mean anything to us in some respects So then we have another one that says, and again, behold, I am the children which God hath given me. Well, children are not brothers. Charles Jackson calls his son brother, but that cracks me up. We have proof for three things because there are three points being asserted in the earlier verses. And it's the proof for Christ our brother, proof for Christ our captain, and proof for Christ our Father. Those are the three things that are being asserted in the previous passage. And I'll show them to you. First, Christ our brother. That's what we've been talking about. It's a direct quote from Psalm 22 and verse 22. For instance, if you look at that in Psalm 22, verse 22, I will declare, send your handout, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. But here it says, in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. So looking at your handout and then looking at Hebrews 2, are there any differences between what he quoted and what he said in Hebrews? What are the differences? Hebrews 2, 12 says, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. Psalm 22 says a little different. What's the difference? Congregation. Yeah, it uses the word congregation, but Hebrews 2 uses the word church. Let me give you a hint. Anytime the Bible quotes itself, that is a wonderful learning opportunity. You do not look at that as, oh, this is a mistake. You do not look at it as, well, the Septuagint says, and therefore that's why they quoted it this way You look at it as this is God giving a commentary on what God said. When you find a slight word change, you must view this as God-inspired, God-breed, holy writ. And God has given you some insight in terms of what he meant by congregation in the Old Testament. Frankly, the two words are very similar in meaning. It's ecclesia, those who are called out, those who are called together. And certainly God did call out a people for himself out of Egypt. He called them out of Egypt. Absolutely. But that's exactly what the Church of Jesus Christ is. We are called out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. We are the called out ones. We are the ecclesia, the gathering. So when you see congregation in the Old Testament, If you want to look at it with New Testament eyes, think church. Think church. Think visible church. Because that Old Testament congregation is a picture of what God would be working out in reality. A people called out, a people whose heart has been changed. Exactly, exactly. That's uh that's right there in Acts seven thirty-eight. Yep, the church that was in the wilderness. Yes, they called him the church in the wilderness. Now, if you think for a moment, keep your hand in Hebrews 2. Go back to Psalm 22 for just a second. Because there's something else we can learn when the Bible quotes in the Bible. Hebrews is saying this is a proof text. of God saying he's not ashamed to call us his brother. Alright? But in Psalm 22, looking at verse 22, and your eyes can kind of scan the whole Chapter. Historically, who's writing this? Psalm 22. Who wrote that historically? David. Yeah, Psalm of David. Okay. And But who does, and so historically then, who is talking in verse 22? Who is the I in verse 22? Jesus. Well that's who Hebrews says it is, but historically in Psalm twenty two. Yeah, David. David saying, I, David, will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. And certainly David would be one to want to do that. He was one who praised God frequently and often. Yet Hebrews looks at that and says, there's a greater David in view. His name is Jesus Christ. Well, that's interesting. Is there room in the Bible to view it that way? Oh yeah. You remember when Jesus was on the road to Emmaus? There were two disciples on the road to Emmaus. They'd come back, they were disappointed. It was the third day after the resurrection. And Uh uh third day after Jesus' uh death and burial, it's the day of the resurrection. They're walking back, they're complaining that, you know, we thought it was He who would give uh deliverance to Israel besides all these things third day and Jesus pulls up alongside these fellows. He didn't know who he was. So he's listening to them. He's talking to them. And then we get to Luke 24 and verse 44 when he says these marvelous words. In Luke 24, 44, this is back in your handout. He said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. When you read through the Psalms, try this out. I want you to view all the Psalms as messianic. I really believe that you can view every psalm in a messianic view when you see the eyes. Yes, there was a David. Yes, there was an Asaph. And there may be some some places where trying to view every single psalm as messianic may be a bit of a stretch. But more often than not. They are extremely messianic. You can see the I there speaking is Jesus Christ talking to you and I. David said his word was in my tongue. He had that experience of direct inspiration. It wasn't so much David talking. David was the pen man. He was the brown ink. But it was God writing it, and God was saying, I will declare my name unto the brethren. In the midst of the great congregation, will I praise thee? That's amazing. Jesus Christ is going to praise God the Father with us in the midst. We've got to be there as part of that praise chorus, if you will, that band. So that's the first proof that we have back in Hebrews 2. We can turn back to that now, Hebrews 2 So there's a proof given for Christ, our brother. It sounded like David, but it's actually Jesus speaking. And that's a great comfort to those. All of us, if we have a strong and caring brother, that's a very good comfort for those of you who have strong and caring older brothers. We have a proof then for Christ our Captain Because if you go back to Hebrews 2. 9, it talked about the uh he's going to bring many sons into glory, that means he's our father, to make the captain of salvation perfect, proof or captain, we're going to get to now Saying he's not ashamed to call them brethren. So he's asserted sons, he's asserted captain, he's asserted brethren, and now he's going to give proof text for each of those three in reverse order He's doing it in reverse. So first the proof for brethren, now proof for our captain. That comes from Psalm 18. 2. In fact, it's a lot of places I will trust in him. Many, many references you find in Scripture speaking about trusting in him. But What's interesting is if you look at the context in the Old Testament. Where do those phrases appear? A lot of times, they're in a context of a battle, a battle with your adversaries, a battle with your enemies. It's getting tough. It's getting hard. I've got a big surgery coming up. I've got uh a great difficulty. I've got some very hard times ahead of me. How am I going to get through this? I will trust in him It's a trust in times of great difficulty. Psalm 18. 2 is the one immediate reference. The Lord is my rock and my fortress My deliverer, my God, my strength in whom I will trust, my buckler, the horn of my salvation, my high tower. That's repeated in 2 Samuel. It's in Psalm 91, it's in Isaiah 2 But notice this one. I think this is an interesting one from 1 Chronicles 5. 20. I think it's one of the most instructful references to trusting in Him in a hard time, in a hard situation. It's in 1 Chronicles 5. 20. It says, and they, it's talking about the sons of Reuben, the Gadites, half the tribe of Manasseh. It's an Old Testament reference in Chronicles. They were helped against them, them being and the Hagarites. And there's a bunch of people attacking them, were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them. For how did they succeed in battle? For they cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated of them because they put their trust in him. And so this is again a reference to the captain of our salvation, because they trust in him. He is the captain of their salvation. Because they entreated him, he swooped in and saved them. Because they cried out, he heard and he saved. That's the captain of our salvation. So you see now also how sufferings work. When you're in a period of suffering, is that when you pray the most or when you're in a period of great comfort and ease and luxury? Well I'm here to tell you if all is going well, you probably aren't going to pray to God If things are going swimmingly grand in your life, you tend not to pray to God. That's why Job, I think, was called a righteous man, because even when things were going very well, he still prayed daily for his children. So, there's the captain of your suffering. There's the proof text. How do you know he's a captain? Because I will put my trust in him. Why are you putting your trust? You're entreating him, you're begging him, and so he's faithful to save you. That's, I think The proof text is being given here. Then we continue on in Hebrews 2, where the proof is that he's bringing many sons to glory. Well that implies he's our father, and that's Isaiah eight eighteen is where the quote comes from. Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of hosts which dwelleth in Mount Zion. Jehovah gave the elect as children, adopted of course, to the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a marvelous part, I think, that's just. It is truly a a wonderful thing to be adopted into the family of God, to be brought into his house. It's one thing for a judge to dismiss you from his bench. Your debt is paid, fine, go home. It's another thing for the judge to hit the gavel. Oh, the fine is more than paid. Son, you're living with me now. To be brought into the house of the judge. So that whatever payment you made so impressed the judge that he said, yep, I'm adopting you into my family. I'm bringing you in. You're part of my family. I'm not ashamed of you. That's an understatement. He's more than not ashamed. He's ecstatic to have you in his house. Yes, this is one I want. What could cause such a change? What could make such a one so impressive in the eyes of God? What could make the difference? Is it anything but the blood and the The life of Jesus Christ alone? Does he not look upon us as he looks upon his very own Son? Spotless, glorious, radiance, and the most beautiful in all. He says, yes, that's my son. Yes, come into my house. That's not a criminal that's been rehabilitated. That's a new creature. Yes. He doesn't he doesn't bring a rehabilitated creature and goes home. That's right. The church is not a rehab center. It's a center of regenerate people. They've been regenerated. I like that. Not a rehab center, absolutely. Lastly, I want to think a little bit about this business of Isaiah 818 because I just couldn't pass it up The quote is the first part of it. Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me. God gave to Christ some children. Well, of course he's not ashamed You know, we're coming up on Christmas time. We're going to give out some gifts. I've never unwrapped a gift underneath the tree and there's a baby in it. Oh, how nice you gave me a child for Christmas. Oh, that's great I've heard of people giving away puppies for Christmas, open the box, oh here's a little pooper dog, and you know, we all get happy and excited and glad they double-lined the box. But can you imagine a child of the tree? Well, we were given a child in a manger a long time ago, but you know what? God gave Christ some children too. Who was you? You're a gift to God. You ever received a gift at Christmas? You ugh! Take it back! Send it home! Right to the person's face? No, you don't do that. In general, unless you really don't like it. But lo and behold, God Almighty gave To God the Son, his elect people as a gift. He gave them as a gift. He's not ashamed of them. He's brought them in. We're brought into that family. But the last half of Isaiah 8:18, and I realize I'm now on Isaiah and I'm off of the book of Hebrews, but I couldn't miss this quote of Isaiah 8:18. Because I and the children the Lord have given me are for a purpose, they're for signs And therefore wonders in Israel from the Lord of hosts which dwelleth in Mount Zion. You know, believers are a wonder to themselves and to others. They don't really understand this new work of grace that's really been wrought in them. They can't deny that a change has occurred, and they can't deny that the old things are just not quite as attractive as they used to be. And they can't deny that they're interested. Interested. They have an abiding interest in the Word of God and to hear his voice and to hear His His His people speak about Him. They like that They can't deny that. But they don't understand why they wrestle with certain things. And they don't understand. They're a sign and they're a wonder to themselves, and they're a sign and a wonder to other people. Pastor Mahan opened up a sermon one day, and I like the way he started it. Sermon went like this. I used to like you a whole lot more before you were saved. I liked you a whole lot more before you were saved. We used to hang out. We used to have fun. We used to do this. We used to watch stupid cartoons together. And now, no one wants to do those things anymore. There's a change. And they're a sign and they're a wonder to other people. And you know, we're an oddity. We really don't even fit into this world's mold. We just really don't fit. We don't get excited about the things the world gets excited about. And we can take or leave the things the world says, oh no, you gotta do that. Well you have to do you have to dress up the kids as little devils and take them out on Halloween. You have to do that. To them it's not an option. It's mandatory. You got to do these sorts of things We really don't even think like they do, because the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. They're savvy to the things of this world. Jesus said in John 15, 18, these are the last two verses in your handout. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own, but because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. It does. You're not of this world. You're not going to fit in this world. You can't pretend or try to be like you're going to be successful and accepted in this world. Oh, if I go get education. No, they'll take your money and they'll still reject you. He says, Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they'll persecute you also. If they've kept my saying, they'll keep yours also. But all these things they've done unto you for my name's sake, because they know not Him that sent me. Why does the world do that? Because they're blind. They don't know who God is. They don't know who the Father is. They don't know who a captain is. They don't know who a savior is. They don't know that. And 1 John 3:1, we covered this last week, and I'll wrap it up here. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us not the entire world, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. So Christian, don't be surprised if you don't fit in. Don't be surprised if you find your our voices are belittled. How come it is the Christians don't have a greater impact on politics in Islam? Because they don't know God. That's why They don't hear God. They don't hear God's voice. They don't understand God's reasoning. They don't have a moral compass. Their moral compass is broken. They don't even have a needle on their compass. It's just a pen with no needle Whichever way the wind blows, that's their compass. It's a weather vane for a compass. They don't have a moral compass. They don't know God. Well, I think Christians ought to do this and they'll have a greater impact. Oh, when it comes to the gospel they do. God's calling out sheep. He's calling out his people, but the world doesn't know him, so we shouldn't be surprised. We shouldn't be surprised Pastor comment and it closes on perfect. Yes. And Christ completed that work and suffered. Yes. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Please pray. Gracious Father. Lord marvelous by word. Uh Lord as my brother has has has so clearly pointed out to us today You know, in a in a million lifetimes we cannot plummet steps, we cannot fully understand the intricacies. But Father, we thank you that the entrance thy word giveth light, and thy spirit is a guide in our word, as he mentioned, Father. When we don't understand it, pray and seek the answer. Father, you have given to us such a great treasure in the Word of God. May we be diligent in our study of it. Lord, we we Pray that you would make us indeed, as we approach a new year, Lord, earnest students of the Word of God to seek thy word diligently. We thank you for it. May we continue to study in the in uh what we've heard today, Lord. May it be a inspiration throughout the week, Lord, to cause us to dig deeper. Lord bless us now as we prepare for the worship. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.