I'm going to read our passage today, which is Hebrews chapter 2. It's verses 14 to 16. And we're going to cover these three passages today. Gabriel will bring them up on the screen. Hear now the word of the Lord. Hebrews 2. 14, forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood. He also himself likewise took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil. He actually gives you an answer as to who that is. and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. For verily, truly, he took not on him the nature of angels But he took on him the seed of Abraham. So those are the three verses we're going to cover today. And like much in Hebrews, it does speak to itself. It really doesn't need a whole lot of additional explanation, but I will try to amplify it some and bring it into some realm of application. But I have an opening question What do you think is the greatest way that you or someone else could show sympathy to someone? What's the greatest way to sympathize? What are some good ways to sympathize with someone? Listening to them? Certainly listening to them if someone who is in great Distress, they tend to want to talk a lot about their distress, and you just simply have to listen. That's a good way to sympathize with someone. That's to give a sympathetic ear, I think is the way we phrased it What is uh another good way to sympathize with someone? Okay, now we're taking it to a new level there. You've been through the same thing, and that actually is called empathy. There is a difference between empathy and sympathy uh if someone dies in the family uh and um uh excuse me if someone of someone else's family passes away and you send them a sympathy card. Now you yourself may not have experienced a death in the family But you can imagine what that would be like to lose a loved one. You can just picture them not being in your life anymore. But empathy is If you're a widow and someone else has lost their husband, now you can empathize. And so there is a distinction in levels of sympathy, empathizing with someone, being able to get into their situation. Well, I submit to you that that's a good portion of what we're reading about here, is that Jesus Christ is going to fully empathize with us. So we read, for instance, in verse 14, he says, For as much then as the children. Who are these children he's talking about? It's a simple question. Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood. Is he just talking about infants? Which is Believers. Yeah, we're referred to as the as a child of God. Even in an adult state, we're still considered a child of God. Maybe even some of our ways are still a little childish, but I don't think that's what he's trying to draw out there. The children are partakers of flesh and blood. Now that term flesh and blood is kind of a technical term in the Bible The Bible does have terms that are somewhat specific. When you see that term flesh and blood, it really is referring to the human body with a soul. It is referring to a human body with a soul and not that which is purely spiritual. Angels have a body, but it's a spiritual body. It's a very different body. We'll experience what that body is in the resurrection, but for now we have a body of flesh and blood. For instance, you have in Matthew 6, I've got these, Matthew 16, I've got these three verses listed in the inside of your bullets and Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee. This is the Lord Jesus speaking to Peter when he asked him. Of whom do men say that the Christ is? And then he asked him, Who do you think the Christ is? And he said that uh that that that I am, and he says, Thou art the Christ. He says, Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. In other words, another fellow humans didn't reveal it to you. But my Father which is in heaven is revealed. 1 Corinthians 15, I just alluded to that passage concerning the resurrection. Now this they say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God does not consist of the bodies that currently occupy this sin-cursed earth. They are subject to death, they're subject to disease, they're subject to infirmities, they're subject to all kinds of plagues and problems, they're weak. They're wholly inadequate for occupancy in the new heaven and the new earth, and so they will be changed. Yet it'll be your body. It's a real resurrection, but it's a changed body Ephesians 6. 12, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, meaning our battle isn't really a physical one, but against rulers in the high places, against spiritual wickedness. There is a contrast between humans and the spiritual realm. So what's interesting here is that if you consider this opening phrase, for as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, there's kind of an implication And the implication is that the children existed before their incarnation. I don't know if you caught that. Well, I like the way that one commentary phrases this that says, the children are those existing in his eternal purpose, though not yet in actual being. When we went through Burkhov's systematic uh summary of Christian doctrine, we discovered that the humans, us, we are Our bodies come from a chromosome each of the father and mother. That's the parting of the body. From whence then cometh the soul. There's a couple of different views. Some say mom has half a soul, dad has half a soul. Well, no, that doesn't work. Um the view which tends to gain more favor in scripture is that God imparts that soul uh to that individual at that time. Well if God imparts it, we might come to a doctrine, to an idea that there's a bucket of souls up in heaven. He just picks one out and plucks it into a body. This passage might imply that, for as much as the children are partakers, they come into flesh and blood. There's kind of that implication there. Now we're kind of touching a little bit on the mind of God here when he creates something, when he creates someone, right? They are going to be instantiated in space-time history through a no-kidding father and mother. and that that child, when it comes into existence, is going to be given a soul from God. The Bible doesn't give us much insight in terms of from whence cometh then the soul. We have no cognizance of it. We're not conscientious of it and the Bible doesn't speak of that much. You see little references to it, perhaps in Ezekiel, all souls are mine. Well, the implication is he knows how many souls there are, and from God's perspective, it's an eternal one. So it's an interesting thought to touch upon. I don't know that we have enough information in scriptures to really go much further with that, but it is interesting to think about when you consider God's plan of election, that he has identified a people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation He doesn't give us any insight into who they are, and he doesn't give us any insight into how that all came about. That's all part of his divine prerogative as a creator to create and dispense people as he wishes. And now we get to the most important incarnation, and that is that of the Lord Jesus, where it says he also likewise himself, he also himself likewise took part of the same. In the Greek, it's interesting. It says in a like manner or in a similar manner, not identical. Why do you suppose it might talk about a like manner or a similar manner, but not fully identical? Virgin birth. Okay, right. A virgin birth. I mean it's unheard of that a young virgin, not knowing a man, would bring forth a child. She would not have all the chromosomes to pass on, but this would have to be a miracle. Virgin birth, okay. We find that um The Lord Jesus is as our Savior is without sin. We know that from Hebrews 4. 15, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. If there was any Immaculate Conception, it wasn't of the Virgin Mary, it was the Lord Jesus Himself. By the way, that's what the Roman Catholics mean when they say the Immaculate Conception. They're not talking about Jesus. They're talking about Mary. Because they're trying to protect her as the queen of heaven, as the mother of God. God doesn't have a mother. If God has a mother, then God's not creator God. It doesn't work. And so they actually undermine the doctrine of God by exalting Mary, and of course she becomes a big idol to them. It doesn't say that Jesus came in a mere semblance of. He wasn't in the visage. He wasn't a ghost that happened to take on. this physical appearance. There's all kinds of different views that have come about in terms of just who was this person, Jesus Christ? Was it an image? No, he Said to Thomas, touch, put your hands and feel the print of the nails, and thrust in your side, be not unbelieving, but believing. He said, Children, have you any meat after the resurrection? He sat and ate with them You don't see that of angels. Angels don't seem to sit and eat. They don't have a record of that. They don't have cake. They don't have angel food cake, yes. Alright, well you've really deflated our view of desserts, Joe. I'm sorry. It's just I'm never gonna be able to eat those things the same now. It's like really This isn't heavenly food. It really is not. In fact, the scriptures underscores the fact that Jesus absolutely positively was not an angel. If you look at verse 16, it says For verily, that word verily means truly, you see Christ often saying, verily, verily, it means truly, truly, he was not. He did not take on him the nature of angels. A little side point here, if you happen to have an ESV Bible, that point is gutted in this verse. It doesn't really talk about the nature. It really talks about he did not help He was here to help Adam, the seed of Abraham, but he did not help angels. It renders the nature to help. And that totally undermines this teaching that God is going out of his way to saying it's not this. This is a point about doctrine. You know, some here are studying the subject of hermeneutics, how to interpret the scriptures. Uh the way the Bible is built is very much like a building in some respects. When a The framing crew comes through before you've got any drywall, before you've got any carpet, before you get any appliances, any flooring, there's the framing of the house. And you have to have lumber of certain sizes appropriate for its use. If it's a load-bearing wall, you better have it correctly uh sized up with the right two by fours, the headers and all that, and those need to be sitting on something that can be directly mapped to a foundational pressure point. After that's done, you may put little certain metal brackets over the studs. And they're at various locations. Why would you put a metal bracket over a stud? It's not bearing the load. Oh, because behind that there's a hole drilled through where some electrical wire goes through, or a plumbing pipe. And you put a metal bracket there that says stop When the drywall's up, you can't see that this is a dangerous point to drill. And you put a very thick, heavy piece of metal there. So if you try to drill through it, eh it'll dent the bit and the A good contractor will know, yeah, I can't get through here. I'm not supposed to get through here. There's something important on the backside. You protect it. So does structure have these protections in there It explicitly rules out certain ideas so that we don't go drilling into this thing thinking, well, there may be something here And so he says, he verily took not on him the nature of angels. He took on him the seed of Abraham. This point is reinforced in Scripture to underscore just who Jesus is and why it's important that we view it that way. Because if it's just an angel that died, well, what is an angelic death compared to ours? How can that empathize with us? It couldn't. If he's really not flesh and blood, he really how does an angel experience anything? Can can you cut an angel with a sword? I think you're just waving in the air You know, it guts the whole idea that Jesus as somebody like us, somebody who has partaken of the infirmities. who has taken on the woes and the miseries and agonies of his life and fully represents them. Now, when we read here that he likewise took part of the same, Uh does uh it says, verily he took not on him the nature of angels. I have a question. Now this is a little I'm gonna again I'm I'm poking here, just trying to expand the understanding. Does this statement exclude some creatures? from being children of God. For verily he took not on him the nature of angels. Children are partakers of flesh and blood. He himself took part the same, but he did not take on the nature of angels. Does that exclude some creatures from being children of God, from being saved? Because Jesus' whole purpose was to die. Does that exclude some? Are you talking that that animals like horses and cows? Well, certainly that seems to have an implication there, and and we can talk about that. Uh it does say in Revelation that dogs are without. There are no dogs in the kingdom of heaven. Dogs are often a picture of false prophets He says there was no sea, and so creatures of the sea don't appear to be there. But the that's we could have some debate about that one way or the other, but for sure I think there's one class of creatures that is excluded The angels that fell have no redemption. There you go. Yeah. There are angels in heaven that rebelled against God, Lucifer being the head. But Christ did not take on the nature of angels. And why did Christ take on any nature? To be the Redeemer, to be the Savior. Okay, well, if He took on. Human flesh and human blood, that means human flesh and human blood are redeemable. They are the ones that were redeemed. But he didn't take on the nature of angels. So there's no salvation program for angels. He didn't die to pay for the sins of angels. Indeed, there are some who fell, but their fall didn't catastrophized the whole, if I could use that word. It didn't uh make a catastrophe for the entire class of angels. There are some holy elect angels, the scripture speaks about. There are those who are not deceived, not lost. There are those that we read about in heaven that are still there. They're holy, they're righteous. They have always known righteousness. They've never known a day of unrighteousness. And there are those who are reserved in chains into darkness and blackness and eventually will be utterly condemned. Yeah, there's no salvation plan for angels. And that makes you really s pause and stop and think for a moment, just how precious your plan of salvation is. It says if God spared not the angels, you know, you might want to think twice about what we're doing. We might want to think twice about how glorious this plan of redemption is for human beings. Now that Jesus was or is and continues to be the God man really is not what's in question here. This is an example of doctrine building on doctrine, this business of him taking on the nature of angels. This doctrine is example is an example of building up Jesus' divinity. So in this section here, the assumption is he is the God man, but now it's taking it to another level. So this is resting on some basic truths. For instance, in prophecy we read in Isaiah 9. 6, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. There would be a child born, but the Son is given. The Son is a gift. Son of God is a gift. That's that divine nature that is a gift to man, the child being the flesh and blood. So this was prophesied that Jesus would come. It was personalized in Matthew 22. When the Pharisees are gathered together, Jesus asks them about the Christ. Whose son is he? They say the son of David. And then he hits them between the eyes. Well, why then does David call him Lord, saying, David in spirit called him Lord? The Lord said unto my, Lord, sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. If David calls him Lord, how is he then his son? And they couldn't answer him. How is it that David would be both the uh the root uh that that Christ the Messiah would be both the root and the offspring of David and that they couldn't answer. They couldn't answer. They couldn't get to the fact that God would come in human flesh. Was proclaimed in Romans 1. 3, Jesus' divinity. Again, this is basic stuff. You know these things. Romans 1. 3, concerning his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh And declared to be the Son of God with power. He wasn't made the Son of God. Mary didn't make him the Son of God. He was declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection of the dead. So this is the doctrine of the Trinity, that Christ's nature was both fully man and fully God. And now we're building on that. We're building on this now. And it says, because the children partook of flesh and blood, he likewise did the same. Why? He's empathizing He's going through the same lot that we are. He's becoming one with our nature so that our atonement can be sufficient for us. None of us could be a suitable sacrifice. Some ancient pagan civilizations believe that if they sacrifice their children in some high place that that would appease the gods. Again, a very perverted view of that which was surely taught from the earliest human beings on this earth, because Adam saw a sacrifice being made Abel offered a better sacrifice. The whole system of sacrifices was understood because that's what God demonstrated to them at the Garden, and that concept was carried on, codified in the law of Moses fulfilled when Jesus Christ came, all pointing to the Messiah to come. But all kinds of pagan traditions developed around that. In fact, recently they discovered The and they re- using AI they re-depicted a young 12 or 13-year-old girl high up in the Peruvian mountains who was apparently sacrificed thousands of years ago by some tribe where they leave her up there to die basically. And so it was an at such a level that her remains were frozen and they were able to reconstruct what this young girl looked like. They actually would do child sacrifice. thinking that if I offer the fruit of my body, that'll atone for my sins. And I'm here to tell you it never worked. Because you're offering a sinner Someone who is a sinner in nature, someone who does not have might have been a very fine, upstanding young individual, might have been very obedient to their parents, might have been a very goodly child, could have been very uh excellent in appearance and in disposition and demeanor, all good and fine, but not good enough, because it's not good as God. That's the problem. That's what we need in order to have satisfaction. So the point about all of this where I'm going, and maybe it's a nuanced point, but again, I just want you to appreciate New Testament teaching, is that by the time we get to these New Testament epistles. Jesus' divinity and humanity were fully embraced. There's no question that he was the Christ, the one to come. But they're further built upon. There's some ramifications of that which were then further explained and the and the and the Very fact of his coming is expanded upon. And uh God becoming flesh has ramifications, and that's what uh the uh the writer, the penman to the Hebrews is doing. And this is one reason why, folks, the Bible is unlike any other book you're gonna read. It's very unlike any other book. Because when you learn a right doctrine you can start to build other doctrines on top of it. You can start to, I call it connecting the dots. And that's a wonderful thing. Have you ever read a passage of scripture and you're in the New Testament and then you flip back to the old and you're reading, it's like, wait a minute. This is using almost exactly the same language I read over here. And you connect the dots. That's a tremendous blessing when you can start to connect those dots That's a tremendous joy. Maybe you can't read. It's kind of hard to see or whatever. Certain ages. You can listen. You listen to the scriptures. Just listen to it. Turn on Alexander Scorby. You can find him on YouTube. Listen to him reading the King James. And just hearing, because faith does come by hearing. It doesn't say faith comes by reading. It says faith comes by hearing. You had a long commute to work. Man, plug in scorby. Listening to scriptures. Now, here I'm saying that, and I'll tell you right now I'm a hypocrite. I don't do it. Now here's why I don't do it. I get so enrapped in the scriptures, I miss my exit. And I keep driving around the beltway and it takes me another 45 minutes to get to work. It's like, sorry Lord, I gotta turn this off, because it just grabs me. I just had just too much attention. It just rivets my my my attention so I it's hard for me to do. Maybe some of you can do this. When you're a passenger in the car, put in the headphones you don't distract the driver So all of these things connect together. Alright, well let's continue on. Let's look at 16 a little bit more here. I'm kind of jumping in between the verses. We'll go back to 14 and 15 in a moment because our context now refers to The seed of Abraham. Talks about the seed of Abraham. It says he did not take on the nature of angels, but rather he took on him the nature or the seed of Abraham. Huh. Why doesn't it say he took on him the seed of David? Why not why mention Abraham? Why not David? I mean the seed of David, the Apostle Paul talks about a lot. In fact, he uses the seed of David at least three times in the book of Romans. Here Book of Hebrews, David never really appears as a proof point, other than, yeah, he's an author over here. Why mention Abraham? What's the difference between the two? Let's start with that I think um if I have it correctly the seed of Abraham is more of a reference to those that are children by faith, whereas the seed of David often is a messianic pointer. This year it seems to be more of a uh Christ representing all those that would believe. Okay. Yeah, I like that. Yep, you you've jumped to third gear. I was in first gear, but that's great. I like I like third gear. Third gear's nice. What was the difference between Abraham and David? I'm I'm not discounting that. That's excellent. I'll I'll take a stab at it. Um Abraham predates the Jews. Okay, he predates the Jews. Okay. What would they call him? He was Gentile. Uh he was a Gentile, but what would the Jews call Abraham Father. Yeah, their father. It was the father of their nation. We're kind of Washingtonians, right? Our nation is the nation of George Washington and the like, even though we can trace heritage before that. So he's going back to the very fountain head of the Jews. And who's he writing to? The epistle to the Hebrews, right? So by Pointing to Abraham, he's going right to the very root. Now what's interesting is where that word Hebrew comes from. This is a bonus track here for you There was in the godly lineage from uh of the uh uh of those that disembarked from the ark, you had Noah's three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and then the descendants of Ham are given first to get down to Canaan and the Canaanite nations, and then Japheth. And then the godly line of Shem is listed And then that goes all the way, that lineage continues on as you make your progress towards Abraham. What's interesting is there was a fellow in there named Eber. And Eber is the root cognate for the word Iberuz. It was the Iberus, those who were of Eber. So it appears that Abraham's tradition came from his great-great-great-great-grandfather, Eber. And so he was in that lineage of those who called upon the name of the Lord. Yet by that point he is in a pagan land. He was called out of Ur the Chaldees. Chaldees was later Babylon, which is now modern-day Iraq Called out of that area. So anyway, well, we'll get back to the seat of Abraham. So yes, uh Joe and Anton have it right. He's referring back to the very start. uh the Hebrew nation, Romans four sixteen, uh but to that which also is the faith of Abraham who is the father of us all. He's going to the root of uh of faith. Yes. Also think about the Abrahamic covenant. Yeah, Genesis twelve one. Yes. So there's a lot that's tied to that, right? When there again doctrine is very fascinating. You've connected a dot here. So when you can connect That teaching to something else and you make that join, that makes a much stronger insight and understanding of what's going on Yeah, certain promises were given to Abraham, and we, as the church, don't replace national Israel. We are joined into the true elect of Israel, because not all Israel is Israel, with many of them God's whap. wrath waxed hot and they were dis summarily dismissed. He note notice also he took part of he took part of You know, here's another doctrinal point to join in. In the Jews' tradition, there was a way that your inheritance could be forfeited If you were impoverished and poor, your inheritance would be your family lineage and land. The land was divided up by tribes And if uh and the tri and the land could not be sold to somebody else, it stayed within the family. But if your brother waxed poor uh and you needed the money, you could sell it, but you had the right to redeem it back But you could forfeit it by selling it. That land is no more yours. It has to be purchased back. But it had to be purchased back by someone who was a nearer kinsman. somebody who was close to you. And that's that's the whole beauty of the story that's unfolded in the book of Ruth, where Boaz was that nearer kinsman. He was that kinsman redeemer. He had the right of redemption. Behold Jesus Christ took part of flesh and blood. He is our nearer kinsman, and he has purchased back for us the inheritance that we have forfeited. We have sold ourselves for naught, the scripture says, and yet we'll be purchased without price. In other words, Christ paid that redemption price with his own blood. Our inheritance, glory be to God, is restored. Now let's look at 14 and 15 here a little bit more. And we're looking at the destroyer, he who destroyed the power of death through death that he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil. I've looked pretty extensively, and this is the only place I can find in scriptures that explicitly references and speaks of the devil's power over death. Now that word power, I thought might have been the word exusia, authority. It's not. I thought it might have been dunamis, which means strength. It's not. It's a word that means dominion. He had the dominion of death. He's in charge of that. He can dispense it. And of course, we begin to think, well, hmm, we know other scriptures that talk about that, what's going on. Paul often refers to the law of sin and death. He often mentions the law as that which is the right agent of God to kill sinners And our sin, rightfully, brings us into liability to condemnation, liability to guilt and to shame, liability to very death itself. The apostle speaks often of the law of sin and death. He never talks about the devil killing us. That's just not a theme that he picks up on. Romans 5. 21 he speaks about this. Romans 6. 6, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Christ Jesus. Romans 7. 1, the law has dominion over a man so long as he lives. And he talks about that All throughout Romans 7, Romans 8, 2, the Apostle Paul never mentions the devil as being the agent of death. Here in Hebrews says, oh yeah, the devil has power over death. He very much does. Of course, you don't have to go much further than Job to find out if the devil has power over death. Now we know Job was giv Job was uh Job's Satan, the devil, was given permission by God But the devil inflicted tremendous death upon his family, and that was given into the devil's hands. So it's very interesting. Now Jesus does speak of two with power over death, and there are two types of death. I think you're familiar with these passages, Matthew 10, 28, where he says, Fear not them which kill the body, and afterward can do nothing to the soul, rather fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. Jesus is not very explicit as to who are those who can kill the body. There's them which kill the body. Obviously, we know men can do that. You don't have to go more than 30 minutes from your house to find a murderer. If you're intent on looking and finding one, you'll find a murderer within 30 minutes of your home. It's a sad component of every society. Yet included in that would be the devil. He certainly does have power over your physical body. He absolutely can kill it He's no match for you and I. Don't kid yourself. You can't thumb the devil thinking that I'm stronger than he. Oh no, oh no, you don't want to contend with him Yet we do find that there is one who can destroy, and it says, fear rather him as a single individual, he's called him. We would take that to be the Lord Jesus Himself, who is able to destroy soul and body and hell. Hell is that second death. This first physical death, oh yeah, it's painful, it's brief, but it's nothing compared to the second death, because that's the destruction of Body and soul, a body that's resurrected and a soul that can endure it. Horrible, horrible. Yet we do find in Scripture that the devil and his minions are those who rule over the unsaved. Remember, he is has the power of death. He has the dominion of death. And Christ is here to rescue us from that dominion of death. And that is a a source of bondage. We're afraid of it. We're deathly afraid of it. The devil has that dominion. Our we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers of the darkness of this world. There are rulers, plural, and they're in darkness. But darkness in that we can't physically see them, but darkness in terms of the total opposite of light. They're all about lies and more lies and deceptions and falsehoods 2 Timothy speaks that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. The devil freely captures people. If I want to hold this person captive and snare up their thinking, they will. One of the scariest things in the parable of the sowers when the seed was sown. In one, it says, and the fowls of the air came and took up that which was sown. Well, that fowl of the air was the devil. Who comes and snatches the word of God out of their heart. I don't know about you folks, but that's a scary statement. Because it means the devil has free access To the heart of the unsaved. There's no barrier. There's no blockade. Why? It's part of his house. He's the strong man. He's in his palace. It's armed. The devil has free access to their hearts. And they're willing subjects of it, and they hate it. Behold the misery that they're in. The devil has free access to them, and there's absolutely nothing they can do about it. They're taken captive by him at his will. What a miserable, miserable lot they have. Luke 11, Jesus said, if I, Jesus, with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God has come upon you. But when a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace, when a stronger than he should come upon him and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armor wherein he trusteth and divideth his spoils That, my friend, is how the Lord Jesus conquers death and hell in us. He casts out that strong man. He casts out that which can freely get to us. No longer does the devil have free access to the heart of my heart, and I can't be taken captive by him at the devil's will. I'm guarded and protected by one stronger than him One who comes tenderly, gently to God to ask permission to do things. Because he knows he has but a short time. The demons know who Christ was when he came up to the tomb where this demoniac from the Gadderenes lived. I know who thou art, the Holy One of Israel. Art thou come to torment us before the time? Fear of torment. That was their future. That was their hope. That's their expectation. They expect to be obliterated. The evolutionist has no hope What tremendous hope they're giving in the school systems. Here you are. They show the cosmos, right? And they are just our solar system, or excuse me, our galaxy. The Milky Way. You are here. What's the point? You're just a tiny insignificant dot. You're so small. You're not even seen. Nobody cares. You're an in you're a you're an inconsequential blob of chemics uh chemicals dealing in a nothing universe and you'll just poof expire and be gone. Well, that's a lot of hope. Thanks, Prof. And no wonder suicide is so high. No wonder they grab a gun if it's survival is by the fittest. Well sure I'll grab a gun and shoot everybody in the school because I'm going to end up on top And if it doesn't look like it's turning the right way, they'll turn the gun upon themselves. Why? Because I'm inconsequential. There's no consequences in life. It doesn't matter. That's a hopeless, dim view. They're taken captive by the will of the devil. That's why they do these things, because that's what they're taught. So the public school system is culpable, has culpability for each of these students. They're the ones pumping these ideas in their heads and ideas of consequences And so this is where we find the unsaved. They're all their lifetime held in bondage to death, bondage to the fear of death. But for the believer. Death is no longer in the hand of the devil. For the believer, your death is in the hand of Christ, one who empathizes with you That's who your death is in the hands of. How does it comfort you that your death is in the hand of Jesus Christ and not in the hand of the devil You're gonna die, right? You do understand that. Maybe some of us closer like Livy puts it, some of us are just closer to the front of the line than others. But you never know. The line doesn't always go in order But how does it comfort you that your life and your times are in his hand? The afterlife is in his hands. And his afterlife is better. Absolutely. How about our death? How does it comfort you that your death is in his hands? No man shall become No man can pluck them out of his hand. You had eternal life. Yeah, I mean I you know, I it doesn't matter what Satan does, he cannot touch my soul. Sure, you can look past it, right? How else does being in Christ's hand for death comforts in Scripture that you know the Lord will never leave you nor forsake you And though you walk through the valley of the shadow of death, uh you know, the rod and the staff of God comfort the the believer. So even in that most difficult trying time you still know the Lord is with you He has grace and mercy even at that struggling time. Yeah. Even at that point of death, God knows his saints what they can bear. Maybe some can bear a long, agonizing, horrible sell-at-a-time destruction of their body unto the grave, that they'd be a tremendous witness. He knows they can handle that, a tremendous witness to the testimony of faith Others couldn't handle it, and they die in their sleep. And God's merciful for that, because He knows our frame that we're frail but abus. He knows what we can handle. Death has lost its sting. There's there's you know, i i yes, it it stings the ones that are left. I mean we grieve, but for the believer to live is Christ and to die is gaining. You know. Um We don't fear death. Yeah. We don't go around trying to bring about our death, but we don't fear it either. We don't fear it. And how does the fact that he has destroyed him who has the power of death, how does that affect our life? It gives us confidence. Because we have that future and eternal hope, because we know He is with us, because we know that the devil cannot snatch our soul from Him his hand. Um and we know our death isn't arbitrary. Okay. And it's not under the control of any human being. I think about the martyrs. You know, we're all gonna die. And and they knew they were gonna die sooner for a cause. But they knew it was just a release of the soul into the hands of God. So they you know Death becomes an entrance now as opposed to a termination. And I like the fact that you said it's not arbitrary. That what our God does is not arbitrary. It's in his hand. He has a perfect design and plan to it. Stephen felt the rocks if he saw his Lord at the same time. Yes, right. Absolutely. So In this world, we do see men that are afraid of death, because it speaks, deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. They have a fear all their life. We see that men are afraid of death. What will they do or not do to show that fear? What do men do that betrays and reveals the fact that they're afraid of death Talking about the unsaved. Longer. They look for ways to live longer. So says Dr. Kemloo with a pharmacology degree. Absolutely. There's all kind and the pharmacy industry is just looking for more things to help you live a little bit longer They'd want to postpone death as long and as far as possible. Yeah, absolutely. To live longer. Looking for that eternal fountain of youth. Take these supplements and add ten years to your life. Yeah, it sells. That's a great sales pitch. Could be a placebo they're selling you. What else do men do to try to live longer? Glory and then decree? Um I think it's uh nihilism. So basically just we're gonna die anyway, so whatever. Live however you want. Okay. Eat, drink. Tomorrow we die. Okay, yes, yeah. From Ecclesiastes nihilism, uh men just say, well it doesn't matter. So just you know, carp diabetes. Yeah, Victoria? I'm not sure if this is useful. Exactly in the area you're going, but maybe just surround themselves with very young people. Just surround themselves with other people that are much younger and just kind of having youth always around you. Yeah. Oh yeah, I love that approach. That's a great one. You get old just around a bunch of people who complain every time you see them it's a review of systems. Oh this hurts. Oh that hurts. Oh Young people don't complain about that. They're like, wow, this is fun, this is great, hoo-hoo. Yeah, they're wonderful. Men who reject the idea of repentance will do all kinds of good works to try to repent Oh yeah, that's another way men dodge death and they reveal their fear of death. Yep, I'm gonna do everything I can to stash up a lot of brownie points so that um upon my death I'll uh I'll make it A lot of things people do because they have a fear of death. It drives them to a lot of things. They'll try to accomplish and get as much as they can in this life because that's all they've got. They'll rob, they'll cheat, they'll steal, they'll step on somebody else's head, they'll do whatever to climb the corporate ladder because they're afraid of death, because this is all they've got. It drives men. That's the root driver. And you're not going to hear this on the news. They're not going to talk about that. They're not going to talk about the root issues. Yea, skin for skin, the devil said, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. Watch somebody get sick. Go in the hospital. He spare no expense. Absolutely. Man, I can't sign that DNR order too quick. DNR resuscitate. Are you kidding me? You've got me anesthetized on the table? Sure. What a great way to punch out. So, as a final closing application, you know, because he has conquered death and he has conquered him who has the power of death, so we too. conquered death through our own death. It's not an enemy, it's an entrance. This is part of being conformed to his image, his image of sanctification of being made perfect through sufferings. Death Christ has altogether completely totally altered the definition of death, even death itself for us. And in that we rejoice. Okay, that's uh our passage for uh this. Ivonne would you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for the confidence that we have in Christ, Lord, the assurance eternal life for all that believe in Christ and finish work on the cross for his elect. And Lord, uh we uh just pray that we would uh walk uh boldly in that hope. during our sojourn through this earth lord and opening your mouth ever look to our Savior Lord and to be conformed to his image. I don't emulate uh uh that righteous standard Lord uh through our walk. And uh we we ask all this Lord in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.