We're going to talk about the divine decrees. The divine decrees. God declares and decrees certain things to come to pass. What do we mean by that? Well, let's start Let's look at several passages of Scripture. We'll open it up with Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 11. We'll look at two passages in the book of Ephesians. Then we'll turn to Proverbs and lastly to Romans. This is just by way of introduction to give us an idea of what we might mean by divine decrees. In Ephesians 1. 11, we read this, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. It says, In whom also We have obtained an inheritance being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. Notice this that God has a purpose. that we are predestinated according to that purpose, and he works all things. And I think frankly you can run with that word all things as far as you can. He works all things after the counsel of his own will. If anyone's will is free and sovereign, clearly it's God's. You see similar language in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 9. Again, speaking of the unsearchable riches of Christ, verse 9 of Ephesians 3, to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery. Which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ, to the intent now To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God Here it is, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. God Almighty has an eternal purpose. And notice the manifold wisdom of God. Manifold meaning it's opened, it's revealed, and it's many. It's manifold. We go to the book of Proverbs, Proverbs chapter 16. Because immediately men's minds might turn to the question, the perceived dilemma of Things that go wrong in this world, and why is it there are certain kinds of evil people that are here? In Proverbs 16:4, we read the Lord hath made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil. God insists that He is the one who has all things done for Him, by Him, through Him, and all glory will go unto Him. And you might say, well, how can glory go unto God who creates evil men? uh who will appear before the judgment on the last day. And he answers that in Romans chapter 9. In Romans chapter 9 This God, speaking through the Apostle Paul, declares this in Romans 9, 17, and 18, where he says this. For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, even for this same purpose have I raised thee up. Now Pharaoh, of course, is referencing The fellow who was in charge of Egypt at the time, the children of Israel, were plentiful and were slaves. They were in bondage. They were busy building Pharaoh's kingdom. They were busy making bricks without straw And God says, the scripture says that God raised up Pharaoh for a certain purpose. Why? That I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. Therefore hath he that is God mercy, on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth That word hardened has to do with forming. It's ironic. There's a bit of irony there because Pharaoh was having the Israelites make hardened Bricks, which come from clay, and God says, Oh, this is what you would have my people to do. I will make you like a hardened brick, like a hardened clay And of course all it takes is the sun and no water to make something very hard. And all God has to do is reveal a bunch of His presence and power, which He did through the magnifold manifold signs of uh Moses and he withheld any of the mercy of God from him. There was no water, there was no mercy, there was no opportunity for Pharaoh to repent. It was simply, let my people go, that they may serve me. That was the declaration. That's all God gave to him. So there's a very interesting irony in how God dealt with Pharaoh after his own ways. So as we think about the Lord, as we have in previous studies, about who he is. uh his characteristics, his wisdom, his knowledge, all of the attributes of God that we looked at, both those that cannot be shared with the human uh creature, like his eternality, his immutability, he can't change, God cannot lie, for instance. But there are some things he can share with the creature, such as his knowledge, such as truth. He has an interest in truth and truthfulness. We humans also can have a measure of interest in that. We move from who he is to who what he does, to God's works. And before God does any work, he has a plan He's an excellent engineer, if I may put it that way, and that's uh abasing God by calling him that. He's obviously greater than that, but he has a plan Now, of all the branches of theology that are out there, it's only Reform theology that stands practically alone in its emphasis on the doctrine of the decrees. For instance, Martin Luther tended to consider man's view rather than God's view when he viewed certain portions of Scriptures. He would taught that the d that God decreed good things on earth only, and he also taught a conditional predestination. So Luther had certainly some um Uh he was making a major tilt and a massive change at the time by coming out of the Catholic Church and abandoning Much of the evil that was there is 95 theses, I mean 95 major points of error. I mean that's a pretty significant amount of things to turn from uh and uh you know I'll as it were give him a pass uh as he uh uh short uh short circuited some of these things. The one who fully twisted the view was a fellow named Jacob Arminius. He was a heretic in the Dutch Netherlands. And he viewed God's uh decrees as being in the background or absent. And uh uh at best he might connect it with salvation. But he substituted uh conditional for absolute predestination, which is uh uh he he didn't like absolute predestination. For him, it was conditional. He was the one who would say, well, God looked down through the corridors of time to see to see who would believe in Jesus, to see who would raise their hand and vote for Jesus Well, we know what God saw when he looked down from the corridors of time, because Psalm fourteen and Psalm fifty-three tell us what God saw. There was none righteous, no not one. There's none that seek after God. So God already told us what he saw We don't have to guess that. But that was something that Arminius taught and he was pronounced a heretic after a lengthy trial Liberal theologians today ignore or totally distort any kind of biblical recognition of God's decrees. They really don't want a God who's in charge and making a plan. They really want to exalt man. They want to put man's works, man's thoughts, man's emotions, man's will. Colossians calls it will worship, where we're worshiping the will. You know, whatever we do, we have to make sure they would say that We leave man's will intact. Whatever you do, he's got to have complete freedom of choice. And that seems to be the mantra. If you can give man total freedom of choice, he can do whatever he wants to, whatever he wants to, well then everything's okay, everything's fine. God says, no, I'm not about to go down that path. He is the only one who makes such decrees because he alone is God. Man just simply wants to be God. He would like to pretend that he is, but he really isn't, and he can't. You can't be God, there's no doubt about that. So if you were to put a handle, or what do we mean by a divine decree? Some people have attempted to give that a definition that summarizes what we read from the scriptures. So let me give you some of these summaries, too, from some um sources that I'll cite and one of them that that I've put together. I call it a cluthism. So you can admire it and toss it if you'd like. A fellow named Burkhoff wrote this, the decree of God is his eternal plan or purpose, in which he has foreordained all things that come to pass. Well that's pretty good. I think we would agree with that. The Westminster Shorter Catechism, one of the primary documents that came out of the period of the Reformation, cites this. The decree of God is his eternal purpose, according to the counsel of his will, whereby for his own glory He has foreordained whatsoever comes the pass. That's not too bad either. That's a pretty good statement. And again, those are areas that I would not expect the reformed uh catechisms and documents to get wrong. Again, they stand preeminent in that when they underscore God is very sovereign, particularly when it comes to salvation. They really hammer that point home, and I always resonated with that, and that attracted me uh very early to the Reformed faith because of that. Now, others have complained that that goes too far. It makes it sound like God's the author of evil things, so I have a cluthism And uh uh, you know, I'm I'm trying to put it uh into five words that some men by my understanding might might might embrace it. God's decree is like the program guide to an opera But the decree is not the act of the opera. In other words, he has declared there shall be an opening and a symphony, and you know, all of these things are ordered, but that decree is not the act itself. So for instance, we're ordained to salvation, we're elect unto salvation, but that doesn't mean that that person is automatically saved. He has to become saved in time. He has to be saved through God's means. There has to be a preacher. How shall they believe except a preacher be sent? They've got to hear the word of God. They've got to repent. They've got to believe. That's got to happen in space-time There are elect children of God that are out there right now that are dead in sins and trespasses. And they're no more currently, as far as we can tell, a child of God than Jackrabbit. But at some point in time, the Word of God shall come to them, they shall hear it, they shall believe, and they shall repent. We don't want to overstate what the decree is simply stating. It's a declaration. It's God saying, I'm going to make something come to pass. It's a whole study in itself to show how God causes things to come to pass. We're just talking about his decrees how he has decreed certain things. Alright, well let's um let's go and I want to now cover some scriptures and then I have some handouts on the table and we'll kind of discuss some of this here in a bit I want to look at the characteristics, the characteristics of God's decrees. What are these things like? So I've got four characteristics. And the fourth one uh has four subpoints to it. So uh this is not a good message. It's only supposed to have three points, and they're all supposed to start with the same letter. I have eight points, and none of them start with the same letter, so uh you'll uh appreciate that. You might get to this. Do you have Acts 1348 in your list of scriptures? Do I have Acts thirteen forty eight in my list of scriptures? I think it just uh it gets your point about the elected unto salvation. Uh but something still has to happen in time space. Oh yes, Acts 13. 48, when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were ordained to eternal life, believed. So they heard the word. Who are those that believe? Those who were ordained to eternal life. That's those who are identified by God as the elect. In the same case as Cornelius too. Yep, absolutely. Absolutely. Okay, let's turn now to Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 10. One of the characteristics of God's decree is that it is founded in Wisdom. God doesn't make some random decree. He actually is quite wise in his decrees, as you would certainly expect. Ephesians 3:10, we had read that earlier, to the intent that now unto principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. According to the eternal purpose. And that leads us to our second point. Not only is his decrees founded in wisdom, but they are eternal. I may make a decree to Angela, you know, I'm going to stop by the store on the way home and I'm going to get such and such. Or I may say, you know, as a family, we are we are Gonna homeschool our children all the way through high school. That that's what we're gonna do. We we really want to do that. I may decree that But my ability to actually do that might be hindered greatly by unforeseen events. I could have a traffic wreck. I could become disabled and lose my job so that both Angela and I have to work or somehow do whatever. Uh I might die. Angela and I both might pass. I mean how how We we can't control these things. When God makes a decree, it is eternal. It is everlasting That's something that is beyond our ability to, I think, fully comprehend. Notice he says in verse 11 of the same chapter, according to the eternal purpose, which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. So all that the Lord Jesus came and did and said, all that he taught, all that he encountered, the various events and circumstances, these are things that God through wisdom purposed and declared should be done. His decrees are also effectual. I gave you an example of mine that may be fraught with risk and my ability to actually make it happen. James even says, go to now, ye rich men. Those who say I'll go to such and such a city uh and stay for a year and buy and sell and get gain, whereas you know not what is on the morrow. It's your life is even a vapor. In other words, you yeah, m you may die tomorrow As the one parable indicates of the rich man's, I'll tear down my bonds and build greater, thou fool. This night thy soul shall be required of thee. God's decrees are effectual and Isaiah 46. 10 hammers this uh point home. Isaiah 46. 10. We've looked at this verse several times in the past. We looked at Ephesians three, ten and eleven, and we're now turning to Isaiah forty-six ten. In Isaiah forty-six ten God's decrees are wise, they're eternal, and they're effectual. And here he says this, the sentence begins, I think we need to go to verse 9. Remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none else. That's the word ale for uh like el Shaddai. There is none else, I am God, that's the word Elohim, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my Pleasure. Those are big, bold words. God insists that he is alone, nobody else can declare, this is the beginning of a matter, and here's the end of it. This is when a nation will rise, and this is when the nation will fall, and here's another nation that will come in their stead, and this one will break up into four pieces. And then You go read through the book of Daniel and you see God spelling out much of the Greek Medo-Persian history of hundreds of years, then he spells it out. Like one who really knows what he's talking about. Because he does. Because he can execute all of his will. He's clearly making these things come to pass. He has no difficulty, it seems, being able to make that happen He says his counsel will stand, and if it pleases him, he'll do it. I remember being brought face to face with my lack of free will one time. I was on a business trip, and it was one of these business trips from, well, not a nice place. It was a terrible business trip. uh the rental car company ran out of cars and no one else there had a car for me except rent a rec and indeed they had a wreck. This thing kind of drove all over the road like this. I think the suspension was optional Uh it was one they pulled out, you know, from the repair list and you know I guess we'll give it to you in a pinch. Um I ended up getting in a wreck on 95 with it, hit a big fog bank in Connecticut and uh rear-ended some guy Uh the company said, ah, don't bother with insurance, we got you covered. Well, not with that company they didn't, and so that haunted me for three years because I kept saying them on business travel. And my company kept saying, Well, do you have your own insurance? I'm like, No, it's your business to take care of. And it just kept getting worse. The airplane got delayed because of said fog and I was stuck in an airport and I couldn't leave. And I wanted to go home. But I couldn't. My will was to leave that airport. I had credit card, I had money, I'm on company business, they'll pay, they'll get me out of there. But there was no way. And I'm just sitting there in the airport going, you know I have a will, but I have no ability. I have no ability to execute it. Last night checked, God ain't broke. He has plenty of resources at his disposal. It is a very light thing for God to do whatsoever he will, and therefore that's why his counsel can stand. He declares it He'll make it happen. Who is going to stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Who among us can go up to God and try to change the lightest thing, the weather? No, Lord, I really don't want rain tomorrow. Stop. Honestly, what are you gonna do? And so this is God's decrees in wisdom, eternal, effectual. Furthermore, his plan is unchangeable. He's faithful and true. Look at Job 23. Job twenty-three, thirteen, and fourteen. Job chapter twenty-three And verses 13 and 14, the plan of God is unchangeable because he is faithful and true. When he says it, it's true. And when he declares it, he because he is faithful, it will come to pass. His plans don't change. Job 23, 13. But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? And what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me, and many such things are with him Many such things are with him. So here is the uh description uh that Job gives concerning God's decrees. He says that he what he does is uh is what his soul desires. In Ephesians 2. 8, you're familiar with this, God's purposes are unconditional. It does not depend on man. And he makes actions very certain. God's purposes are unconditional, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that, not of yourself, it is the gift of God. Some people have attempted to say, well, when it says it is the gift of God, then it's referring to God's grace, that his grace is what is the gift. No, in the Greek it's very clear. When it says, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. The thing that they're referring to is the faith that God gives, because he does not want any flesh to boast in his sight. This little worm can't stand there before God on judgment day and say, well, I was a little bit smarter than my neighbor. I knew that it was a good idea to believe in Jesus and not Buddha. I was just a little bit smarter. I I saw that there was I just had a little bit better perception than this other guy. No, if God had not given me the faith to believe, regenerated me, given life I never would have repented, I never would have believed, I would have continued to go down my own wayward path. And so this is a great example of God's purpose. You may say, well, that's unfair. That's just totally unfair. Well, yeah, you go to Romans 9 and God, you know, his hand reaches out of the scriptures and slaps you in the face a few times. But frankly, um the one to whom it appears to have been unfair would have been the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And look at Acts chapter 2 and verse 23. The most righteous man who ever walked the face of the earth Had the most unrighteous trial and a most horrific death for having done nothing but healing people and doing good. And there was nothing worthy of death in him. And yet he was the one who went on the cross. Was that an accident? Well, in Acts 2. 23, we read this. The apostle Peter is preaching here, and he speaks about him, Jesus of Nazareth, him being delivered by the determinate counsel. And for knowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. There you see how God's decrees play out in space-time history. God had determined that he would be the Lamb slain from before the foundation of the world. He decreed it in shadowy terms, and yet it would in fact come to pass. He also decreed it very specifically, they shall look on me whom they have pierced. Um uh his visage was marred more than any man, it says. Uh he came into his own, his own received him not. All this language from the old and from the new as he came forward indicates that, yes Christ fit all those determined prophecies, those things that indicated how he must come and that he must suffer. Well, how would that suffering occur? Through wicked hands. It was man's will That said, yes, we have seen this holy righteous one, and we believe he is wicked. He's an evildoer. We wouldn't have brought him to you, Pilate, if we did not think he was an evildoer. This is what their will did. This is what the world's best government would do, the Roman government, what the world's best religious system would do, the Jews. The best of them together Isn't it interesting Pilate and Herod became friends that day. And they were all united against the Christ. So the best that the world can concoct, because our foundation of civilization is best on based on Judeo-Christian values, is it not? Judaism and on uh much of the Roman style of government with the Senate and so forth, there's a lot there that we bank off of And so uh if Jesus Christ came today, I would not expect any different of an outcome. That is, if he were coming to redeem his people on the cross again, and that's not going to happen. So his purpose is unconditional. It doesn't depend on man. Man is just a willing dupe to carry out exactly what God has decreed should happen He's quite happy to carry it out, even though he's acting out and playing out that which has been ordained, and yet he'll do it to his own destruction. God will hold him accountable for that. Okay, let's go now to Acts. Hold on, we're going to keep uh uh uh we're gonna make another point here in Acts 2. 23 This plan is all-inclusive. God's plans are all-inclusive, and this is another good passage that indicates that it embraces both good and wicked deeds. Was there good that came out of the death of Jesus Christ? Oh yes, that's exactly the thing the Church of God celebrates The Apostle Paul said, God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of Jesus Christ. So that's a huge benefit to you and I. That represents Payment for sins, it represents a substitution. It represents a transaction where the debt that I owed against God has been fully paid and canceled. Yes, it's a tremendous thing. But like Joseph, who was sold into slavery in Egypt, as he ascended up on high eventually and became second in command, and his brethren were reunited, he says, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. These men here, the scribes, the Pharisees, the uh basically the whole world that then was that had anything to do with the knowledge of Jesus at that time. They were all thumbs down on Christ and with one accord. They meant it for evil Their intent was to evil, so it was to kill him. And yet God meant it for good. So it's a very inclusive plan. That's something that always impresses me about God's decrees. Is that they are so structured that we may think, how can anything good come out of this evil catastrophe? And yet by faith and by the example of what the Lord Jesus Christ has done, we can somehow realize that, yes, though great catastrophe might have come out of something that U and I see. What good could have come out of 9-11 and towers falling and many uh quote-unquote innocent people? They were innocent in that they did nothing to provoke that attack What good could have come out of that? I don't know. In eternity future, we'll find out. But because of what the Lord Jesus Christ has come and done, I have hope that there is a God in the universe who has decreed all things. Amos says, Is there evil in a city and the Lord hath not done it? He asks that. It's a rhetorical question, meaning, well, of course God has allowed a great evil thing to come upon that place. Look at Ephesians 2. 10. Ephesians 2. 10. You know, the Lord Jesus has also ordained something for us, for us Christians. In Ephesians 2. 10. It says this. It says, We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained. That we should walk in them. That word ordained there can be literally rendered before prepared, which God has before prepared that we should walk in them. So it's not a surprise that we would find true believers interested in doing the will of their Father. Why? Because that's part of God's divine decree. He has prepared, as it were, good works for his people to walk in them. Now The path up, Brethren, sort of looks like this, kind of like the stock market over time, you know, where it's up and down, it's up and down, but the general trend is up. On any one particular day, it might be catastrophically low. It might be a time where there's an eclipse of faith, where we take our eyes off the Lord Jesus, and we're just a little too enamored with this world And we're just a little bit too uh far away from the Word of God to nip those sins in the bud in the heart early when they can be curtailed But in general, God has made it, not in general, specific, He has ordained that we should walk in good works. And of course the Scripture speaks much about that. I'm just pointing out the ordination of such works. This plan is all inclusive. It embraces good and wicked deeds. It also accounts for contingent events. It also accounts for contingent events. Look at Genesis chapter 50 and verse 20. What do we mean by contingent events? Genesis chapter 50 and verse 20, we were just talking about Joseph. And here Joseph says to them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, ye thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive Now, what do we mean by a contingent event? That means that even though from our perspective we look and see that there is an evil outcome that was purposed, indeed what they did for Joseph was an evil outcome. Yet, in fact, out of that God had arranged a fantastic benefit to come to his people as a result of it. The plan is inclusive. It also ordains the duration of a man's life. God has also ordained the duration of your life. In Job chapter 14 and verse 5, we have a plain declaration of this. Let's take a look at that. Job 14, 5. This gets rather personal, and I'm going to look at two verses so that we can meditate on this a little bit. Job 14, 5 He's speaking of man. His whole section is talking about man. Job is speaking here. God is through Job. Verse 1: man that's born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble. He comes forth like a flower and is cut down. He flees also as a shadow and continueth not. And he continues on. And then he gets to verse 5. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass. So there, there's a declaration from Job that says, well, God has determined the exact number of months and days that you and I will tread upon this sin cursed earth. Somewhere in God's filing cabinets up in heaven is a file with your name on it, and it has a start and an end date, and it's very specific, and God exactly knows what it is. And it fits into his entire plan of salvation for bringing his elect in, for feeding sheep, for maturing sheep, for challenging sheep for everything is needed to work in their life, and he says, okay, your time on earth is this. And that's it. Yeah, it's funny that you say that. Um I was just um a month ago I visited my grandfather after a year, this whole situation, he died. And I'm not a big fan, you know, he's not there no more. I'm not a big fan of going to graveyard But I I went there to the cemetery, you know, my mom encouraged me, I said, All right, I'll go, you know. And as the kids are walking around the graveyard, you're looking for the date, date they were born, date where they die, and you're like, Wow You know what I'm saying? Just like you're saying, you know, God. You're gonna be born this day and you're gonna die this day. So are you just thinking about did that person hear the gospel? You know. I saw a per person born the same year as me and he died last year. I'm like, Wow. Thank you Lord for you know, I'm saved so praise God for that, but thank you for allowing me to continue in this earth so I can labor in the hearts of Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, a graveyard is a very instructive place to be because uh that is the end of all men, and as you walk around and consider these things you start to realize that maybe I'm not the be-all end-all-do all of this uh universe. I'm just a uh blip here, and there is somebody who's far more in charge than I am. Look at Psalm 39 and verse 4 It's another passage that's uh helpful to us about this topic. Psalm thirty-nine and verse four And we're going to notice the appointed bounds. We're going to talk about that in our next section as well. Psalm 39 and verse 4. Here the psalmist says this. Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Yeah, what if somehow God informs you that uh uh you know the doll actually uh you're a little closer to that graveyard than you think, you've got three more years left. You know, God through Moses in Psalm 90 says, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. You know, God does make us to know the end of our days. Look at that in Psalm 90 Psalm chapter 90, it's the Psalm of Moses, where he speaks about these things very plainly. God gives us a ballpark figure. He does give a roundabout figure for us to do some rough calculations so that we can in general get a ballpark sense of what our end might be. It says in Psalm 90, verse 10, the days of our years are three-score years and ten, meaning seventy. And if by reason of strength they be eighty years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow For it is soon cut off, till we fly away. What a statement. I maybe have told you this story before and I'll repeat it again because I think it's worth repeating. I'm pretty sure I know about how long I'm gonna last. I'm probably gonna pass at around 76. And why would I say that? One of the things I inherited when my dad passed was a set of papers in a file that was the Kluth family history. It's actually the Dietert family history. My uh father's uh grandmother was a Dieter in the Hummels and anyway, just the German history side of it And my dad, having been an insurance, having worked selling life insurance policies to people in the old days without a calculator, uh, did a lot of math by hand. And he went looking through and tracing and did a little bit of comparison. Being an insurance guy, he's interested in actuarial tables. And so there was a yellow sticky note, a piece of paper in the file. And he wrote down He said it said father died age seventy-six. Grandfather died age seventy-six. Great-grandfather died age 76. Anybody want to guess how old my dad was when he died? No. One month into age 76. So four in a row, and I'm pretty convinced that that God has a specific number set on. Angela's doing everything she can to change that. She's doing everything she can to change that number. Now I'm not saying to make it higher. Yes. She's trying to Well brother some days, I don't know. Yes, to make it higher, right. She's doing everything she can to feed me. I'm gonna I'm gonna be a very healthy 76-year-old when they put me in the grave, but I think seventy-six may be it Um seriously, he tells us to teach us to number our days that we may apply verse twelve, Psalm ninety. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. There's something in the Scriptures to numbering our days. If you live to be Eighty years you have a total of twenty-nine thousand and two hundred and twenty days. If you live to be the age of thirty-two You have eleven thousand six hundred and eighty-eight days. Number of day. I mean, we all know how many days are in a year. Have you ever done that? You ever done the math? Have you ever calculated hours there's 168 hours in a week. Have you fi ever figured out what you do with that? Well a third of it's lost in sleep. Some other parts loss in eating and so forth. I mean, you add it up and you ain't got a lot of disposable time left. And what are we doing with that? How much disposable time do we actually have in a week, and then multiply that by four for a month or fifty-two for a year? What are you doing with that? What do you have to show for it? All right, we get to another point. Acts 17, 26. This came through in um Job fourteen. where it talks about that God has appointed his bounds. Acts makes it even plainer. The Apostle Paul was preaching to a bunch of folks on Mars Hill who just want to sit around and Here's some new thing. And he says in Acts 17, 26, speaking of God, he has made us of one blood, and have made of one blood all nations of men. For to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation. So habitation means more than just where your the roof over your head is any particular night. It sort of has the sense of where you're going to go travel, where you're going to go visit You know, if you were to put a map on the wall and put a pen where every place you've been, you had a little breadcrumb trail showing where you had traveled at and just trying to get you know a little record of where you've been. There'd be some kind of little map with all these lines. Well, you are just connecting the dots. Heaven's already decided what those dots are. And as you live your life, you're just Doing a connect the butt scenario. God has already determined the habitations of where you're going to live. That's not interesting. I don't really recall somebody twisting my arm behind my back saying, Vince, you're gonna live here. I don't want to live in this spot. I was like, oh yeah, this is where I want to go. It was very interesting to me. It it made sense to me. That's where I wanted to be I just happily fulfilled that which God had ordained and did in fact come to pass. His decrees worked through what I would call normal means. Normal means. Okay, so we've covered the characteristics of the decrees. We've looked at that. Maybe we can pass these little handouts around, because uh this is a good opportunity now for us to spend a little time and talk about this and got some questions. What comforts do you gain from God's decrees? What comforts do you gain from God's decrees? Well it gets rid of all need to worry about anything 'cause everything's gonna go the way that he decrees it to go. Yeah, there really is no such thing as an accident from heaven's perspective, right? Everything will go the way he's decreed it to go, right? Bedal, you look like you had a comment. Yeah, um established earlier it's eternal. So, you know, that brings comfort to the believer who reads the word and says, you know, one is justified by faith, you know And you know, once God locks in a covenant with you, you know you know, it's not changing, you know. So it brings comfort to the heart, you know, 'cause It does. We have our moments in our walks where, you know That whisper of lies can come and you know if we hold fast and faith to the word, you know, God's word is is true forever. Any other thoughts The just and righteous. So at the end, the ledger is just and and right all the decrees. We can't ever really look at a circumstance and shake our hand against God and say, why did this happen? I've had some very hard things happen to me in life. And, you know, you're brought close to that, but I can't ever go there because you just have to know. Like Job says, shall you know we have received good at the Lord's hand, and shall we not also receive evil? I'm paraphrasing, but uh that's that was a bold declaration of faith for Job to be able to say that, a very bold declaration of faith. In Ezekiel, they uh the Lord said, You will say unto me, Your ways are unequal. And he says, No, your ways are unequal, my ways are equal. I don't know. There's just some comfort there that that's that's right, it's equal. Yes. Yes. Yeah, God insists that his ways are equal. Alright, there's another set of questions here. Alright. What do you think are three common objections to God's decrees. What are three common objections to God's decrees? We're going to discuss and refute each one individually, and we're going to take them one at a time. The first one that comes about is that it's inconsistent with man's moral freedom. An inconsistency with man's moral freedom. That's a common objection. Okay? Now, how would you uh shoot that down? When you say men's moral freedom, do you mean free will or something different from that? So that's a good question. What does what do people mean with man's so called moral Freedom. I think what we're hitting at is man's culpability. That if all men were robots and did exactly what God would have them to do, then on what basis would he condemn them or judge them? That's a question that comes up. God says, nope, that's a bad question. You can't go down that path. Just because God makes a decree, how does that then sit with man's accountability? That's the rut. Any thoughts on that? I heard the sense of things just because just because men does not have free will does not acquit him of God's judgment. Just because man has a free will does not acquit him of the judgment of God, correct? Well somebody was saying, well, if he has chosen whom he would choose, why shouldn't I do what Right. They try to use the sovereignty of God against him. Exactly. So let's uh let's talk through this here. So there is free will, which is what Jacob Arminius taught, that's fiction, the Bible does not teach that, versus free agency, which is a reformed term and is biblical. Free agency means man is able to act according to his nature. Man is able to act according to his nature. But what's man's nature? It's only evil continually, right? His nature is evil. His nature is depraved. He's corrupt. He will act in a certain way. And so what you do find in the scriptures is a bunch of will not. You will not come unto me. Right? That then and I would have people point and say, see, that's free will I don't see free will in that. God's simply saying you will not. There's a bunch of will nots in the scriptures. That's what man will do. He will not come to Christ. He will not do certain things. And he stubbornly refuses God's decree does not remove man's accountability or responsibility. It's a paradox. It appears to contradict, but there's no contradiction. God decreed that the Jews would crucify him, yet they were perfectly free agents to carry it out and will in fact be held liable for this crime. You don't really read in the account of the crucifixion of Christ, the trial and crucifixion. I don't really see in there anywhere where somebody was just really being Their arm was behind their back, they're being twisted, you know. Oh, I I really don't want to crucify, you know, it's there's just something about this that just doesn't seem right. But, you know, I guess we got The Pharisees acting out of envy, because even Pilate could see that for envy they delivered him there. You can see Pilate acting like the consummate politician. What is truth? You know, it's all relative. What is truth? I find no fault in him, but you do what you want to with him. I mean, you know, just total abdication, you know, his blood's not on my hand, it's on yours. You know, just just shuffling it off You just see so much of just plain old human nature in play that you don't really see that um God's forcing anybody to do this. You know, the Bible's inspired writers saw no issue with this, and frankly, they don't attempt to reconcile it. They make it very plain and clear. Man shall give an account on the day of judgment. The Bible's plain about that. The other point is that God has not decreed to personally carry out all his purposes by his direct action. God has not decreed to personally carry out all his purposes by his direct action. Now the passage I take for this is Matthew 18, 7. Here he's making an early reference, I believe, to Judas. And in Matthew 18 7. The Lord Jesus said this. He says, Woe unto the world because of offenses. For it must needs be that offenses come. But woe to that man by whom the offense cometh. So the Lord Jesus Christ has from all eternity decreed that certain things will come to pass, and as we've already looked at, even evil things. And yet, this is a conditional event. He hasn't per se in some from what I'm seeing here, he says, woe to that man by whom the offense comes. As it were, there's a testing program. God definitely tests his creatures. And this is the part that blows me away how God is able to pull this off. I'm an engineer. We know how to program computers to do exactly one thing. But we're not very good at giving them a wide degree of latitude for things that we could never foresee. We're really not too terribly good at that They tend to break down. Why? Because we have test procedures. We're trying to test. Does this is what I expect it to do? Did it do it? You know, we're testing to make sure that code executes a specific way. But God has decreed an outcome and a and a time frame and a performance characteristic and all that good stuff you can say. And yet As it were, he allows a measure of free agency of the human sinners underneath it so that whatever they choose still comes out and carries out his purposes. I don't understand how he pulls that off. Another illustration. Don't you find it amazing that the Lord Jesus was ordained to be born of a virgin? In Bethlehem, before the scepter would depart from Judah, meaning before Judah would lose her authoritative power. So those are just three prophecies right there from a virgin in Bethlehem before the scepter departed from Judah. Because in Genesis forty nine there's a prophecy that the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor law giver from between his feet till Shiloh comes. Shiloh is a reference to the Messiah. Well, the very year that Luke records that there was a tax that went out over all the land, a census. Most translations say census. They didn't have to travel too far just to rank who they were. They had to pay a tax. This is a clear indication of your loss of sovereignty of the nation. When somebody else is levying a tax on you If the Canadians come down and make it clear that everybody in Rockville has got to go up to Canada to pay a tax, you know, that you've lost your sovereignty. You're paying your money to somebody else. And the year that happened, guess who is headed right up there to pay their taxes? A very large pregnant woman on a donkey and a man named Joseph leading this woman along And she's going to have her baby there in Bethlehem. It's not where she lived. They had to go to Bethlehem. So God's going to make sure this pregnant woman Eight months, three and a half, three weeks, six days, and twenty-three hours pregnant, right? Very, very, very ready Here, so she they've got to go up there. What are the odds of all that coming to pass? Think about how that happens. How did Mary get to that point? Well, she had to have parents And how did they get together? And and they had to have children. And d the grandparents. It's just amazing to me. Nobody twists arms had marriages that most of the ones I know about, and yet that exactly came to pass. It I'm just highly impressed with it. Let's look at Psalm 14 again. Psalm 14. We talked about this. I just I just want to we'll look at Psalm 53. It says the same thing I mentioned, Psalm 14. The idea of a conditional ordination is what Orminius gave to try to make God's plan based on man's action. Nowhere does the Bible say or teach that God that God makes a plan based on man's action. The God is not playing chess with the devil. The devil doesn't own the black pieces, and God owns the white pieces The devil is God's hound. He is his servant. The devil asked permission of God in the book of Job to do certain things. The devil obviously still was asking Jesus' permission when he told Peter, Satan has desired to sift thee as wheat. Well that implies that Satan's been knocking on Jesus' uh door and and trying to say, let me have Peter. Just let me have Peter. He's asking permission. So he's clearly not an adversary in terms of the same degree and level that God is. Verse 2 of Psalm 53, God looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek after God. Every one of them is gone back, they're altogether become filthy. There's none that doeth good, no, not one. So we can't claim that God is making a decision based on man's actions. He's looked down the corridors of time. He sees that There's nothing to take advantage of. There's nothing he can leverage to say, oh look, Vidal's going to be really great down here. That'll fit out my plan pretty good. I'll have him take care of this thing, and that'll just make that plan work right. What if God acted that way? What problem might come from that? Man can mess that up. Man in his rebellion for sure would go out of his way to mess that up. That would be the part that he would want to screw up. Because he's in rebellion against God. Carnal mind is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be. It's enmity against him. All right. Other common objections. Objection number two. It makes people slothful in seeking salvation. It makes people slothful in seeking salvation. Well I guess I just gotta sit around and wait for God to zap me. You know, it takes away all motive for human exertion if God's determinant. Why should I strive for it It becomes an excuse for indolence, for laziness, for disobedience. The problem with that is this: the decrees are not addressed to men as a rule of action. God does not present his decrees to man as a rule of action or as a rule of life. He doesn't say, walk according to my decree. It talks about walk according to my word, according to my law, according to my precepts. Walk in the light, not walk in the decree. The decree is God's business. Decrees are only known through and after their realization. I've got a uh uh uh uh cluthism on this that when you It's like driving a car down the road. You have a windshield and you have a rearview mirror. The Bible, with the laws and the directions, And the precepts and the statutes and the ordinances, that's like the windshield that you look at as you drive down the road. And As you grab the steering column of your life going down this road, you're directed and informed by this windshield. You can now see clearly the way things really are. And you can steer clear of trouble. But as you look in the rearview mirror, that's where you see the providence of God. That's where you see God's hand working. That's when you see, ah, Lord, you were so wise. I thought I was making a catastrophic move. But in your divine wisdom Look at how you place me over here. What an amazing God we have. That's where you see his decrees and his providence and his uh uh uh uh overpowering uh uh acts In fact, God's decrees actually encourage action and give hope. And let me explain why. How does the Bible describe the human race? What's a phrase that we can use to describe the nature of the human race? None good. None good. Unprofitable. Well. Evil. Continually evil. Right. Totally depraved is the word that the theologians will use. His faculty, his mind, his will. So, the Bible calls him dead in sins and trespasses. Well, if they're all dead in sins and trespasses, why should I bother evangelizing? Because God has ordained that faith comes by hearing. That's one of his ordinances. That's one of his decrees He has decreed that these dead in sins and trespasses creatures will in fact hear the word of God. And some, in fact, will respond. Why did they respond? Because the power was in them? Because they had a spark of life left in them? Because they were a little bit smarter than their neighbor? To vote for Jesus? No. The power is in the Word of God. It's alive. It quickens. That's why I like hearing stories about how people come to faith. And I can usually j judge pretty quickly whether this is a real conversion or not. A bad conversion story goes something like this. Well Yeah, my sister's uh you know been active in the church for a while, and yeah, my my parents go and uh and uh you know you know, we're we're I'm okay. I'm good, you know. Hmm We're appealing to our sister, an occasional church visit, and a self-proclamation of good. Another will go Man, I was just throwing up drunk on the side of the street or whatever, and I found this track and man I started reading this and boy I read this thing in the Bible and it's just and it was this passage and it's some bizarre passage of scripture, you know, like teach us to number our days that we apply our hearts to wisdom. I always like hearing what passage of scripture first convicts a uh a a believer. I love hearing it because God uses so many different passages. It's really amazing. And they were just struck. Maybe they're struck by a fear of death, or they're struck by uh the words of Jesus and the parables or or whatever. They're just struck and they're and it just It grips them. And they just were gripped and they just were able to to leave off certain things and they and the word became precious to them. And all this stuff and this struggle and this but it was all it was word centered My ears perk up then. This sounds like somebody that may be in fact bought of God. God has ordained that there will in fact be men that will become saved. Look at Philippians 2, 12 and 13. Because again, there's no contradiction in the scripture for these things. It gives us hope. It encourages us to this end. If God had not ordained it, evangelism would be useless. Philippians two twelve says this Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling Why am I to work out my salvation with fear and trembling? That's the imperative. That's what I'm implored to do. Well, here comes the indicative. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Ah, God is working in me. How do I know that? I don't know But I know he does it when I'm in his word and I get encouraged by it. That's how that working out of salvation occurs. Again, there's no contradiction in the mind of the Bible writers. They don't seem to present that as a contradiction It's the indicative imperative. Because Jesus has done this, therefore you do that. Because God is doing this, therefore you do that. It's, I think, an example of following him. A third objection to God's decrees. The first is inconsistent with man's moral freedom that makes people slothful in seeking salvation. And the third one is that it makes God the author of sin. Some people want to say, well, this is really making God the author of sin. But we've already touched on that in a previous study. that God cannot be the author of sin. It's totally against his holy character. It says God cannot lie. God is true in all his ways and doing. In fact, his name is faithful and true. He's not one that is the author of sin. If you missed that study, let me know. I can send you the link to it. But look at Ecclesiastes 7. 29. Ecclesiastes chapter seven and verse twenty-nine. Lo this only have I found, that God hath made man upright. But they have sought out many inventions. So God insists, nope, Adam was very good. Adam had a righteousness. He was a righteous individual. He had a mutable righteousness. He could throw it away. In fact, he did. God made man upright, but man, the blame. Squarely lies there, he has sought out many inventions. And the word inventions is not in a positive sense. He's invented all kinds of ways to rebel against God. So instead, God has decreed free moral agents who themselves become the author of sin. This is what we're talking about here in Ecclesiastes 7. God cannot convey to the creature some of his characteristics, such as his immutability, the fact that he can never change. That doesn't get conveyed to the creature. The creature can change himself. The creature can pervert himself. He can foolishly pervert himself. He can foolishly pervert himself in all of his seed and posterity. That's precisely what Adam did. He sunk us badly. Um I say that this really isn't a puppet show. Brother Bernie had a great response to that, you know. Well we're all puppets. Bernie said, please make me a puppet. Please make me a puppet. Oh, that I would do only the things that God would ever have me to do. Oh, that I could only do that. That I would in fact do that. But that's not what I find It's not what I find. For good and holy reasons, God renders sinful acts to be certain, but does not decree to work evil desires or to work evil choices in men. I believe it's uh in the sense that God decrees to permit not to produce sin. Let me say that again. God decrees to permit but not to produce sin. And our last passage to look at that is Luke 22 and verse 22. Luke 22, 22. And then we'll have to wrap it up there. Verse 21. Again, here he's fulfilling what we had read earlier in Matthew 18. Behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. And truly the Son of Man goeth as it was determined. But woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed There is someone the Scriptures had ordained that would be known as the Son of Perdition. And among those twelve apostles, one of them would step into that. It was ordained as such. I don't think Judas was ordained by name. I think what entered into his heart was that which his heart was willing to open up to, to the devil for. Uh he was a thief. He loved the the he was uh carried the money bag and he loved to steal from it. Uh there were some sins that were left undealt with I can't imagine walking with the Master, lo, those many years, and truly not being deeply impacted to the point where those things could could fall off. It's scary to me to think that some could walk so long with the Lord Three years this man walked right there with the Savior, hearing him firsthand. He didn't have to worry about translation issues, text criticism issues, he didn't have to worry about Whether he was getting the message straight or not, I didn't have to worry about, I didn't have a perfect preacher, it didn't get any better than that. And Jesus says, woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed. So we can't try to trick God at his own game. We can't try to come up with some vain, lame excuses to point a finger at God against Adam already tried that. The woman whom thou gavest to me. Right? That didn't go very far. It just got him a cursed ground and a lot of sweat and thorns out of that So that's our overview and introduction of it today on the decrees. Next week we'll get into more deeply into the topic of predestination and we'll look at that more thoroughly and then on to the other studies.