To the end of the chapter, but we won't cover all the verses. The um the last few verses are just dealing with the genealogy, so to speak, of King Saul. And uh speaks of his children and his wife and so forth. But looking at 1 Samuel chapter 14, begin verse 36. And if you recall, um I might have you turned on there's a little bit of an echo in my voice, I'm not sure. Uh if you recall, last week there had been a battle in which Jonathan uh King Saul's son had led out in the battle, and then everybody else joined after. You know, they saw things going the right way and that they got excited about and they joined with him. And after the battle, is what we're reading here now in the verse 36. And Saul's excited, of course. He wants to, well, as you see, he wants to continue the fighting. It's getting night. And Saul said in verse 36, Let us go down after the Philistines by night and spoil them until the morning light. And let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatever seemeth good unto thee. And then said the priests, let us draw near hither unto God. So he was kind of He intercepts what they want to do or interrupts what they want to do. In verse 27, and Saul asked counsel of God, shall I go down after the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he or God answered him not that day. And Saul said, Draw ye near hither all the chief of the people. And know and see wherein this sin hath been this day. He suspects that there must be sin in the camp if if God wouldn't answer. Verse forty nine thirty-nine For as the Lord liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be found in Jonathan my son, He shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him. Then said he unto Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee. Therefore Saul said unto Lord God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. There could be a casting of lots to determine where the sin was. And Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped. And verse 42, and Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan, my son. And Jonathan was taken. And then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him and said, I did But taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and and lo I must die. And recall that just before the battle began, Jonathan was already in the battle And when Saul joined it, he said to the men, Don't anybody stop and eat anything until after the battle. Well Jonathan didn't even know about this. And so Jonathan says, uh you know, for a little honey I must die In verse 44, Saul answered, God do so and more also, for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan. I told his family's a little dysfunctional last week. And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die? Who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? I mean Jonathan set this whole thing rolling. God forbid, as the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. And so the people rescued Jonathan. That he died not. And you can read the rest of it and find the genealogies of Saul and his children. But we're going to just go with these verses this morning that we've read. Saul said, Let us go after the Philistines, even by night. We've been chasing them all day, killing them and slaughtering them. Let's not stop now. Let's go even into the night and do it, and we'll finish them off right down to the last man. And the people that were gathered around the king said, Hey, whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Yikes. That's what people say today, don't they? Hey, what do you want to do? If someone makes a suggestion, it's pretty crazy and pretty wild and off the wall and think, whatever seems good to you, let's do it. People don't stop to thinking whether it should be done or not done, or whether it's biblical or not biblical, or whether it's sin or not sin. You know, they just hey hey, whatever you want to do. There's always a leader in the crowd that comes up with some crazy idea. You know, let's go out and get drunk and drive around the city and around the beltway or whatever. People just I had a friend of mine years ago, he was making little little explosives and he was running around the belly night, throwing them out the window. Asked if anybody wanted to go with them and people say, yeah, it sounds good to me. What a crazy thing to do They weren't big or like M eighty firecrackers or something, but he lit one and hit the window and fell back in his lap and that was an exciting time for them. But you know, people, people just, they say, hey, what seems good unto you. That logic is bad, bad advice to say, well, whatever seems good unto you Do you ever stop and think what what God might have to say about something you're thinking about doing? That was the logic in the Garden of Eden. You know, he goes out, she takes from the tree of the forbidden fruit, she tastes it, and And it it seems good to her. Nothing happens. She goes back to Ab and says, Hey look at this stuff's good to eat. It's pleasant to look at. It's pleasant to eat. And and she says, It seems like a good idea. And in fact, we can become as gods, you know. It seems That's what the serpent said we can become as gods if we eat of this fruit and and know right from wrong and and evil from good and it seems good unto me, so I took a bite and it sits great. And so then Adam takes a bite too. And look at the message guide and by doing something they just It just seems good unto me to be like gods. I mean that's what was promised to them. How about Lot Lot and Abraham are out there looking around at the shepherds of their flock have been fighting among themselves because you know we gotta separate and you go one way, I'll go the other way. And they're standing up there and they're looking out over the area and And Abraham and and Lot and Lot sees this luscious plains along Jordan, oh just gorgeous. The other side kind of rocky and not quite as beautiful and pleasant. And uh Lot says, uh, I'm gonna take this section here out, the plains of Jordan. You know, it really seems good unto me. You know, that's what he says. And Abraham didn't fight with him. But when you read the whole thing, you get an idea of maybe why Abraham didn't fight with him. It says Lot beheld the plain of the Jordan, well-watered everywhere, and Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom. But it seems good unto me. I mean look at all the the water everywhere is pleasant plains and greenery. Sometimes when it seems good unto you You ought to check with a few other people seeing and see you know what the scripture has to say about the choices that you're making. Even the the priests and the Pharisees in the New Testament When when Christ was crucified, what'd they say? We read there it says, they command the sepulchre to be made sure until the third day Unless his disciples steal him away and say he is risen from the dead, and Pilate said, Go and make it as sure as you can, Matthew 27, verses 64 to 64 And and the Pharisees said, Look, if we don't make this this tomb sure, they'll say it'll steal his body away. You know, they'll take his body away, and then they'll say he's risen. And so Pilate said, Well, make it as sure as you can. It seemed like a good idea to them, didn't it? But if they hadn't made the tomb sure and the tomb was empty the next day, they could have said, Well, they stole his body. But because they made the tomb sure, it seemed like a good idea to the Pharisees, it did nothing but conclude totally that Christ was risen from the dead. I mean what seemed to them like a good idea proved to be the exact opposite for the Pharisees and and the Sadducees and and the priests that that it it it just You couldn't well if we'd only made the tomb, sure. Oh, we did make the tomb. Well, we'd only seal the tomb. Oh, we did seal the tomb. Well, if we only set a guard in the tomb, well, we do put a guard in the tomb. I mean, everything that seemed good unto them, it just backfired her in the face, and it proved That Christ was risen from the dead and that no one stole his body. But it seemed like a good idea. And people say this all the time. Eh, it sounds like a good idea. Let's do that. But a priest injected. Well everyone is saying, you know, the majority crowd, right? That's uh usually if you're around people and you you get involved in doing something, well my kid fell into a bad crowd, or my kid Yeah, well, okay, but your kid could have been the one that says, I don't think that's a good idea, you know. I don't think that's good logic. I don't think we should do that. He y your child could have interrupted or could have injected, like this priest does, with everyone there When everyone is saying, you know, the king's got an idea, let's go down and fight the feral scenes at night, get them all. And when everybody's saying, what a great idea, it seemed like a good idea to me, let's do it The priest says he injects, all right? Let's draw near unto God and see what God has to say about fighting this battle at night. The priest, he he had to stand alone Go up to Philistines by night. Should I encourage that? Shall I follow the majority? That's what the priest had to think. Should I just let it go? Everybody else thinks it's a good idea. I mean the emotional impact is yes we can finish them off and they'll never bother us again. I mean, do I let the majority lead me? Do I let my emotions lead me? Uh do I let the king lead me? I mean he is the king without God's blessing. No. You don't let your emotions lead you. You don't let someone in authority lead you in the wrong direction without God's blessing. You don't let the majority uh Take you that way? And then also, you notice of this priest, he inserts into the conversation God. He says to them, Let us draw near unto God. Do you ever insert God into your conversations out there? I mean, do you f is that a difficult thing for you to do I look for ways to do that. You know, when people are talking about, boy, it's hot today. Well, it's a lot hotter place than this place, you know Bible talks about hell. Or they say, oh, global warming, the northern ice caps are going to melt, and the southern ice caps are going to melt, and we're all going to drown. I mean it's getting so warm. I mean they say but this raise us two more degrees global warming we're finished You know what the Bible says I tell them it's oh what's the Bible say the Bible says it's gonna get warmer than two degrees It says that God's going to raise the temperature so high that the elements of the earth are going to melt. We're not going to drown. The Bible says we're going to burn up. Global warming, it it isn't anywhere near. And it won't be caused by us breathing out carbon dioxide, which is the biggest cause of global warming, by the way. So if you hold your breath. For 20 seconds, start practicing doing that for the rest of your life, you'll you'll lessen your carbon footprint. And you'll probably die sooner too holding your breath all the time But do you ever insert God's word in the conversation? Oh, things are terrible out there. There's there's wars everywhere, Syria and Egypt and and uh over in in in the in the Congo or or uh up in the uh the Ukraine and and they start naming all these different places. And you say, you know something the Bible talks about that. It says that there will be wars and rumors of wars. Really? Yes. And you know what else it says What? It says well it says in Mark 13. It says, be not troubled. It's just happening the way God has laid it out. It's just falling in line. God says it's going to be that way before he comes back. Try to insert God into the conversation. The priest did that here. Or just ask others if they've ever considered what the Bible or Christ had to say about the topic of uh abortion or gay marriage and see how far that gets you. Some people might say he talked about gay marriage? He talked about yeah sure I was full stuff on that. You might think that all the liberals know that. You might think everybody they don't know that. They they haven't some of them haven't been in a church in their entire entire life. They have no idea. They haven't been in the Bible their entire life. The only the only verse they know is the one that says that that says love your enemies or or or perhaps the one that says, judge not lest you be judged. They know that one too. They know two or three verses. So we need to insert Christ in the conversation, look for places, insert God in the conversation, and that's what he does here. And I know uh you'll run to people sometimes because it says here in this verse 37, God did not answer them that day. And you'll run to people sometimes, maybe maybe some sitting Here. And he said, I've given up on God. Why is that? Because he didn't answer my prayer. Well, they didn't answer Saul's prayer here either. You know, a person said they I've given up on God because he didn't answer my prayer. Well, should we give up that quickly, that easily? Because God didn't answer your prayer that day. Did Moses give up on God after nine plagues, and the Pharaoh still hadn't let the people go? He didn't give up, did he, after nine plagues? I mean, really. And you look at other people in the Bible says the same thing. Did Samson give up on God after the Philistines took his eyes out? No He's down there in that dungeon plotting and planning how he can kill more Philistines. And he finds a way even though he's lost his eyes. He didn't give up on God How about the Apostle Paul? He has a store in the flesh and he asks God to remove it three times. Now, if the Apostle Paul, you know, if you ever want someone to pray for you, boy Apostle Paul would be a good one, wouldn't it? You know, maybe Peter and Paul. I mean, how could you ask for a better prayer worry than Paul? Paul says, I got the sword in my flesh. He describes it as being something demonic, like you know A fallen angel, but we don't know really what it was. But but Paul, three times he prays for God to take care of the thorn in his flesh. And God says, No, I'm not gonna do that. My grace is sufficient on it. Did did Paul give up because his prayers weren't answered or answered the way he wanted them answered? No. So when people say, I'd give up on God, He didn't answer my prayers, they never really were with God. They didn't give up on God. They never were there. They just wanted to spiritual Santa Claus to fill her bag full of goodies, but not their heart with the scriptures and the love of Christ. Now Saul we read here when this is is not answered, his prayer is not answered, Saul suspects God's silence was due to sin in the camp. There must be a reason why God wouldn't answer the priest. There must be a reason why we don't know what we should do, and consequently we won't do anything There must be sin in the camp. So in verses 38 and 39, Saul said, See wherein the sin hath been this day. There's got to be sin for this to happen. For as the Lord liveth, though it be found, the sin be found in Jonathan, my son, he shall surely die. Wow! Have you ever said something you regretted? I mean, can you imagine how Saul is going to feel in a moment when he finds out that the that it the lot falls on his son? I mean I don't care if it falls on my son Jonathan. He'll die. He will die. Boy, you can say things that you regret probably just as they're leaving your mouth. What did I say? Hope that doesn't happen. Have you ever been there? There was a man named Jephthah back in the in the book of Judges, chapter 11. Jephthah was a man that he was he was a he was a bastard child and so the the people of Israel didn't treat him really well. They kind of shunned him and pushed him out. And he was a great warrior, he was a great battle, uh great fighter. And the Ammonites came into Israel and said, Give him the people a fit. And they just didn't know how to fight the Ammonites. They just didn't have any they didn't have the courage, they didn't have the know with all but they knew that Jepha now he was a boy, he was a he was a tough guy. And so they go to Jephthah and they say, Look, will you fight the battle force and drive out the Ammonites He said, sure. He said, uh what what I would like to be respected after that and treated properly. We'll do anything you want, anything you want. So Jephthah, he's a praying man and he prays it. He says that he makes the bow to God. He says, Oh Lord, he says, give me this victory May I have this victory. May I survive this victory? May I, at the end of the day, find myself coming home and whatever greets me out the door first, I will sacrifice it to a burnt offering Probably hoping the family dog would come charging out or something. I don't know. But it's his daughter that came out. If you know the you read that story in chapter uh eleven of judges. The daughter of Jephthah comes running out to greet her father after the bottle after the battle. And he said, Oh what have I said? What have I done? Oh daughter, I've said the first thing that comes to greet me as I come home from victory I will offer up as a burnt offering my own daughter. So we can say things that we regret sometimes, can't we? Not about Peter. Begin to curse. Now a curse isn't necessary swearing, alright? Um I don't know if a lot of Catholics know this, but The Bible says that Peter cursed. He was a saved man when he cursed. No, curse is something like May the flea of a thousand camels infect your armpits. kind of a curse you can have. You know, or or or may you fall down and break your leg, you know, or something. I mean it's that's a curse. But it doesn't just say that Peter cursed. It says here in Matthew 26, 75, that Peter began to curse And swear, whoa, he wasn't just cursing. And swear, saying, I know not the man Jesus. And immediately the cock crowed So we've got people, when you go through scriptures, uh a great godly judge like Jephthah saying things that he wished he'd never said We've got the Peter saying things that he wished he'd never said, he regretted. Have you ever said something you regretted saying? The Apostle Paul did. Apostle Paul says that before he was saved He went around, he wasn't saved, and he and he said things he now regret. He went around after the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we find here they said, I put them to death. And I gave my voice against them. I testified, he says in Acts 26, 10, I testified of things that they were blasphemers and they were ungodly and they deserved to die. He said, I testified against the followers of Christ Oh, oh, oh, he says, I regret those things. I regret those words. People died because of me. People were tortured because of me. People were put in prison because of me People were forced to blaspheme the name of Jesus Christ because of me. I regret some things I have said in life. Well, I bet you everybody here regrets something you said in life. Could have said it better, could have said it different, could have said it with less emotion or more emotion or not said it at all. Hard to take backwards. Paul had to live with some of the words he said and the consequences of them. So Saul says he'll kill even Jonathan if the sin, if his sin is the cause for God's sight. The Bible tells us we should be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. The wrath of man worketh not righteousness, James 1 and verse 20. So I would present to you this morning, Pilgrim, is anger a common component in your life. I mean you can be angry and sin not. The Bible tells us that. But is anger, you know, if you've got if you've got a problem with anger management You need you've got a problem. You got a real problem. You gotta you gotta assimate your problem. You're on a slippery slope if you have anger management problem. You are on a slippery slope that will bring you and others a great deal of pain as it does to Saul's household as we proceed through the life of Saul, we see the pain inflicted upon Saul and his household because of his anger. He's he had anger issues and what it did if he was going to put Johnson to death. That doesn't sound so good, does it? And it it just proceeds from there and gets worse. with Saul. So he's got Israel on one side, verse 40 and 41. He's got Jonathan himself on the other side. Because he just knows he's got his hand around Jonathan. He just knows, well Jonathan, we're going to find out which three sinners out there has caused the problem that God didn't answer the prayer And the lot falls to Saul and Jonathan. Now we don't know exactly how the lot was cast and what was involved with it, but it was something that was accepted by the people of Israel as a way to determine. right and wrong and and it fell to he and Jonathan. In fact Saul says, Oh Lord, he's praised. Oh L he says, Oh Lord, he says there in verse forty one. Give us a perfect lot, that is, discover who the guilty one is in this matter In verse 41, it says, Saul was praying this, oh Lord, we're a castle line, find out who's the guilty of this matter. And you know what the people said? Hey, whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. There they go again. They haven't learned whatsoever seemed good on me. Do it. Yeah, sounds great. Well they were rolling the last time the majority said that because if God didn't answer the prayer And now he says, you know, let me have a perfect lot and we'll take care of this. And the people, yeah, that's let's toss a lot out. Let's do that. That's whatever seemeth good unto thee And again we see the foolishness of the people who say, hey, let's just do what seemeth good. Let's just do what seemeth good, or what what is appetizing, or what what the feel-good feeling you get sometimes From doing things that you weren't supposed to do, and you hope you don't get caught. This, again, as I said before, it's bad advice to do what seemeth good unto you. You need to check with the Lord to see if it is right and not just feels good And so we see the foolishness of the people again. You know, that kind of logic, if it seemeth good unto you, we already talked about some examples, I'll give you a few more. Uh you go back to Exodus chapter 32 and Moses up on the mountain. He hasn't come back yet, and the people say, Hey, Moses hasn't come back, we don't know where he is, maybe he's dead, maybe he's never coming back. We gotta do something. And Aaron, Moses' brother, says, Well, give me all the golden earrings out of your ears. What were the Israelites men doing with golden earrings in their ears? Well, they just come out of Egyptian captivity of hundreds of years and They were pretty paganistic by then, so they were wearing these men were wearing it, and the women too. He's give me the gold earrings, and we'll make a golden calf and we'll worship it And we'll call it by the if you look at the original Hebrew there, and we'll call a golden calf Jehovah or Elohim. I mean we haven't turned our back on the God of Israel, but we're going to make this image of a golden calf And this image of the golden calf we will worship it. God said not to make any images of anything upon the land or under the sea or in the sky, but they made this calf and they they were going to worship it. It seemeth good unto them. And it got Aaron and all the people in trouble. Moses comes down with the Ten Commandments and stone, and he's angry, and he breaks them and throws them down, right? But it seemed good unto them. And you had the same logic when the people are there in Jerusalem and they're all gathered, and Pilate says, You know, every year about this time of Passover, I'm allowed to release one man. And what did the people do? They start hearing the priests and the chief priests and the Pharisees saying, release Barabbas, release Barabbas. And they kind of go through the crowd and all this. And so what do they do? They say, give us Barabbas, give us it seemeth good out of them. I mean we're even in line with the priests. I mean it's kind of nice when you when you you say, Well who else agrees with me? Well I'm agreeing with uh the Pharisee over here and I'm agreeing with the Sadducee and then the the chief priests and Typhus I mean the LSA perhaps, hey let's let's let's be involved with the majority. Let's do it. It seems good we're and we're finally you know the Pharisees over pat me on the back and there's a Sadducee He's smiling at me, giving me an old wing. That seems good unto me to release Barabbas and crucify the Lord Jesus Christ in Luke 23. And verse eighteen. We we read in scriptures about casting of lots It's not totally unfamiliar with us, especially if you read the Old Testament and if you've been reading the New Testament, there was casting of lots done by God's people. But you might say to yourself, well then should we cast lots today? In fact, John Wesley used to cast lots a lot. He said, Shall I preach in this church or that church? And I don't know if he flipped the coin or what he did, but he would cast lots to see which church he should preach in on this Sunday or or that Sunday Or whether he should take a trip or not take a trip, whether he should buy this horse or not by. John John Lessy would cast lots for everything. And it must have got him into some real fix with I think he must have cast a lot one time. How many of you see the picture of John Wesley, the preacher? He must have cast a lot. Do I get a haircut or not? Get a haircut. Boy, he had long hair Uh probably was really just too busy to get it cut, but he cast lots of lots. So so should should Christians be casting lots today? Or should Saul have been casting a lot that day? Alright? No, the truth of the matter is that that the lot that is cast into the lap. The whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. We read that in Proverbs 1633. You cast a lot, he said, it is of the Lord. But you also find when you're reading the scripture that the lots that were cast that were of the Lord, they were also ordered of the Lord. Alright? You knew of God ordered you to cast a lot and you cast it, the falling out of that lot would be of the Lord. But if you're not ordered by God to cast the lot and you cast the lot, who knows what may come And we we see in times in scripture where God ordered the lot to be cast. In Joshua chapter seven, they'd they'd gone and they'd taken down Jericho, the walls fell down, and then they went out and they They attacked a city called Ai, a small city, and they thought this would be an easy route. It's a smaller city than Jericho and and the people of Ai they just slaughtered the the Israelites. They were they just they couldn't believe it. They were defeated and driven off and And uh they they begin to pray, what's wrong? And he said, There's sin in the camp. And he said, How are we going to find the sin? And God said, Cast a lot. And they cast a lot. And the t one the one particular tribe was taken. They said, Cast it again to find out which family, and it fell on the family of Achan. So here was God saying, Cast a lot, and the casting a lot was of the Lord. He was instruct they were instructed to cast a lot, and they did. And the other time we see God instructing the castle lot is when they're going into the w into the promised land. And so we have to divide up the land between the twelve tribes. and see which tribe gets this section, which tribe. And guys cast a lot and you'll read it's quite a few chapters to read sometime, but if you want to do that, uh we we find that in um Joshua chapter thirty I'm sorry uh yeah Joshua chapter thirteen through Joshua chapter twenty-one and verse forty-one tells you how they cast the lots and broke up the land. And God said, and it's an interesting chapter to read because God said, this is your land forever. Had someone tell me the other day, I can understand the Palestinians, they th they feel like they've been tossed to other land, kicked to other land, and and then you know they want to have it back and I said it was Israel's forever. God gave it to them. Nobody else has a right to that piece of property. Read Joshua chapter uh thirteen and fourteen and fifteen and it tells you how they they got it and how it was divided up by the casting of lots. So Saul is not directed by God to cast a lot And what happens by him doing that? He ends up having to fulfill his his promise. I'll kill whoever it is. At least that's what he wants to do. See how it gets you in trouble and you do something that You're not authorized to do. There's also casting lots from the New Testament. When Judas was scared is dead, the disciples come together and say, There's only eleven of us. We need twelve, twelve tribes of Israel. We've got to have one one apostle for each of the twelve tribes Well what should we do? Well, there's a couple of good guys here. Let's let's cast lots and see which one God wants. They cast lots, and Matthias is chosen. We read about that in Acts chapter 1 and verse 26. Matthias is chosen and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. But guess what? Search your New Testament. You never hear of Matthias again. God didn't tell Mastelot to choose the 12th apostle God already had that figured out. He was going to grab this guy named Saul on the road to Damascus and was going to call him in as the 12th apostle. And so with the times when you find people casting lots when God orders it, then the casting lot is of the Lord. But when God doesn't order it, and God is not ordering anyone to cast lots today. So that's what he did. And verse 42 and 43, and Jonathan was taken. And Saul said What has Job done? He couldn't believe his own son was taken. You know, John's a good kid, he's a good guy. He was a hero. He'd started this war with the garrison and wiped out the garrison uh a few weeks before that, and then he sat down and wiped out a bunch of them again and caused this whole uh Scattering of the Philistines and the panic of Phil I mean he's a hero of Israel. He said what could what could my son have done? He's a hero. He he deserves a congressional medal of honor. And he said, What he says, Jonathan, what what did you do? He couldn't imagine that Jonathan could have been done anything. And Jonathan says in verse 44, I I did but taste a little honey. And if you go back and read the story, Jonathan's out there charging at the Philistines. They come through some woods. There are these beehives all over the place, and they're so full of honey, they're leaked and the honey's falling on the ground And Jonathan he just takes a stick and he sticks some of the honey on the ground, a puddle of it, and he tastes it. That's all. And he kept on going, he kept on fighting. He didn't stop for a meal, but but he did taste the honey, and Saul gave an order not to eat anything Until the battle was done. So Jonathan said, I did but taste a little honey, and lo, I must die. I didn't even really eat the honey. I just tasted the honey. And I gotta die. And Saul answered, What did his daddy say? Surely, surely thou shalt die. Wow. You know When somebody does something sometimes, it hurts you. And Jonathan had done something that hurt his father. Jonathan had broken an order of King Saul. Jonathan didn't even know about the order. That in itself, the ignorance of the law Uh should have been an excuse, although in this country ignorance of law is no excuse, right? We hear that all the time. But Jonathan didn't know, and he so he's done this and and it hurt his father You would think that his father would take into account that he didn't know about the order, or you think his father would take into account Jonathan's heart intent was not to hurt his father. I mean, isn't that worth something? Well when when somebody hurts you, do you ever sit back and say, well, what was our heart's intent? so important. Yeah, it hurt. Was there another way they could have said it? Maybe, maybe not. It hurt. But what was the heart intent? Christ taught we should forgive seventy times seven in Matthew 18, 22 and 23. You know that verse. 70 times 7. That's 490 times. And that's not you have to forgive 490 times in the rest of your life. That means any individual, you have to forgive them. 490 times if they do something and they ask you to forgive them, you're supposed to forgive them. You may not forget some things, but you're supposed to forgive them. It's supposed to make amends So, my question to you this morning is this. On a scale of 1 to 10, how forgiving are you? On a scale of 1 to 10, how merciful are you? And we might all sit there and say, well, I think I'm pretty forgiving. I'd be about a seven. And uh uh merciful? Oh man, I'm probably an eight on that. Yeah. feed on that. Okay. Let me show you how that sliding scale works, alright? Scale of 1 to 10. 490, right? If you can forgive the same individuals 49 times. You're a one on the scale of forgiveness. That's not very good, is it? On the sliding scene, you know, on the scale of one to ten. How merciful are you? Have you ever forgiven anybody 49 times? Probably by the sixth or seventh time you're fed up and you're done with them, right? You're not even a one on the scale of forgiveness. You know, kings can pardon people. Kings can set death sentences aside, but Saul wouldn't wouldn't have anything to do with it. And I want you to note here first, eating honey, eating honey, it was a transgression of the king's order, but it was not a transgression of God's word. Eating the honey was not even a sin, right? It wasn't even a sin. He's going to die for something that isn't he told us, I got to find out where the sin of the camp is, and this person will die. And when he finds out what John had done, it wasn't even a sin. It wasn't a transgression of God's word. And the second thing is that we find here, in the days of Saul, and it hasn't changed much, life must have been pretty cheap. Life must have been pretty cheap when it could be destroyed for the little bit of honey. You would destroy life just for a dab of honey on your tongue. Let me tell you how cheap life is today. If you're the second child born in China, you're dead You only allowed one child. If you're the first child born in China and it's a girl, they can kill you. In fact the family will often they want a son, not a boy. They want a son, not a girl, so if they're pregnant and it's a girl, they kill them. That's how cheap life is in China today. Or if you're an Israelite, that's good enough reason for the jihadists, the Islamics, to kill you, you're an Israelite That's how cheap life is. If you're a Muslim who converts to Christianity, the followers of the Quran think that's a good enough reason to kill you. That's how cheap life is Just being born an Israelite or a Jew, or just being born again as a Christian, where the Quran is revered is enough. Reason to put you to death. When the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. Proverbs 29 and 2. And as we see here in the life of Saul, wicked rulers will not tolerate their authority being challenged. Hang on to that thought. Wicked people in authority will not tolerate their authority being challenged They will cast away the law of God. In fact, Isaiah says they will cast away the law of the Lord of hosts. They will despise the word of the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah 5 and 24 They will do they despise the things of God, but their laws must be obeyed. Their laws must be honored. And so they cast away the law of God. Why? So they can redefine the terms that are out there Those that cast away the Word of God big knowledge today, they redefine what marriage is. They redefine what a fetus is. They redefine what creation in Genesis really means. They redefine what sin is. Because they hate the word of God. Isaiah said they cast away the law of the Lord of hosts, they despise the word of the Holy One of Israel, and so they redefined the words of Scripture. They hate it. But they love their rules, their laws, their commandments, their orders, and they must not be challenged. They must be They won't tolerate not the obedience. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil. Isaiah tells us again, they put darkness for light. They put darkness for light. Isaiah 5 and 20. And so here are King Saul, his orders, he orders his heroic son Jonathan to be put to death. And when you get the context, we're in chapter 14, right? He orders in chapter 14, at the very end of the chapter, put my son Jonathan to death. And at the very beginning of chapter 15, when God tells King Saul to go after the Amalekites and kill them all, he says, I want you to kill the men. I want you to kill the women. I want you to kill the babies. I want you to kill the sucklings, the ones that are just born, kill them all. And kill the cattle and the sheep and the goats and the oxen. Kill them all. Well, a guy that can kill a son, no problem there, right? No. In chapter 15, just a few verses after this order killed Jonathan, Saul does not kill the Amalekite king Agog Some part pronounced a gag and what he did would would gag it. But he doesn't kill the king. He's told to kill the babies and the women, the children, but he doesn't kill their king He catches them, keeps them alive, or he doesn't kill the oxen, he doesn't kill the sheep, he brings them back. He's going to sacrifice them to God So, how is it that his order, you must kill Jonathan? Well, I don't have to obey God, right? That's a wicked ruler. Where his Law must stand in God's, they don't care about it. The people said unto Saul, Verse 45. Shall Jonathan die? Jonathan? Your son? Our hero? Jonathan, he brought this great or he produced this great thing You might not use that word too often, but he produced or he wrought this great salvation in Israel. I mean Israel is on the ready to be exterminated by the Philistines, and Jonathan comes in and he produces this great victory, and Israel is alive to live another day. God forbid that the people say. Now these are the people who are saying, well, whatever seemeth good to you, they finally caught on, haven't they? Whatever seemeth good to you, whatever seem all of a sudden they say, wait a minute That may seem good to you, Saul, but Jonathan's a hero. Jonathan is your son. How can you do this? He wrought a great victory. How can you do that? All of a sudden, do whatever seemeth good unto you. They're not going to use that line anymore, and we shouldn't either They oppose. I get in trouble for this one. The people of Israel opposed the executive order of their ruler. Because it was contrary to the word of God to put an innocent man to death. There are people out there who have gone to jail for opposing the law of this land, the putting to death of innocent little babies. And they go to jail for that. God bless them. These people here oppose the executive order of the king. It was contrary to God's word. that an innocent should die. It took courage to oppose Saul, who commanded an army, as we read the rest of this chapter. We didn't read the rest of the chapter. He commanded an army that took out the Amalekites, took out the Philistines, took out the Edomites, took out the Ammonites, took out the Moabites. took out the king of Zobah. I mean this guy he commanded a horrendous army and they opposed him and said, No. God forbid, as the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of the head fall on the ground of Jonathan. He has produced a great salvation in Israel this day. They stood up for Jonathan, who produced a great salvation for Israel for that day. Tomorrow's another day, but for that day. How much more are we to stand for the Lord Jesus Christ? The Lord of glory, who wrought a greater salvation in Israel by dying on the cross. that we might live not another day, but that we might live forever. And we can't stand for that. We can't stand up for Christ. We can't stand up for the gospel. Might get caught praying in Jesus' name in the military, might get caught with the Bible in the in the public school system? Come on. Do you know this I don't know who it was, but this week it was suggested this bring your Bible to school day. I don't know if you've heard of it So all of you folks bring your Bibles to school. You know, if you're in college, if you're in public school, you're wherever you're going to school, is bring your Bible to school day if everyone does that. What are they going to do? Toss half the class out? And maybe a couple of professors? Amen. Can we not stand for the one that purchased us salvation that we might live forever? Let's pray. Oh Lord, give us the courage. We may have been a people that's for a long time just lullygagging around and doing whatever seemeth right in our eyes, whatever seemeth right in the majority's eyes. But Lord, may we come to be a people that looks to see what God would have us to do. May we be a people that would stand and having done all, stand for the faith, stand for the gospel. Though we would have to die for it, be in prison for it, be rebuked for it, be ignored for it, be set aside for it, be abandoned for it. Lord, may we stand for the gospel of Christ. It will assure us, for sure, that we will live forever. May that be the heart of everyone here this morning, the desire to live forever, preceded by the desire to stand for Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.