Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the sixth chapter of the Gospel of John. John chapter six. I would love for our scripture reading to read the entire chapter, but there are 71 verses, and it is a rather long chapter. But it's an amazing discourse. And our uh brethren of many, many centuries ago Who gave us the chapter and verse divisions in our scriptures, chose to keep these verses all together And that is was a very wise grouping of scripture because it is one narrative. And it does all fit together as we will, Lord willing, see this morning. And so I'm going to just read the first 28 verses of the chapter. And the 28th verse is actually sort of our text for this morning. So if you have your place now in John chapter 6, I'll begin our scripture reading in the first verse. After these things, Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberius, and Tiberus, excuse me, and a great multitude followed him because they saw the miracles which he did on them which were diseased. And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. When Jesus lifted up his eyes and saw a great multitude, a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? And this he said to prove him, for he knew him, he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him. Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one may take a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes. But what are they among so many? Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so that the men sat down in number about five thousand. And Jesus took the loaves which he which when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples. and the disciples to them that were sat down, and likewise of the fish as much as they they would. And when they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which remained over and above them unto them that had eaten. Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth, that prophet that should come into the world. When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force to make him king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. And when even was now come, his disciples went down into the sea and entered into a ship and went over the sea toward Capernaum And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew. So that when they had rowed about twenty-five uh five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea and drawing nine to the ship, and they were afraid. And he said unto them, It is I. Be not afraid. Then when they willingly received him into the ship, and immediately the ship was at land, whither they went. The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea, saw that there was none other boat there, save that the that one wherein his disciples were entered And that Jesus went not with them, with his disciples, into the boat, but his disciples were going away alone. Howbeit, there came other boats from Tiberias, nigh under the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks. When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping and came to Capernaum seeking for Jesus. And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when cameest thou hither? Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles But because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled. Labor not for that meat, for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life Which the Son of Man shall give unto you, for God for him hath God the Father sealed. Then said they unto him, What shall we do that we might work the works of God? Let us bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach thy word, we pray that you would give thy spirit utterance. Lord, that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified. Lord, that you would overcome the frailty frailty of man in trying to expound upon thy scriptures. But Lord, that your Holy Spirit would speak truth to our hearts this day. Father, bless this glorious chapter to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. In this chapter we find a series of questions which the multitude, which individual disciples And we're just going to look at six of them. There's actually far many than we're going to look at. There is the one, but what are they among so many? But we're going to begin our consideration with the question that is asked there in verse 25, which reads. And when they had found him on the other side, they say unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? Now the chapter begins with those words in verse 1, after these things. In other words, it is a continuation of the narrative that John is giving us of the ministry of Christ. In chapter 5, we have the healing of the lame man at the pool of Bethesda. And prior to this, in chapters 1, 2, 3 four and five of this particular gospel. We had the account of the ministry up to Christ of Christ up to this time And we know that he has completed approximately two years of ministry before this date. We know that because John dates it by the coming of the Passover. And it will be at the next Passover that we find the crucifixion. So, after these things, after the first two years of the marriage at Cana and the turning of water into wine the healing of the blind man, the healing of the lame man at the pool of Siloam. After these things, we find in verse 2 that a great multitude followed him because they saw the miracles. It's interesting that in verse 4, John explains to his audience what the Passover is. Look at verse 4. And the Passover, a feast to the Jews, was nigh. The Gospel of John is the Gospel to the world, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. It is the gospel that was given to the Gentiles, that the Gentiles may be taught the truth of God. And that's going to be very key to understanding what we find in the chapter. John explains the Passover. That's a feast of the Jews. Because the Gentile audience may not be familiar with that. Just like when we were in Jamaica, people asked us, well, what is Thanksgiving? Well, they had no frame of reference because they don't celebrate Thanksgiving. Well, it's an American holiday where we give thanks to God. So John is explaining to his Gentile audience The Passover is almost here, and that, by the way, is a feast of the Jews. But keep that in mind because it's going to be very pertinent to the entirety of the chapter. We find that Christ took a little boy's lunch, five loaves, and two smith fishes. Andrew says, but what are they among so many? And John emphasizes that these were not big old tunas. You ever see a picture somewhere of of those big tunas that you know they'll they'll drag this 500-pound tuna in This isn't a big sailfish or swordfish that weighs 700 pounds that they're going to feed this multitude with You know, if if we were going to have a a pig roast outside, we would have a fairly decent sized pig just for our small little congregation But John emphasizes that it was two small fish. These were probably not even the little panfish that we catch in the ponds. These are small fish. And yet, the instruction is to give them as much as they want. And it's emphasized in the passage that when they were full, then there were twelve baskets left over. And then the disciples get into the ship. Christ goes into the mountain because they're ready to take him and make him a king, not because they believe he's the Messiah. But because they're looking for a earthly king, they're looking for a human deliverer, they're looking for somebody who can run the welfare system well and get out food every day. And so Christ, knowing that his time was not yet come, goes up into the mountain alone, and the disciples get into a ship and they head towards Capernaum. But as is common on the Sea of Galilee, the Sea of Tiberias, there's often strong winds that are particularly frequent at night. And a strong wind comes up, and the disciples have rowed 25 or 30 furlongs by now. They're well into the very middle of the sea, and the waves are getting higher and higher. Guys, you see that? I've never seen anything like that before. They're afraid. And it's Jesus walking on the water. What is the storm to him? What is the water to him? I can walk on water for about a half a second. Uh my grandfather used to tell a story about a man who bought a new hunting dog. And I don't know why I'm telling this, it wasn't in my notes. A man bought a new hunting dog and he took his hunting dog out and he shot a a goose and the dog ran on top the water, walked on the water out in the the lake brought the goose in. Shot no and the dog walked on water, got the goose. He was just amazed that this dog this dog could walk on water. So he loaned his dog to his hunting buddy. And his hunting buddy came back and he said, What do you what do you think of my dog? And he said, Well he can't swim. You'll get that one later. You see, the elements of this world were created by Jesus Christ. They mean nothing to him. He could just as easily walk on water as the boat would float. And he could walk on water easier than the boat would float, because the boat was in danger of the storm, but he was not. And then there's another miracle that happens here. When they willingly receive him into the ship They're no longer 25 to 30 furlongs out into the sea. They're at the shore where they were heading And so the multitude that has now come seeking Jesus has a question. How'd you get here? Master, when camest thou hither? And the other question that they don't ask, but's on their mind, is what time is lunch? Okay, because that's what what Christ says there in verse twenty six. Jesus answered and said, Verily, verily That word verily, verily means truly, truly, this is of a truth. Verily, verily I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles. But because you did eat the loaves and were filled. Master, when'd you come here? Folks, you've missed the whole point, he's saying You're coming because you want to know when I'm going to give you some more food. But verse 27, labor not for the meat which perisheth. But that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man, that's God in flesh, which the Son of Man shall give unto you For him hath God the Father sealed. You're not seeking me because you believe. You're seeking me because you got a free lunch. Don't spend your efforts on the day. Rather, prepare your soul for tomorrow. As we saw in Sunday school this morning, what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world? And lose his own soul. You see, this multitude wanted to know how Jesus had gotten from the other side of the lake without a boat Because they believed he could give them food. He believed he could meet their physical needs. And Jesus says, You're not coming because you saw the miracles and believed. You're coming because of what you might gain for yourself. You know, folks, sadly that is the case of many people in church today. They come to church because they want to soothe their conscience. They come to church because they they uh their family comes to church. There are even some that come to church because of what they think they might get. Uh we had a lady start coming to church in Jamaica and then she came to my house the next she came one Sunday, came to my house on Monday and asked me for bail money to get her son out of jail. And my daughter said, I'm sorry, I don't put up bail money to get people out of jail if they got in trouble. He's gonna have to stay there until he gets out of trouble You see, people have all kinds of reasons why they want to come to Christ. But him that cometh to me must believe that he is, and that he's the rewarder of them that diligently seek you. And so this first question Christ they they ask, how did you get here? But Christ is teaching a much greater lesson by the miracle they've seen. We read there in verses 11 and 13, and Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to his disciples. And his disciples unto them that were sat down, and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. Verse twelve When they had were filled, he said unto the disciples Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Folks, you're concerned about your next meal, but you haven't believed in me And there's a much greater lesson which you need to learn. Remember that John had to explain to his Gentile audience That Passover is a feast of the Jews. They're not familiar with the Jewish economy. Those that ate the meal were mostly Jews. They were were there in the land of Galilee. But John is writing to those outside. And John is very clear that there were twelve baskets left over. Nothing is to be lost. If you look down to verse 37 of the chapter, which we did not read before, in the same context, Christ says, all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out, for I came not down from heaven, I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. That word lose nothing is the exact same word in verse 12, but nothing be lost. And you can find all kinds of theological debate over why there were 12 baskets of Well, there were twelve disciples, so they had to be fed, so nothing was lost. Well, we find at the end of the chapter that one of them had the devil. The last two verses of the chapter talking about Judas who would betray Christ This is the teaching here. There's only two tribes left at this point, because we have ten lost tribes. Christ is expounding to this multitude that you're thinking that Abraham gave you bread, but it wasn't Abraham that gave you bread. It was my father that gave you bread. You're thinking about an earthly meal tomorrow, but my father has sent the Son of God to be the bread of life. And there are twelve baskets left over Because not only the two tribes that remain, but all of Israel, as Paul said, and so all Israel shall be saved. But folks, the ten lost tribes of Israel are not lost. They're right here in this room today. Because those that departed from Israel became Gentiles. And this gospel of John is the gospel to the world. And the parable of the two sons, the prodigal son, is a parable of those that went out into the world and spent their living and riotous their substance in riotous living, but now a return to the Father. And folks, the passage is very clear that none of those that are given to Christ by the Father will be lost. But all of them will be saved. And so the emphasis here is: gather up the fragments that nothing be lost, because not one of God's children will be lost. And so not of all the seed of Abraham are saved. But we also find in Scripture that those that are faith the same are the children of Abraham. And folks, I delight that I've got just a little bit of the blood of Abraham in my veins, but I put no faith in that for my salvation. I have the blood of Christ washing my entire being. And thereby I'm saved. And so the first question we encounter here is, Master, how'd you get here? And Christ says, It's irrelevant! You're not coming because you believe you're coming because you got a free lunch, but you don't understand what the lunch means And so Christ very clearly tells him that he is the bread from heaven. In Romans, the one passage I passage I mentioned was Romans 11, verse 26, and so all Israel shall be saved, as it is written, There shall come out of Zion a deliverer, and he shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. He's turned away the ungodliness from my heart. And then the other verse is Galatians 3, verse 7, know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. And so there's great lessons to be learned. Why are you here? Well, we come seeking to believe in Christ, not just seeking to find out how he got here. The second question that I would like us to consider is the last verse we read there in verse 28. Then said they unto him, Let me let me back up and read verse twenty-seven again. Labor not for the meat which perisheth, that's the meal ye have today. But for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you, for him hath the Father sealed. Then said they unto him, What shall we do that we might work the works of God? You know, this question is asked frequently in Scripture. We find the jailer in Philippi when the earthquake took place, and Paul and Silas are delivered from their chains, and he said, Sirs What must I do to be saved? And in Matthew 19, we find a rich young ruler who comes to Christ, and his question is, Good master, what good thing shall I do that I might inherit? eternal life. This is not an altogether irrational question that they're asking You see, man wants to do something to find favor with God. God created man in the Garden of Eden for the purpose of fellowship with God. But because of man's sin, man was broken away from that fellowship. Man was cast out of the garden. Adam walked in the garden in the cool of the day with God and talked with him. But because of sin, man is now cast out of the Garden of Eden. Man does not have right to the tree of life, as we saw a few weeks ago in our study of Revelation But man, because he was created to worship God, still wants to worship God, but he cannot. And henceforth, man makes all kinds of gods. And man does all kinds of things. Man will build a great idol. Man will carve something from wood. Man will worship a mountain. Man will worship his ancestors. Man will worship the sun or the moon. Man will find something to worship. Why? Because man knows That he has offended the righteousness of God, and man knows that he needs to do something about the problem. But man's solutions are never right. And so we we find that men have sacrificed their own children to try to appease the wrath of God. Men have beat themselves with whips to try to appease the wrath of God. Men have crawled up flights of steps on knee, their hands and knees, to try to appease the wrath of God. And so this multitude that has seen what Christ did to those that were diseased in verses 2 and 3. This multitude who have sat down and been fed with the little boys' lunch and then found that Christ has crossed over the sea somehow without a boat. Now they have a question. What shall we do that we might work the works of God? My friend, have you ever asked that question? I hope you have. I hope you have found deep in your soul that there is a need to do something to appease the righteousness. of God. And Christ doesn't tell them go to church. Christ does not tell them be a good person. He does not tell them, empty your bank account and give all your money. He doesn't tell them, be better than your neighbors. Christ gives them one answer. And his answer is this in verse 29. Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. This is the work of God. And you can look at it two ways. This is the only work that we can do, which is not a work, or we can say, this is God's work that He does in me, because it is God working upon me. that makes me believe. I've talked to some of you about the King and Queen seat there in Harper County, a climb up the mountain to these beautiful rock formations A dear friend of mine, elderly saint of God, still in church every Sunday, but carries an oxygen bottle with him. When he was a young man of twenty-some years old, he went up to the King and Queen's seat with his Bible, knowing he was unsaved. And he read the Gospel of John, wanting some work to do because he knew that he was under the wrath of God and this verse was his salvation. And he's his testimony today is still rejoicing. This is the work of God that you believe. And he said, as a young man simply just then coming to Christ, he said, Okay, this is the work I can do. And he said, I grew in the Lord and realized, no, this isn't the work I can do. This is God's work. This is the work of God that you believe. Folks shall never get to heaven by going to church You'll never get to heaven by being a good person. You can never be good enough. You don't get to heaven by giving money You don't get to heaven by anything, but belief in Jesus Christ. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Oh God, what good work can I do? Because I'm a sinner I have offended the righteousness of God. God, what can I do? And God says, believe. Simply believe. Don't come for a free lunch. Don't come because you're impressed with miracles. Simply, simply believe. The third question is in verse 30 and 31. Then said they, or they said therefore unto him What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? What dost thou work? Our fathers should eat manna in the desert, as it is written, he that is Moses, Moses gave them bread from heaven to eat. But Lord, show us a false sign. Well, Christ said in Matthew, a wicked generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given them but the sign of the prophet Jonas or Jonah. Jonah was three days and three nights in the heart of the earth, or in the belly of the whale, so must the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the grave in the heart of the earth Folks, no sign's ever going to be enough to convince you. You see, in verse 2 and 3, they came because they saw that Christ had healed the disease. And uh the following verses, they were there because he fed 5,000. And now they just asked, How'd you get here? Because they know he didn't have a boat, and his disciples have been transported along with him to the shore. Folks, what sign is going to convince you that Jesus Christ is the Son of God? Nothing. If you're looking for some proof outside of this book, you won't find it. If you're looking for some sign in the heavens Or some sign in the earth, you'll never find it. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. We look around us, and I can look at the trees, and I can say, that didn't happen by accident The squirrels were not responsible for that tree. You know, maybe they planted a seed, but where'd the seed come from? God made this, I know that. But that knowledge alone is not enough. To appease the wrath of God. That knowledge that God made all these things, all these signs that we see around us that point to a creator, those are not enough to save the soul. What sign will you show us? Moses gave us bread from heaven. You've given us bread. Maybe that's the sign. Maybe that's what we need to see. But Christ responds in verses 32 and 33. Then said Jesus unto them, this is chapter 6, verse 32. Then said Jesus unto them, Verily, verily, that's that word, truly, truly, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven. But my Father that's God the Father in heaven but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven and giveth his life. for the world. Or like unto the world. Christ says, look, that bread that Moses gave them in the wilderness, Moses didn't give it to them. My father gave it to them. And that bread that Moses was used of God to provide in the wilderness didn't save anybody. It fed them today, but they are now all dead. But I am come to give my life, to give myself for you, that people didn't understand In verse 34, Lord, evermore give us this bread. Verse 35, Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. But I said unto you, ye have seen me and believed not, all the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Verse 40, and this is the will of him that has sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. And see, these people were all concerned about how'd you get here These people were all concerned about what sign are you going to give us? These people were even concerned about what work can I do? But Jesus says you've missed the whole story. It's not about Moses in the wilderness. It's not about manna, but it's about living bread, which my father gives to you. And Jesus says, I am that living bread. Evermore, give us this bread. But you know what? After all the miracles And after all, the explanation that Christ has given, look what some of them asked in our fourth question in verse 42. Then the Jews murmured at him because he said, I'm the bread which came down from heaven. And they said, Is not this Jesus? The son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know, how then is it that he saith, I came down from heaven? Hold on a second there. Hang on. This is Joseph. He grew up in Galilee. My dad went to his father's carpentry shop and got a table. I knew him when he was a little boy. How could this be? How many people today say, well, Jesus Christ was a good man. He taught us how to live. Jesus Christ was a prophet. He said many wise things. Well, Jesus Christ was a good teacher, and he had some power and he healed some people. Well Jesus Christ, yes, that's the one that we celebrate at Christmas because we celebrate his purpose. To some, Jesus Christ is nothing more than a curse word. And that is essentially what they're saying. Wait a minute. No, no, no, no. It can't be him. Anybody but him. You see, he's not royal born. Well, he was royal born. But we're looking for a deliverer. Well, he was a deliverer. But but you see, man will find any reason to believe in anything or anyone but Jesus Christ. But the scriptures are very clear. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. And so folks, if you look in the scripture and you say, well, Jesus was a good man, that's not going to get you to heaven. Jesus was a good man. He taught people. And I believe he lived. And I believe that he died. But folks, do you believe he died for you? Do you believe that that debt of sin, which you know you have, and which you know you need to do something to get rid of, what good work can I do? Do you believe that Jesus Christ has done that good work for you? Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the one who takes away sin? Is this not the Son of Joseph? Then verse 43, Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur ye not among yourselves, Verily, verily I say unto you, this is verse 47, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven. He talked by himself. I am the bread that cometh down from heaven. that a man may eat thereof and not die. I am the living bread which cometh down from heaven. If a man eats this bread, he shall live for ever And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the light of the world. Question number five is in verse fifty-two. And the Jews strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? How can this man give us his flesh to eat? We're not cannibals. What do you mean how can you give us his flesh to eat? And some people today we Some people today will get confused and say, oh, I know, I need to go to the Mass. I need to go take communion and that will save me. But that's not what Christ was talking about at all. Remember he showed them there in the mo in the wilderness That he could take five loaves and two small fishes and feed a whole multitude and still have twelve baskets left over, and he had to gather the gat baskets because nothing was to be lost You see, when Christ is talking about eating of his flesh and drinking of his blood, he's using signs, he's using pictures, he's using parables. And what he's talking about is his body, which will be given on the cross, his blood, which will be shed for the remission of sins. They don't get it. Verse 53. Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, truly, truly, I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life. And I will raise him up in the last day. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me, and I in him. Folks, we are not cannibals. And Christ was not talking about gnawing on the skin of his body. But Christ declared that he came to give his life a ransom for many. He told us that he is the bread of life. Folks, I partake of his sacrifice He died on the cross. It's appointed unto man once to die, and after this to judgment. God told Adam in the garden, In the day that ye eat thereof, in the day ye sin, ye shall surely die. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins, we read in Scripture. But Jesus Christ died on that cross And when I believe in him, my sins are placed on that cross with him. When I believe in Jesus Christ, his blood cleanses me from all sins. And I don't take a bite of flesh, but oh, I bite deeply into the truth of God. And I drink to the full of the cleansing blood of Christ. And my sins are washed away. Verse sixty Many of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is a hard saying. Who can hear it? I said, oh, this just can't be true. I just can't understand this. This can't be the way. There's got to be some other way. I'll keep doing the best I can. Or I'll keep going to church. I'll keep trying to be a good person. And Jesus all along says, believe, believe, believe, believe. Many of his disciples, many therefore of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a hard saying, who can hear it? When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he saith unto them, Does this offend you? Does this drive you away, or does this draw you to Christ? What, and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before you, it is the Spirit that quickeneth The flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and life. And from that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him Then saith Jesus unto the twelve, Will you also go away? Will this drive you away or draw you to Christ? And that brings us to the last question we're going to consider this. morning. In verse 68 and verse 69, then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? And that's our last question. Lord, to whom shall we go? Where else can I find satisfaction for my soul? Jesus Christ alone. Where else can I find salvation for my soul? Jesus Christ alone. Where else can I find the sincere cleansing of sin? Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. Folks, we're not talking about religion. We're not talking about going to church. We're not talking about being good. We're talking about believing in Jesus Christ. I hope you ask the question, what good work shall I do to inherit eternal life? And then you ask the question, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words. Simon Peter answered and said unto him again, verse 68, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. What a glorious chapter. What a refreshment to the soul of the oldest saint, to the one who's known Christ from childhood. What an invitation to those that know not the Lord. Let us stand for prayer. Our gracious Father, we thank you. The twelve baskets are gathered up. Nothing of Christ is lost. None of his children are lost. Nothing is wasted. But all that are given to Christ by the Father come to Christ through the Father Lord, we thank you for these lessons that we learn from these questions asked. Lord, may you answer all the questions of our soul. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.