Turn with me this morning, Second Samuel, Chapter Six Beginning of verse sixteen through verse twenty-three. Left off last week with David bringing the Ark of the Covenant, again about the size of our communion table. maybe two thirds that large, within it containing the Word of God and uh the Ten Commandments engraved with the finger of God Himself on the stone Quite an exciting moment, and we pick up there as they're entering into the city of Jerusalem. And verse 16. And as the ark of the Lord of God came into the city of David, Macal, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord. And she despised him in her heart. And they brought in the ark of the Lord and set it in his place in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it. And David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts. And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, as well as to the women and to the men, every one a cake of bread. and a good piece of flesh and a flagon of wine, so that all the people departed, everyone to his house. And then David returned to bless his household. And Makal, the daughter of Saul, came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today! Who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of the servants as one of the vain fellows, shameless uncovered himself. And David said unto Macall, It was before the Lord, which chose me before thy father. And before his house to appoint me ruler over the people of the Lord, over Israel. And therefore I will plague before the Lord. And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be based in mine own sight, and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them shall I be had in honor. And therefore, Macall, the daughter of Saul, had no child unto the day of her death. Title the Message Domestic Tranquility. We'll stick with that. Oftentimes by the time the message is done, I have a little bit Better idea for a topic, but uh domestic tranquility or tranquility or peace in the home We find here in verse 16 as the ark of the Lord came into the city. It was an exciting time, an exuberant time. It was a high time. We read about the joy last week and the sounding of the instruments. It was just a great time and I think many times in our own lives we've had these great highs, these great excitements. Uh we felt the blessings of the Lord upon ourselves or on our home and maybe on our nation or something like that And with all that going on, we knew that at the at the peak of the mountain there was going to be a valley. And here we are, one of the highlights for probably of David's entire reign as king, bringing the ark of God into Jerusalem. The excitement of the people, 30,000 with instruments and praising and praying and jumping and dancing, and so much exuberance. And with all of that, what a cloud, a dark cloud, settles in And verse 16, when we read as he's entering the city of Jerusalem, that his wife, Macal, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw King David leaping and jumping before the Lord, and despised him in her heart. What a damper on this occasion. David doesn't know this yet. He has no idea that this is going on. That she found his public display of zeal for the Lord disgusting. And some of you have run in that before too. People will hear you talking about the Lord or some Bible verse or or some uh preacher on the radio and something that really excited you and they'll say, Can you kind of calm down a little bit? I mean who gets so excited you have a heart attack? I mean it can't be all that uh you know you know you're you're a little you're a little off the wall here. You're a little over the board, you know, over top a little bit. Maybe some of you have heard that And she certainly thought he was over the top too. She found it disgusting. She despised him in her heart. What he was doing was unbecoming of a king. Kings should be have be dignified and have decorum and and some sort of uh coldness about their faith, I guess, is what she expected of him. There were some that thought the same of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the King of kings. And when he made a scourge of cords, remember, and drove out the money changers and overthrew the tables, it says, For the zeal of thine house it hath eaten me up, John 2 and verse 17. He was full of zeal, and there were some like McCall here that they just felt that That was over the top. That it wasn't it wasn't a lot of decorum and dignity what the Lord Jesus did. You just have to wonder sometimes. If there's anything in Scripture Pilgrim that that ever excites you, is there Is there something in the scriptures? Is there a sermon you hear on the Christian radio? A Bible study somewhere that is there a time when something excites you about the Lord? Above and beyond the norm? There should be. I love it when people call me and say, oh Pastor, I I just read this thing uh in my daily devotion or I uh this verse I came across, I'd never seen it before, or I was reading what Spurgeon had to say in his devotion. I he said, I like that That means there's there's some fire in you. There's some life in you. And if some of you don't know what I'm talking about, ouch. There ought to be a time when our excitement towards the things of the scriptures make the ungodly uncomfortable if they're always comfortable with what we had to say about the Bible. We're not saying it with enthusiasm and excitement and love. And why aren't we? She was very unsettled with what he was doing. It is very unsettling for others when they See us so attached to the things of God. And of course, if we we look back in 1 Samuel and chapter 19, you may not want to go back there now, but 1 Samuel, you know, we're in 2 Samuel now. Go back to 1 Samuel 19 and verse 13. And you know what we learn about Saul's daughter McCall. She kept idols in her house. She kept idols. She was an idol worshiper. She wasn't really attached to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. She was attached to her idols. See, and when you are attached to your idols, you are detached from the Lord. And that's why when they find people who seem so attached to things of the Lord, It's unsettling to them. I mean with the Lord Jesus Christ, they said in Mark III that he was he was beside himself. He was like schizo or bipolar or something He was so excited about the things he was preaching and teaching, the Sermon on the Mountain, and love your enemies. And they just thought he was a little bit off the wall And they'd say the same thing of Paul, Festus of Paul, too much learning has made you mad. And we read about that in Acts 26. And Acts 2, and the disciples at Pentecost, when they begin speaking in tongues, they said they're drunk with new wine You see, when you are detached from the Lord and you're not really attached to him, when you're detached to your idols, you think that Christians are bizarre. In their love for someone they'd never met, never hugged, never seen, they just think we're a bit, well, strangers in the land, the scripture tells us. And so she was detached because she was attached to her idols. And there are people out today that they're attached to their idols. It may be a TV show or the TV set itself or a computer. They may be attached to politics or sports or sex. There's something that draws them away from Christ. And when you're attached to anything but the Lord Jesus Christ then you are detached or attached to an idol in your life that you need to get rid of. It'll wreak havoc in the home. If you're not attached to the Lord in a very special and a saving manner, it will eventually wreak havoc in the home. And that's what's happening here. Michael's attitude towards David, she despised him in her heart for his attachment to the things of God, for the holiness that she saw in him. She despised him in her heart, and it's about to destroy the domestic tranquility of the house of David. And such an exciting time, and David is totally unaware of what's going on in her heart at this point. And he's coming in there, he says he's bringing the ark into Jerusalem, and we find that he what he was doing, bringing the ark into Jerusalem, it pleased the multitudes. 30,000 went out with him. More than that is greeting him. It pleased the multitude. And sometimes we can please the multitude. And we displease our wife. And that's where David was. What a high moment in his life. He he was doing something that was so wonderful for the nation of Israel. And the very thing he was doing was displeasing Pleasing his wife. Despised him in his heart. In her heart. You know, I the first thing I have to note here is she probably wasn't the kind of a wife that prayed for her husband Don't you think of that? If she despises him in her heart, she probably isn't praying for him very much, if at all. And that in itself is rebellion against God. the word of God is rebellious against the principles of Scripture. Proverbs 31 and 12 says this to the wife, do your husbands good and not evil all the days of your life. So, do you think she was the kind of a woman that was doing David good and not evil all the days of life? Do you think she was praying for him? I'd asked ladies this morning, uh does the proverb in chapter thirty-one and verse twelve, does that define your actions towards your husband? Do you pray for him? Do you do him good all the days of his life life. That's that's a that's a full job, time job, isn't it? And that's not easy to do. That's why we're told or commanded to do it. I mean if it was easier to do it, we would have to be commanded to do it. It would just become natural. Oh, it's my husband, of course they'd do good all the days of earth. No, we're we're commanded to do that. The Proverbs tell us there's great blessings in doing that So does that define your actions towards your husband? Are you doing him good all the days of his life? Surely Dave will learn How just one soul near and dear to him can destroy the entire tranquility of the house. You could have Household household filled with grandma and grandpa, maybe living with you. Have you ever used to watch that show on TV, The Waltons? You got grandma and grandpa, and there was always cousins and uncles coming in, lots of kids. But it only took one Who is nearer and dear to your heart to destroy the entire domestic tranquility, didn't it? And that's all it takes to any household. You can have a dozen kids, but if you got one that's not saved, they can wreak havoc on the tranquility. And in David's household, he's got one and it's she's near and dear to his heart. And she's about to just destroy so much But at the moment David doesn't know that. So in verses 17 and 18, he's there. He's starting with the worship service that come into Jerusalem. They're dancing, they're singing, they're praising God. And then it says in seventeen eighteen, David's offering of the burnt offerings and the peace offerings before the Lord. This is a worship service. He's turned the returning of the ark into a full-blown worship service. So now he's offering up burnt offerings and peace offerings. And the Levite priests are with him and and and he's blessing the people in the name of the Lord. Wow, I want him on my Supreme Court in the next couple months, a man like that I think the whole political world changed yesterday with the death of our Supreme Court judge. judge because until that point everybody was voting for the guy that they kinda liked or the guy they thought was amusing or the guy they thought that might get this or that done but now they realize he that we vote that man we vote for it is going to replace our Supreme Court judge. Now we've got to seriously think who do we trust to pick a Supreme Court judge that will be a man of God. David was a man of God. And here he is conducting practically a worship service, as it were, at the gates of the city of Jerusalem. And he's incorporating the Word of God. by offering blessings, a burnt offering, a peace offering. The idea of a burnt offering, a peace offering comes from the Word of God. So David here, as he's setting up his kingdom and bringing the ark in, He's incorporating the Word of God. What does the Word of God do? It talks about burnt offerings and peace offerings, and David is doing all this. He is very familiar with the Word of God and he wants to incorporate it into the spiritual welfare of his people. He wants them to, we're going to start this thing off right. I want you people to be a people who sacrifice burnt offerings and peace offerings, who praise God, who appreciate the Word of God coming into your city And he he wants to ensure the spiritual welfare of his people continues. So I ask you this morning, how spiritually concerned are you for those under your care? How spiritually concerned do you think that the politicians of this country are for your spiritual welfare? I think the most of them could give they could care less about our spiritual warfare. But David was concerned for spiritual warfare, and that's why the burnt offerings, that's why the peace offerings That's why the bringing of the ark. How spiritual concern are you for those under your care? You should be very concerned for those under your spiritual care. It in fact scripture tells us you are to train up a child in the way he should go. Doesn't mean he's going to go the way you're training him up, but it's our obligation to train him up in the way he should go. Proverbs 22 and 6 Why is that? Jeremiah 10, 2 tells us, we trade them up in the ways to go, that they learn not the ways of the heathen. And I'll tell you one of the best things you can do right there to stop them for learning the ways of Eden, turn that TV set off. That is teach them all kinds of things about the heathen and the pagans, that they make it very enticing. You watch enough TV and your children are going to learn this right off the bat, that abortion is just taking out some some tissue Used to call it fetus tissue or pregnancy tissue. It's not killing a baby, but now with sonograms we see the arms, the hands, the legs, the mouth, and and you can talk to the baby in the womb and the baby will turn to where the voice is coming from. We're killing babies. But if you watch enough TV, and if you go to college and you take the biology courses, they're ignoring the sonograms and they're still teaching you that it's just pregnancy tissue or fetus tissue. It's not a baby. That is learning the ways of the heathen. And then they tell you about global warming. Global warming is coming. And global warming is is caused by man and and global warming is because of the the industrial complex that we built with steel mills and factories And that we're overheating the atmosphere, and that's why the ice is melting and the snow is melting, and that's why things are are the oceans getting deeper and they and you you pick up all the stuff And it's not true. The Industrial Revolution and man did not create now. Are there some years that are warmer than others? Absolutely. But the Industrial Revolution didn't make things warmer. You go back 500 years ago. In fact, fly down to Greenland right now. It's covered in snow and ice, over half of it But you know why it's called Greenland? Because there was a time when Greenland wasn't covered in snow and ice. You know when that was? 500 years ago, there wasn't any snow and ice on Greenland. It was green. And you know why it was green? Because it was warmer than it is now. Greenland was warmer 500 years ago before there was an industrial complex Before there was six billion people on the earth, before there were airplanes and trucks and cars and boats and planes. Green and it was green and it was warmer than it is now We haven't brought on global warming. It's a lie. It's a pagan heathen instruction that our kids are getting in school, on TV, in the movies Even in the Disney cartoons, they push the stuff on us. Learn not the ways of the heathen. And as far as the gauging goes, I might as well go there too, it's never been found. It has never been found. When they tell we think we found the gai gene, read the whole article. Hopkins had an article not too long ago, and the the uh the fellow I wish I remember his name, the money th Doc Dr. Money, who by the way was a transsexual, bisexual, he was everything else. But he writes the article about the gay gene. We think we found the gay gene. And if you read the whole article, you don't find they have found a gene that they find in half the gay people in the world. And at the bottom of the article says, oh by the way, we also find that that gene that we think might be a gay gene. And half the heterosexuals in the world. In other words, it's just spread throughout the whole population. There is nothing in a gay person in the genetic DNA that you don't find anywhere else. But the headline is Gay Jean found. And you know who is found in? Everybody. There is no gay gene was the bottom of the arc. Well maybe there's not a gay gene. But the headline said there was. We're just born that way. No, they're not. That's heathen instruction. Learn not the ways of the heathen. They are not born that way. I'll tell you this what they are, though. They're born sinners. And as a sinner, we are born with propensities to particular sins. And it might be adultery, it might be automy, it might be robbery, but it's just a propensity to sin. Learn not the ways of the heathen. So if you want tranquility in your home, train up your child in the way you should go That he not be taught science falsely so called, First Timothy six twenty, and that's just what the gai gene is. Science falsely so called The avoiding a fetus tissue is science falsely so called. Global warming is science falsely so called. That is the way of the heathen and we're instructed not To do that lest we want to destroy the tranquility, the domestic tranquility in our home. And not only does David come in singing and and and and the instruments are playing and he's got a burnt offering, he's got a peace offering, but in verse 19 it says He dealt out everyone bread and wine. Did you catch that in verses 19 and verses 20? Bread and wine. We'll be doing that today. And then David returned in verse 20 after all that was done to bless his household. Wow. David wanted a bless he'd been a blessing to his nation. He'd been a blessing to the multitudes, but he wanted to be a blessing to his household. Do you want to be a blessing to your household, gentlemen? Do you want to be a blessing to them? Don't allow your job to interfere with your responsibilities to bless your home Well, I'm a very important person. I'm a CEO, I'm a company manager, I'm president, I'm very busy, I gotta fly over the world. I can't always be home. I can't always be there for the kids. I can't always be there for the wife, but I send the checks, I send the money. You are to be a blessing in the home. You can't be a blessing in the home if you're not in the home. You're to be a blessing in the home, and he went home. He returned to bless his household. Do not use your job or your hobby or anything else as an excuse for ignoring your biblical responsibilities to bless your home. And then I would ask you if you're in your homes, gentlemen, is your presence in your home a blessing? Can the kids hardly wait till you come home? Can the wife hardly wait till you come home? Is your presence a blessing? It should be And if it isn't, why not? And maybe you're asking yourself, okay, I want to be a blessing at home. How can I be a blessing? Well, let's start with the children. Children, you want to know how you can be a blessing? Honor your mother and your father You want to be a blessing in your home, children? Because if you're a blessing in your home, your parents will bless you, God will bless you. It just keeps coming back on top of you. If you're a blessing in your home, You will be blessed. How are you a blessing, children? Honor your father and your mother. Exodus 20 and verse 12. Honor your father and your mother. Deuteronomy 5 and verse 16. Now in case we got a wise acre here that says, okay, I got it. Honor your mother and your father. But that's Old Testament. Boy, I hear people say that a lot. Oh, that's Old Testament It is Old Testament. But it's mentioned seven times in the New Testament. Whoa, didn't know that, did you? That's right. Honor your mother and your father. Matthew 15, 4, Matthew 19, 19, Mark 7, 10, Mark 10, 19, Luke 18 and 20. Oh y you say, Oh yeah, but you're you're talking about a lot of that's like Peter or that's like Paul. I mean they're they're kinda you know, they're stickler for some things, or maybe a bit legalistic, you know. So okay, it's seven times in the New Testament. But I mean, you know Five other seven times, honor your mother your father is a quote from the Lord Jesus Christ. Not from Peter, not from Paul. So, children, you want to be a blessing? Honor your mother and father, says the Lord Jesus Christ. Or as Tim pointed out this morning, Jesus the Christ. Christ is not his last name. Says the Lord the Christ. Honor your mother and your father, children, if you want to be a blessing in your home. Children, obey your parents in all things. Colossians 3. 20. Paul writes that one. Husbands, do you want to be a blessing in your home? Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Ephesians 5. 25. Now you've almost turned your ears off because you know that verse Well, let me try to turn it back on again. Husbands love your wives as Christ sacrificially loved the church. Isn't that the way Christ loved the church? He loved the church sacrificially. So we're to love our wives as Christ loved the church. We are to love in a sacrificial way. Uh give me some examples. I'll give you some examples. How do you love your wife Well, first off, Christ listens to our prayers and our complaints, doesn't he? Husbands, listen to your wives. Sit down, give them an ear, give them some time. Give them face to face, eyeball to eyeball Not behind the newspaper, mm-hmm, okay, yeah, right, you got that. No. Listen to your wives. Give them time. Converse with them. Isn't that what we do with the Lord? He gives us his ear. He listens to us. He listens to us about our complaints. You want to be a blessing, husbands? Listen to your wives. And also, you want to be a blessing to your wives? Christ is there for us. If something's going on, he's there for us. He never leaves us, we read in the book of Hebrews. And gentlemen, we need to be there for our wives. What do you mean be there for my wife? I'm listening. I call her twice a day. You need to be there. Sometimes she needs a shoulder to cry on Sometimes she needs a shoulder rub. Or a foot massage or a temple massage. We need to be there for them And some of you are good at that. The wife says, Boy, I'd like some Hagen Doss ice cream and the next thing you know she hears a door slam, the car start, yes, one o'clock in the morning and they're heading down to the store. That's a good hug husband. So you want to listen to them, you want to be there for them. And the Lord Jesus Christ, He gives His all that we might be at peace, doesn't he? Peace in our souls, peace for our confessed sins. And husbands, if you want to honor your wives, you want To create a peaceful atmosphere in the home. You want her to be at peace. If she's upset about uh whether you're gonna make the bills, you want to put her at peace about that. Tell her you'll get a second job. We got men in this church all the time They get a second job, they work a side job, they sell pizza. What do they gotta do? They just do it. We want to put our wives at peace That's what the Lord does. And it also says the husbands of your honor wives that your prayers be not hindered. 1 Peter 3. 7. Wow See if you don't honor your wise gentlemen, your prayers are hindered. You might say, I'm not going to honor my wife, she's not getting any foot massage from me, I'm not running out to get some ice cream I'm not doing it. You're not going to honor your wife. You're not going to treat her like a weaker vessel. You're not going to love her in a sacrificial manner. Then your prayers will be hindered, and there will be a day When you're going to have a prayer, there's going to be a day when you need something. Maybe your mother, your father's dying, or is very sick, or you've been diagnosed with cancer. There's going to be a day when you want your prayers to be effective And I'll tell you this: if it's difficult to be a blessing in your home if your prayers are hindered. How can you be a blessing in your home if your prayers are hindered? You can't. And how can you make sure that your prayers are not hindered? Honor your wife. David came home to be a blessing. I just told you how the children can be a blessing, how the husband can be a blessing. Well, wives, you can be a blessing in that household too. McCall was not a blessing, as we're going to get back to her. But wives, you can be a blessing too. First Peter 3 1. Wives be in subjection to your husbands Oh, how many times have we heard that one, right? Well, it also says, the wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband. 1 Corinthians 7, 4. Wow. Young ladies, you're getting ready to marry some guy. I want you to know right here and now that when you marry that guy, you no longer have power over your own body. Your husband does. You think about that. Is that the guy whom I want to give total control of my body to for the rest of my life If you can't say yes to that, don't marry him. You want someone that you know will be a blessing in your household, who will be kind to you, who will give you an ear, who will give you time, who will give you the massage you need Or don't marry him. By the way, that verse is very interesting. Another note to that. But this verse says The wife hath not power of her own body. She can't do, according to Scripture, what she wants with her own body I can do what I want with my own body. That is anti-Christian, anti-biblical, anti-holy scripture. The woman cannot do with her own body as she so pleased. She has not power of her own body, but her husband. And if he's a godly man, he won't have you abort your babies either because you got pregnant and inconvenient time. And so David wanted to be a blessing to his household. He wasn't the child in the household, he wasn't the wife in the household, he was the husband in the household. But he's coming home to bless her. And David, as he's arriving on the spot to bless his household, he's coming. He is excited. I mean he is just He is probably just perspiring from the blessings uh from the from the uh burnt offering, the peace offering, uh the dis distributing of the bread and the wine. I mean He is just so high. And his wife comes running out the door. Oh, this is wonderful. I'm going to be a blessing to my household. And she comes out to meet David and she says, How glorious was the king today sarcasm dripping from her, who uncovered himself in the eyes of handmaids. Shameless, she says. Ooh Would that kind of cool your jets a little bit? Would that kind of take take some of your take A little little bit of a high off your day. Michael was upset with his zealous public display of devotion to the Lord of the scriptures. Can you imagine having a wife or a husband who is upset with your display of devotion for the Lord Jesus? And I want you to note here, look at verse 20. And Michael came out to meet David. She was so upset with his his zealous display of devotion. She couldn't wait to scold him in private. She goes running out there out in the public, but there's still the soldiers and the royal guard around him and other people who are accompanying up to his house, you know, with him. She comes out and in the in public She scolds and berates her husband. I gotta tell you something, ladies. It's a hard, hard thing for a husband to forget that if you blast him in front of other people. You've got the right to rebuke your husband. You've got the right to exhort your husband, ladies. You have the right to admire. In fact, you'd best do so if he needs to be exhorted, admised, or rebuked. You need to do that, but not in front of others. But she could she just couldn't hold back any longer. This is an impatient soul. She wasn't gonna wait any longer She runs out the door, impatient as she was, and she begins scolding him. He's the king of Israel. And she begins scolding him like he's some little boy playing out in the sand line somewhere No respect for his kingship, no respect for his authority as husband, no respect for him as a man and the headship of the household. She is so impatient. Are you an impatient soul? Whatever strikes you, gotta do it now. Something irritates you, I'm going to talk about it right now. We're going to settle right here now. Not going to think about it, not going to pray about it, not going to discuss it in the privacy of Do it right here, right out in the open, right now. And I've I've seen husbands in restaurants be at a table and the wife starts getting lit up a little bit about something. And I I've heard the husband say, Can we do this later Can we do this at home? Can we wait till we get out of the car? No, we're gonna do it right now, she said. And I feel like I want to go over and talk to her. Are you an impatient soul? Her impatience, her attitude. Verse 23 says it cost her. She had no children on the day of her death Now David didn't curse her with that. David didn't say, That's it, I'm gonna ask God to curse you and give you no children. But verse 23, written on the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, records for us that this woman Because of her attitude, had no children on the day of her death. Now that doesn't mean that Elizabeth, remember she had no children until she was what 60 years old or something Uh that doesn't mean that Sarah, you know, that the God was chasing her or that she had done anything wrong. But this lady, it says, that she had. Wow. She came out to meet him and she scolded in public with how glorious was the king today! You made yourself a shameless spectacle before handmaids, another word for handmaids is slaves, all right, before handmaids or slaves verse 2 And you have tarnished, she must have been thinking this, though it's not recorded. And in doing this spectacle and doing this shameless thing, you have tarnished the dignity of my father's throne. Remember, her father was King Saul You've tarnished the dignity of the throne by exchanging your royal garments, it said here that he put on the the linen Ephod that he dressed in the linen. You just discarded the royal garment and you put on the linen worn by Levite priests and commoners The royal garments for linen. Oh, how tarnishing, how shameless. In fact, she says in verse 20, you've shamelessly uncovered yourself. She's here, she's so angry, she's so so ill Uh you know she's a sly them so much. She's exaggerating David's state of dress by saying, You are shamelessly uncovered And some cart some commentary say he must have been dancing with his clothes on, you know, no shirt on, you know, and maybe gotten rid of his breeches and uh you know I they that that's ridiculous She meant he'd gotten rid of her, and she was exaggerating at that, shamelessly uncovered. Tearing a loved one apart in front of others. Recovering from a wound like that, dear friend, is difficult. And husbands, this goes the same way for you To chasten your wife or to light in her in front of the children is wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong. It's hard to recover. Or to carry your wife or your husband in front of the in-laws. Wrong, wrong, wrong. It's hard to recover from publicly being shamed like that. You may recover from it, but the relationship may never recover from it. And this relationship never recovered from what she did to King. King David. And I don't know if you realize. You know, we we get caught up in the idea David had seven or eight wives. A call was his first wife. She was the wife of his youth. And he had rejoiced with the wife of his youth. Proverbs 5. 8 says, rejoice the wife. He loved her. Now you think, well, that's been seven, ten years ago, and and she was taken from him and given to another man, and and you know what kind of a love could he still maintain for her? Really 2 Samuel 3 verse 13. David has been ruling over Judah for seven years. King Saul is dead. David's ruling over Judah. He's the king of Judah, but not the king of Israel. And seven more years as a king of Judah. And finally that the eleven tribes come down from the north and they say to King David, We want you to rule Israel also And David says, Wow, done deal. No, he doesn't. He says, Wow, that would really be nice. No, he doesn't. He says, I will do that, but I have one requirement. They said, Name it. He says, I want Michael, my wife, my youth returned to me. I love her When McCall tears into David, she at this point, she had David's heart. The other seven or eight wives, they meant nothing to him. She was a love of his life, the youth of the he rejoiced with, she's the wife of his youth. She's got David's heart in her hands. And look what she does with it. Ladies, do you realize that the man who bare you children, you've got his heart in your hand. You can crush it. You can break it. You can wound it and destroy it like no one else in his entire life. can and if you do woe unto you I know husbands aren't perfect and wives aren't perfect but don't crush The heart. Macaula she had. David loved her. He was you don't give me Macal, my wife back. I don't want the kingdom of Israel. I want my wife back. And they brought her back to him. She had David's heart. And yet she moves on David like some saint. satanic force, so she's an idol worshipper. She's like Judah Iscariot. She directs this heart attack against the king of Israel, as it were. And I want to remind you that McCall, she is the sister of Jonathan. She is the sister of Jonathan, David's beloved, dearest, best friend. He not only loves her, but she's the closest thing he's got left of Jonathan. He loves Jonathan as a brother It's his own soul, and she's the closest thing to him. He loves her. He loves Jonathan. She is the brother of Jonathan, but she's acting like the daughter of King Saul. Who are you acting like? Are you acting like a brother and sister in Christ? Or are you acting like a prodigal son that hasn't come back yet? Her mouth destroys her home life. Her life with David will never be the same from this point on. Never be the same. The tranquility, the domestic tranquility of her life has irreversibly been damaged. Psalm 52 and 4 talks about how we can defile with our devouring words a relationship. Talks about the word in James three, six and eight. How our tongues are a sharp sword. They're set on fire from hell sometimes. They're set on fire from hell. They're unruly, they're evil, they're full of deadly poison. Does that describe someone's tongue that you know? A tongue of deadly poison, unruly, deceitful, devouring, defiled? You find that in Potiphar's wife, don't you? Boy, they had Joseph in the household and had a good thing going. As long as Joseph was there, that place prospered. But when Potiphar's wife lied about her relationship with Joseph and he was thrown in prison Do you think the house of Potiphar continued to prosper? Do you think the blessing of Joseph stayed on the house when when Joseph sat into prison because Potiphar's wife had lied about his Attack upon her? No, the blessing was gone. You destroy domestic tranquility with your tongue. Now, how about Hager's son mocking Sarah? And Isaac, and so what Sarah says to Abraham, we've got to get rid of this kid, gotta get rid of this slave woman. Look, it's just destroying everything. And Hagar had a good thing going living in the household of Abraham. He was rich She was well attended to, well cared for, but the mocking of her son that she allowed to take place, it destroyed her domestic tranquility. And Samson's wife who could say the same thing. There's not time for all that. She did the same thing and exposed the answer to the riddle that destroyed his household. And so David says to her, as she's berating him and scolding him in verse 21. He says, I was shameless, uncovered before the handmaids. I was worshiping God. I'm filled with the zeal of God. I'm out there praising the Lord It wasn't before the handmaids. David said, it was before the Lord that I was worshiping. He says, Michael, you don't understand who the audience is. When we're in the midst of worshiping God, the audience is God The audience is not the people surrounding us. It's not the congregation. The audience is God It's the reason Reformed churches often refuse to sing, I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to follow that's not screw That's not doctrinally accurate. It's not scriptural. You have not decided to follow Jesus. You didn't want to follow Jesus. God dragged you kicking and screaming into the faithful, the house of the faithful And so many Reformed Church they will not sing it. And not the people, not the Bible believers and and you know, not the Bible believers don't like the song. They do But among reformed churches, they don't like the doctrine in the song, and so they don't sing it. Because they recognize that it isn't what the congregation likes, because they're not the audience. God is the audience And David says, I didn't shamefully uncover myself before the handmaids. I shamefully, and it wasn't shameful, but I was worshiping before the Lord. It was before the Lord. And she does not listen to his reason. And so daily realizing he wasn't getting through to her, he says a verse that at first seems a little hard to comprehend, but in verse 22 he says If that's shameless, if that's uncovered shameless to worship that way before the Lord, I will be yet more vile and base in serving God with more zeal than ever before. We should conclude that the same as David, that we should never be ashamed about being excited about the things of God And the praising God. Well, I'll tell you, I'm not charismatic, but that's one place where they beat us They do seem excited about worshiping the Lord. Now I don't know how genuine some of it is, and I think some of it is very commercial-like But I'll tell you, there's something to be said about the Presbyterians, and I'm one, and I love the Presbyterian, but there's to meet the frozen chosen. Mustn't get too excited. Mustn't shout Amen too often or too loud. David, I'm sure, concluded as we should here today, that you can't be excited enough about the things of God. If the angels, as we read in Revelation 4, if the angels rest not day or night saying Holy, holy, holy. How can we as believers ever praise the Lord enough? We can't. If we can't praise the Lord enough, we can't bow down low enough before him who has has done more than enough for the worst of sinners. Isn't that the truth? How can we question that we're over the top in praising the Lord Jesus Christ? And so if you believe that Christ said from the cross, it is finished, if you believe that he has done enough for the worst of sinners and for your sins, praise God. And we invite you to partake with us in the remembrance feast today, if you believe that what Christ has done was enough. Was enough to get you back Do in heaven. Ask the elders to come forward at this time as we begin to distribute the elements