Uh we were at a church not that long ago and they asked, Does anybody have a favorite? And my wife said, Yes, let's sing a mighty fortress is our God and the and the minister of music I'm not a I'm not aware of that. Didn't have a clue. Didn't have a clue. We go to churches, they don't sing hymns at all. And we've been in summer camps where the kids they don't know it they don't know any hymns at all. So they're missing out on all the doctrine that's in the hymns. My my wife was raised in a liberal church. But she got the doctrine from the hymns. They still sang hymns back there before the flood when she was young. Today we're going to look at Isaiah chapter 40. And Isaiah, you all probably know, is known, is called the Bible in miniature. Because you have uh the Old Testament in the first thirty-nine chapters, it's represented by the law. And the judgment that comes if you don't obey the law. And they're about to go into judgment uh at Babylon and all that. So that's the first uh thirty-nine chapters. Then you have chapter 40, which is the transition chapter into the New Testament part. How many books in the Old Testament? 66. In the Old Testament? Thirty-nine. How many books in the New Testament? Twenty-seven. So the last twenty-seven chapters of Isaiah are the best uh presentation of the gospel of any of the Old Testament books and it lays out the whole history from John the Baptist to um To the end. Okay? And so um let's just begin In uh Isaiah chapter 40, verse 1, and we're going to try and just kind of cover the whole chapter, if we can. We'll see how we do here. And it starts out, comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Now they're going into judgment, okay? And God says He is our comfort. And He tells us that in the New Testament, too. Where does He tell us that? In the New Testament. He is our Comfort. John. Okay. Corinthians? First Corinthians is it? Or is it Second Corinthians chapter one? Yeah. Okay. Comfort ye yes. All right. Then he says this. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. By the way, one of the very few things our Lord specifically tells us to pray for is the peace of Jerusalem. Psalm 122. 6. You look through the Bible. What did God specifically say? Pray for this. That's one thing he says, pray for. The peace of Jerusalem. Well, if we're praying for the peace of Jerusalem, is that in any benefit to us? Well, yeah, there will be no peace in Jerusalem Until the Prince of Peace is ruling. That's Jesus. But if the Prince of Peace is ruling in Jerusalem, what does that mean? Well that means a lot of things are already over with. Okay. If you believe in the tribulation, it's done. If you believe in a rapture, whichever position you have, it's done. The BMC judgment is finished. Alright? That happens during the seven years, as far as I can tell. So when you pray for the peace of Jerusalem, you're praying for us too. Anyway, uh he says, speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, cry unto her. But her warfare is accomplished. Now he's trying to be a comfort to them. By the way, uh we talk a lot about God's creation. Today we're going to talk about the God of creation, mostly. Okay. Because somehow we get off on all this creation and the incredible design and all the things And we don't talk much about the Creator himself. So we're going to talk more about just the Creator today. And I think he has a message here in Isaiah chapter 40, because his people are going into very difficult times, and he's basically saying, look Don't forget who I am. And don't lose your perspective. Okay? They had lost their perspective They were into the idols, they were into worshiping the things of man instead of God. They lost their perspective. Okay, well let's keep going. Verse 2. The warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned. For she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. You know, he might mean double blessing, because if you get over there in Isaiah 61, verse 7. It's double blessing. So y you have to think about that a little bit. Anyway, verse three. Now he's gonna mention John the Baptist. Now we're in Isaiah. Okay. He says, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Tell you what Turn over to Matthew just a minute. Matthew chapter 3. Because this is what Isaiah's talking about right now. There in that Old Testament passage, Isaiah. Matthew 3. In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judea and saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah. I just read it. So now Jesus is referring back Isaiah prophesied about this. That John the Baptist is coming. This is he that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his path straight. So Isaiah is introducing the thoughts of the New Testament right here, because Isaiah got it all started that way too. It's fascinating. And then he goes on. Every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain. Now they had a custom back then that when the monarch was going to come to town, come to your village They would go out and they would level out the road, dirt roads, they would have potholes, they would have boulders, they would go out and get it all nice and flat. So when the king came into town, he wasn't bumped and banged around into chariot or whatever, so he would be grumpy when he came to their town. So they would smooth everything out. When Jesus comes at the second coming, he is rearranging the earth. It's going to be a different situation. The King of Kings is coming, okay? And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. This is all kind of second-coming talk right through here. And all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, all the goodness thereof is as the flower of the field. The grass withereth, the flower fit. By the way, on on college campuses, I'll start talking about uh Jesus, uh uh death came with Adam. By Adam's sin came death. There's no death before Adam. And uh so death came as a result of the curse, and uh students will come up and they'll say, well what if Adam ate a carrot? Before the fall, the carrot died. That means there was death before Adam. Okay. God never says plants die. Right. To search the Bible. They wither, they fade away. He just said it right here. So there's really three kinds of life, if you want to call it that. Plant life, they don't die. They have flesh, if you want to call it. Okay. They have the carrot has uh flesh that we eat. Then you have animal life. Which uh has flesh, but it also has a soul, a nefish. Genesis chapter one Same word is used for our soul. Okay? Now, what do the theologians tell us the soul is your body, mind, and spirit? Or is it your s uh the soul? Is your mind, your emotions? And there's a third one. What is it? Mind? Emotion. Will. Your will. See, sometimes these things just skip out of me. Okay. So your soul. Your uh mind and your will By the way, does an animal have a mind? Yeah. Yeah? Uh does your pet dog have Emotions. Oh yeah, they sure do. Okay. I spent me once on emotional deal. Okay. They have a will, they have emotions. They have minds. And if they're willing, I mean if they set their mind, they really have a strong will. And when you say set And they just look at you. Sit. And they still just look at you. I'm not willing to sit. So you just kind of help them sit. They have all those things. Okay, that's enough fish. So you have plants, they have flesh. You have animals, they have flesh, and a uh a nefish. And then you have people. And we have a mind, we have flesh, we have spirit Uh we have a soul, uh just like animals have a soul, mind, will, etc. Alright, so we have three, but nothing else has. God made us in his image, and we do have the human spirit, which is above the animals created in God's image. So What are we going to cry out, he said? Let's go to verse 8. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Okay, now what does God tell us to Invest our life in the eternal things. So what are the three big eternal things? Well, right there's one of them. God's Word will stand forever. God's Word is eternal. Another one is uh look over in verse 28. Hast thou not known, hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator, God is eternal So we're going to invest our lives in eternal God and in his eternal word. What's the third thing? People. People are eternal. They're going to have eternity in hell, or they're going to have eternity with God, but they are eternal. So what do we invest our lives in? God, His Word, and people. That should be the emphasis of our life here, this little dash of time we spend here on the tombstone, that little dash between the dates, that's everything. Okay Okay, so then he goes on, verse nine. O Zion, that bringeth good tidings. Are we bringing good tidings? How about with the people we work with, or go to school with, or live next to? Are we bringing them good tidings? The good tidings of Jesus? You see? Are we silent about that? Do they even know we're a Christian? Okay O Zion, that bringeth good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain. O Jerusalem, that bringeth good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength. Lift it up. Be not afraid. Say unto the cities of Judah, behold your God. You know what most Christians do Do they shout to their neighborhood, Behold the Lord your God. No, they're silent. According to Barnett, the average person that calls themselves a Christian doesn't share the gospel at all. There's only like one percent of the people who call themselves Christians. That ever share the gospel with anyone after they become a Christian. That's shameful. That's shameful. We should be shouting it with our life and with our words. What are they shouting? Behold, verse 10. The Lord God will come. This is second coming talk. With strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. Behold, his reward is with him. His work is before him. His work before him. When he comes at the second coming, the King of Kings is coming in strength. He is the mighty God, and he's coming in strength. But look at the next verse. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. He is coming as the mighty warrior, but he's also coming as the general shepherd. He is our gentle shepherd. And he loves us enough that he died for us. You can't love anybody any more than that, okay? And so when he comes, he's coming that way. Now, he's gonna remind his people, the Jewish people. Some things about himself. Now they've gone off into idols. They're loving themselves. They're loving the things of the world, which is the church today, by the way. And uh so he's gonna remind them. So he's gonna start out right here, telling them that he is Superior to everything in his creation. Okay? Look what he says. Verse 12. Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? He knows how much water there is. Do you? Mm-hmm. No. You know. Do the scientists No. No. They say there's not enough to cover the earth. But they also say, but there was enough at one time to cover Mars. I mean what? Okay. They live a life of uh very much fantasy. But anyway. Um so he knows how much water and meted out or created heaven With the span, he knows how far the heavens go. He knows where the picket fence is around out there. I don't by the way, I don't think it's a picket fence. I think he put a water canopy around the universe. Psalm 148, verse 4, alludes to that. Okay. Matter of fact, I think he had two water canopies to begin with. And I think Genesis chapter one makes that clear. He said, he put some waters Above the firmament and some waters beneath the firmament. What's the firmament? Genesis 120, where the birds fly around. So God put some waters. Now In the Hebrew, the word waters is a dual noun. It's very clear, it's a dual noun. That means he put two bodies of water above where the birds fly around, and two bodies of water beneath where the birds fly around. The bodies beneath where the birds fly around, that's your surface water. That's your under the surface water. Almost anywhere you go, you drill. What are you going to hit? You're going to hit water. Okay That would be a water canopy around planet Earth above where the birds fly around, and the second one around the universe. I think there was a water canopy around the earth. Now I know creationists, no no no, there's the heat problem. There's problems anyway, anyway you look at it. How did the dinosaurs get so big? Different system. Different system. We're same Earth, different system The water canopy, increased atmospheric pressure, pole-to-pole greenhouse warm, palm tree fossils in Alaska, unfossilized broadleaf ferns in the Antarctica. How many of you knew about that? Unfossilized. Yeah, unfossilized. They can still burn it. Okay? So Earth was once pole-to-pole greenhouse warmth. Don't worry about Al Gore Or AOC or whatever her name is. We only got twelve years left, we're all gonna burn up. No we are No we are by the way We don't have to worry about that at all. What does God say? We got at least a thousand and seven years left if we take the Bible literally, which I do. Okay. So I don't know where I was. So let's get going. Uh we'll keep going. Uh and Span comprehended the dust. He knows how much dust there is. Do you know how much dust is in your hair today? God knows. Even if you don't have hair. Okay. How much dust? Okay. He knows how much dust Uh the dust of the earth in a measure. He knows he weighed the he weighs the mountains in a ski he knows how much the mountains weigh. Does anybody know how much Pikes Peak weighs? No. You don't know because I do. See he's God. Now what's he doing? Well, he told them he is superior to everything in his creation. Everything. He is superior And now, well, he says another thing. Let's do that one. And he says he weighs the mountains in the scales and the hills in a balance. That word that has the idea of the technical term is isostasy. He keeps the earth balanced. If he didn't keep it balanced They would start wobbling out of control. So I've often wondered if a big city comes up, like let's say, Los Angeles, If you go right straight through the earth on the other side, did God make some other big city or a cluster of cities to balance it? He is keeping it balanced. With whatever man does, God takes care of it. He keeps it balanced. Unbelievable. See, this is the God, and he's trying to tell his people, you are forgetting who I am. Don't lose your perspective here. Okay. So he says next Who now he's going to talk about the fact that he's superior to every man. He's superior to everything, and he's superior to every man. Look what he says next. Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord or being his counselor have taught him? God is okay, you guys, you think you're so smart. What do you t what have you taught me? Well how have you directed me? No, no. God says you can't I know everything. You you can't tell me. things that I don't know? By the way, we try to, don't we? God, I know better what's good for me. God says, I want you to go this way, and we kind of know it. No, no, no, no, no. It's better for me to go this way Uh your your your good friends told you uh that's not the right man for you. No, no, no, I know better. And then we find out it wasn't the right man. You know, there's things that we decide. You know what? I know better than God. I know better what I can do in my life. Well that's what they were doing. And God is saying, now don't forget, don't forget here, don't lose your perspective here. Who had directed the spirit of the Lord or being his counselor taught him? With whom took he counsel It's God then. Well, uh did I sit down with you and say, What do you think I oughta do? No, no, God said, No, no, you you don't do that. And who instructed him We try to. We do. God, your timing is way off on this one. If you would have gotten that done two years ago, we'd been in good look where we are. Yeah. We do. We try to tell God. Okay. And Um where am I here? Um Yeah, I know I've turned how many pages? I don't have any idea. Oh, here we go. And who taught him in the path of judgment? And taught him knowledge and showed to him the way of understanding. God says, I am superior to every person And you you aren't smarter than I am, even though you think you are, okay? No, you're not. Don't lose your perspective on who God is. Alright, so he is superior to everything in his creation He is superior to every man. Now he's going to tell him, and I am superior to every nation. Look what he says next. Behold, verse 15. The nations are as a drop from a bucket. Or a drop of a bucket. Have you heard that old saying? That's like a drop in a bucket Well, where'd that come from? Well, it comes from the scripture. But let's say you're gonna you're gonna go feed the hogs and you got a bucket of hog slop, that's what we used to call it on the farm, I don't know what the technical name is, and you go out and you dump it in the feeding trough. And then you look in the bucket. Oh no, there's still a drop in the bucket. So you take your finger and you get that little drop and you push it all the way out and off the edge No, God's making the point. You don't even think about that. You just dump it and go back to the farmhouse, okay? Like a drop from a bucket of a bucket, you're as you're what else? You're counted as the small dust of the scale, like a speck of dust on a scale, on a balance. Okay, so some of you younger ladies probably don't know this, but you older ladies probably remember. You used to go to the grocery store, and you're going to buy two pounds of tomatoes And they have this metal scale on several chains hanging off this big dial. And so you would get your tomatoes, put them in a scale, and then it would say, oh that's two pounds. But before you did that You would pick up that metal piece that you put the tomatoes in and you would look. And you'd blow the dust off, right? No! No, you don't even think about it. That's what God is saying. He is saying, look I am superior to everything, to everyone, to every nation's nations are like a speck of dust On a scale. To me. It's not look what he says. Look what he says. Number seven uh seventeen first. All nations Before by the way, he says Lebanon is not Lebanon's in trouble right now. So you need to pray because it you just like twenty years t thirty thirty years ago Lebanon was a Christian country. Okay? And they're in trouble now because they started shooting some missiles. That's trouble. Okay, so pray for Lebanon. All nations before him, verse 17, are as nothing. Take all the nations of the world Take China, Russia, United States, North Korea, Iran, Pakistan, nuclear weapons Nothing. They're nothing to our God. All nations before him are as nothing. Now look what he says here. He says And they are counted to him, to God, as less than nothing. I mean, how how How nothing nothing is less than nothing. I mean you can't get any lesser than less than nothing. To me, that is the way it is, says God. And vanity Uh that might be a word like soap puppets. They're just nothing. They're just nothing. That's it. Okay? So then he says this. Now he's telling her now, look, I just reminded you about these things, so don't lose your perspective here To whom then will you liken God? By the way, these are an artist's terms in the Hebrew. To who then will you liken God? Of what likeness will you compare unto him? In other words, okay, get out your Paints your pencil, draw a picture of God. You can't do it. You can't do it. By the way, the picture of Jesus hanging on the wall, that's not a photograph. Okay. That's somebody somebody's idea. Anyway, God said, no, you can't even draw a picture of me. The workman, now he's gonna get to the idols Because the Jews have gotten into idols. The workmen melteth a graven image and goldsmiths spreadeth it over with gold and casteth silver chains. He that is so impoverished, he had no oblation, chooses a tree that will not rot. This is sarcasm. This is sarcasm from God. You can't even make idols that don't rot. Why are you worshiping them when I am God and I'm superior to everything? Why are you worshiping them? He seeketh unto a cunning workman, he's going to find a real smart guy to make his idols, you see, to prepare a graven image that shall not be moved. I mean I can almost hear sarcasm. Remember Dagon? Remember Dagon? What happened to Dagon? Yeah, they put the Ark of the Covenant in there with him? Come out the next day, blap, he's on his face. They prop him back up again. Come in the next day, bang, and he's not only on his face, he's Broken up. God says, you can't even make idols that don't totter and fall over. Okay? And then he goes on. He says, um Verse 21 Have ye not known by the way the the answer here is oh yes you have Have you not heard? Yeah, yeah. They've heard it many, many times. Has it not been told you from the beginning? Yes, it has. Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? God has said, Look, you know these things about me. You have chosen to go away from me. I'm telling you who I am. You've lost your perspective here. And so, verse twenty-two it is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth By the way, that the Hebrew word there can be translated vault, circle, sphere, okay Um now we have to be aware of that because the flat earth people are back. They are full speed ahead in the churches. Now almost everywhere I go talking of creation. Oh yeah, but you know the scientists have proven it's a flat earth. Well now there's some books written about that. Mm supporting the flat earth. And so there's one or two now coming out supporting the earth is not a flat earth Okay, which I think supports the Bible. And there's all kinds of things that happen, don't happen if it's a flat earth. You got your eclipses that are a problem, all kinds of things. But anyway If somebody, by the way, now they take this verse and they change the meaning of the word that's translated in King James the Circle. They change the meaning. Alright, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers. That stretchest out the heavens. How many times does God say that? He stretched out the heavens. By the way, that helps with the Starlight problem. Okay? What if God made everything close in and it was the eye the light is ready to go? He moves it all away. Well that's how he describes it. Okay, I don't have a problem with that. That would help, I believe, with the spear light problem. Okay, there's other things coming along about that Anyway, stretches out the heavens as a curtain, spreads them out as a tent to dwell in, that bringeth the princes To nothing. He makes the judges of the earth as vanity. By the way, we we now are basically in an oligarchy in our country. We started out as a constitutional republic that moved into a what they're calling a democracy. That moves into an oligarchy which is ruled by a few, the judges. The judges now are flipping the laws. Flipping the laws. Especially if they come from the Bible. Okay? That moves into socialism and ultimately the next step is Marxist communism. That's where our country's going. Okay, it's following it right down the line. Okay. Verse 24. Yea. They shall not be planted, yea, they shall not be sown. Yea, their stalks shall not take root in the earth And he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither. He can blow on them, and they're going to wither. Okay. Um 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Just turn over there for just a minute. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Where is it? Down there about verse eight. Uh 2 Thessalonians 2. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh 2 verse 8 Now, God says these people, he's just gonna blow on them. These powerful people. They're nothing to him. Just you're gone. Look what he says. Now The most powerful person to ever live on earth other than Jesus, I believe, will be the Antichrist. Satan himself gives him his power. Okay? Look what it says in uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, go down to verse 8. And then, what do you mean, then? Well, that's verse seven. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work back in those days, and it's still here, only he who now led it uh prevents it. Will let until he be taken out of the way. I think that personally, I think that's the Holy Spirit. Uh-huh. And he'll be taken out, and then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth. Well that's the word for wind. Spirit is translated. And uh with the brightness of his coming. Well thus the the Antichrist, how's Jesus going to get rid of him? No problem. Yeah. You had your time, I gave you your time. That's it. I think that's what it is. Okay, so get on back here. And then he goes on, verse 25, To whom then will ye liken me? Or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One. See now he's reminding them. You've lost your perspective. I've reviewed a few things here. I'm superior to everything, every nation, every man, every idol. Verse 26, lift up your eyes on high. That's a good idea every now and then. You know that? Just lift up our eyes. Lord Jesus. You are wonderful. Amen. Lift up your eyes on high, and behold, who hath created these things? The context here would be the stars That bringeth out their hosts by number, God knows how many stars there are. He calls them all by names Psalm 147, 4 other places. He calls them all by names. He's got a name for every star. Does anybody know how many stars there are? No. How many did they think there might be? Well, I heard recently a trillion trillion How many words in the best English dictionary, including technical language, about 1,400,000? And God has a trillion, trillion names? For the stars? Think of the absolute genius. I mean if we sat around and thought up nonsense syllables for the rest of our life, gip, good, group, wrote them down, we couldn't come up with a tenth of one percent of a trillion trillion, okay? So he knows them all by name. Oh I might add, don't throw your money away by this company that now says we will name a s Star. You tell us what you want, and then we'll name it after you. Just send us so much money. People are doing that. Okay? Wait, God says I already named the stars. Okay. Anyway, by the greatness of his might. For that he is strong in power. Not one fails. There's not one star missing. Oh, what's a supernova? I thought that was a star that blew up. Nope. Maybe it did, but there's still something there that has a name. God says not one of them fails. Are we going to believe the words of God or the word of man? You see? We have to come at this and maybe think a different way. Wait a minute, what's God telling us here? Now look what he says. Now he's going to ask these questions again. Verse 27. Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the Lord. God's not uh God's unaware of what's happening to me. God doesn't care what's happening to me God's uninvolved with what's happening to me. That's what they're saying. God's saying, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, Israel. They say, my way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God No, God said, no, no, no. I am involved with you. I love you. I'm concerned about you. I want you to repent of this way you've gone and come back to me. And then he asked the question Hast thou not known? Yep, yep, yep, they have, and now they just got a review. God just reviewed for them. Hast thou not heard? In other words, God has no limits. That's really what he's saying to them. Look, there's no limits on me, and there's no limits on my love for you. That the everlasting God, He's eternal, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, He's reminding them, look, I made it all And you think these flimsy little idols that can't even stand up are gonna take my place? What's wrong with you? Come on, get back to it, what you need to believe here Neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. He gives power to the faint. And to them that have no might he increases strength. Well we've all been there, haven't we? Lord Well remember the guys out in the boat? And the boat is sinking? What'd they say? Oh Lord, don't you care about us? That was dumb. I mean they got himself in the boat with him. Okay? Does he care? Of course he cares. Okay. But he was showing them his power through that storm. Because they were going to go out and face some very difficult times. And God wanted them to know, look, I have the power even over the Storms in the sea. And he wanted them to know that. So he he showed them. He gives power to the faint To them that have no might he increases strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall utterly fall. Okay. God says, Okay, bring me your strongest young men They're nothing compared to me. Nothing. Okay? I am the strength. Thank you, Jesus. Trust me. And look what he says next to you. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. That word renew is the Hebrew word for exchange. When we exchange our strength for God's strength Nothing is impossible. Nothing is impossible. Okay? They shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. Well, you know, an eagle is up there soaring. They caught a thermal. They're up there soaring. The thermal is doing all the hard work. It's holding them up. But they're not doing nothing. Okay? They have fifteen hundred feathers with nerves and muscles And let's say they're up your shouldering and the breeze changes across that front leading feather. They lift that feather three degrees. They turn it one degree. Well now the wind is different than all the other feathers. So they got to adjust all those. So they're up there making these minor adjustments while the thermal is doing the hard work of holding them up What does he say? You'll soar like eagles. Let's think about that just a minute. Peter is in prison. And the angel comes. And the chains fall off. And then the angel says, Peter, put on your sandals. What? I mean, if he can make the irons fall off, why can't he make the sandals go on? Okay? It's because some things Only God can do. But there's some things He expects us to do. The iron gates flew open. Peter, grab your coat. What? I mean he could have had the coaches land on him. Nope, nope, you gotta do it. Some things only God can do. He can throw off the chains, he can open the gates But he there are things he expects us to do. That's right. So what's going to happen? With wings as eagles, they shall run And not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. How? In God's strength, because He can do the impossible. But we're not to lose our perspective. And it's so easy to do. We could walk out of here today and hear something on the radio in the car. Oh, woe is us. No, no. Our God is in control. And He loves us. And He wants to use us to invest our lives in the eternal things. God, His Word, and people. So, brothers and sisters, let's not lose our perspective. Let's not forget who our God is And let's not let the cares of this world penetrate our lives to the point that we're despairing Oh my, what's gonna happen? Oh my my no no By God's grace? We are indestructible, by the way, until he's finished with us. So let's just keep going. Let's be strong in the Lord and in the power, the strength of his might, because we're in a battle. And it's against the powers and the forces of evil and all those things. Ephesians 6. But what is it? God says, I'm the victor. I'm the victim. So he says to his people, come back to me. You've let the other things creep in, you've lost the perspective. Come back to me. And that's so easy. My wife and I had a big fight before our daughters were born. And uh still remember it, huh? Ha it was a big one. Forty-five days we didn't speak. Oh my god. I'm teaching Bible studies. Oh my. Okay. And finally God got my attention. And it was like Job, you need to go to your wife and get this straightened out. And so I went. And forty on the forty I know it's forty-five days because she had one of those little calendars that you had the little square for each they'd all been that been blacked out. Blacked up and I saw her calendar sitting on the counter by the telephone I said, all these days are black out counting them up. Forty-five days. So God said, Joe, you need to get things straightened out with your wife. And so I went up and I said, honey I've been a jerk. Would you forgive me? What do you mean? It's been 40. No, no, no, no. Of course I forgive you. And we had a big hug, and we were closer in just an instant. Just an instant, okay? When I was willing to humble myself And she humbled herself too. And come back to eat together. That's how our Lord is. We humble ourselves before Him, and He says, Welcome back. Welcome back. Let me pray. Father, I just thank you that you are you are all powerful. You are omniscient. You're omnipresent. You're here. You live through your spirit in us. We have the creation power living in us. We have the power in us. that is has conquered all the foes. They're conquered. And you're you rose from the dead. You conquered death, Lord Jesus. And all we have to do is trust you and worship you and give you the glory and the praise and the thanks. Father, you never know. There could be somebody here today that has never gotten that straightened out with you. I pray today someone might just humble themselves, and that's what it takes, humble themselves before you. and put their faith and trust in Jesus as their Savior. They get saved today. So that all of us will be in heaven together. One of these days, I pray, even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus, in your name I pray. Amen.