Turn with me in your Bibles this morning, please, to the Old Testament book of Hosea. It's a book we don't turn too often. Hosea chapter 5 Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk, Zephenai, Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi. in your Old Testament, the book of Hosea. And turn there to chapter 5. And I'm going to read the entirety of the fifth chapter and verses 1 through 3 of chapter 6. Hosea chapter five, and I'll read through chapter six, verse three. It's one of those ones that's a little bit harder to find, so I'll give you an extra moment. Hosea chapter 5, verse 1. Hear ye this, O priest, and hearken, ye house of Israel. And give ye ear, O house of the king, for judgment is toward you, because ye have been a snare on Mistha, and a net spread upon Tabor. The revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have been a rebuker of them all. I know Ephraim. And Israel is not hid from me. For now, O Ephraim, thou committest whoredoms, and Israel is defiled. They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God, for the spirit of wardoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known the Lord. And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face. Therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity. Judah also shall fall with them. They shall go with their flocks and their herds to seek the Lord, but they shall not find him He hath withdrawn himself from them. They have dealt treacherously against the Lord, for they have begotten strange children. Now shall the month devour them with their portions. Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah. Cry aloud in Beth Aven after thee, O Benjamin. Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke. Among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be. The princes of Judah were like them that removed the bound. Therefore, I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. Ephraim is oppressed. And broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment. Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth and the house of Judah as rottenness. For Ephraim shall his sickness, and Judah saw his wound. Then went Ephraim to Assyria and sent to the king of Jerob, ye shall Yet could not be healed, you could not heal you, nor cure you of your wound. For I will be under Ephraim as a lion. And as a young lion in the house of Israel, I, even I, will tear and go away. I will take away, and none shall rescue him. I will go and return to my place till they acknowledge their offense and seek my face. In their affliction, they will seek me early. Chapter six, verse one. Come and let us return unto the Lord For he has torn, and he will heal us. He has smitten and he will bind us up. After two days will he revive us, and in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight. Then shall we know if we follow on to know the Lord, His going forth is prepared as the morning. And he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth. Let's pray. Gracious Father, now bless us in thy word. Grant us insight into thy truth by thy spirit. Rebuke us for our failing Prepare us for our service. May we be faithful to stand and having done all to stand. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever been arrested by one phrase in a passage? It just gets a hold of you. And gnawls at your soul, rebukes your heart, rejoices your spirit. This morning I would like to consider one phrase from this passage, and that is found in verse number 10, the first part of the verse The princes of Judah were like them that removed the bound. The princes of Judah were like them that removed the bound. In verse 5, or verse 3, we find thou hast committed whoredoms. In verse 4, the spirit of wardoms is in the midst of thee. In verse 7, they have begotten strange children. When all restraints are removed, when every man does that which is right in his own eyes. When men no longer have a standard of right and wrong, they're right for their own destruction. And that's what we find here that the princes of Judah, those that should have known better. Those that were charged with the care of the people, we could aptly and reasonably substitute pastors for princes there, for the pastor is simply a shepherd. Those that were responsible for keeping the boundaries that God had set. The princes were those that removed the bounds. That word bounds there is also the word landmark. And I like the verses which refer to it as a landmark. In Deuteronomy 14 or 19 verse 14, thou shalt not remove thy neighbor's landmark, which they of old time have set in thine inheritance. which thou shalt inherit in the land that the Lord thy God giveth thee to possess it. Thou shalt not remove thy neighbor's landmark And again in Proverbs 22, verse 28, remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have set up. And Deuteronomy 27, verse 17, cursed is he that removeth his neighbor's landmark, and all the people shall say, Amen. But the princes of Judah were like those that removed the landmark. They were like those that removed the bound bound the boundaries. They were like those that tore down the monuments and destroyed the statues, the statutes, I should say, that were set up. for the guarding of the children of Israel. And throughout the Old Testament, we find the establishment of memorials, the establishment of monuments. We find one when Joshua and Israel passed through the river Jordan in Joshua 4 and starting in verse 5 and Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of Jordan. And take ye every man of you a stone upon his shoulders, according to the number of the tribes of Israel, that this may be a sign among you. When your children ask their father in time to come saying, what mean these stones? They then ye shall answer them. The waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord When it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. There was a sign established that when the children said, What is this pile of stones? They could say, God stuffed up the Jordan and we passed through. Behold the works of the Lord. We live in a day and age when the monuments of the church are being torn down, when the boundaries of morality are being violated. Remember when God gave Israel a great victory over the Philistines, and Samuel raised the pillar of Ebenezer? Hitherto has the Lord helped me. We sing that of the hymn, here I raise my Nebu near, hither by thy help I come. What is so important about the landmarks? What was so wrong with Judah, the princes of Judah, removing the bounds? Today, we see much the same thing. And I don't have we don't have space and time here today to go into all the boundaries that are being removed, but I'll just mention a few of them The United Methodist Church has recently voted to bless homosexual marriages. I saw a video of a female preacher. There's a contradiction. Who declare that abortion is a loving act, not to bring this child into the world that is unwanted. Today we have many churches using errant and polluted scriptures. They've removed a landmark. They've removed a boundary. And so there are so many boundaries. My father was forced to leave the old Methodist Episcopal Church. because the bishops of the church were saying that Christ was not born of a virgin, but rather he was the illegitimate child of a soldier. The landmarks are being removed. And so this morning I want to consider the landmarks. I want to consider why we dare not change the standards upon which the Church of God has been built. And the first thing that I would point out to you about the landmarks Is the landmarks, the boundaries that are set, mark out something that does not belong to us The boundaries mark out that which does not belong to us. God established the boundaries for Himself, and in Leviticus chapter 25, verse 23 God declared, the land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine. The boundaries, the landmarks that we're talking about. Are the boundaries and landmarks of the church? And Christ declared, On this rock will I build my church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Each generation of believers is given stewardship within the house of God. But not ownership. We say it again. Each generation of believers are given stewardship within the house of God, but not ownership. The boundaries are not of our property, they're the boundaries of God's property. Let a minister so account of us, or let a man so account of us as ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. First chronicle Corinthians chapter four, verse one. More of it is required of a steward than a man be found faithful. You see, a steward is entrusted with his master's property. But he can't change the boundaries of that property. It's not his To bring the border this way or take the border that way. A steward has authority within his master's house, but he cannot sell the house. A steward cannot tear down a wall or build a new room. And above all, the steward cannot change the rules of the house. Rather, the steward is entrusted with the upkeep of the rules of the house. But today we live in an age when the quote-unquote church is changing all kinds of standards and tearing down all kinds of barriers, but they don't have the authority to do so. Because the barriers do not mark out what belongs to us. The doctrines do not belong, but mark out what is ours. They mark out what is the Lord's. If you look again at our text, there in verse 4, it says, the spirit of whoredom is in the midst of them. Doesn't that describe what you hear about the church today? It's the spirit of spiritual adultery. It's the spirit of prostitution of the truth. Before the Holy God. And the result in verse 7 is that they've begotten strange children. Strange children. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. You're not my children. You're the children of boredom. You're the children of spiritual adultery. And that is what the church of God is filled with today. It's filled with those that claim the name of Christ and they do not know him. You hear people say, oh, we're all the children of God. No, you're not. No, you're not. You may be human. And mankind was created in the image of God. But Scripture tells us: now are we, now are ye the sons of God. Because we're born again. And so firstly, we find that the territory that is marked out by these boundaries does not belong to us. And so we are not permitted to remove the bounds. But then secondly, I would point out to you that these boundaries were not set up by us. We did not establish these doctrines. We did not set these regulations. We did not make the prohibitions. But rather, we find that they come from the Word of God. Folks, we can't change the constitution of the church. Mm-hmm. A lot of churches have a a church constitution. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the constitution of the church. Which is found right here. Remove not the ancient landmarks which your fathers have set up, your spiritual fathers have set up. The landmikes are founded upon the Word of God. For we find in Peter two and verse Second Peter one and verse twenty-one, for the prophecy came not in old time but the will of men, but holy men of God spake as they were moved. by the Holy Ghost. Everything must be according to the Scriptures. That phrase is is expounded on in 1 Corinthians 15, according to the Scriptures. It is not for man to suddenly say, well, we can marry a man and a woman. I'm sorry. It is not for man to say, oh, we can marry a man and a man or a woman and a woman because, well, they're in love. No, God says it's an abomination. And it is not ours to remove the bound. Folks, I love a particular woman in this room. But she's not a preacher. It's not given to her of God to stand in that position. My mother was a woman. But she was not a preacher. You see, God's word has established certain bounds, and it does not matter what the culture says It does not matter what we think is good. It's not about equality. It's about God's word. I remember in Jamaica there was a news reporter talking who was so excited with the liberation of the Jamaican woman And said the Jamaican woman could serve in the military. Well, that's that's fine. I I'm not in favor of it, but that's fine. She could be a police officer, she could d own a business, and she could even preach in her church Well, I have a problem with the fourth one. Who gave her permission? Was it God? And I'm not trying to beat up on the women, but just illustrate the point here that we didn't make these regulations The Word of God sets them forth. And so it's not our place to go about changing them. We can't change the Constitution. The Word of God tells us that God made man male and female. The Word of God tells us that man with man and woman with woman is abomination The Word of God tells us that children are a heritage of the Lord. The Word of God tells us that the taking of innocent life is murder. The Word of God says that we cannot add to or take away from this word We didn't set up the landmarks. But beyond these landmarks being found in the Word of God We find that they're time-tested. They're time-tested. They have stood the test of time. In the Proverbs passage, Proverbs 22, verse 28, remove not the ancient landmarks which your fathers have set up. Proverbs 23, 10, remove not the old landmarks and enter not into the field of the fatherless. In Proverbs 1, verse 8, we find this: My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother. That's good advice. Hear your father's instruction. Don't forsake your mother's law. And then again in Proverbs 6, verse 20, my son, keep thy father's commandment. and forsake not the law of thy mother. Why? Well, because whether a young person wants to believe it or not, their parents have some more experience than they do. Their parents have lived a little bit longer. Their parents have experienced more. Their parents have a bit of authority that has been granted by God and a bit of wisdom that has come from God. And so the instruction is to hear the father's instruction and not forsake the mother's law. Now, we do not worship the King James Bible We worship the God of the Bible. But you know what? It's a translation that stood the test of time. It's a translation that's been given to us by our fathers, and I believe it is a landmark. It came to us from our fathers, and we should keep it. The doctrines that we hold to very dearly, the the um canons of Dort, which we're reading, was 16, help me here. 1618, that's what I was going to say, but I want to make sure I'm right. 1618, the captown is adored. The uh Westminster Confession. The London Baptist Confession. These things are old documents, folks. Many of them predate our own declaration of independence. They were given to us by our fathers. They have stood the test of time. And we come along upstarts, didn't write them. And it's not our place to change them. And so the land which is marked out does not belong to us. The landmarks which are being violated were not set up by us But thirdly, when we remove the landmarks, we trespass into territory where we do not belong. When we remove the standards of the church, we end up in territory where we do not belong. And that's what was happening here with Judah and Ephraim. The princess removed the bounds, and every man did that which was right in his own eyes, because the restraints were gone. In Deuteronomy 14, verse 9, thou shalt not remove thy neighbor's landmark. Which of old time have been set up in thine inheritance. Don't remove your neighbor's landmark. Why? Because you don't belong in your neighbor's yard It's not your place. You're not supposed to be there. When we remove the landmarks, we end up where we do not belong. Jeremiah. Chapter 10 and verse 2, thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen. Wow. What an amazing, powerful, short little verse. Young man, young woman, young adult, old adult, child. Learn not the way of the heathen. You see, the way of the heathen is all around us. The way of the heathen is bombarding our soul every day. But it's territory where we don't belong. God's Word has set up for us landmarks I've coveted with my eyes that I will not look upon a maid. Go not in the way of the heathen. God's word sets up standards. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to thy word. But you see, when the landmark is gone, then we wander into the field of the neighbor, and we end up as the crop of Satan. The landmarks were established to keep us out of trouble. And Leviticus 18, verse 24, defile not yourself in any of these things. For in all these nations, for all in all these nations are defiled. Let me read the verse right. Leviticus 18, verse 24. Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things. For in all these the Lord all these the nations are defiled which I cast out before you. And again in that same chapter, Leviticus 18, verses 4, and following Ye shall do my judgments and keep mine ordinances to walk therein. I am the Lord your God. Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments. Which if a man do, he shall live in them. I am the Lord. After the doings of the land of Egypt, where ye dwelt, ye shall not do After their doings, the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, ye shall not do, ye shall neither walk in their ordinances. I I twisted up those verses and I apologize for that. But what the verse is saying is, look, folks, there's places you don't belong. Don't go there. Don't be there. But when we remove the boundaries. We quickly wander where we do not belong. Number four. Rather than seeking what landmarks we should remove, we can remove. We need to be deciding which landmarks need to be replaced. Rather than saying, oh, can we change the music of the church because the young people will come Rather than saying, well, if we use this version of scripture that's easier to understand, that does away with these and thou's, maybe we will attract more people. Well, you know, if we if we cut back on the worship and have a praise service or the preaching and have a praise and worship service instead, we'll get a big crowd If we make our church into a rock concert, a lot of people have come. You see, today the church is trying to decide what barriers, what landmarks they can tear down. But rather, we should be seeking what landmarks need to be restored. We don't need to go closer to the world. We need to get closer to God. And re-establish the boundaries. Again, look at our text, but go to chapter 6 and verse 1. Hosea 6 and verse 1, come and let us return unto the Lord. Let us return unto the Lord. In Jeremiah 6 and verse 16, we read this: Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways and seek, and ask for the old paths. Wherein is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest to your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein. Jeremiah was calling to God's people, seek and ask for the old paths. Not some new way. Walk therein, there's blessing. But they said, No, we will not do that. We will not yield that. And again in Jeremiah seven verses twenty-three and twenty-four But this thing command uh uh command I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people, and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well with you. But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ears, but walked in the counsels and in the imaginations of their evil heart, and went backward. And not forward. Let me read the last part of that verse again. But walked in the counsels and in the imaginations of their own heart, and went backward and not forward. And every man did that which was right in his own eyes. Folks, rather than trying to tear down more barriers within the worship of God. We need to seriously consider what barriers need to be restored within the house of God. But then one final point. Well, I I just flipped over a page and saw another note I had. Remember Elijah on the mountain, what he had to do before they could worship? He had to repair the altar of the Lord, which was torn down. He had to rebuild the altar. But the final point is this. The primary landmark of the church is Jesus Christ Himself. On this rock will I build my church. The rock was the testimony thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He is the cornerstone. He is the landmark. And when we begin to move this little pebble and that little pebble of doctrine, what we're doing is we're defying the cornerstone. We are railing not against the standards of the church, but we're railing against the cornerstone Because a cornerstone is that which everything fits into and fits against. He is that chief cornerstone That foundation. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion a foundation stone, a tridestone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. He that believeth shall not make haste. Judgment will I lay in the line, and righteousness to the plummet. If you ever build a house, I know our brother did a lot of construction on this property in recent years, you begin with a line in a plummet. The line is the level, the plummet is the upright. And they both have to be straight. They both have to be true. Jesus is the cornerstone. And judgment is laid in the line. and righteousness in the plummet. And folks, when we begin to tear down the landmarks of God's house, we put the whole foundation out of the line. And so, the princes of Judah, those that should have been the guardians of judgment. Those that should have been the ones who guarded the landmarks and kept the fences tight, they were the ones that tore down the bounds. We do not own the house of God. We are stewards within it. May God give us grace. Even when the world rushes headlong to decay, and the church rushes headlong to apostasy, may we hold firm to the Word of God Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that we are not built upon the sand, but we're built upon the rock. And Lord, may we not try to wiggle our way out of the requirements of thy word. But O Lord, may we cling to them. Father, may you give us grace even to restore the landmarks that have been left aside, that we might be a holy people, that we might be a righteous foundation built church that we might live so as to please our God. Father, bless your truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.