A responsive reading from 1 Chronicles chapter 9 is not our typical. But in that chapter we read of the keepers of the gates that dwelt there around the tabernacle because their work was continual, it was instant. They had to be close by because they were charged with opening the gates. And we read there that they were the Kohathites or the sons of Korah. They were the doorkeepers. And the tenth verse of this chapter is the verse that I intend had intended to spend all of our time on. That tenth verse says, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. And the outline which I had intended for this morning, which Lord willing we probably will get to next Lord's Sunday, is first of all a description of the doorkeepers, who they were, and their background, their history. Secondly, the alternative to doorkeeping. And then finally, the blessings that the doorkeepers enjoy. With that in mind, I thought, you know, before we get to verse 10, we probably ought to do an exposition of all 12 verses. And folks, you don't do an exposition of the Word of God quickly. Because at every turn and in every word you find another diamond. At every verse you find something else which needs emphasis. And so I think this morning probably all we will accomplish is going through these twelve verses. And you know I like things mechanical. I like to take things apart and reassemble them. And that's a good approach to scripture, to look at it word by word and examine it and see how this part of an engine relates to another part and how they rely on each other. And it is the same with scripture because though we have sixty-six books, we have one book. And though we have a multitude of human authors, we have one author And it is consistent throughout. And so, beginning there at that first verse, we find how amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. And the first thing I would point to your attention is the frequency within this psalm, the reference to the tabernacles or the dwelling place of God. Verse 1, thy tabernacles Verse 2, the courts of the Lord. Verse 3, the sparrow hath found an house. Verse 4, blessed are they that dwell in thy house. Verse 7, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. Verse 10: A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. Verse 10, I had rather be a doorkeeper in thine house. And so from the first look at this psalm, we see that this is talking about a dwelling place. It's talking about a house. It's talking about a place where we should be. Brother Vince mentioned in in Sunday school a very wealthy lady that froze to death on a park bench because she was stin stinzi stingy. But God's people have a dwelling place. And so that theme immediately jumps out just because of the frequency that we find it But then the second word, how amiable are thy tabernacles? That word amiable is a word that means lovely. It's a word that means delightsome. Where do God's people dwell? Well, aren't you glad we don't have a brick building with stained glass windows this morning? Because that is what the world thinks of a church. But we understand that the church is not a structure made of wood and stained glass and steel and stones. But rather the church is God's people. And what is it that is special about the church? Beyond the fact that God dwells there, that it is the place where we meet with God. We meet with God in the assembly, and God is with his people. And so this word, amiable, is a word that means lovely or delightful. But listen with me. To Isaiah chapter 5 and the first verse. Isaiah 5 and verse 1. Now will I sing of my well-beloved A song of my beloved, touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard in the valley, in a vineyard in the very fruitful hill. What is Isaiah speaking of there? Well, the beloved that Isaiah sings of is his God. And his beloved has a vineyard His well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill. Folks, that word well-beloved there is the same word amiable in Psalm 84, verse 1. What makes the tabernacles of God amiable? The God who dwells there. The God who is there. And here Isaiah calls his God the well-beloved, the amiable. And what is it that we read about the well-beloved in Isaiah 5, verse 1, but that the well-beloved has a vineyard? And what is the vineyard of the well-beloved? Well, I am the vine, ye are the branches. The well-beloved is the church, it is the elect. And so we find here in the Old Testament Jehovah referred to as the well-beloved because Jehovah dwells with his people. And I read for our call to worship this morning. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and will open the door, I will come in and sup with him, and he with me. But it goes further. Because when we come to chapter twelve of Mark's, or yeah, chapter twelve of Mark and the sixth verse in the New Testament. We find here again this word well-beloved in the Hebrew, but it's applied here to Christ. Having therefore a son, his well-beloved He sent him also last unto them, saying, They will receive my son. And so in Isaiah 5 we have God the Father referred to as the well-beloved. the amiable. And in the New Testament, we have Christ referred to as the well-beloved. And in that parable there in the New Testament, what was the well-beloved being sent to? He was being sent to the vineyard. He was being sent to check up on the vineyard, to collect, because the wicked servants, which were there were a picture of Israel, had not tended the vineyard. But now the well-beloved comes. after they've abused the prophets. Folks, how amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! The tabernacles of God are not amiable because the people have golden statues of Mary standing there. There are people that feel like they haven't been to worship because they haven't been to some place where they hear Latin and stained glass windows and all kinds of icons and candles. They totally missed the point. Folks, how amiable, how lovely How delightsome are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! And what is delightsome about the tabernacles of the Lord of hosts? The Lord of hosts is what's delightful about them. Verse two My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Folks, we've talked about this before. This is Hebrew parallelism. In Hebrew poetry, the poetry of the Psalms, it will state the same thing, two different ways, but it's the same. It shows you both the heads and the tails side of the coin in one verse. Folks, he says how my soul fainteth, longeth even fainteth for thy quartz of the Lord, my heart and my flesh crowd for the living God. The quartz and the living God are the parallels, they are the same thing. Why does my soul long and my flesh faint for the courts? Because it faints for God. It's a desiring after him. It's a parallel. Folks, do our souls long for God that way? Those of you that have children know what it is to long after your children. Those of you that have a spouse remember the days when you were dating and you thought you'd faint if you didn't see them. You you you you felt sick in the pit of your stomach when you thought about them. Not a sickness like you're gonna wretch, but a yearning and a longing in your soul. That's what the psalmist is describing here for the courts of God. That's the kind of love that is expressing for the courts of God, for the living God. Folks, remember when you were first saved? How you felt the same way about God. And yet how quickly that love grows cold And Revelation 2, verse 4, which follows in the narrative, Revelation 3 verse 20, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. It follows in the same narrative. Revelation 2:4. Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left. Thy first love. Folks, Mission Bible Church is now six years old. We're in our seventh year. I think a good number of those that are here this morning were there at that very first service. And remember it. And it was it was a new love from day one. And folks, I think that love for one another has grown over the years. But has that love for Christ grown along with it? You see, the beauty and the loveliness of God's courts was not the other Kohathites. It was God. And is the beauty and love of Mission Church a beauty and love of Christ? Or simply of one another? And you see that the two run in parallel, but one can outgrow the other. And may our love of Christ keep pace with our love for one another. When we are not here together, we miss one another. But is it that we miss the banter and the fellowship and the food? Or is it that we miss the union with Christ? The fellowship with Him? Does that fill all our longing Has your longing for fellowship with God grown or declined? You see, we can find lots of obstacles. We can find lots of obstacles to anything that we don't set our heart to. But it's when it's something we really love, all obstacles are cast aside. Yea, even the sparrow hath found the house And the swallow, a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. The public worship of God. The gathering in his tabernacle is a precious thing. Do you think a young bird finds a nest to be comfortable? Well, we we know from the birds that there comes a point when the Birds have to start kicking the the young out of the nest. It's time for them to to move on. But folks, the nest of God's house is not like that, is it? It's we when we move on from here, we move on to there. Yeah. We don't get kicked out of this nest. There are certain animals that prey upon nest, certain snakes that will climb trees to find a nest, and their whole purpose is to steal away eggs. There are other birds that don't make their own nest. They simply find an existing nest and lay their egg in there and go away. And when the eggs hatch, one of the one of the chicks is not of the bird. And it will do everything to destroy the other chicks. It will kick the other chicks out that it alone may grow. Well pictures of the church where Satan plants false seeds within a congregation and all it does is cause problems. Folks, the sparrow has found a nest. The nest is the church. The nest is the place where we lay our young. There are families today that have their children out in some form of entertainment that are out in the world. But what a better place to bring our children than the place of worship. It is a nest for the church. It is a nest. for the family. And notice what it says there. Yea, the sparrow hath found a house and the swallow a nest, where she may lay her young. Even thine altars. Our brother mentioned this morning baptism. And we we practice the dedication and baptism of children. What is that? It doesn't save them, it does not secure for them redemption. But we bring our children and we lay them upon the altar of the Lord. You have given us these children, give us wisdom to raise them. You have entrusted these children to us. Give us wisdom from thee to teach them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You have given these children to us in the flesh, but oh Lord, that's not enough to be born in the flesh. We bring them before you that they may be born in the Spirit. And we baptize them into the visible church, but that does not get them into the eternal church. But what a glorious picture. But the sparrow found the nest, and the nest is the place. Sparrows are insensible creatures. Sparrows operate by instinct. They do not have understanding. The sparrow that finds a nest within the place of worship can hear the words Can hear the singing, can hear the music, but never receive a single blessing. But we the elect are of more value than many sparrows. And so it is a good thing to be in the place of worship, but don't simply be here as a sparrow. Don't behold God's word. Look into God's word as a man looking into a glass, beholding his natural self, and goes away forgetting what manner of man he is May we not simply be birds in the assembly. May we be hearers of the word. For just as I mentioned that there is a bird that will lay its egg in another nest, there is a bird that wants to steal away the seed in the Word of God as well. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without their father, but the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. What a glorious thing That we have a nest. We have a place of refuge. We have a place of safety. Even the altars of God. We have a place to bring our children. But look at verse 4 and 5. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee, Sila. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose hearts are the ways of them. Blessed is the man that strength is in thee. Those that dwell in God's house will still be praising thee. Folks, what stops us from praising the Lord? There's all kinds of things that can, as they say, steal your joy, take away your blessing. What happens to the bird that can't find a nest? No, he has no rest. He has no place of shelter. He has no place of safety. His strength is in the Lord. You're there in 84. Turn over to Psalm 92, just a page or a leaf or so in your in your Bible there. And verse 12 Psalm 92, verse 12, the righteous shall flourish like a palm tree. He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall bring forth fruit in old age. They shall be fat and flourishing. Isn't that a glorious passage? A glorious truth. But look what the root of it is. They are planted in the house of the Lord. They are in that total presence of Jehovah. They are in the place where God meets with his people. They're in the place where God's word is preached. They are in that fellowship with God. And I would say they're planted there because they've learned to long for those. courts. They've learned to faint that they will faint if they cannot find those courts. And then again in Psalms, you don't need to turn, but in Psalm 52, verses 8 and 9, but I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. I will praise thee forever, because thou hast done it, and I will wait on thy name, for it is good before thy saints. Planted in the house of God. Do you have any plants in your house? I have plants in my house. I've always always enjoyed raising plants. I have a banana tree and a palm tree that are outside during the winter, or during the summer, beside my pond. But I had to move them inside because neither of them are temperate. They came from Pensacola, Florida, when we were picking up my son from college. And the banana tree has very quickly leaned toward the window. I need to turn it so lean back the other way. But it's very quickly leaned toward. Why does it lean toward the window? Because it needs light to survive. Simply being in the house is not enough. But here we read those that are planted. Those that are planted in the house of the Lord, not simply being in the house, but being planted. And just like that tree, that banana leans toward the light, so we incline our hearts toward God. We need to move along, verse 6. who passing through the valley of Bekah make it a well. The rain also filleth the pools. This psalm is one of the what's called the Psalms of Ascent, not the Psalms of Degrees. Psalms of Degrees were sung by the pilgrims on their journey to Jerusalem. But this is a Psalm of Ascent. It was ascending the mount up to Jerusalem. It is a similar psalm, but but a distinction within biblical language. But the Valley of Baika, that word Baika literally means a place of weeping. It was a dry, arid wasteland. It was a place that was, you know, they talk about Death Valley in the West. It was a place where you didn't want to spend a lot of time But here we find that those that are planted in the house of the Lord, those that find God's tabernacles amiable because of the God who is there They passing through the valley of weeping make it a well. And the rain filleth the pools. Those that are faithful to God bring improvement to every situation they're in. You in a bad circumstance? I think a lot of us have a whole lot of chaos going on. I think a lot of us have a whole lot of trouble in our lives. And maybe you have trouble in a workplace, maybe you have trouble in a relationship, maybe you have, but our very presence there brings a blessing. The children of God bring blessing everywhere they go, who passing through the valley of Baka make it a well. But think about this. What have we considered already that are truly the tabernacle of God? It's not a physical place. God's people are the tabernacle of God. Where Western civilization has gone, good has followed. You you look across the world, where Western civilization has gone, there has been blessings. Why? Because of the theology that Western civilization carries with it. In other words, where believers, not simply people from the West, but where believers have gone, civilization has followed. Why? Because of God within us. Now, in our day and age, our piece of Western civilization was to kick God out. They want to remove the Ten Commandments from our courthouses. They've already removed prayer and Bible reading from our schools. They want to run God out of our society. Why? Because our adversary opposes us, opposes it. But here we find that those who find their dwelling in Jehovah. Those that find him to be amiable, they bring blessing wherever they go. They pass through a valley of weeping. And they make it a well, then the rain fills the pool. But there's yet more there because the proof that where God's people are is blessing is found in Lot. Remember that God would have spared Sodom for ten righteous? Because Lot was there, but there were not ten righteous. But do you realize that God spared Zoar? Because of Lot? Go ahead and turn with me to Genesis 19. You know the story, we're not going to go through it again where where Abraham says to God, There are fifty righteous, will you spare, 45 righteous um forty, thirty, twenty, and it finally comes down to ten. But look with me at actually at at um Lot's rebellion, but in Genesis nineteen and verse twenty. Lot speaking says, Now behold, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one. Oh, let me escape thither. Is it not a little one? And my soul shall live And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city for which thou hast spoken. God says, okay, Lot, you can go there. And because you are there, I will not overthrow the city. What was it about Lot being there that protected that city? Lot's a sinner. Lot's pitched his tent towards Sodom. Lot even in going to Zoar is not fully following God. But folks, God was in Lot. We read later in the New Testament that he vexed his righteous soul in seeing and hearing. Folks, the very presence, the tabernacle of God is within his people, I in them and thou in me. And whether the world sees it or not, we bring blessing everywhere we go. Verse 7 They go on from strength to strength. Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. The children of God, those that truly dwell in that tabernacle, and that tabernacle is within them, they are the ones that appear before God. They're not the false egg in the nest. They're not the ones that are sown by the wayside and spring up but have no root in them and they perish. Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither. and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Verse 8. O Lord, God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Folks, if you're not planted in the house of God, how do you expect your prayers to be heard? If you're more concerned about the beauty of the building than you are about the God you're supposed to meet, does God hear your prayers? And see, it all flows down into one stream that God dwells within his people, and his people dwell in him, and then they have right to call upon him to hear. But verse 9 brings it into closer focus. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. Why does God answer prayer? Well, we we read there in uh in 1 Chronicles 9 of the sons of Korah, and that they were anointed, they were were set aside, they were consecrated to their office. They could say, well we are the anointed. God look upon us and hear our prayer King David obviously was the anointed of God. We are the anointed of God. Touch not mine anointed and do my prophets no harm. We find two times. We find it in 1 Chronicles and we find it in Psalms. But folks, when God, our shield, looks on the face of his anointed, he looks upon Christ. But that's where our prayers are answered. He looks upon the face of Christ. He will not turn away the presence of his son, the song says. Look upon the face of thy son. and hear our prayers. Why? Because a day in thy courts, for a day in thy courts, is better than a thousand anywhere else. You look forward to vacation? You look forward to some relief from your daily grind, your daily routine? Do you look forward to church and say that's better than a thousand days anywhere else? Folks, I wish I I would love to stand here as your pastor and say, well, I I believe that No, we we we know the the the infirmities of the flesh. One day a week can become a trial Can it? But a day in that kind of fellowship, a day beholding the face That is beloved a day in the amiable place with the bell well-beloved of God, and God the Father gazing not on my face But on the face of his son, and therefore accepting me there, because I am wicked and filthy and sinful, but he is righteous, and God looks upon his son And there he sees me within his son, and I am seen there as amiable as he is. Because I stand there justified Folks, you ever been backslidden? You ever know the rebuke of God instead of the favor of God? Oh, when you begin to examine it from those aspects, you say, yes, indeed, a day there is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper than to dwell in the tents of wickedness The sons of Korah knew what it was to dwell in the tents of wickedness. As we'll see next week, their father was the one that led the rebellion against Moses and Aaron. And Moses told them, get away from the tents of Korah. And the earth opened up and swallowed their fathers. But the children of Korah were spared. Oh, so these people knew the alternative, and we'll get into that next week. They knew the alternative to dwelling in the tabernacles of God. There was only one choice, it was only two choices, if you want to put it that way, the tabernacle of God or the tabernacles of wickedness. A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be the one that unlocks the door in the morning. I had rather be the one that takes care of the pans. I'd rather be the one that prepares the incense for the sacrifice. I'd rather be the one that sets an order the stove bread. than to dwell in the tents of righteousness, of wickedness. Verse 11, for the Lord God is a son, a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory No good thing will withhold from them that would walk uprightly. And folks, the world has all kinds of ideas about what a good thing is. And again, this ties in with our Sunday school lesson. The church has a lot of ideas about what a good thing may be. But folks, what's this whole chapter been about? What is the good thing? Dwelling in his course, yeah, Christ. Eternity. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk Uprightly from his own children, his own elect. He will not withhold salvation from them. He will not withhold an eternal home from them. He will not withhold any good thing Folks, there's nothing good in this world. Verse 12. O Lord of hosts. Blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. And so folks, that's the introduction. That's where we int I intended to take us before we went into our outline. And so in God's providence, we're going to take more time with this psalm next week. Folks Would you rather be a doorkeeper in the house of the Lord or dwell in the tents of wickedness? Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you for this psalm. I thank you for the blessing it's been to my heart. Lord, I pray that you would bless it richly to your people, that we might. See the reflection that comes off of God the Father beholding the face of His anointed. Bless us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.