Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Jude. We began a study in the book of Jude, uh not the past Lord's Day, but the Sunday before that And I mentioned that we would be jumping in and out of Jude from time to time. Last time we were in the book, we looked at the first two verses. And this morning we're going to consider verses 3 and 4. As you're turning, Brother Vince mentioned all the blessed verses in Psalm number 94, which we read for a responsive reading. Let me reread one verse from that psalm for you, which is verse 16. Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? And it is that verse in particular from Psalm 94 which drew me to that for our responsive reading. For this morning, we're going to consider from Jude verses 3 and 4 earnestly contending for the faith. I'm going to read the first four verses of Jude chapter thude chapter one. There's only one chapter in Jude. I'm going to read the first four verses of the book uh to get our feet wet and our toes dipped into the water of God's Word as we begin this morning. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called Mercy unto you, and peace and love be multiplied. Beloved When I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you. That ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. For there are certain men crept in unaware, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men. Turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to examine God's word together this morning. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is yea and amen. We thank you that it is ever settled in heaven Father, we pray that you would bless your word to our hearts this morning. Father, we know from this holy book that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them. Because they are spiritually discerned. And so, Father, we thank you that we are unnatural men by faith, that we have been given a new nature from thee. And Father, acknowledging that, we acknowledge before you that we will never gain insight into this book by human wisdom or human intellect. But rather, in order to rightly divide the word of truth, the word of truth must be divided for us by the Spirit of God. And so, Father, may your Holy Spirit be our teacher and our guide this morning. There were two promises given by Christ to the disciples regarding the Holy Spirit. And that was that the Holy Spirit would testify of Christ. And the Holy Spirit would guide us into all truth. And so, Father, this morning, may your Spirit testify of the Son of God in the Word of God. And may the Spirit of God guide us the truth. Father, then we your people will be fed and edified. Bless your word today. Grant it free course in Jesus' name. Amen. Two weeks ago we began in this book of Jude, and let me just take a minute or less to refresh our minds as to what we considered at that time. The name Jude, Judah, or Judas are all variations of the same name. Jude calls himself the servant of Jesus Christ. And that servant word there is the word for a bond slave. He refers to himself as the bond slave or the bound servant of Jesus Christ. By calling himself the servant of Jesus Christ and the brother of James, he distinguishes himself from Judas Iscariot, who had the same name. As I said, Jude, Judah, Judas are all the same name. But also in describing himself as the servant of Jesus Christ and the brother of James, we see his humility. For we know that this same Jude was a son of Mary and Joseph. And he does not call himself the brother of Jesus Christ. He calls himself the servant of Jesus Christ. Nor does he call himself a son of Mary, or even mention Mary at all. And that is very significant. For if we were to be worshipping Mary, would she not be listed in Holy Writ? And would not Jude make large the fact that my mother was the mother of God? And I say that with caution, for Mary is not the mother of God. And Mary would never claim such a blasphemous title for herself. And the very fact that Jude does not mention Mary Should teach us much about Mary's position. She was highly favored, indeed. But she was not the mother of God. If God has a mother, then God is not God. And so he calls himself the brother of James. It's apparent from scripture that Jude probably did not believe on Jesus Christ until after the resurrection. Remember when the brothers of Jesus are outside and they say, Your your mother and your brethren are outside and said, No, my brethren are these. And uh In other scriptures, it tells us that his brothers, some of them believed on Christ after the resurrection, and that is probably when Jude believed on Jesus. And last we consider the audience to which Jude is speaking, and that is in the first and second verses of this book. He's speaking to those that are the called and the sanctified in Jesus Christ. Now beginning in verse three Jude uses this greeting, which is found in the writings of Paul and in many other of the New Testament writings. He refers to the people of God as beloved. And Christ Himself set up the love that exists within the people of God as the standard and the mark of discipleship. Hereby shall all men know that ye are my disciples, that ye have love one toward another. And we find in the book of 1 John that where love is absent There is no true child of God. If a man say he loved God and hate his brother, he is a liar. And so this matter of love within the body of Christ is the token and the picture, the symbol of our discipleship. We are to love one another. This is my commandment, Christ said, that ye love one another. And how blessed it is, and how Joysome a thing it is when the people of God truly dwell together in the biblical love that God has instructed to us. That crosses all cultural lines, it crosses all racial barriers, it breaks down every distinction And you see, when Christ told the disciples that they're to love one another, and then uh at that time the gospel was just the prerogative of the Jews. It was not till later that the gospel was given to the Gentiles as well, and Peter saw the vision of the great sheet coming down from heaven and all manner of unclean, four-footed beasts. But then it is John who, under the inspiration of God, expands on that in 1 John and says, if you don't love your brother, you don't love God either. And so this matter of the love among the brethren, it is the token of our discipleship. And my dear friends, I love every one of you. But if it were not for the grace of God, I probably wouldn't know any one of you. For it is the grace of God that has brought us together and that has made us brethren in Christ. And it is a beautiful thing. And it is glorious. And it is joyous. How precious is this love? And so how fitting that Jude should address his audience as beloved. Dear ones, ones that I love from the bottom of my heart. Beloved, when I gave all diligence, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation. What type of issues are we diligent about? Well, I think a mother can be described as diligent in the care of her children I think a good father is diligent in the care of his family. There are many things for which we are diligent. There are other things that we really don't give much diligence to. Yeah, I'm not very diligent about a lot of things. Why? Because they're not important. Because they're not things of consequence Something that we give diligence to is something that is of consequence. I don't think any of us would walk into the kitchen and yell, look out! Oh, what's wrong? What's wrong? We're out of milk. Well no, no, it's uh it's not so you you shout about it. Hey, we're out of milk. I mean we can get more, but but at the same time if Someone walks into the kitchen and they're about to put their hand on a hot pot. Look out! What's wrong? That's hot. Give diligence. Take heed. Now Jude is saying here, when I gave diligence. When I set my heart upon that which God had told me to do, you see, he wasn't writing a friendly letter here. We don't find anything about the dogs and the cats. We don't think find anything about current affairs other than those that are a concern to the church. He gives diligence, because wicked and ungodly men have come in, and they have brought with them erroneous doctrine. There is an assault on the people of God, and an assault on the Word of God, and an assault on the holiness of God, and an assault on God Himself. And so James, James, sorry, Jude, says, when I gave all diligence, this is an important matter that he's going to be addressing. You see, the matter of the day in which Jude lived And the matter of the day in which we live is the defense of the gospel against error. Satan hates the gospel of Jesus Christ. Satan hates the word of God. And Satan hates the righteousness of the people of God, and Satan hates God himself. And all of those things are under attack. All of those things must be defended in our day and age. The matter is urgent. And so he gave diligence to write unto them of the common salvation. I just love to take a verse and take it apart word by word. Mm-hmm. And examine each word. And why why does he say it that way? You see, not one jot or one tittle of God's word will pass. And if not one jot or one title will pass, that tells us every jot and every title is important. There's something to be taught there. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. And even the these and thou's which are so hated in our day, they teach us the singulars and the plurals. They teach us truth from God's Word. And so, why does he refer to the common salvation? The common salvation is under attack. How many ways are there to get to heaven? Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. How many ways does the world say there are to get to heaven? Well, church membership. Well, he's a pretty good guy. Well, a loving God would never send people to hell. It's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. That's what God's word says. And so Jude is giving diligence to write to them of the common salvation. But why does he use that word common? Why does he say I want to give diligence to write to you about salvation? Why does he say common salvation? Well, first of all, he now is writing to both Jewish and Gentile believers. And remember what Christ said to the woman at the well, salvation is of the Jews. And the woman at the well said, Well, we worship in this mountain, and you worship in Jerusalem, and there's all these ideas Well, if we do this, we'll be saved. If you worship on the right day of the week, you'll be saved. If you crawl up steps on your knees, if you all these various things But there is one way of salvation, and it is the same way for the Jew as well as the Gentile. The only way of salvation is faith in Jesus Christ through the blood. There is no other way. There's not a Jewish way to be saved and a Muslim way to be saved. But there are quote unquote evangelists in our own day and age that have made that assertion. That the man without Christ, as long as he believes in something, will be saved. But that's not what the Word of God teaches. And so when Jude was writing, that was an issue that needed to be dealt with. And I tell you, my friend, it's an issue that must be dealt with today. Because all of us brush shoulders with people day in and day out that are as lost as they can be. And the world is encouraging them straight to hell by telling them they're alright. Telling them they're okay. Telling them they're good enough. But Jude felt an urgency to write to them of a common salvation, of one way of salvation. But also it is a common salvation because it's been the same way from the beginning It has not changed. The believer, the saint of the Old Testament was saved by the same gospel that we are saved by today. There wasn't an Old Testament way of salvation and a New Testament salvation. There is one way. That's right. And the proof of this is found in Galatians chapter 3, verses 6 and verse 9. For in Galatians 3, verse 6, Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. How was Abraham saved? He believed God. And then verse 9, so then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Abraham is in verse 6 and I'm in verse 9. Hallelujah. I was saved the same way that Abraham was saved. I believed God God said it. I believe it. And a lot of people finish that phrase, God said it, I believe it, that settles it. It's settled whether I believe it or not. And it's settled whether you believe it or not. It is the common salvation. And so it's the common salvation because it's the same way for the Jew and the Greek and the Gentile. There's one way of salvation It's a s common salvation because it has been the same way from the creation of the earth. But my friend, this common salvation is uncommon. This common salvation is uncommon. It is not something that the masses of humanity And if you want an early illustration of that very fact, consider all the inhabitants of the earth. How many hundreds of thousands and eight souls were in the ark? In God's first judgment, he saved eight out of the thousands and millions of earth. And the promise of God is that he will always have a remnant. He will always have his few. And so, though this is the common salvation, we are saved the same way. It is uncommon. It's more valuable than diamonds or gold. It is that which should be earnestly sought because God is the rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. It is an uncommon salvation. And so in Luke thirteen, verse twenty-three, and one said unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many, I say, will seek to enter in and shall not be able. They will not be able to enter in. The gate is narrow, and the way is straight. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation It was needful for me to write unto you and to exhort you That you, that ye should earnestly contend for the faith. Let's take these words apart. Exhort. What's it mean to exhort? Well, remember me talking about we need milk? I don't think any man here exhorts his wife that we're out of milk. And if you do, you better watch out 'cause there might be something flying across the kitchen. I'm kidding, of course. We exhort again on things that are important. This word exhort means to admonish. To admonish. But it also means to plead. It's a word that means to admonish. You better do this. But at the same time, it is a pleading. You better do this. This is important. He exhorts and admonishes, he pleads that we earnestly contend for the faith. And that word earnestly contend is one word in our original. Okay, so erothing content, it's all run together. And it is a Greek word, epigonsomai. That is only found in this one place in Scripture. The word epigonsomai is a compound word. It is two words put together. Okay? And that is in part why we find earnestly and contend Together here. It comes from the words a pea, which is just a preparation. A P means on or upon or to put upon, etc. That basically hasn't meaning. So epi, agonzamai. Okay, agonzamai. That word is used more often in scriptures. So let me share with you four verses where you find that word. The word of Gonzamai in Luke 13, verse 24, strive to enter in at the straight gate. Okay, that's the verse we just had, wasn't it? Strive to enter in. Now what does it mean by strive to enter in? Well, you better be diligent about this Strive to enter in. Seek to enter in. Put your energies into entering in at the straight gate And then in Colossians 4 verse 12, a Prakris, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you always, laboring fervently. And that word laboring fervently is again this word Agonzami. And then in 1 Timothy 6 verse 12, fight the good fight of faith. It means to fight. And then when Paul says, I have fought a good fight. I've kept the faith. He used the word again. And so this word, agonzamai, means to fight, to strive, to labor. Now He says, earnestly contend. In other words, we fight for the faith. We strive for the faith. We labor fervently to defend this faith. Satan's a roaring lion seeking who may devour. Satan is a liar from the beginning and the father of it. Satan began by lying in the Garden of Eden. The truth of God has been under attack from the Garden to the day. And we, the people of God, are charged to earnestly fight for the gospel I um I was not a good Greek student by any stretch of imagination. And I uh Found out in my Greek class that 50% of the grade was the vocabulary. If you knew the vocabulary, you had 50% So I decided right from the beginning I'm going to master the vocabulary. So even if I don't know what part of speech it is, I know the root word and I'll get 50% to start with, and that's how I passed Greek. So I had little memory cues Agonzamai. This fight is going to be agonizing. Agonzamai. Well, it's an agonizing fight, folks. We're involved in a knockdown, drag-out battle. We're involved in a bruising fight for truth. And so it's no wonder It's no wonder that Jude says, I exhort you. I plead with you. Fight for the faith with everything you've got. Fight for the faith, fervently laboring. That you may say with Paul when it's all over, I fought a good fight, I have finished my course, and then what does Paul say? I have kept The faith fight for truth But then how do we fight? How is it that we fight for truth? Well, Paul told us in 2 Corinthians 10 verses 4 and 5, for the weapons of our warfare. are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. We're not fighting this warfare With carnal weapons. That's why we do not support in any way, shape, or form people that go out and bomb abortion clinics. We hate abortion. We stand against it. But the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. And Paul continues, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. What are the weapons of our warfare? The weapons are the word that's under attack. The weapons are prayer itself. We are to fight the fight of faith, the arm of flesh will fail us. And so we're to earnestly contend for or earnestly defend the faith. Paul said in Philippians 1, he was set for the defense of the gospel. Now what does it mean? To earnestly contend for faith. And here we're going to get more into an outline than we've had thus far. We're going to consider, first of all, what does it mean to earnestly contend for the faith? And first of all, that is to contend for the truth of God. To defend God's truth. To stand up and be counted for truth. And if you look at verse 4, there James says, For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men. Turning the grace of our Lord God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. We have to defend the truth against ungodly men crept in unawares. Turn with me just a few pages to 2 Peter chapter 2, probably about four pages in your scriptures, or five leaves. We're going to be looking at 2 Peter 2 quite a bit as we consider the book of Jude because these two passages very closely parallel one another. And so in 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 1, we find this warning. But there were also false prophets, but there were false prophets also among the people. even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction. Both Peter and Jude are warning the believers that there will be False teachers who will bring in damnable heresies or heresies that damn the soul. Heresies that bring condemnation Paul warned the Corinthians of these teachers and told them that they were actually the ministers of Satan. In 2 Corinthians 11, verse 13: for such are false apostles. deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light Why was Eve not frightened by the serpent in the garden? Because she did not see in that serpent the Satan. She did not see in that serpent who it was that was deceiving. Satan himself can appear as an angel of light. Be careful. When someone tells you that they saw a 700-foot Jesus come up out of the sea and tell him something, you should know it's not true. When someone, some preacher on the radio or TV begins to tell you about some vision they've seen, no it's not true. When someone begins to say that they found this book of golden pages, they needed special glasses to read it. No that it's Mormon heresy and is not true for Satan himself Is transformed into an angel of light. We find that they were before ordained to this condemnation. Just as certainly as God hardened Pharaoh's heart And God told Moses that Pharaoh will not believe, and Pharaoh will not let you go. And Pharaoh was ordained to that condemnation. So Satan throughout the ages has had his emissaries. Who are under his control and influence. They're false teachers. And going back to the verse there in 2 Peter 2 and verse 1. There are false prophets among the people, as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies. And Jude says they're crept in unaware. Remember the parable of the tares? The master planted good seed. And his workmen said, Where do the tares come from? An enemy hath done this. My father used to preach a message that I heard him preach several times as a child. And he always asked the question, what would Satan say if he was the preacher tonight? Would Satan tell you to be an adulterer? No. Would Satan tell you to be a murderer? No. Would Satan tell you to hate everybody? No. You see, Satan would not preach that message. People say the devil made me do it. No, the devil didn't make you do anything. Every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. But what Satan does is he comes and he says, You're pretty good. You're all right. You're not as bad as the next guy. You're pretty good. In fact, Satan may even tell you, be religious. Join a church Sure. But don't believe on Jesus. Don't no, you don't want him You see, Satan is the great deceiver. And so Satan's emissaries creep in unaware. They creep in unaware, and they were before ordained to this condemnation. They were never wheat, they were tares from the beginning, and their only purpose is to disrupt the Church of God. Do you see why he says I gave diligence to exhort that ye earnestly contend for the faith. Ah, my friend, it is a serious matter. And one more thing that I would point out in that second first verse of 2 Peter 2. Is that it says they're even denying the Lord that bought them. And a lot of people will use this verse to try to rail against Reform theology. And to rail against particular redemption and even to rail against eternal security. But you have to take every verse in its context. What is Peter saying there? He says, there are false prophets also among the people, among the Jews. Who brought in damnable heresies? They made a golden calf while Moses was on the mountain getting the law. They brought in many damnable heresies to the people. Even the nine, the Lord that bought them, the Lord which brought Israel out of Egypt, the corporate Israel. It's not talking about bought them in terms of the individual sacrifice of Christ for the elect. But rather what Peter was talking about was the redemption of national Israel from Egypt, and we know that no man over fo over 20 years old, made to the promised land, except for Joshua and Caleb. And so it's not talking about their redemption from sin, but rather the context is talking about redemption from Egypt. I know that's just kind of a that's a free piece on the on the side there, but it's a piece of doctrine we need to understand because this verse is polluted in uh frequent exposition. And so the truth of God is under attack, and it's under attack from men within. You see, the the the the blasphemers of the world are not the danger to the church. The profane of the world are not the dangers to the church, but rather the danger to the church of God is the wolves in sheep's clothing within. It comes from within. And a good example of that, a good illustration of that, is a man whose name we know. His name was Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin was a theology student. Charles Darwin grew up in a highly educated family of medical doctors. He grew up in a family that studied and understood biology. And he was a theology student. And uh I've not read much of Darwin, I don't recommend it. But I have found that when he was studying at Oxford, he believed in the verbal inspiration of Scripture. But then as he studied, he departed from that. He was never a saved man. He's finding out today how hot hell actually is. But he brought in damnable heresies which have taken over our society and even a lot of churches now have rejected a literal six-day creation. Damnable heresies that came in through a man who was training to be a minister. before ordained to this condemnation. You see, he came from a family that were medical doctors. His his father was a medical doctor, his uncle was a medical doctor, men who studied biology. Men who studied this creation, the heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth his handiwork. In uh Romans 1, verse 19 and following, Paul said, Because that That which may be known of God is manifest unto them, for God has shown it unto them. In other words, God has revealed in his creation. That He is God, that there is a God. The things which are understood are are um let me get it right, let me read it to you. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. If you look at this creation Common sense will tell you there is a God. Now, common sense does not lead us to salvation in Jesus Christ. That is by the working of the Holy Spirit. But here was a man who by common sense should know what he was before ordained to this condemnation. And if you look at nature and its structure, you'll find phylum and class and order and family and genus and species. And of course Darwin's great bo great work was Origin of Species. But he was a man who understood phylum and order and class and genus and species But he departed from it. And we've all heard the name Bill Nye, the science guy. Well Bill Nye's situation is very similar. Bill Nye just recently said that there is overwhelming evidence. Overwhelming evidence proves that there is no afterlife. Hold on a second. Let's be scientific about this, okay? Overwhelming evidence Show me your evidence. Is it observable? Is it repeatable? You see, their own scientific method does not stand up to their Satan wrought science. Overwhelming evidence. Proves that there is no afterlife. Interestingly, those that have come back from the dead have told us there is. Yeah. Jesus Christ. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, but where I am, there ye may be also. When Samuel was called up from the dead, why are you troubling me? Why are you bothering me? The story of the rich man in Lazarus. Thou art comforted. He is tormented. But you see, the whole point of evolution. Was to deny the very existence of God. Because if God created me, then I am answerable to God. And if God created me, there must be something beyond this life. Thinking themselves to be wise, they became fools. And so, first of all, we must defend the truth of God. But secondly, we must defend the Word of God. Because you see, to say that man came from an ape is to say that this book is not true. And if the foundations be removed, what shall the righteous do if we don't have the Word of God to stand on? We have no faith. For faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. What does Satan hate second to Christ alone? The Word of God. The Word of God. And so the Word of God is under attack Go back with me to 2 Peter chapter 2 again. You may still have your Bible open there. It's just a few pages. 2 Peter chapter 2. And I'm going to read verses one through three this time. I know I've read verse one a couple times, but it's good to put it in our minds But there are also false prophets among them, even among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall follow their pernicious ways by reason of whom the way of truth of truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness shall they with feign words, that's very important, with fake words with made-up words, with unsettled words, with untried words, with feigned words, make merchandise of you. Whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not. You see, if a preacher stands up and says, The word of God is not true, we don't believe that anymore. He's pretty much eliminated his church. But if a preacher stands up and says, you know what, this Bible we have is just too confusing. It's just not authoritative. Let's just let's let's set that aside and let's get a new one over here. Let's get something else that we like better That's pretty subtle, isn't it? But man will fall for it. Yeah. But man will fall for it. It's been happening over and over and over again. We have an authoritative word of God. We have it in front of us. And it's very interesting that Peter would say, by feigned words, they'll make merchandise of you. You realize that the King James Bible, as we have it today, the copyright belongs to the Crown of England, uh, because it was King James who originally uh Commission his translation. He was not a believer by any stretch of imagination, but God used a wicked man to bring together a large group of very godly scholars who very conscientiously translated from the original languages. And so the Crown of England owns the copyright. You know how much money they collect off that copyright per year? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Actually when when they copyrighted it, there were not the copyrights as we understand them. It was it was a was a right to it, but the Crown of England has never collected from it. We give you a contrast. Peter said they would make merchandise of you. You know who owns the ESV? Crossway Books. Every copy of the ESV, they get their nickel. They collect their nickel. And if you want proof that it's all about the money. Why do they have a Catholic edition with the Apocrypha? You see, if their purpose for that book was to put the truth out, why do you put out a book with the Apocrypha? And there's a whole list of verses that are changed in the in the ESV C E Catholic edition or the Augustinian edition as they call it that are changed from our Protestant Bible because you have to make it palatable or they won't buy it And you have to put in the Apocrypha, or they won't buy it, and we won't get our nickel. It's not an evangelistic tool. If they were producing something and giving it away free to spread the gospel, we would rejoice with them as long as it was solid. But come in unawares and make merchandise of us. It's an unpopular stand to take a stand for the Word of God and for truth And we we don't worship the King James. We don't worship it. We worship the God who gave it to us. And we thank him for his preservation of his word. And we thank him for the godly men that were not inspired in their translation. But were men who earnestly sought God. And just as I prayed, Lord, protect the congregation from me, those men prayed, protect your word from us. That we might rightly divide it for the edification of your people. And so, to earnestly contend for the tr faith is to stand for the truth of God, even down to the very words. But then also to earnestly contend for the faith is to stand for righteousness and morality. Look again at that fourth verse of Jude chapter 1. For there are certain men crept in unaware, who were before ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men. Turning the grace of our God into lacibiousness into unbridled lust, into unbridled iniquity, into unbridled excess is what that word lasciviousness You see, throughout the pagan world there were temple prostitutes. Where the pagan worship worshiped the flesh and worshipped man and worshipped pleasure. And it has gotten to the point today that even in the Church of God, it's all about my pleasure. It's all about what I want. It's all about feeding my flesh. Oh, the sermons are just boring. All he does is talk about the Word of God. He doesn't tell enough stories. We need a joke every now and then. Folks, I love to laugh. But this book is not a laughing matter. And if humor comes into our discussion in an appropriate way, I'm not condemning that. I believe that the disciples laughed at some of the illustrations that Jesus gave when he showed how ridiculous the Pharisees were. But this book is a serious truth. It is a serious book. And it is not to be polluted with my pleasure. But here we live in a day and age when it's all about me, and a day when adultery is no longer called adultery. And immorality is no longer called immorality. And homosexuality is accepted in many churches. And abortion has just become Well, it's not quite murder, it's just well, well, well, my body, my choice. There you go. But if we are to earnestly contend for the faith, we've got to stand up against unrighteousness. We've got to stand up and say, thus saith the Lord. We've got to stand up and say, you know what, God's word hasn't changed. God still hates divorce. God still demands modesty. I won't get into into names and some of the stuff, but you've probably heard recently of another well-known preacher. Shortly after his death it's been found that he was involved in all kinds of immorality and wickedness. We've got to earnestly contend for the faith because it's under attack. The roaring lion is seeking who you may devour. And here in Jude's day, there were men turning the grace of God into lasciviousness. And in our own day it's even more so. Shall we continue in sin that God grace may abound? God forbid. How shall they that are dead to sin? Live it l any longer therein. A dead man can't sin. A dead man can't sin. And I I showed you several weeks ago in a Bible that I had when I was in high school, uh a youth leader when I was 17 years old challenged everyone in the youth group to open up to the back page of their Bible and draw a tombstone and put their name on it. And when you're tempted to sin, he said, turn back to the back of your Bible and show Satan your tombstone. I'm dead with Christ. How shall they that are dead to sin live any there longer therein? My friend, every one of us, every day we live in this life are tempted to sin. And so Paul said, I die daily. And so must we. And that is part of earnestly contending for the faith. We stand against immorality Seen and unseen. We stand for truth. Wherefore gird off the loins of your mind, be sober and hope to the end for the grace which is brought unto you by the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. That's 1 Peter chapter 1 But then finally, if we are to earnestly contend for the faith, we earnestly contend for truth, for the truth of God and for his word, we earnestly contend for righteousness, the righteousness of God. But then we earnestly contend for God Himself. Look again at that fourth verse there in Jude chapter 1. For there are certain men crept in unaware, who were before ordained to this condemnation. Ungodly men turning the grace of God into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. They're denying God the Father, and they're denying Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And we see it over and over again. Separation church and state. Separation church and state. Oh, separation church and state. Separation of church and state was never designed to be keep the church out of the state. Rather, separation of church and state was keep the state out of the church. Separation of church and state is not found in our constitution. That is not a constitutional phrase. What our constitution says is that government does not start a religion. Government shall not do anything respecting the establishment of religion. The government's not to start a church. But it says nothing about the church influencing the government. Why is that important? Because today's world wants to drive God out of our society. And even out of the church itself. To earnestly contend for the faith is to stand up for God Himself. Paul said of the Corinthians, I'm jealous over you with a godly jealousy, for I've espoused you to one husband. That I might present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. But I fear lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity of Christ Paul said to the Ephesian believers or the Corinthian believers, I've engaged you to one husband as a chaste virgin. I've engaged you to Christ. But just like Eve was taken away from her fealty to God by a deceiving Satan, so I fear that you'll be taken away from the simplicity of Christ. Oh my friend, we must stand up for God. We must stand up for our God. Remember Samson? Remember Gideon? Gideon had a big army and God said, Nope, not not three hundred thousand, not thirty thousand, not ten thousand, but but three hundred. And Gideon defeated the Midianites with three hundred men. That's chapter seven. Sometime you need to look at chapter six. Because before Gideon was used as the general to defeat the Midianites with three hundred men, God told Gideon, get your dad's ox and get rid of that idol of Baal. And Gideon got ten servants And in the middle of the night they took his dad's ox and they hooked his dad's ox to the idol of Baal and they pulled it down. And the people of Israel said, Why'd you do that? Why'd you do that? We're in trouble now You've torn down our God. And Gideon said, No, that is not our God. My friend, as the Church of Jesus Christ today, we need to hook up the ox to the idol of this world and pull it down. Pulling down strongholds. We saw earlier. Yeah? Beloved, it was very important. It was urgent, Jude says. It was needful. That I write to you of the common salvation, that you, earnestly, laboring fervently Striving and fighting with all your might, defend the faith which was once delivered to the saints Because there's evil men that have come in, they've come in unaware. And they were servants of Satan from the beginning, just like the serpent in the garden. And they're coming in and they're trying to destroy our faith. They're trying to tear down our the Word of God. They're trying to destroy our morals and they're assaulting our very God Himself. Earnest to contend. And one more thing, and I'll close. God can do without my defense. God can defend himself. But he has charged his servants to be lights in a dark world. Satan's not going to win. It's not like if we don't fight, Satan's going to win. Satan's not going to win. But we will stand before God and give account for the age in which we live. We will stand before God and give account of what we've done with His Word. We will stand before God and give account whether we let our light shine or whether we hid it under a bushel. Brethren, let us earnestly contend for the faith. Let's stand for prayer. Father, we thank you this morning for your precious word. May we love it. May we treasure it. May we defend its purity. Father, we thank you for the most precious faith, the most holy faith. We did not get ourselves into this. Rather, we were brought into this state of sonship to God by your mercy and by your grace. Lord, may we be faithful. May we be faithful to let our light shine to the glory of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.