It's a fascinating section. We're in Hebrews 4, 12 to 13. The title of this particular study is Effective Critics. So we're going to be talking a little bit about critics An effective critic. Before we get into that though, let's read Hebrews 4, and I want to um start actually in verse 10, which is why I had you open your Bible in advance. Hebrews 4, we're going to begin in verse 10, and I'm going to read through um uh uh say verse 14 because I'm just gonna grab a little bit of context. Our verses today are 12 and 13 Hebrews 4. 10. Hear now the word of the Lord. For he that has entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works as God did from his. Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. And we've been looking at that over the past several weeks. The Penman for Hebrews has been talking about entering into rest. They of old did not enter into rest. God swear in his wrath they would not enter. He talked a lot about this business of today, today if you hear his voice, and that because he said today in David, therefore a promise remains. Today if you hear his voice, harden not your hearts. So that's kind of the context where we've come from. And then kind of, at least to me it did, seems out of the blue, you get verses 12 and 13. And here's how they go. And you know these. For the Word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder, to the splitting apart of soul and spirit and of the joints and marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. That's a great proof text for the character qualities of the Word of God, what the Word of God is capable of doing. But it seems to just kind of appear, poof, out of nowhere. There seems to be kind of a A little bit of an interruption. It's a little hard to kind of follow the train of thought. How would you have arrived at that conclusion? He says the word for, meaning kind of therefore. And then he continues on Verse 13, seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. Then he pivots to this business of high priest, in fact He's going to talk about the priesthood of Jesus for the next several sections. So it strikes me as kind of an unusual kind of bump in the road. I didn't quite catch that turn. It went from today, hearing his voice, not hardening your heart, entering into rest today, for The word of God is quick and powerful, sharpening a two-edged sword, dividing asunder, neither is there any creature that's not manifest. All things are naked and open, seeing we have a high priest. I'm like, wow, how did she get to that? I mean, that's that's a head twister. You lost me on that curve. You kind of took it a little too fast. So today I want to slow us down. And I want to pull out not the microscope, but the magnifying glass. Some of you like magnifying glasses. You have big ones, I hear. High-powered magnifying glasses, too. And we're going to look at some things, and to be honest, I was blown away because it's very clear as to the progression of thought. It's actually a very clear progression of thought. But before I get to that I want this to be more than just a technical discussion, you know, the Greek and the Hebrew, and yes, Professor, whatever you say. I want to talk about the therefore in the passage after we kind of get to that. I sent you some questions in advance. I hope those of you online got a chance to look at it as well. If you want to text me your answers in real time, you can, or your questions. Anytime you're welcome to do that. Our number is widely available on the website. So my first question, have you ever heard of a professional critic? How many of you have heard of professional critics, I see? There's two or three. So when I say professional critic, what kind of profession comes into your mind? Who is a professional critic? Okay, a movie critic. Alright, a movie critic. Um so uh and and describe that job to me. What is the job of a movie critic? Get paid to tell whether the movie is good or not. Alright. So they get paid to tell you whether the movie is good or not. How how do they go about doing that? By watching a movie. Maybe in advance. They watch the movie, maybe before it's released in the theaters. And why would people even bother listening to that guy? They wanna know if they should go and watch the movie themselves or not. Yeah. Why would I waste my time going to see a movie if Fiskel and Ebert or whatever these guys' names are, if I remember from many, many years ago, say, yeah, two thumbs down is horrible. Alright, what are some other critics that you've heard in life? Other professional critics Food or restaurant critic. Oh, that's a good one. A food or restaurant critic. Alright, so describe that job to me. How does that work? You get to go to all these places and eat their food and then you analyze it on basic Alright. Yeah, so a food critic that's uh actually a paid job and it's a gig job. I mean there are those who have these little apps that they use and they can get free food. And they go and critics the criticize the food. And if they give them five stars, you know, the restaurants like that. So that gets me to my next question. How might a critic use harsh language to to heighten their point? Do critics well first of all, have you heard critics use sharp language? Yeah. Okay. What what what are some examples of it without cursing, but how are some examples? Worst hamburger I've ever had. Worst hamburger. Worst hamburger. In this town it's The fact checker, the Washington Post fact-checker. Now you can debate as to how true or false that fact-checker is. Then it gets into another aspect of critics. Do you trust the critic? It may be a critic with a wrong agenda Like the roofing inspector that comes, you had hail damage, you need to file a report. It doesn't look like it to me, but sure, I'll take your word for it. He's gonna rip you off. But the Washington Post fact checker, they have the Pinocchio score In other words, the how long your nose is is how big the lie is. Five Pinocchio, that's a huge lie. It's a two Pinocchio, a little bit of a lie, but not too much. So critics can use harsh language. I heard a radiologist once refer to himself as a film critic. He looks at x-rays. Yeah. I thought that was a pretty good pretty good twist. Um, you know some may uh refer to uh supervisors when supervisors, would you agree a supervisor has to be a critic So employees come and then if they're a professional company, Fortune 500 traded company or something of that nature, they have to go and give annual reviews to their employees. How many of you have been through an annual review? All right. Yeah, some kind of annual review. You get your critic there. It's the supervisor. What's some of the best you've heard from a supervisor slash critic? What are some of the good comments you've heard? Of giving you a chance to brag on yourself. Well, he's a workaholic. He's a workaholic. He's a workaholic, right. Well I can tell you in private circles among other supervisors as we're haggling over who gets a slice of the raised pool uh because I want my employees to get the most amount of raises so all the good people come to work for Vence because Vence gives the biggest raises among other reasons. It's also nice to attract good people to work for you to give you fewer problems And sometimes we use the phrase, yeah, he's as smart as a box of rocks. That would just we'd just pass this person over and dismiss them. In an engineering company, that's generally not considered a flattery. Who actually likes critics? Who likes critics? What kind of people like a critic? People who agree with them. People agree with them. Okay? You're a business owner, there's a guy that comes in and says, your food, I've tasted a lot of restaurants, they're all garbage. Yours is the real stuff. Oh they like you Who doesn't like critics? Unless they're paying them. The entity being criticized. Well, the restaurant was being criticized for its food, and I'm going to use a slightly different word. They were being critiqued. for their food and they came out to thumbs up. We like your food. So they like that critic. So who are the people who don't like the critics? People who get a bad report. Alright, well we've done a simple exercise here dealing with the word critic because I think we're going to begin to see how This line of thinking ties in to 12 and 13. So now we're going to focus on the text here of Hebrews 4, and you can use your place in the Bible, because I think you may want to take some interesting notes here It says, for the word of God is quick. Now for means because. The sense here is because. In other words, don't fall after the same example of unbelief and miss heaven's rest. Because the word is quick. Now that's an old English word, and it's a correct rendering. It's just an archaic word, although we do use it. Some companies are called quicksilver or which means mercury fast silver. It's a only metal in a in a room temperature state that's a fluid, it's called quick silver, living silver, alive, not that the Mercury's alive. You don't want to miss heaven's rest because the word is alive. Now how did the penman reach that conclusion? I have to ask myself, what do you think can be found in the prior verses to deduce that this is a living word, that this is a an alive word. What could be found in the prior verses that would make that connection And let me give you a hint. Instead of the word alive, think viable. Do you know what that word means? Viable? If somebody gives you a a bunch of options, one of them is a dead option, but the others are viable, meaning they're Possible. They're actually possible. Yeah. What in the previous verses connect us to the viability or the life of the word? And that which is living and life giving is a reference to the word. Okay. I hadn't thought of that. Um I I I I I don't That's there. Let me let me build on that some more. Focus on he keeps repeating the word today. Today. Do you remember why he kept repeating today? Yeah. 'Cause the word when you you when you hear his voice, you only hear it from the word of God, which is Okay. Which is a pastor. Yep. Um so I want to build on what Pastor was saying. I want to try to draw this out a little bit more. We can be overly familiar with a passage and we get entrenched in an idea, and it's hard to see the connection here. Let me offer this suggestion. The whole discourse about today implies a rest that is still viable. It's a rest that is still available. That's another form of that word viable. It's still available to you. Because he said in David, he implied that there is another day That the rest, that true rest, that eternal rest, that Joe spoke about, was still available even in David's day It wasn't the rest God promised wasn't accomplished at Genesis 2. God rested his seventh day because there's still another today. of entering into rest in Joshua's day, in Moses' day. And then David in the Psalm says today. In other words, that that that word today keeps appearing in Scripture, and so the penman's conclusion is that This is an option that's still available. It is a living option. It's still alive, meaning it's relevant to you and I right now. It is an available option. That's the sense of that word quick. It's living. It still is available to us. It's still a viable option. The connection I think begins in chapter 4, verse 2, where it says, the word preached did not profit them. So he's talking about the word preached didn't profit. This is the word logos. And then we get down to the five unique words found only in verse 12. In all the Bible, there was, I can't think of any other verse in Scripture. that has such a collection of unique words, meaning they're only translated, they're only found once in the Bible, and they're right here. And the penman's using a very rich vocabulary. It's very fascinating. It's the word sharper The word piercing, the word joints, the word marrow, and the one that I like is the word discerner, and I want to talk about that. Now The first word that is rendered elsewhere, but only two other places besides. Here's that word powerful. The word is quick, we talked about that, but it's also powerful. And that word means effective. Effective. I thought it would be the word like dunamis. It's not. I thought it would be exhusia. It's not. It's the word effective. An effectual door is opened unto me. It's effective. It's effective. So there's an interesting point that is being driven here. It's viable and it is effective. God insists that his word is highly effective. It can in fact effect a change. Okay? And then the word discerner Which comes from the word critic. When it says it's a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart, it means it is a critic. Discerner is like, oh I see, okay, and you kind of keep it to yourself. You're driving down the road. You discern a motion in the woods, oh, there's a deer coming I'll pedal back, let the deer cross. I observe the way the husband and the wife are treating each other, and they they seem to really love each other. Discerner. Oh no. That kind of has a passive sense to it. But this word discerner is a critic The Word of God is a critic. That's why we had this whole discussion earlier. The Word of God is a critic. Then he goes on, he uses the word sword, and that can refer to both physical and judicial punishments. You know, the government bearing the sword, Paul uses. But that's a different word. This word here is a unique word. Oh no, that that this word is commonly used elsewhere. Excuse me, that's not one of the unique ones. Dividing asunder, that's an interesting one. That word is also rendered gift in some places. And the sense of the word here is that what's it like under a Christmas tree? You've divided asunder your gift budget for the year. Meaning you've made separations. You've made lots. You've made a a portion for the kids, a a portion for the wives, a portion for auntie, a portion for grandparents. It's the portions. You've divided them. You've separated them. And so here it says the Word of God is a separator, is a divider. It puts it in the nice little neat boxes It can properly and that's a good critic. I like this part of the movie. I didn't like this part of the movie. This part of the restaurant was good. This part was bad. They can compartmentalize it. They can separate it into its unique entities. And the word thoughts is an interesting word. It relates to considerations, your ponderings, your musings. It it has to do with the revolving in the mind. Maybe some of your older people know what that's like when you can't sleep at night. Oh, you wish the revolving and the mind would just please stop so I can go back to sleep. This ponderings. That happens during the daytime too. We can agitate on things and just ponder and go over it again and again. Thoughts comes from that word. That relates to these ponderings. Intense is the act of thinking and includes feelings. The distinction is on a moral understanding. Your moral sense. So I get the idea of a drug dealer and someone's incurring on his turf. And so he's pondering in his mind how he's going to take his turf back. Should I kill somebody? Should I blow up their car? He's pondering evil thoughts. He's meditating on those things. Or, conversely, the godly. receives a large tax bonus, a refund, and is pondering in their mind, how can I use this for the benefit of the house of God or my own house Where should it go and they're pondering it over? They're thinking what to do in a God-glorifying manner Let me render this passage for you in a not a precise, but it's an accurate translation. It's the Vince Cluth version. I'm going to render it to you this way. God's word is alive and effective, sharper than any weapon, penetrating to the division between soul and spirit as well as joints and marrow, and is a critic of the devices and meditations of the mind. Having said that, how does this verse now strike you? Is there any anything you've learned from that, perhaps, by hearing it said that way? Yeah, I I guess the the last part kinda struck me. Okay, the um is a critic of the devices and meditations of the mind? What's interesting about that? That rounded that out. Yeah, it does round out thoughts and intents. Um King James rendered it correctly, but as I mentioned before, we can get over familiar with a verse and kind of get into a rut. and assign that verse to a particular doctrine. Penny, and then Joe? I think I must let the Word of God critique all that I do and think and speak every single day. And it guides me to that eternal rest. I will ultimately find in Christ. So you jumped right to an application that said, Wow This thing is a this thing called the Word of God is a powerful tool to guide steps. Ah. If it says it. That's probably right. Ah, very good. There's an assumption that the critic has a bit of expertise. That's a great segue into our next section here. Thanks for that. I appreciate those comments. Matthew Henry mentioned this about Uh he I thought he had some useful comments here. He said uh it, referring to the Word of God, is sharper than any two-edged sword, for it will enter where no other sword can, and make a more critical dissection. It pierces to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, the soul, and its habitual prevailing temper Ooh, that's a touching word. It makes a soul that has been long time of a proud spirit to be humble. of a perverse spirit to be meek and obedient. Those sinful habits that have become, as it were, natural to the soul and rooted deeply in it and become in a manner one with it, are separated and cut off by this sword. It cuts off ignorance from the understanding. I know Jim Lloyd would love that one. Rebellion from the will, and enity, hatred from the mind, which, when carnal, is enmity itself against God. I thought that was a very nice application of what this word is. All of this imagery is very deeply anchored in Scripture, and now I direct your attention to your bulletin in cert part where I have a number of passages that support all of the imagery that is used here. Quick, alive. You know, the best passage in all of scripture, I believe, concerning the very character and nature of the Word of God. is 1 Peter 1 23 to 25. Our second best is Hebrews 4. 12 that we're looking at. This is my opinion, all right? Just if I can be A ranker of weight in my mind. 1 Peter 123 says this, being born again, not of corruptible seed. How can a man enter his mother's womb and be born a second time? Not going to happen. But of incorruptible. The Word of God is not corruptible. It didn't get corrupted in the fourth century, and men lost it. It's incorruptible. It is impossible For the Word of God to be corrupted. By incorruptible, he tells you by the Word of God, which liveth, it lives, present tense, and abideth forever. It's been present among men forever. There wasn't a cessation for 1,500 years where the church lost it and then a couple of heretical scholars of Princeton rediscovered it in the 1800s. For all flesh is as grass, all the glory of man is the flower of grass, the grass withereth, the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth for a while in this dispensation No, it says forever. That's how long it endures. How powerful is that? That's a great passage on the power of the Word of God, and that verse ought to be used. as a cornerstone passage for anyone before they go off and do a Bible translation? Am I working with a set of manuscripts that Even those who have collated them would say, this is something that has abode forever. It has endured forever. And they ought to look for proof that it has abode forever, that it has endured. Forever, that it has been present in every generation. If they can't find that proof, then they need to conclude every manuscript has a story, and the story on this manuscript is fake. Push it aside. It doesn't bear the hallmarks of what Scripture itself testifies at Scripture. We go on. Powerful. That's our word, effective. Effective. The word of God is effective. You see that in Isaiah 55. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. Boy moms, don't you wish your word was like that. You just tell your kids, hey, stop doing that. And they click their heels and salute the parents and step away from that electrical plug. Wouldn't that be nice? No. God says his word will not return void. It shall accomplish that which I please. Well, it depends on how God pleases the word. I'm preaching to so many people, nobody's being saved. That's correct, Ezekiel. The Jews are not going to listen to you. If I had sent you to a foreign nation on foreign missions, they would have listened to you. But you're going to be a witness against these people so that they may know a prophet has been among them. So Ezekiel, no, you're destined for evangelical failure, but I'm not sending you on that kind of a mission. I want you to be a witness against these people. It shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. Apostle Paul writes this: For this cause also we thank God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which you heard of us, Paul says he in Galatians he'd received everything by revelation from God. He knew it was from God. There was no question in his mind. And as he's delivering it to these people, he rejoices because they received it as the word of God. They didn't doubt it for a second. He says, You received it not as the word of men. A man was standing there talking to you, but that's not how you took it. As it in truth, the word of God, which effectually, there's that word effectual, worketh also in you that believe. So this is again this power of the Word of God, the Apostle Romans 1. 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God. unto salvation, to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, all Gentiles eventually. would hear it and be affected one way or another, depending on how God intends. It's a sharp penetrating weapon. You have that language from Isaiah, he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword. The Apostle John picks up on that imagery of his vision of the Lord Jesus in heaven in the first part of Revelation. Out of his mouth went a sharp sword. It's a very strange image. But again, connecting the spoken word of God is a powerful, powerful sword. Jeremiah 23, 29, is not my word like as a fire, saith the Lord, like a hammer that breaketh a rock in pieces? Again, that incredible destructive force that it can bring. You know, God spoke some, you could say, ten powerful words to Pharaoh. Very powerful words. It took a proud supernation, superpower of their day, a first-world country, we would say. If you wanted to be where it was happening, Egypt was it. Pharaoh was God, who obeyed him or died, and none could conquer him, except the God of the Bible In fact, I believe one of the reasons God hardened Pharaoh's heart to not let God's people go is for the very reason God said it. Because he's going to get glory upon him. Had he not hardened Pharaoh's heart, Pharaoh probably would have agreed with his Egyptian masters. Don't you know that Egypt is destroyed? Let these people go And God would not have gotten to his tenth plague, the death of the firstborn, that preeminent symbol of the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the deliverance through his shed blood. So he hardened Pharaoh to make him so stiffened. Pharaoh didn't seem to say, well, I want to let them go, but my pride's just getting the better half of me. We don't see Pharaoh doing that. He was quite happy to harden his own heart. And so God allowed this proud man to demonstrate exceeding and great pride. And we can see whole human behavior. on display. We don't see anything in there about Pharaoh that strikes us as unusual. That's what absolute despotic powers have. They said absolute power corrupts absolutely, right, Mrs. Ross? You've been around long enough. You know all the ills of socialism and communism. You know people behind the former Iron Curtain, the way they've lived and the brutality with with men with which men live. There's nothing unusual about Pharaoh. Pharaoh could have been a czar. He could have been uh Genghis Khan. He just a long list of people. But God would have his way with him because he's going to illustrate to anybody, I don't care how high up the pride ladder you get, you're nothing in my sight. I can bring you to your knees, and I alone will be exalted. It's interesting because the devil's agents likewise have threats They too have swords. You remember in Hebrews it says sharper than any? Two-edged sword? What does the word any imply? Who? That there are other sharp two-edged swords, and guess who has one? The devil himself and all of his agents They have two-edged swords too. They also pierce deeply. They're out there and they're real We're warned about them in Proverbs five, for the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb. Her mouth is smoother than oil, but her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Isn't that interesting? That harlot in Revelation. And no, it's not talking about that harlot on the street corner, walking the streets in downtown San Diego or wherever, DC. Yeah, she's guilty. This is talking about a spiritual harlot. She's got a message, a false message, that'll reach to your soul. She is left the covenant of her husband. She is, says the Goodman is going a long journey. He's away. He will come home at the time appointed. She knows some theology. But she says, come with me. I have peace offerings Come with me. I've made a covenant with Hell and Death. She's a false prophet. She is. And there's legions of them out there. And her mouth is a sharp sword. Pierces right to your soul, and it'll cut you at the jugular and send you right to hell. You have to watch out for her. You see, that's why the apostle said in 2 Corinthians 10, the weapons of our warfare, folks, are not carnal. Don't go blowing up abortion centers. That's not the the weapon to use. Moses tried it. Somebody's beating up the Hebrew. I'm going to roll up my sleeves and go kicking some Egyptian buttons Well that wasn't it. God said, all right, we got a little program for you. 40 years, 10 sheep in the wilderness. And we'll get you ready for this because you know your strength has got to loosen up a little bit The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. It's the word of God, that sharp sword. That's the weapon we have It's a sharp penetrating. And it's a diserter. And this word critic. You know, Solomon understood this We read in, excuse me, David understood this as he's speaking to Solomon. He's doing a turnover ceremony of the rain in 1 Chronicles 28. And thou, Solomon, my son. Know thou the God of thy father. Serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind. He's talking about something inside. This is how you serve God. For the Lord searcheth all the hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. And imagination is a vain idea. That's why Jesus says, if you look upon a woman to lust after her, why? There's an imagination going on there. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee. But if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off. Forever. David got this. He knew history. He knew something about the God of the Bible. Tucker Carlson recently interviewed Putin, asked Putin, is it all right for you as a leader of a Christian nation? Because you say you're Orthodox to go to war? Well, we're defending ourselves Well, it says to turn the other cheek. Well, we're defending ourselves. Well, do you see the hand of God moving in the other nations? No, no, no, that's that's just natural forces. He doesn't know God. He doesn't know God God moves in the nations. And David understood this and he conveyed it to a son. Do you want God for you or do you want him against you? If he's for you, who can be against you? Who can prosper? We get back to Hebrews 4. 13 and we now turn the bend. We've talked about critic, the power of it. You agree with that. But why then does he say. . In verse 13, neither is there any creature that's not manifest in his sight, a creature? . I mean he's talking about man. Now he says no creature Alright. But all things are naked and opened. And this was the killer insight I had this week. Go look at that word opened. Some here in our presence are trappers. And when they trap an animal, they gut them. And when they get them, they do a little inspection. If it's a squirrel, because we're thinking of eating it, they pull it open and they look and inspect to see. If the liver has any spots on it. Because if the liver's got spots on it, the animal's got some disease. And you're going to be eating a diseased creature. That word opened literally means thrown on the back so as to have the neck laid bare. Have you heard of butterfly shrimp? How did it get that way? Somebody took out a sharp filet knife and peeled it down and opened it That's exactly what this word is, and every Hebrew would know exactly what that word means. To us, open doesn't you open a door, you open a cabinet. No, this is pulling it open, and the high priest Would inspect the animal because it had to have no blemish, both on the outside As well as the inside. Because the animal was food for the priests. If the kidneys, liver, had spots on it, might have looked nice on the outside, but it was Unclean. The Hebrews would understand this. Do you see by his choice of that word what he has just described to you that the word of God is like? It's like a high priest. The high priest was a critic in the days of Israel. He was an inspector of lambs And they had to be without spot. They had to be without blemish. And that spot wasn't just on the outside, folks. He was checking out the inside as well. And so that's that word opened. Gutted. We would use the word gutted in God's, that's why he says creature, right? That would resonate in the ears of the Hebrews. That's the turn from the viable word, the hearing word, to the high priest, because that word is like a high priest. It's going to inspect you, just like the high priest. Because what the high priest did was just a type and a shadow of what the very Word of God or the very Son of God Himself actually does. I don't know about you, but that's exciting. They're very familiar with this. Matthew Henry writes this. He, God, by his omniscience, cuts up the sacrifice we bring to him. that it may be presented to the Father. Now, as the high priest inspected the sacrificed beasts, cut them up to the backbone to see whether they were sound at heart, so all things are thus dissected. and lie open to the piercing eye of our great high priest. And he who now tries our sacrifices will at length, as judge, try our state We shall have to do with him as one who will determine our everlasting state. You know, it's interesting. Have you ever wondered about that word in the King James The word reigns, not R-E-I-G-N-S, like ruling, but reigns. It's in Revelation 2. I am he which searcheth the reins and the hearts. I've looked that word up in Strong's and I admit for until I got to this study today, I was confounded by that because literally it's the word nephros, and those of you in the medical community know what a nephrologist is. It's somebody who deals with the Kidneys? God searches the kidneys? Oh, yes. That's what the high priest did. Inspected the kidneys. Is this a healthy individual? The Lord our God is one who searches the reins. He searches the hearts. And thus the connection to the high priest. It's all here. The language is there. It's plain. I get it. I get what he's talking about. And so that's why I call this the effective critic. This is the effective critic. This is the thing that judges you. Now do you understand why some people don't like the Bible? You're judging me. I'm not, but this book is. Why don't they like the results? Because they're not healthy. They're not clean. Their food is bad. Their film stinks. They get five Pinocchios What would a bad critic do? Change the scales? Lie? Oh, let's don't Joe Oldstein. I I just don't want to preach hell to people. Yeah, I just want to go by the different Let's just we just want you're all good. Oh I like that that critic. He's good because we're all good. You're good, I'm good. Let's go rob a bank and celebrate. Yeah, we just love everybody. A bad critic. This is the effective critic. This is the true critic, and this is the critic with whom you must, you will have to do it Some critics' opinions can be purchased, and that's the case with Oldstein and others. You know, they can't say what they can't speak truth because they all get the money. Yep. Greedy for filthy lucre has always been a problem. And even deep deeper and I was just thinking about just what uh Pastor Joe was saying, some critics are just of a different camp altogether That's what I was really thinking. That's correct. If if it he's of the house of Satan, he his criticism is going to be fake. It's going to be a lie. Yeah, that's just the nature of it. And you also see the handiwork of the devil on these counterfeit Bibles because they're changing the standard. You know, we have a government institution, and I'll close here with this point, in Gathersburg, Maryland, the very town in close to which I live, called NIST, National Institute of Standards and Technology. They put out and define what the standards of measurements and units and weights are, exactly what is a foot. Or when you go to the gas pump and you look at that seal that's been inspected so that you know how do I know I'm actually getting a gallon of gas And I'm not getting a biden half gallon. Oh, sorry, I didn't mean to just accidentally convey something or some shrinkflation. Because there's somebody who's measured in moles or whatever the official unit is You ladies know what it's like at times when you go grocery shopping and they've got scales and you're trying to get it, you know, I want to keep it under three pounds of apples, and you get home and you only got two. Well do you care if somebody monkeyed with that spring in the back? It was just a little bit. Yeah you care. Oh. Yeah, I care. Well, they just monkeyed with a little bit of the scriptures, just 15%. Oh, I care. That matters. It matters. It's a critic. It's a standard. You don't monkey with standards. You don't have a canon if you keep changing the words. So this is what the Bible says about itself. Gabriel, could you close us in prayer? Can I ask you to do that? Father Lord, thank you for your word and the criticism that it brings to our hearts. Lord, I pray that uh we would cling to it. That we would not set it aside that we would not ignore it, Lord, but that we would take heed