Let us turn together in the precious Word of God, the book of Luke, and I'm actually going to read two passages. from Luke this morning. First Luke 11, verses 1 to 13. And then we're also going to consider Luke 18 verses 1 to 8. So turn with me first of all. to Luke chapter eleven, and there we'll consider the first thirteen verses. And We'll follow that with Luke 18, the first eight verses. And when we read the second passage, you'll see the similarities and the connection between the two. If you have your place now in Luke chapter 11, I'll begin with the first verse of the chapter. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend? and shall go to him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil Know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him And then turn just a few pages, a few leaves in your Bible to the 18th chapter of Luke, and there I'll read verses 1 through 8. Luke eighteen, beginning with verse one. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to Pray and not to faint, saying, There was in a certain city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary! And he would not for a while. But afterwards he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard men, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust saith And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach your word and consider the glorious teaching of these two passages from Luke. Father, we pray that you would open our hearts to receive thy word, that you would open thy word unto our hearts. And Father, may the Holy Spirit guide us and teach us in the Word Word of truth. May we see Christ in the Word. May we see the glories of our God. And Father, we pray that you indeed would teach us to pray and to pray without ceasing. Bless thy word to us this day. In Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to give you the outline to start with. We're going to basically see five things and these two different passages and I think already you see the similarity and the connection between the two. Both are teaching us about the nature of prayer. The first thing we're going to find is the promise of receiving. We won't spend a lot of time with that. Because we understand that, we know that. That's very familiar to our the nature of our prayer. We're going to see also the perseverance in asking. In both cases, we find that there was a continuing and a pursuing of an answer in prayer. We're going to see the persons who receive, who are uh the ones that receive the answer. But the fourth thing we're going to see is the propriety of the answer. That the answer that God gives to the prayer is proper. It is right. And that's where we're going to spend most of our time. And then the final point will be the paraclete that is promised. It had all be all peas. And of course, paraclete is one of the names of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. The first thing we find is a promise of receiving. And I hope you'll be able to flip quickly back and forth between those two passages. But in the Luke 11 passage in verse 8, Christ says, I say unto you. Aren't those four amazing words? I say unto you. In our Sunday school lesson, Brother Vince very aptly described justification as a legal process. Whereby the judge declares one to be justified. But a judge on earth can declare one to be justified who's not at all justified. Who's as guilty as he can be? And of course in our state we're declared to be righteous, but when Christ says it, isn't that different than man saying it? Here we have a promise of receiving. Opportunity. And then verse 9, I say and I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you, seek, and ye shall find. What more sure word could we have? than that. Man may tell us many things that are untrue. But when Christ makes a declaration, you better believe it. Remember the storm on the Sea of Galilee? Peace be still. And the disciples were greatly afraid because even the winds and the waves obey his voice. But Christ declares, I say unto you, ask, and you shall receive. That's a certain word. And then we look at the passage in Luke 18 and in verse 6. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge said. Lord said, I'm going to explain this to you. Verse 7. And shall not God avenge his elect, his own elect Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. Can there be any more certain declaration that something is going to happen. Christ declares, shall happen Not God. Avenge his own elect that cry unto him day and night, though he bear long. with them. I did not see the bulletin layout until it was ready for printing, but it's very apt that the next verse I had in my notes is the verse which will find On the front of your bulletin, which is Matthew 7. Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock and shall And it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh it shall be opened. For what man is there of you who asketh a son of bread, and to give him a stone? Or Ask him a fish, and he give him a serpent. You've heard those words before, haven't you? It's Luke's account of this same thing. These are declarations from the mouth of God. And so we have a promise of receiving. When Christ cursed the barren fig tree. And the disciples stood in amazement that Christ had said, Let there not be figs on you, and they come the next day, and the fig tree is withered. Christ said, All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing ye receive. Receive. And so we very briefly covered this first thing. We have a promise of receiving. But the second thing we would notice in these two passages is the perseverance. In asking. Pray without ceasing. And if you look again to the Luke passage, and in verse 5, which of you have a friend come at midnight? Is midnight an opportune time for a friend to come knocking on your door? Well, in our modern age with electricity We tend to stay up later. I know some who are present with us that stay up very very late at night. My son is smiling at me. Um but we tend to stay up later in our modern age than they did in the biblical times. Typically when it started getting dark, people were were heading up off to bed. And so midnight would be far later into the night than we would think of midnight. Most of us go to bed at 10, 11 o'clock. Some of us don't go to bed until midnight. But this friend comes at an inopportune time. I'm in bed! My children are bad. And look what the first response there is. I cannot. I cannot rise to gift you. I can't do it What? My friend, I had nothing. I'm in bed. There was persistence in the qu in the answer. And it doesn't even say that he rises and gives him the low lows because he's a friend. He just he rises, gives him It's midnight. And then you have the Luke 18 passage. And then verse 3: there was a widow in the city, and she came saying, Avenge me of my adversaries. And he would not for a while. But afterwards he said with his heart, though I fear not God nor men. She's driving me nuts. She won't quit. She's on and on and on. She's asking and asking. She's going to wear me out, lest she weary. But isn't it glorious how God turns that one there and he says, And shall not God avenge his very elect, his own elect, who cry? though he bear long with them. And so, again, these first points are things that we know well. Asking once is not enough. And we're not talking about vain repetition. We're not talking about counting beads or saying some recited prayer that we've memorized. Uh no, we're talking about the child of God beseeching the throne of heaven and then beseeching the throne of heaven again And then beseeching the throne of heaven again, just as Naaman wasn't healed the first time he dipped in the Jordan. The answer was always on the way Just as Michael had been sent to Daniel with the answer. But Daniel prayed long till the answer came. So we find a perseverance in prayer. And then the third point, again briefly, is the persons who receive. Look what it says. There's a relationship there. This is not a stranger. This is not a bum off the street. This is not somebody who's just wandered along. There's a relationship Between the one that is asking and the one that is being asked. And you know what I really love about that? The friend goes to the friend at midnight and says, A friend has come. And many times we're praying for unbelievers. We're praying for people that don't have that relationship with the one we're asking. We're the friend in the middle. We're the friend asking the father at midnight. But sometimes we're asking on behalf of another friend that has come along. And isn't that a picture of our relationship with God and praying for our lost loved ones? Lord, I stand here. You are righteous. I am made righteous in you, and I pray for this one as well. And what is it that he's asking for? He's asking for bread. He's asking for bread, folks, and what does bread throughout Scripture picture? Well, it is the gift of God. I am the living bread. And we'll see that further when if when a son asks for bread, he won't get a stone. And so we pray, Lord, you know this one that is unsaved. I pray for his salvation And though I know that only the elect will be saved and all the elect will be saved, still I must pray for the friend at midnight that he might receive bread. And notice also that the friend that comes inquiring has nothing to offer him. I cannot give that bread of salvation to my lost friend. That bread can only come from the one who I I beseech at midnight. You see, my friends, there's a relationship here. There's a relationship with those that are calling But not just the friend. It's interesting that we have a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, and that's an Old Testament passage talking about Christ there in Proverbs But then in the second instance, if you look at Luke 11, verse 11, if a son asked bread of any of you that suffered. Father. There's relationship there. Again, this isn't a stranger off the street. This is a son. This is a son that's asking bread. If my son asks bread, I won't give him a stone. If my son asks a fish, I won't give him a serpent. If he asks an egg, I won't give him a scorpion. A stranger I could turn away, but not my son. And then if you look at Luke 18 and verse 3, it's a widow And scripture says much about the widows and the care of the widows. And in this time, the Jewish woman who was a widow, she was a keeper at the temple. She stayed at the house of God. And there are warnings for the young women who are become widowed not to be received into the church as widows because they will want to remarry But the widows that are widows indeed, they were under the special care of the priest, they were under the special care of the elders and deacons, they were under the special care of the church, and therefore they were under the special care of the care of God. And this widow, she's going to a judge of earth that did not fear God and that did not care about man. And the judge of earth, who was a wicked one, would not meet her need. And he only comes along and does the right thing, not because it's right, but because she bothers him And the comparison is an opposite contrast, but God will avenge his very act, his relationship. And then, of course, the comparison there in Luke 18, verse 7 and 8. And shall not God avenge And I mistakenly will often say the elect, or the very elect, but look what the text actually says. And shall not God avenge his own elect? It's one of the problems with memorization. Once you memorize it wrong, the wrong sticks in your mind. Shall let God avenge his own elect There's a relationship here, folks. The ones who are making the position have a connection to the one. I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh shall he find them Faith on the earth. But that brings us to our fourth point. And this is really the heart, the message. This is really where I intend to. To spend our time and make our application. The propriety of the gift In Psalm eighty-four, verse eleven, for the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly If you haven't turned to that verse, let me read it again. You need to mark this verse in your Bibles. You need to keep it in mind Psalm 84, 11. For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. God has certainly promised answer. And as certain as he has answered, he will answer For good. As certainly as God has promised to supply all of our needs, he will rise as the friend at midnight to give us a loaf. As certainly as God loves his children, he will certainly give his children that which is good and that which is right. As certainly as his way is perfect, his care of his children will be perfect. That which I ask for ask of him may not be the thing that I receive. Let me repeat that. That for which I ask may not be the thing that I receive, but the thing that I receive will be good. So Lord, why do I hurt so much? So Lord, why am I sick? So, Lord, why have I been betrayed by friends? So, Lord, why have I suffered loss? So, Lord, why is my life so hard? Why can't things be easy? Why do I carry such a load? And I'd venture to say that even the young people here today have run into those kind of situations where we have prayed fervently for one thing and we have not. And it seems like the lot that we have is so heavy and so painful and so contrary to good. And yet we have this promise that no good thing will he withhold from them them that walk uprightly. And I would I would say to my you, my friends, that we are not unique in those things. I would like to I'd like to share with you uh some passages in scripture of men of God whose names you recognize immediately because you've heard about them from Sunday school and on, that had the same questions. Read in Psalm eleven or one fifteen verse three, but our God is in the heavens, he had done whatsoever he pleased. God is in the heavens and he's done what he pleased. Doesn't Say he's done when I pleased. He's done whatever he pleased. But as for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He's a buckler to all those that trust in him. Psalm eighteen, verse thirty. That's one of my favorite verses of scripture, and it's repeated Twice as in 2 Samuel as well. But consider Joseph. Joseph is sold into slavery by his own brothers. Why? Because he was wicked? No, because God gave him a dream and he told his brothers and they were jealous. His brothers didn't want little brother to rule over them. So he said, We're going to show you what will become of his dreams We're going to throw him in a pit. We're going to sell him to the Israelites. We're going to put blood on his coat of many colors because his father loves him more than he loves us. And we'll see what will become of this dreamer. But in Genesis 50 and verse 20, Joseph said, But as for you, ye thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Who was Joseph talking about that God meant this to save them alive? The very ones that were kneeling before him. The very ones that sold him into slavery, God used that For Joseph's good. And to save much people alive. Folks, I don't think any of us wanted to change change places of Joseph. And we saw in a message almost three years ago that Joseph Languished in the prison for another three years after he interpreted the dreams of the Baker and the Butler. Remember what we read there? I will certainly avenge the elect. And then we have Elijah. In 1 Kings 19, we find Elijah running from wicked Jezebel. And in the fourth verse, of 1 Kings 19, but he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. And he said, Is it enough? It is enough, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's Here, the prophet of God, who has just called down fire from heaven that burnt the sacrifice and the rocks of the water. The next day he's in the wilderness and he says, Lord, it's enough. Oh God, take away my life. I can't take anymore. Lord, I want to die. Did you ever think about what would have happened if God had answered that prayer? My father preached a message on this verse many years ago that's always stayed in my mind, and dad called this the most foolish prayer in the Bible. Because if Elijah really wanted to die, why is he running from Jezebel? Jezebel would answer his prayer. Jezebel would say, I'm going to kill you, just like the prophet. If he really wanted to die, why is he running? But folks, if God had answered Elijah's prayer and taken Elijah's life, In the wilderness under a juniper tree. There never would have been a chariot of fire. You see, Elijah was praying for what he thought was good But God will not withhold any good thing from them that walk uprightly. God had a chariot of fire for that man Do you want to die under a juniper tree, or do you want to go to heaven in a chariot of fire without dying? Folks, we may pray and pray and pray for the thing that seems good to us. But God's answer is always proper. the propriety of God's answer. Then folks, this one's really dear to me. Turn over to Numbers chapter eleven. I remember five or six years into the ministry in Jamaica coming across this passage and it just, you know, as they say, it just Just knocked me down and laid me flat. In Numbers 11 and verse eleven, uh you find that Moses has The people are chiding against Moses. Why have you brought us into the wilderness? There's no bread. There's no water. You said you were taking us to a land that flows of milk and honey. And Moses, this is all you've given us And in Numbers 11, verse 11, and Moses said unto the Lord, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy servant? Lord, why'd you do this to me? And wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight? Lord, why me? Why are you doing this to me? Why haven't I found favor in thy sight? That thou layest the burden of all this people upon me. Why'd you do this to me, God? Have I conceived all this people? Have I begotten them? Think about the passage we're looking at. If a son asks for a bread or a fish or an egg, Moses says, These are my kids. You know, the the old saying, uh not my circus, not my monkeys. You know, this isn't my problem Have I conceived this people? Have I begotten them that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth a suckling child unto the land which thou swearest unto their fathers? When shall I have flesh to give unto all this people? For they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh to eat, that we or flesh that we may eat. I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. And if thou deal thus with me, kill me. I pray thee out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my own wretchedness Folks, that's a man who's been pushed to the edge. He's taken everything that is humanly possible to take You say, Lord, you say you're going to bless me, but why this? You say I've found favor with you in thy sight. If this is favor in thy sight Lord, if this is what my light lot's gonna be, just kill me. But Moses still had five books of the Bible to write. Moses has not yet been up on the mountain to get the law. Moses has a great ministry to lead these people for 40 years through the wilderness. Moses says, Lord, it's too much. I can't take this. It's not right. You didn't do me well. You said you were going to bless me. You said your goodness would be with me. And this is what I've got. But God would take Moses up on the mountain. And the day would come when Moses Moses has fulfilled a great ministry, and he would die on the top of the mountain with God alone, and his body would be hidden because Satan even wanted the dead body of Moses. You see, Moses was making a prayer. God answered that Moses' prayer, but he didn't give him what he wanted. He gave him what was good. God didn't give Elijah what he wanted, but he gave him what was good. God didn't give Joseph what he wanted, but he gave him what But then one more. In Second Corinthians twelve, verses seven to nine, we find the apostle Paul who had a thorn in the flesh In 2 Corinthians 12, verse 7, and lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. Lord, you see my problem, fix it Lord, you see what I'm dealing with. Take it away. Lord, this is from Satan even. He says a messenger of Satan to buffet him He is crying out against principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in high places. Lord, take this thing away. Fix it. Remove my burden. And we see he's praying perpetually. I guarantee you that he didn't just ask three times and quit That expression thrice he asked is an expression of prayer. It was Paul that told us to pray without ceasing. Three times I've asked, and God hasn't taken away. But look what God said. Verse 9. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. You know what that means? That means that when Elijah was praying to die, he was denying the sufficiency of the grace of God. It means when Moses was asking God to kill him, he was denying the sufficiency of the grace of God. You see, when we begin to say, God, this isn't right, God, I've prayed about this and you haven't answered my prayer, what we're saying is, God, your grace isn't sufficient for me. We're saying, Lord, your grace is not enough to get me through the trial. God's answer to him Was my grace is sufficient. You've prayed three times for the burn to be removed. But I'm telling you, my grace is sufficient. My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect. in weakness. God's strength is perfected when it is applied to my weakness. My strength is made perfect in your weakness, Paul. Therefore, most gladly, most gladly therefore, will I rather glory in my affirmity That the power of Christ may rest on me. God didn't give Paul what he asked for. God gave him something better. Paul, you're complaining about your weakness. Here's my power. My grace is sufficient, and my power is on thee. And so We see the propriety of the answer. God has promised good to his people. God knows best if a child asks for a knife. We will not give the child a knife, even though he says, But I want to cut meat and I want to carve wood and I want all these wonderful things I can do with the knife. Give me a knife. The parent says, no, if I give you a knife, you'll cut yourself with it. And so instead of the parent giving the infant a knife to cut his own food, the parent cuts the food for the child so he doesn't need You see, God doesn't always give us what we ask for, but God will always give us better. And so Back to our text. A stone or bread. Bread or a stone. Luke 11, 11. If a son asks bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Bread is the basic staple food for sustaining life. Now man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that precedes the mouth of God. Bread is a picture of the living bread. Christ said I and the bread of life. It is a picture of the word of God. Thy word was found that I did eat them. If a son asks for a stone Oh sorry. I I turned it around, didn't I? If a son asks for bread The father will not give him a stone. A stone will break his teeth. A stone will choke his throat. A stone will kill him. God's not going to give us a stone when we're asking for bread. But God knows what we need Christ himself is the living bread. The word of God is bread. But he answered and said, and it's written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out. by the mouth of God. If a son asks for a fish, or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent a gift Luke 11, 11. The serpent here is the eel. The eel looks very much like a serpent. We would think of it today as a serpent. I have swam with with moray eels that were probably close to ten foot long and as as big around as as like that huge. You know big mouth and teethy th Things. Beautiful. Green and brown, a multitude of colors. But you don't eat the eel. Some people do eat the eel, but they cook it well Well, the blood of the eel is one of the oldest known toxins. It was one of the first toxins that Man discovered. And the ancient writers outside of scripture talk about the toxin of an eel's blood. with venom. And the eel has this protection, so if another animal bites it, the blood of the eel is immediately ingested into the animal that attacks it and the animal that has attacked the eel will begin to quiver. His muscles will become unusable, and he will quickly die. And the reason the blood of the eel kills so quickly is the first muscle that affects is the heart. An eel is deadly in its blood, but like the flesh We believe with the heart, but the inner man, not with the muscle, but the inner man. But you see the picture that Christ is painting here. If you're asking for a fish, what did the little boy have his lunch? Loaves and fish, bread and fish. If a son is asking for a fish, the father is not going to give the son that which is poisonous and which will attack his heart. So often the thing that we think is good that we pray to God for, God knows it'll attack our heart. God knows it will not draw us closer to Him, it will push us further from Him and will kill us. God may not give us what we ask for, but he'll always give us good. And then an egg or a scorpion. Luke eleven verse twelve or if he ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? How many of you have ever seen a scorpion? Those of you that have lived in more hot or southern climes have seen scorpions. We had them in Jamaica, not excessively. There was one restaurant that there was always scorpions in the bathroom. If you want to see a scorpion Scorpion. You went to the bathroom of that restaurant. For some reason they were always there. And when we had groups down visiting us different times, I w I would tell them, Hey, go in there and see the scorpions, you know, because they were were in there. Scorpion has a stinger in its tail we have what we call a forty legger uh which was a centipede about six to eight inches long that also had a stinger just like that. Uh one of the ladies, not to get off subject one of the ladies ladies in our church put her foot in her shoe and there was one of those that had crawled in the shoe and it stung her foot and she didn't walk for three months. She was in the hospital. in very serious condition. It can it can kill some people. If a son asks for an egg, will the father Give him a scorpion. Think about an egg. What is an egg? Well, it's the genesis of all life. Life comes from an egg, comes from a seed. We ask the old quick question, which came first, the chicken or the egg? Well the answer is obvious. God created adult chickens, just like he created adult humans. But the egg is the basic genesis of life. Human life begins with a sperm and an egg. If a son is asking the Father for life, will he give him that which would kill him? For an egg. Give him a scorpion. An egg is essential for birth. And an egg carries the complete likeness of the parent. Think about that. God has made us again in the image of Christ. God's not going to give us a scorpion. If we asked for an egg. And so our final point, the fourth point, was the propriety of the gift. God gives good gifts. The paraclete. Holy Spirit that is promised. Look at Luke 11:13. If ye then being evil, we're all evil fathers. We strive for righteousness. We're justified. Before God, we want to live godly lives before our children. But in the final analysis, we're we're men of sin. We haven't reached perfection yet. If we men of sin, that's what it's saying we evil. We sinners know how to give good gifts to our children. How much more shavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to Them that ask him. Which would you prefer? Would you prefer to live in a beautiful mansion And luxury with all the things of this world? Or would you prefer to have the Holy Spirit? What should you prefer? Would you prefer an easy, comfortable life or to have the Holy Spirit? What should you prefer to live in perfect health or to have the Holy Spirit I think every believer knows in his heart the immediate answer, oh Lord, give me thy spirit. Give me that. Oh Lord, give me thy Holy Spirit. He'll give the Holy Spirit to them to ask him. And of course, the Holy Spirit comes with salvation. It is the essence of life. What shall it profit a man? If he gained the whole world and lose his own soul. And that's what every one of these requests is funneling down with. And I don't mean to be flippant or to be too casual about people's problems because we all have our pains and we all have our problems, we all have our heartaches. But friends, it's not about this world It's not about my comfort here, it's about heaven. And that's what Christ is saying here. Paul, my grace is sufficient. Elijah, I've got a better than dying in the wilderness. Moses, there's a ministry for you to do. I'm not going to give you stones for bread. I'm not going to give you serpents for fish. And I'm not going to give you scorpions for eggs. I promise to supply your needs. God will give good to his people is the promise. No good thing will withhold from them that walk up. God may not give us what we ask for, but God will give us better. God may not give us what we request, but God will give us what is good and what will bring honor to us name. He gives us his Holy Spirit. So I'd like to conclude with one final passage. Turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1. And verse three. First Peter chapter one and verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Is our hope still lively when our body hurts? Is our hope still lively when our friends betray us? Is our hope still lively when we suffer financial loss? Is our hope still lively when we're sick? Is our hope still lively when the stock market crashes? Is our hope still lively when all the troubles of this world come pouring in? Well, he's gotten us again to a lively hope To an inheritance, verse 4, incorruptible and undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved for you in heaven. Some of you know that I lost an inheritance. I lost that which my mother and father had intended for me to have But I have an inheritance incorruptible reserved for me in heaven. I have something better waiting for me than that which my mother and father Intended for me to have. Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time, ready to be revealed. Wait for it. Shall not God avenge his very elect? Is God going to make it all right before his throne? Yes. Will I still be in pain before his throne? No. Will I still be in sorrow before his throne? No. He'll wipe away all tears and give me a new body. God's going to make it right. Right. Wherein verse six we greatly rejoice, though now for a season If need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. That word there, manifold temptations, is not just temptations to to do evil. It's manifold troubles and trials and difficulties and heartaches and problems in this life. Though now for a season, if need be We carry a heavy burden, Moses. Remember, he said, this burden's too heavy for me. Through manifold temptations. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold, thou be tried with the fire. might be found under the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. God has something better I'm saying God take away the trial. God says the trial is going to be glorious before the throne. I'm saying God relieve my burden. God's saying my grace is sufficient for your burden. You see, God will give good to his children. Verse 8, whom having not seen ye love in whom though ye now see him not yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your soul. Isn't that what it's all about About. Why am I here on earth? I'm here to be saved. Ultimately, I'm here to be saved. God should have sent me to hell before I was born. But I'm here to be saved. Remember the catechism? What is the chief aim of man? The chief aim of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Doesn't say the chief aim of man is to to have the pleasures of this world or to live in joy and peace. You see, God has promised to answer our prayer God has promised to his people, to his own. God's answers are always proper. God gives us the Holy Spirit. But I left out number two, we're to persevere. We're to keep knocking at midnight. And so may God give us grace in all of our trials Though we may not receive the answer we want, to know that God does all things well. Let us pray. Shall we stand? Father, we thank you that your grace is sufficient. Lord, forgive us for the weakness of our faith to see the sufficiency of thy grace. O Lord, how often we get down in the dumps and we begin to fret and complain. But Lord, you have promised that no good thing will we withhold from them that walk uprightly. Lord, bless us your people. That we might have more faith in thee. Lord, we pray, relieve us of our burdens. But Lord, with our prayers, we say, Thy will be done. In Jesus' name. Amen.