I hope you're enjoying going through Hebrews 11. It's really been insightful to me. I get the first blessing. And I hope you all actually got the question this week since I remembered to mail it. I think I remembered to mail it to everybody. You got it? Mrs. Ross shaking her head yes, so yes, everybody did get it. Let me read our text first so that you know what the question might be about. We're in Hebrews 11 and we're now in verse 24. And we're going to be looking now at Moses. And we read this. Hebrews 11, 24. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. esteeming the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. Alright, so to get our minds into this and try to dip our toes back into a little bit of history, um I had this worldly phrase in my head for a while, every dog has his day. And all of us have had, I think, a season of life we can look back and say, boy, those were really some very, very good years. And without getting in too lengthy of a recollection of that, uh describe to me what you would consider to be some really, really good times as you think back in your life. What were those really good days and what were they like? our children or you know early year you know good health never questioned you go long days and nights and Do a lot do a lot more for the Lord. Saw the Lord's blessing and what you were doing. Yeah. Birth of the children certainly ranks up there. Anybody else? Were some really good days? When that wasn't Lebanon. When you were in Lebanon, okay. Yeah. What was nice about that? What did you like about that? Well, growing up with uh families, uh friends But on every day we have something new coming. Just uh no boring. I am a little familiar with that kind of environment. Um I was uh it was an unsafe period of my life when I lived in Pacific Beach. There's a very close community of people that are there It's very nice weather close to the ocean. Friends and neighbors could pop in and out. It was really a nice little community. Anybody else? Very good times of their life. Well I was three and I had no responsibilities and all my food was prepared for me. I was too young to clean my room. Oh you're right. I'm convinced that the school system went downhill when they took away the nap after kindergarten. I really enjoyed that part. That was great. No, s seriously, the the middle years in Jamaica when our kids were young and Um the ministry was going very well. There were very few real trials in the ministry at that point. It was was good years. Mm-hmm. Good old times. Now there's another passage we have which is uh Jesus uh in Luke fourteen he says Which of you intending to build a tower siteth not down first and count the cost whether we have sufficient to finish it. And I raised that because I'm contrasting now the best days with this consideration. Have you ever sat down and counted the cost of discipleship? Was there ever a time in your mind when you sat down and thought through, you know, what might this cost me to follow Christ? Yeah. Okay. What went through that mental process? Uh my family was probably gonna reject me, a lot of them they did. Uh friends I had at work would probably reject me. They did. And I didn't realize there were Christian friends out there that I would sued me. better than any friends I ever had, but you I knew that you know, they say, Well, I I don't want to leave my friends, I get saved so they leave you and they dump you so fast. You know, y so but I I it was it was deeper the the abandonment I thought it would be, but I expected that and it was. Yeah, we were gonna leave home. Uh we would not see our friends and families for years at a time. Very likely that our parents would die when we were outside the country. We would never own a home of our own. We would never drive vehicles that belonged to us. pretty much the furniture and everything would belong to the ministry and uh you know anniversaries, Christmases, Thanksgivings we'd be just just us. Yeah, that's uh deep costs foreign missionaries pay in many respects. But the Lord repaid every ounce of that. I could deal with the stories, but But um ever every fear that we put up at some time or another the Lord has just said no that was not a sacrifice That's great. That's great. Yeah. Uh I think there are you know, when we witness the folks, a lot of people say I'm just uh Right. And I had to say, you know, before or you know, in the beginning of being born again, And as God was drawing me, I'm saying, you know, the cost is all the things, all my worldly desires to be a billionaire and all these things that um was currently working towards being a real estate magnate. You know, all those worldly things I knew that wasn't part of following Christ. you know, the the toys and the things and the that comes along with it. I knew that wasn't part of in the and the the night life, the the crazy life that I want to see stuff that comes with it. I knew all that wasn't part of Christianity. Yeah, that's interesting. Uh I appreciate that. I I can share my own, but in the interest of time I'm gonna ask my last question. And we may not get any answers here. But just how much garbage are you willing to put up with before you leave the church? How much garbage would you put up with before you say, you know what? No more church. But I can't live without it. So I could never leave it. That's a great answer. How much garbage would you be willing to put up with? No, but a great church or a church. How much garbage are you willing to put up with before you leave the church? I'm saying the church. The church. Then then I'm I'm with Mrs. Ross. If if you leave it you were never there in to begin with, right? Yeah. There's no photo of that. Yeah. That's impossible. Yeah. I mean fish fish can jump out of the water for a second, but he's got to get back to Yeah. Right. It's good illustration. Well we're gonna uh I'm I'm I'm glad you all gave the right answer. For some it may be a tough question. Some have gone perhaps through a lot of garbage that have merely pushed you to the edge uh out of the water for a season as it were. But let's look at Moses because he's a really fascinating character. Um Embracing reproach. What a line we have here. It says, by faith, Moses, when he was come to years. It's interesting that phrase come to years is the word mega. You know, he became big, became great. Some of you listed your times of when you had great time in life, married, had kids, job was going well. For me it was I had been happened to be at the right place at the right time with the unique set of skills that were in high demand and ever increasing demand. The responsibilities came, the pay raises came, the promotions came, uh I could do no wrong. Um, you know, building a house uh active in ministry. It was really just a wonderful time. It was really great And, you know, that happened to be, I guess, about the age of Moses, about forty years of age. My faith when he was come to years refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And I want to talk about his being come to years for a moment. You know, in Exodus we read, it it's a very short section. What we're looking at here is only a handful of verses in Exodus chapter 2 You can turn there if you'd like, but I've got the main verse to look at. What is it talking about there? What is it referring to? Well in Exodus too we have the biblical background about Moses' refusal. That's your first fill-in-the-blank, Moses' refusal. When the child grew, she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter Now this would be Moses' mother. Remember there's a clever scheme to have Moses' mother, actual mother, nurse him up And then she eventually brings him to Pharaoh's daughter. It says, and the child grew, and she brought him. And he became her son, and she called his name Moses, and she said, Because I drew him out of the water. Acts 7 in Stephen's recounting of Jewish history says this, and it's very interesting. He says that Moses was learned. in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds And then it goes on to note when he was forty years old and and so forth, and his ministry kind of begins. When it says to nourish him up, uh it has to do with mental training as much as it is giving suck at the breast. Now, uh Angela and I had an interesting discussion about this. You know, Joseph was in his father's house for seventeen years before his brothers sold him into slavery. So for 17 years he had m mom and dad around, or dad, and his younger brother Benjamin. He could hear stories about the faith, he could hear the promises of God. How old was Moses when he left his mother's care? You're thinking maybe five? Yeah. Or three. Three? I've been there How long yeah, the longest I've ever heard a woman nurse her child is about three years of age. And you know, you gotta think about this. This is Pharaoh's daughter They don't have paid family medical leave act. It's her son, she found him, insofar as the cover story goes, and Moses' mother is not about to blow that How much time and instruction do you think Moses received in his household when he was handed to Pharaoh's daughter? Yikes is right. Maybe some bedtime stories. Maybe hearing the Word of God. Uh it's really interesting to me that this was a short, short season of time. You know, interestingly, uh in history We from Josephus, uh, who recounted Jewish history for passing this on to the Romans who were you know trying to figure out what to do with those little scrappy bunch of Judeans in this place we call Palestine Palestina, I think they called it. Josephus said that Pharaoh had only one child. It was his daughter, and his daughter was childless, and thus Moses was her only adopted son, and thus Moses is in line to be the Pharaoh. Josephus also recounts, and this is the only place we hear about this, there might be some truth to it, we can't tell, that Moses was a great military commander and he led the Egyptians in battles against the Ethiopians. He was quite uh successful in that. You know, we get maybe a hint of that from uh uh Stephen in the book of Acts when he says that He was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in words and in deeds. Now, the words and deeds are before the Ten Commandments. This is something that he was known for in Pharaoh's court, in Pharaoh's land, in as second in command. I had read a book recently about the Herods, and the Herods were part uh Adumean, uh sons of Esau, and half Arab. They were not pure bloodline Jews. And the Herods, for the most part, grew up in the Roman courts Here we have Moses. He's growing up in the Egyptian courts. He's being trained in the ways of Egypt, and more so to be trained to be in line to be a Pharaoh as an adopted son. He's getting the best education possible. This was not afforded to any others. He's very studied in these things. He's very studied in the world. The bulk of his training, the bulk of his time And the best physical earthly years of his life is right there in Pharaoh's court. You know, I think we all would kind of like to live a life like a Pharaoh I mean you say come and the servant comes and you say go and the servant goes and you say I want popcorn and they bring you popcorn and say I don't like that popcorn bring me ice cream well we don't have any ice cream well go make some go find some go steal some uh whatever it takes He was in charge. I'm too hot, here come the fans and the fanners. I want a bath, here comes the cart, they haul you down to the river, and they submerge the whole thing in the river and come out. It's all done for you. You really don't have to work very hard. You've got it all. It's all there to you. And he was mighty in learning, mighty in understanding. He had great understanding and wisdom beyond what the slaves and servants had He would do you see how exceptionally strong and mighty this man was in Egypt. And I find that it's interesting that In archaeology as well, that phrase mighty in words is also uh insightful from Stephen. Because there is some archaeological evidence And uh I hope Gabe can pull it up on the screen for those watching online. There is some archaeological evidence uh that referred to his time in uh Egypt, not the wilderness sojourn, that Moses actually produced a system of writing. The early form, cuneiform, was very symbolic, symbol-based. Chinese letters are very much that way. They're representative of individual things. That's not our system. That's not the English alphabet that we have and the system of writing that the Hebrews had. They use phonetics and not symbols. There's a very interesting Biblical Archaeology Review article in April-May of 2010, which shows that in the copper mines where a lot of the Egyptian slaves worked, there were some writings on the wall And one of the first letters, A, for Aleph, is the shape of an ox. And uh because the uh the the Hebrew word for ox begins with a, I think it's ayin or something like that is the word for ox. And so it's got that horns that come together and eventually the horns touch and became the letter A. So it was phonetically associated with it. I think it's interesting that the letter He, heath was the workers calling each other, hey. They raise their hands up, hey, come over here. And so the letter H has got these two, so a man standing here doing this kind of looks like the letter H So phonetically, and it appears that Moses would have been the one to help bring that about, you can see Tim Mahoney's DVD. It's about $20, $25 called the Moses Controversy It's worth watching. It's very interesting. Moses was learned in wisdom, in writing, in speech. It's interesting. Later he says I'm slow of speech. He knew he couldn't go before Pharaoh. But there was a period of time when he was quite eloquent. He was mighty in words, mighty in deeds. So this man Moses was very great in Egypt. And then you know the rest of the story. He slew an Egyptian, hit him in the sand. Pharaoh found out and he fled, and he went to the land of Midian. Well, our text says that he refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. So what is it that Moses refused? What would happen? What are the risks For Moses to stand firm and say, nope, I am not the son of Pharaoh's daughter. What are the risks? Family would disown. Yeah. What else? Kicked out of the palace. Kicked out of the palace. Maybe maybe driven out of the east Egypt altogether. Driven out entirely. Name never mentioned again in history. Name never mentioned in Egyptian history. He becomes a a rebel, an adversary. He becomes a rebel. He becomes an adversary. Oh, okay, so you want Yeah, it might cost him his very life, and you know some Christians in the Muslim lands that's their price to pay when they convert to Christianity because there is no separation of mosque and state, and so when you abandon uh the Muslim and the Islamic teachings not Muslim teaching, but Islamic teachings, then to them you're also abandoning the state and you're becoming a traitor, you're becoming a rebel. You're an embarrassment of the Pharaoh. He's got to set you as an example. It was probably pretty brutal. You know, long before he killed the guy and fled that he was his life wasn't worth more than a peanut butter sandwich by then. You'd be crocodile bait in short order. Yeah. The door might require a hit on sort of it. It could get pretty steep. He's abandoning a lot. But it's interesting because it says he refuses to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughters. I like Matthew Henry's commentary uh commentary on this particular section. He does a really good job in this portion. I've got a few sentences to read here for you. He says this. Observe how great a temptation Moses was under. Pharaoh's daughter found Moses and saved him. I mean if she didn't, who was? Right? She resolved to take him and bring him up as her son. So he stood fair to in time be the king of Egypt, and he might thereby have been serviceable to Israel. You know, and his thinking is like, hey, this could work out pretty good for the people of God. You know, I'm in charge, I can lighten things up, I can pass some laws. He owed his life to this princess, and to refuse such kindness from her would look not only like great ingratitude to her. But a neglect of providence that seemed to intend his advancement and his brethren's advantage. Some of this had to perhaps have been going through his mind to refuse to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter H his separation also could have brought down all kinds of trouble onto Israel itself. This is what happens when we put one of them in authority. You know, the punishment that he escaped may have been meted out on his brethren. It certainly was a tremendous risk, and the more you think about it, and he had plenty of time to think, to be r to refuse to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter You know, I mentioned earlier that Moses was probably only he couldn't have been more than seven. I mean seven's pushing it. I don't know how The princess would not allow the son that she drew out that she wants. I mean she wants to hug a baby too. Her dream, because she's childless, is to have a baby in my arms. I want to hold my child. He's there for a very brief period of time. But you know, Moses was a prophet, and I think like Jeremiah, he was ordained from the womb to be a messenger and an aid and a deliverer for God's people. And so from whence did Moses gain such great faith? Where does such tremendous faith like that come from? It's the miracle of regeneration, is all I can say. He didn't walk an aisle and say, well, I have decided to follow Jesus. That didn't happen. He's still in diapers for crying out loud. It could have been that young. He's a toddler. I don't know how well formed his mind is. This is some pretty bold faith to have at a pretty early age and to endure, to not waver, to remain committed to these slaves out there That's quite the bold man. Quite the bold man. And then we look at Moses' choice. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank, Moses' choice. It said, choosing, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Christ. greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. Now, let me ask the question, at what point in his life did he make this choice? What do you think? The Bible doesn't so explicitly tell us. It says he made a choice. What point do you think he made it? When we saw the beatings and the monuments the Jews and the treatment. I think it he he knew eventually as brilliant as he was, he knew his genealogy, those are his people. And I think he found it insufferable the way the Beryl and the other s three of his people had had to get to them at some point. I I would say it was well before he saw his brother being beaten. You know, maybe early adolescence, twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old, when a Hebrew boy is is catechized as as we would say it today, that um we decided, you know what, these are my people and I'm going to I'm going to be a fifth column here in the Second Fair's Palace. Mm-hmm. But then he after that became So I'm not sure that the genealogy really is should be there. He had to be older than that, to me. Well, no, I I'm saying when when he first was awakened to the possibilities would be young It was grow it was growing in him and finally exploded when he saw the one being beaten and he kills the Egyptian. Yeah. Yeah, I think at that point when it enters into his heart, I'm here to deliver, I'm in a position to do it, and I'm going to start doing it My good strong right hand. I think it began before he was in affliction. It wasn't when he was in affliction. He probably hadn't yet tasted much affliction yet. He was in a state of prosperity, right? I all you're saying is correct. And uh, you know What affliction was he under? Well, none, because once he rejects Pharaoh's court, there's no middle class, there's only slavery and oppression. So it had to, that decision he made had to have been while he was in great ease and comfort. And you know, all that come to Christ are called out of their ease and comfort of this world There's a segment that, of course, are absolutely destitute down and out, but Brother Mahan, sometimes the pastor mayhent said, saved in the storm, lost in the calm. There are those that come to Christ just to escape an addiction, a particular life crisis problem. But when things get good in this world again, yeah. Yeah. I don't care for it. What do you think was Moses' source of temptations to the pleasures of sin? What do you think was the source of Moses' temptations to the pleasures of sin? What was he tempted by? the palace, maybe the secret chambers of the palace. You have concubine room. Yeah, like just like the Lincoln. Just like the Lincoln Room. You can have a concubine he wanted uh travel the world I guess you know with an army and see the world build pyramids in his name or something he design Elon Musk. John too. Yeah, it says pleasures of sin, not just pleasures. It's not wrong to build a pyramid. It's not wrong to be in charge, but it's pleasures of sin. And undoubtedly in the court of the despotically powerful, they are not It it's not unusual for them to abandon all moral restraint and pursue every evil, lustful deed under the eye, whatever that might be, the least of which might be gluttony. You know, I like this commentary as well. This is not from Matthew Henry, this is from Jameson Fawcett Brown. It says, he balanced the best of the world with the worst of religion. I like that He balanced the best of the world with the worst of religion and decidedly chose the latter. Choosing implies a deliberate resolution. Not a hasty impulse. He was 40 years old, a time when judgment is mature. You know, Brother Bernie used to tell me certain things that have stuck with me over the years, and he says All men, without exception, desire three things, three fundamental basic things. They want economic prosperity. Everybody wants that. Nobody says, oh poverty, I'll take that. Yes, please. Can I live in a box under a bridge? They all want economic prosperity. They all want political freedom. I want to live in a land where I can do what I want to do and nobody's telling me I can't do it. They want political freedom. Oh no, I'd like to be a slave in sedan. Nobody raises their hand and does that. Nobody, nobody does And physical health. Everybody wants good physical health. Just pull out our prayer sheet. What do they want? Oh, can I have some more sickness? I'd like a dose of RSV with a hint of COVID stirred in my glass. Can I have that? Nobody asked for that. This is what everybody wants. And so I ask you, what do you want from Jesus? Why are you following him? Is it what the world wants Why? Eternal life. Eternal life. Something the world can't offer and can't give. There's got to be something better. But I like that point that Matthew Henry makes. He took the best of the world and the worst of true religion. And in his mind, no question him No question. Absolutely was worth it. And others will look at it and say, oh no. No way. You know Others, you see, in scriptures, decidedly, mentally came to that conviction, to that point of conviction. Joshua did. As he stands there at the end of the book of Joshua, says, If it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. And he gives them a choice between two false gods. It wasn't a choice between Jesus and the false God. He says if you want to serve the gods that your fathers served on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose lands you dwell, go do that. But as for me in my house We will serve the Lord. So Joshua had a dis a decisive, conclusive conviction that it was far better to serve the Lord. The Lord Jesus in Matthew in chapter 5 and verse 10, Sermon on the Mount, reread that recently. It's just a beautiful reading Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The world doesn't offer that Oh, if you get sick, well, after you get better, you'll be immortal. You'll never catch a disease again. The world can't offer that. Oh, if you suffer a financial sick if you lose it all in the stock market, if you lose it all in this financial deal, well Don't worry, on the back end you'll get all the real estate. The world can't offer that. You can't offer that. If you have a little bit of slavery in Sudan, don't worry, when you get out of that country, you'll be in charge of all the countries. The world doesn't offer that. God doesn't Christ. There's a very different reward. He had respect to the recompense of the world. It was very different. Moses got it. Moses absolutely got it. Rejoice, Jesus says, be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. When we look at Moses' hope, yes. My wife used to give the kids in Sunday school. a little bag of M M's. She said, Now you can take these home with you. You don't touch them, bring them back on Sunday. I give you something better. Well, the boys all ate theirs. A couple of girls didn't she had a big box of candy for the couple of girls. She said it's always best to wait. There's better things if you wait. If you try to teach you know about that eternity, temporal things and eternal and the boys are so mad That's brilliant. But the imagination is absolutely brilliant. And that's what it's like, temporal and uh unimaginable uh eternal things that you just can't imagine I just can't wait. And she would do that, you know, once or twice throughout a couple of years. The same guy sort of eat the MMs and I never learned. I never learned. Maybe towards one of the or two. You know. Good for you, Libby. I love it. I was oh give me a oh I was reminded of a quote this morning. It's Memorial Day, and there are some famous quotes that have been given on Memorial Day. This one comes from John F. Kennedy Let every nation know whether it wishes us well or ill that we should pay, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden Meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and success of liberty Listen, folks, if a leader of a country says that and encourages us to endure hardship, how much more the Lord Jesus us? Again, it gets back to my fundamental question. How much garbage are you willing to put up with from the church before you leave? And I'm looking at some ministers here. I'm telling you what, there's a lot of garbage you have in quote unquote the church. Not all Israel's Israel. And even among Israel, sometimes there can be friction. It's like, ugh. You know When the Lord Jesus says, they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you, the prophets went to the religious land, Israel, Jerusalem. That's where they got their persecution from. The greatest persecution came from religious people, not in the world. In fact, when The uh Assyrians swept through, and Nebuzeredan, who was the captain of the guard, I think, or the Babylonians who was the captain of The Babylonian guard, they came and said, Oh, hey, look, it's Jeremiah. Hey, everybody who's found Jeremiah. Man, good to see you. Shook his hand. Come on out. Put him in a cart hall. They treated Jeremiah nice. They loved him. It was his own people that hated him. The worst treatment you're probably going to get is exactly what Moses experienced, choosing to suffer affliction with, pardon me wants to say, Lord, are you sure you didn't mean to say from the people of God? choosing rather to suffer affliction with them. They want to stone Moses. At one point they want to stone him. Great day. They were a mess. And the Pharisees and Sadducees, how they treated Christ Nothing's new under the sun. In many ways, Moses is a picture in the Old Testament of the Savior. In the New Testament, he's a picture of the law, but in the Old He's very much a picture of the Savior. He's a tremendous intercessor. Oh, when the people were rebelling, uh they about be about to stone him. The Lord said to Moses, Step aside, I'll make of you a greater nation, and I'll devour and consume these people in a moment. Do you think God could have done that? Absolutely. And then he says, Moses, no my lord, but what will they say? They'll say, You brought this people in the wilderness only to kill them, and it'll besmear your name. Don't do this. Oh pray, blot me out instead. Wow What a go-between. What a mediator. What an intercessor. He's a wonderful picture of Christ. During Second World War the British Americans started to bomb Germany They uh they get a day of re committed to bomb Germany and they go over in the foggiest, foggiest day, and they couldn't find their targets So they're flying back and forth and the Germans could hear them and they started shooting at them through the clouds. And they said that that they already came out Drop your bombs. They said, we can't see anything. He said the flak is all around us. He said we're right over the target. And sometimes our own lives when things are already going bad from other Christians or family or friends And you say, what's going on? You're right over the target. Stay your guns. Just to stick with the Lord. Stick with the principle of Scripture. You're right over the target. And they're letting you know it. And the Germans laid out and said, how'd you know where to bomb us? If the college is so thick. They weren't just heading in the forest. They weren't defending the forest. Right. Germans were not tree huggers, that's for sure. Well we wrap it up here with Moses Hope It said, by faith he saw greater treasures than what Egypt presented to his eyes. Egypt presented a lot of wonderful treasures to his eyes You know, I would love to go to Luxor. There's a lot of tremendous Egyptian um statues and uh not statues, what do you want to call them? The palaces, the remains of the palaces, they're very great. They they it's amazing what a thousand slaves can do. It's really impressive what they can build. But it's it still survives to this day. It's still there. It survived the weather The storms, the heat, the dust, all that. But he saw greater treasures. Well, what did Moses see instead? What did he see instead that encouraged him to stick with the Lord? What would he have had? What would he have been banking on? Well, I'm suspecting it's the promises of God that he had at that time. We're only in the second chapter of Exodus. We're with a middle-aged Levite. whose descendancy goes all the way back to his great-great great grandfather Abraham, who had some promises and passed those down. And let's do a brief review of those promises that he had. Because here's what Moses saw. And here's what Moses hoped for In Genesis 12. I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great. Okay, that sounds like Abraham. Thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee. Curse him that curseth thee. In thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. Ah, he could see himself in that. Three chapters later, Genesis 15. The Lord said unto Abram, Know of assurity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years. Moses is probably like Joseph pulling out the calculator saying, hmm, about 400 years, okay. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterward shall they come out with great substance Oh, he could see himself in that. God's going to judge that nation. We're going to get the upper hand. God's on our side. I've got a promise of God. We're going to win this. Genesis 17, 6 and 8. I will make thee exceeding fruitful, I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. Oh, that's nice. Kings. Yeah, I'm in charge. I'm in line to be a Pharaoh. I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed. Okay, Moses can see himself in that. After thee and their generations. That would be my generation right now, he's thinking, for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. Moses saw that he had a greater God than all the gods plural of Egypt He had a living God. He had a God that was true to his word. He had a God that gave Sarah birth to a child. When Pharaoh couldn't have one, when Pharaoh's daughter couldn't have one And I will give unto thee into thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession I will be their God. He saw that there was an eternal hope. That everlasting possession was a big deal. And we saw previously that that referred not only temporally to the land of Canaan, was a grand and glorious figure of the new heaven and the new earth Genesis 17. God said, Sarah thy wife shall indeed bear thee a son, thou shalt call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him, for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him. Again, the Lord repeats these covenants, and he's thinking about these things. If God says it once, he means it twice. Boy, it's rest assured it's going to happen. But these are multiple times. And an interesting one I recently came across is the statement the Lord makes on his way to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. He had just visited Abram in his tent, Abraham, and he said this, shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do, meaning going to destroy Sodom and Gemoral, shall I hide that from Abraham? Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. These are the promises he had, and he believed those, and he banked literally his life very much on that that God would be sure to deliver, because God has always been true to his promises. And though it be long in coming, yet wait for it, it shall surely come. This great man who had the power, the strength, the wealth, the might, the authority over Egypt, and yet he says no to all of that. Moses respected these words greatly. He had tremendous respect unto them, and likewise we too should have great respect unto these words. Because at this point it's beyond Moses. And quite interestingly, and just you just pointed it out, these were words. on a a power or on a tablet, just like we have the Bible, we didn't see God standing next to us and I Moses hadn't at that point, I guess, through the bushes when he was going to us See God, but he had up to that point. So it's all by faith. You have to believe in that written word. And at that point historically, it didn't it wasn't even written down yet Moses would be the author of the quote penman for the first five books of the Bible, and so he would have taken that from a rich oral tradition from his people and from his family. It literally was just spoken words in the hearts of a great many people And he believed that. But you're absolutely right. Faith in the Word. And you know what? All those promises I read, I was putting Moses' name in there. You can put your name in there. You know that? Do you believe that? You can. You can. You really can. Because the Apostle Paul says in Galatians, know ye therefore that they which are of faith the same are the children of Abraham. As Moses was adopted, so are we. If you be Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. What promise? I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. I shall be their God. They shall be my people. You can put your name in that And which is why Hebrews 11 is holding up Moses as a pillar of faith because we walk in the same steps of faith they did. They had faith in the promises of God. We're joined into those promises of God. We're that branch drafted grafted into the olive tree. Let me try to say that right. We are that branch grafted into the olive tree. We don't replace Israel. We join into that heritage. The true Israel of God. And so you too, like Moses, can walk by faith, even when life is going great. You can refuse to be called the Son of the World. Spiritual Jews today. Absolutely. And so we don't replace, this is your next fill-in-the-blank, we don't replace the covenantal promises of the Old Testament because we enter into these same promises by faith. You know, Moses might not have entered into the land of Canaan. He didn't physically make it there. But we know we entered the spiritual The we know we entered into heaven. How do we know that? Well, when the Lord Jesus walked on this earth years later and he took James Peter and John with him up into a high mountain. Lo and behold, who do they see? Up in that mountain, there with Jesus, talking with him concerning the Lord's death in Jerusalem. Elias And Moses. He made it. He was there. He's alive. And so you too can enter into that same problem. Well, that's our consideration of Moses. Very fascinating character. And uh I hope you enjoyed that. The Canaan that the children of Israel did enter into still had wild beasts Still had thorns, still had scorpions, and the Canaan that Moses entered into did not. Yeah. For he looked like like Abraham, for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Because if Abraham looked for that city which hath foundations, I'm pretty much sure that Isaac did, and Jacob did, and Joseph did. and all the way down. So they had Moses for five years. It's a miracle that he comes out of that education and luxury and becomes you know, a saved man because there's few people raised in Russia or China or Cuba, uh, you know, from babies up. Those people are hard to get through through. But not Moses. It was truly a miracle. And yet it's also a great encouragement to parents uh with uh young children that it's never too Never too early to start sharing the the Word of God with them. Never too early to start praying. And I'm quite sure Moses' parents continue to pray every day while he was there in that luxurious place. Pastor Burgie closes in prayer. Lord, we just thank you today that uh those of us sitting here we We've uh lived through many a year and we've known the times when we were in captivity to Satan, captivity to the world, and how you brought us out of it in a miraculous way. uh Moses uh even in grave away. So he gives us hope, Lord, for our brothers and sisters who haven't come out yet, and for our own children who haven't displayed that they've really removed themselves from the world and and our grandchildren. So we we just thank you for this example of Moses, that there are plenty of examples coming behind in our own generations. And we thank you in Christ's name for this. Amen. Amen.