Savansay people that they do s shows and movies about and marries it. But Joseph, she just doesn't get much attention at all. Why is that I would submit to you the reason is that the world, unsaved, atheistic, agnostic, uh liberal, whatever tags you want to put on them, communistic, whatever tag you want to put on They don't give Joseph much press because they know, they know, they know that Joseph had nothing to do with the birth of Christ. It's a virgin birth They know that. By their silence, they are putting the stamp upon the fact that Mary was a virgin and Christ did not have an earthly father. Luke one and thirty-one, Mary conceived, it says. She was with child. According to Luke 1 and 35, when the power of the highest overshadowed her. Christ was born of a virgin. He had no earthly father. Joseph was officially engaged to Mary. But when he heard that she was with child, he was not willing to make her a public example. He wasn't going out and call her an adulterous woman. He wasn't going out and say, I don't know who it was or where it was, she must have an affair, this is Is this crazy? I I just don't believe what she's saying. I'm gonna put her away or divorce her. An engagement then, a betrothal was as good as marriage. In fact, he's called as his wife But he wanted to do it privately. He wanted to do it quietly. As hard as the news was for him to hear, he he loved it. Her. But still, as a just man, it says he was he wanted to put her away, but privately Privilege, it says here. I would say to you this morning, Pilgrim, do you ever ridicule your wife, your spouse, your siblings, your parents, or a friend? Do you ever try to place them in a bad light because of something they've done before others? Do you ever do that? Then you don't love them You know, we're we're a we're a I used to tell our daughter that what happens in the birdhouse stays in the birdhouse, you know. We we we keep things privily. And that's That's what Joseph wanted to do here with Mary. The scripture tells us love covereth all sins. Proverbs 10 and 12. If you really love someone, you may say something of them privately, but you don't spread it around. We don't seeketh love. You know, Joseph loved Mary. He he didn't want to destroy that. He just couldn't bring himself to say Mary to her. But he he loved her and he would keep it quiet. He would keep it to himself. And that's what it says, he that covered the transgression seeketh love. Joseph, I don't know what he was going to do in the years ahead, but he he obviously didn't quite want to break break it all off with her. He he he wanted this love to re maintain somehow. He that repeated the manner it says in Proverbs 79, separate very friends. And that's what gossip does. It separates very friends. It destroys the love. And how often you've probably seen it in your families with some deep dark sin in the family. Happened ten, twenty years ago, and someone brings it out and brings it all up all over again. That we might, as I think of Joseph here, wanting to put away privilege, that we might learn uh to be more like Joseph, to sit on our tongues, to zip our mouths as it were, to follow Joseph as an example of silence, rather than than excuse maybe what she had what he thought she had done, or accuse her of what he thought she had done He doesn't excuse, he doesn't accuse, and he doesn't bruise what he knows as the tender heart of Mary. Wow I can't imagine being engaged with someone and thinking that something has transpired that she won't admit to and and yet you don't want to dirty her name. You don't not want to make it more difficult and bruise the heart of the Virgin Mary. He knew that she had a good heart. And he couldn't. He just couldn't feed on her. Now in the story of the birth of Christ, an angel does appear, one appears to Joseph, but on three uh occasions it appears to different people. In Luke 1 and 13, it appears under Zachiah, uh Zecharias, rather, the father of John the Baptist. And we we know as as that the angel appears, says, Fear not, Zecharias, fear not And then the later we find that the angels appear in the Mary in Luke 1 and 30 and they say fear not Mary is as they're about to announce what's what's going on going on. And then again we find the shepherds were watching her flock by night in Luke 2 and 10. And the shepherds and the angels came out and there's a multitude of angels and they said, Fear not People are uh we're afraid of a lot of things, aren't we? But for the most part, when you read the Old Testament, people are afraid of angels. It's it's a rare moment indeed when an angel appears that people aren't falling on their face in a dead faint, or it's Isaiah, it's woe is me, you know. I mean it does or de you look at John In the book of Revelation, falling down is an adjacent these these are things that are playful to people. I I would ask you though this morning, are are people afraid of seeing an angel today? Not that you've run to people have seen angels, you know, every day of your life. But you know, if people are kinda giddy about it, kinda excited about it, and and when they then when they say they have seen one, it's uh it it's not a fearful report, is it And I think that's because of what's going on today. We are so immersed in the warm and fuzzy and effeminate angels of the Hollywood movies and TV shows and the books that are out there, that we don't fear angels anymore. We think if an angel appears, this could be great But the idea of an angel coming into our presence in the Old Testament and the New, and us just thinking, wow, this is really something. I can hardly wait to get home and tell everybody about it. No, that idea of not being afraid of angels is so foreign and unknowing the Holy Scriptures. And yeah, I think Hollywood's already missed it again. And can't I be a little nicer? No, I can't. I just think Hollywood and TVs and and the books are out there they have really missed it when they talk about the glorious experience of being in front of the angel and there's no fear and they gossip and they talk to each other and and uh you know I I just I have a problem believing it. And not only that, but the message that you have coming in the scriptures. You see, a virgin will give birth. Whoa! That is memorable. I'm the elf and the mega, Christ says, and the angels are coming and they're pouring out the vials and the and the trumpets and I mean and the message of condemnation and judgment to come and and and when you look at this in in Isaiah, you know, woe is me. I mean when you look at the messages that come. They're memorable, aren't they? But I've seen some of the movies, TV shows, The Angels. Girl Angels, where does that one come from? from they're always called he. But anyway, uh you watch some of these movies and shows and and and they're warm and fuzzy and I I enjoyed some of them myself. But Does anything that you've ever seen in any of these movies or TV shows where the angels spoke? What did they say? Was it memorable? Was it earth-shaking? Was it shocking? Was it fearful? No The image and the message are not what we see in the scriptures. The angel here announces she shall bring forth a son. Matthew 1 and 21. How did the angel know that? Well, I'm going to do a gill here. Where's Gill? The angel knew this because this was a sonogram before there were sonograms, alright? The angel knew it was going to be a son. Without a sonogram, the angel knew that this was going to be a son. How? God had told the angels. God had told us in Isaiah 7:14 of a virgin shall bring forth a son. That's a sonogram. This isn't amazing. God knows this stuff and He doesn't need X-ray machines. machines. He doesn't need MRIs. I mean he knows stuff that in the deepest recesses of a womb And I said last night, at the time this is being announced in the in the womb of Mary is a a zygot. It's at the moment of conception. And I don't think there's a doctor in the world that can tell at that moment whether it's a boy or a girl, but God can. God knows. This this was before there was a stronogram. In fact, the Isaiah 177 and verse 14, not only do we know there's a son before there was a sonogram, but before there was a Mary. I mean Mary's not going to be born for another seven hundred and some years. So it's before sonograms, it's before Mary. It's Seven hundred plus years before Christ comes. But God already knew it would be a seven In addition, Matthew 1 and 23, so the virgins shall bring forth the Son and Emmanuel, God with us. Oh, oh, don't make any mistake about this that Christ in that womb was God. God was with us in the flesh. Not a God with a little G, like the Jehovah's Witnesses Do and other cults, but this is God with us in the flesh. He was in the burning bush too. And now he's in the flesh of Jesus. Jesus of Nazareth, the carpenter. In fact, it says in Colossians 2. 9, In him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. You can't make it any plainer than that. Don't let somebody tell you, well, he's not really God, he's a little God He's kind of a God. Uh we all can become gods someday. The Mormons teach that. No, this this is in him, in this little baby that grew up to be a carpenter, that was sacrificed on the cross, crucified as it were, in him dwelleth Part of the fullness of God. All of the fullness of God, the Godhead bodily. It's all there There's nothing missing. It's not 99. 9% like Ivory soul. It is all God in the flesh. Christ is God. He's the God man, but he's fully God and fully man. And that this could be predicted 700 years more, more than 700 years before this takes place, this is an obvious case of what we call predestination. I use that word. Well it is. What is fulfilled prophecy? God says this is going to happen, and when it happens Prophecy is nothing more than declaring I'm going to pre-gest on this, I'm going to pre-gest on that. That's predestination. Some people don't like that word. But this is predestination. It's an obvious case of predestination. It's an obvious proof that God is in charge here, Mary. God is here is in charge, Joseph. God is in charge here, pilgrim. God was in charge this morning as Rob came down Bel Air Road, head-on collision, it would have killed everyone. God was there. Probably one of his angels. He doesn't need the angels, but God is in charge of our every moment of our life. He always has been, and he always will be in charge. He is sovereign, and yes, he predestinates things. In fact, I can't think of anything God doesn't predestinate Oh, the fish that swallowed Jonah. Now that was probably not predestinated. Oh no, wait a minute. It says if you prepare the fish, okay, that was predestinated. Okay, okay. Well the Pharaoh, I mean Pharaoh wasn't predestined, I mean he's just a bad guy. No, no, no. He says that he raised him up to be a vessel of dishonor. Wow, that was predestinated to Okay. Well people getting saved, huh? But Acts says all those that were ordained onto eternal life believe. That's predestination. And here's predestination. And you know what I like about this? God prophesied seven hundred and some years before Mary has this uh is is with child and God wasn't wrong, was he There our virgin re did come with child. And that virgin, well, fifty-fifty now would be a boy or a girl. Well God says it can be I mean, God is never wrong. And God is never late. And God is never in need of a backup plan or a contingency plan or a plan B. God says this is what's going to happen. It's going to be seven hundred some years from now. He doesn't tell us that. now we know it was, there will be a virgin and she'll have a son. And he also said a lot of other things, like Micah 5. 2, it's gonna take place in Bethlehem. Whoa, that's pretty good. I mean it could have been New York. London, Baltimore, if he come later, Constantinople, Jerusalem. How did God know what city it was gonna be in. He must have predestinated that too You know the words of Christ just never fail. Now you say, what's the Old Testament? No, no, no, no. Christ is the living word. Christ is the incarnate word. These words In the beginning was the word. The word was with God. And the word was God. The Word. Genesis and Revelation. It's all Christ's words. Written by Moses or written by Jeremiah. It's all Christ's words. They never fail. Christ's words ever fail. The third day I shall rise again. Matthew 20, 19. Well, he did. Wow. Be sure your sins will find you out. Numbers 32 and 23. They do. I know personally some of my sins have found me out. It works. Lazarus, come forth. And he did come forth. The dead in Christ shall rise. 1 Thessalonians 4. 16. You know, that one hasn't happened yet. But God hasn't failed on all these other promises, so I wouldn't bet the farm against this one not happening either All right. The words of Christ never fail. And there's lots of it. It's prophetic, and it's going to happen in the future. And it can't not fail And happen unless it's predestined. We've already introduced a little bit of Luke into the story. Luke's the physician. Now now Luke is he's a physician. He's probably delivered some babies in his time. He's probably lost a few babies in the delivery as well, when you consider back in those days the what medicine was. But Luke was probably delivered a number of babies. He sees this one, he records it in Acts, Luke writing the book of Acts, chapter four and twenty-seven. He sees this baby as the holy child Jesus. I don't think Luke has ever, ever looked upon any baby and called it the holy baby. He knows they all have a sin nature. He knows that they're all lost. They need salvation. There are no holy babies. And yet Luke calls one baby holy, pure. Perfect. Sinless. Wow. That's from a physician. There is a mother here this morning that thinks her baby. I mean we've already learned. If if you think that they're holy at one day or two days, you learn by a time they're six months or a year, they got a sin nature Sometimes you learn a whole lot sooner than that. But this one, Luke the physician, the doctor says is a holy one. This is a child who is holy, without spot, without blemish, without sin nature. The blood that it courses through his veins is pure. It has a an infinite value. It can cleanse every sin from every believer and save them. And that's why he says he came to save us That's the purpose of Christ's coming to save us. Luke 9 and 56 says it. And in the reading of Matthew here this morning, it says he came to save us. But when you talk to people about that, they they say they don't need a savior. They're good enough. God's going to balance their good deeds and their bad deeds. They haven't done any horrible sins. So I'd ask you this morning, do you think your sins aren't so bad? That it doesn't require an extreme cleansing solution to make you white as snow and white as wool and acceptable before God. It doesn't need something so extreme as the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. My sins aren't that bad. Well let's look at that for a moment. moment, all right. Jonah. Contrary to God's word, that's not a good thing by the way, all right? That contrary to God's word, that means a trespass or a sin. When you do something contrary to God's word, in Jordan, contrary to God's word, said, I'm not going to Nineveh. And he fled the presence of the Lord. And we know what happens. He ends up in the belly of a fish, he ends up in a storm on the ocean. I mean, we know what God does with him, right? He's not pleased with the fact that he's contrary to God's word, he's not going to Nineveh. So, is it any different if you don't want to go to church? The word says not to forsake the send the gives of the brethren, but sometimes people don't want to go to church. Sometimes they don't ever go to church, or they go to church twice a year. I mean, if Jonah doesn't want to go to Nineveh and God says, whoa. into the belly of a fish, into the storm of the ocean. I'm you this is wrong, contrary to God, you're not going to get away with that. And so if you don't want to go to church, what's going to happen? I bet you God thinks that's as bad as Jonah not going to Nineveh. And I don't bet. He fled the presence of God. People don't want to be in the presence of the Lord. Well, that's okay, I want to be in the presence of the Lord. Now you're in the presence of the Lord. People don't want to do They want to flee the presence of the Lord. They don't want to pray. They want to flee the presence of the Lord. Well then you're like Jonah. And God doesn't look kindly upon you. the actions of Jonah. How about Moses? Contrary to the word of God, the first time he spoke to the rock as God told him to, and the water came out, the second time he spoke. Struck, it says smote the rock. I can say he struck the rock, but I like I like the King James. It just sounds better. I mean someone might strike you, but man, you don't want him to smote you, do you? I mean smote sounds like wow, you know? And and he smote the rock And he smote it twice. Contrary to the word of God And God was not happy with Moses, and Moses was kept out of the promised land because of that. Because it's a sin to do something contrary to the word of God. And you say, well, well, what's so bad about smiting a rock? I mean a rock has no feelings. That's true. Has no nerve endings, as near as I know. Where's our doctor, Kyle? Where's the doctor Daniel? Rocks have no feelings, right? No nerve endings, right? They don't have any of that stuff And they have no memory, so what's it matter if you smike a rock? If you smote the rock. It matters because it's contrary to the word of God Striking the rock. You know it's probably worse if you hit a brother of the Lord? You just lash out at him, you know, verbally abuse him? Because they have feelings. And your brother and your sister in the Lord, they have memory. Right? So I wonder what's worse. When you're doing things contrary to the Word of God, you know, bad is bad and sin is sin How about Lot's wife? Contrary to the word of God, she looked back, Genesis 19 and 26. She looked back at her home and said Sodom. She'd been here for a long time, many a year, and and uh she found something still attractive about it. Contrary to the word of God, she Became a pillar of salt. Wow. I wonder what's worse. Looking back at your home We're looking at pornography. It's contrary to the word of God, isn't it? Things. Sin is is sin and and no sin is ever a small matter to God. Striking a rock, what's the big deal? Just looking back at the house, what's a big deal? It's contrary to the word of God. And so we we have sins in our life, we don't think they're a big deal. But sin's a big deal to God. There are no white sins and black sins and little sins and big sins You know, people talk about the sin of sodomy. Well, the sin of adultery is bad too. Or drunkenness. For covetousness. On and on we go. Any sin is so serious it required a very serious serious solution. A cleanser that would really work. You know, people have oh we got this cleanser to take out this spot and I take out blood, it'll take out chocolate, it'll take out ketchup and mustard stains, you know And y but there's no one cleanser that does it all, is there? But the blood of Christ it covers everything It cleanses everything. And sometimes you have a solution and you're scrubbing a floor or you or you're doing the clothes and after a while the water gets so dirty and the solution gets you gotta throw it out. But the blood of Christ it never gets so dirty that we gotta throw it out. It can cleanse and cleanse and cleanse hundreds and millions of people and hundreds of millions of sins, and when it's all said and done, the blood of Christ is still just as fresh and powerful as we The blood that was coursing through the veins of this old baby, the blood that was coursing out of the veins of Christ on the cross. This was the blood of a king. This was royal blood. This was holy blood. to Dr. Luke. So important that Christ be born of a virgin, that He would have a Holy blood. For you see Adam, who was the headship of all humanity, he had the sin nature and he passed it down to his father, and he passed it down to his or rather his father to his son and his grandson and his great grandson. You know, it just got passed on and on. And so every man sitting here. has that sin nature. Now I'm not saying that women don't have the sin nature. If you're married, we all know that we have a sin nature, but our wives bring it out in us. But they've got it too, because they got it from their father. But the sin nature is passed on down to the blood of the husband. Not through the wife. Adam was our headship. We get our sin nature from our father and our grandfather, our great, we don't get it from our mother, our great, our grandmother, and so forth. I know we want to blame everybody, why is she? He or she's just like a mother. No. We've got the sin nature. It came from Adam And that's why Christ couldn't have a human father. He would have had that sin nature like we men and women all have. And so he needed. The mother was fine. The sin nature didn't pass through the bloodline of the mother. It passed to the bloodline of the father. And so in Matthew 4. 27, for him to be the holy child, to be born of the Virgin, the solution then would be Pure. The solution then could cleanse. And that solution had to be pure. That solution had to be perfect. That solution had to be holy. It would have to come from outside of a decadent, depraved world, wouldn't it? It would have to come from outside of creation altogether because creation was fallen. Creation was depraved Creation was spoiled, creation was dying. Creation, nothing inside of creation, nothing inside of this world would ever satisfy a thrice holy God The solution for covering our sins had to come from outside of creation, beyond the headship of Adam. It had to come from heaven. And Christ did, he came down from heaven. Briefly, and I mean briefly this morning Christ came down from heaven uninvited. Anybody invite him? No. Christ entered the womb of Mary uninvited. God entered Joseph's dreams in Matthew 120, uninvited. And for those who are honest enough this morning who at one time were dead in your trespasses and sins, Ephesians 2. 1, and Christ came into your heart, he changed everything. I know there are the evangelists out there saying, No, she asked Jesus to come into your heart. It doesn't happen that way God comes into your heart as you're hearing the preaching of the word or you're reading the word or you're listening to the word on a radio or something like that. The word of God comes into your heart, melts your heart, moves your heart, and you say, Oh Lord, come into my heart. And that's but he was already there. Or you wouldn't have asked God to come into your heart. The evangelist kind of They play with that a little bit. Ask Jesus to come in your heart. If you ask Jesus to come in your heart and you really mean it, it's only because it happened five seconds before You're dead in trespasses and sins for an evangelist to tell you, ask Jesus to come in your heart, you say, I can't. I'm dead. I can't move. I can't hear. I can't talk. I got a hard heart. I can't ask Jesus to come into my heart. But he just did. Yes, because Christ uninvited. Came into his heart first. God loved us before we what? Loved him. That's the way the doctrine should be taught. So Christ came down from heaven uninvited. He entered the womb of Mary uninvited. He entered Joseph's dreams uninvited. And he enters the hearts of those who are saved, uninvited. May Christ enters some cold, dead, empty, uninvited heart today. With the old, old story. May the story no longer be boring to someone here this morning, no longer just repetitious, redundant, and pointless to anyone sitting here ever again Well Lord, if you could send one more gift this year. Send the gift one more hard heart Heart. Circumcise it. Warm it. Quicken it by your spirit. Bring it to life. Change it forever, for all eternity. And if we can't say amen to that, we ought to say, oh come, oh come, Emmanuel. And ransom. The sinners, though they don't invite you, come uninvited, Lord. This day to some heart sitting here. And we'll close with that song that maybe will sound a little different