Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the one hundred and sixth Psalm, Psalm one hundred and six. And I'll be reading the first five verses and then the last five verses of the Psalm. Psalm 106. At your turning, let me make a comment. We use the old Trinity hymnal. It is not the most easy hymn to sing from. There are a lot of hymnals that have a lot of songs that are much easier to sing than those found in the Trinity. But we are not singing for our enjoyment. Nor are we singing to one another. We are to sing to the Lord. And we use the Trinity hymnal because of the theology behind the words. Not because they're pleasant to our ears. And so it is good for us uh to learn some of these hymns that are not as familiar. And to examine the words as we do so. I think every one of us has experienced at one time or another A time of difficulty or a time of trial when the words of a hymn have been great peace to us. And particularly those hymns that are taken directly from the Psalms. And that is what we find in scripture, singing to yourselves in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. And so don't feel self-conscious. If you don't quite know the tune or don't quite know the words, sing it to the Lord with all your might and leave it there. Well, if you have your place now, sermon number three for the day will be from Psalm 106. Verse 1 of the 106th Psalms, Praise Ye the Lord. And let me just pause right there, because those words, Praise Ye the Lord. which begin this psalm. You'll notice this psalm does not have a a um it does have a uh introduction but not a title that is actually a part of the verse as many psalms do That is because Praise Ye the Lord is the title of this psalm. And those four words, Praise Ye the Lord, from the Hebrew literally are hallelujah! That is where we get our Hebrew word, which we use in English. It is not an English word, though we use it in the English language. Hallelujah! That's what these four words say. That's sermon number four. Now let's get back to Psalm 106. Praise ye the Lord. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? Who can show forth all his praise? Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people. O visit me with thy salvation. That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance. Go down now to verse 44. Nevertheless, he regarded their affliction when he heard their cry, and he remembered them for his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captive. Save us, O Lord God, and gather us from among the heathen To give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting And let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the Lord. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's word this morning. Gracious Father, now guide us in thy word, guide us in thy truth, help us by thy spirit to rightly divide this glorious psalm. to see its coordination with the rest of the scriptures. And Lord, by the reading, preaching, and study of thy word this morning, may we be edified and rebuked May we be encouraged to press on in the fight. Father, may your word have free course and be glorified. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm one o five and one o six are linked together by First Chronicles chapter sixteen. Psalm 105, verses 1 through 15, that's the previous Psalm from where we began our reading. We're reading in 106, but Psalm 105. verses 1 through 15 are taken directly from 1 Chronicles 16, verses 7 through verse 22. In Psalm one o five, verses eighty-four to eight verses eight to eighty-f Psalm one o five verse eight to forty-five. recounts the history of Israel from Abraham through Joseph through Moses and into the entrance into the Promised Land. Whereas Psalm 106, verses 6 through 43, recount for us the sins of God's people in the wilderness. It is because they uh it recounts their their travels all the way from Egypt through the kingdom and into the Babylonian captivity. So here in Psalm 105 and 106, we have pretty much the full scope of the history of Israel. It doesn't Start exactly with Abraham, but we have Abraham on through Moses going into Egypt. You go into Psalm 105. They come out of Egypt. They go into the promised land. You have the judges and into captivity The connection between those and First Chronicles sixteen is this 1 Chronicles 16 is the chapter that recounts for us David bringing back the Ark of the Covenant from the house of Obed-Edom. The Ark of the Covenant was the representation of the presence of God with his people. It was upon the mercy seat, or better stated, above the mercy seat, between the cherubims, that God met with his people. Within the Ark of the Covenant was the law and the pot of manna. And the cherubims on the top of the mercy seat looked toward that mercy seat itself. It was upon the mercy seat that the blood of the sacrifice was sprinkled once a year. And there God communed with his people. Verse 8 through the whole middle section of Psalm 106 talks about Israel's rebellion. about their failings, about their breaking of that holy law, about their making a golden calf, about their changing their similitude into that of four-footed beasts But First Chronicles sixteen is a song of great joy. It's a psalm of blessing. It's a psalm of encouragement. And in 1 Chronicles 16 and verse Number 34, we read these words. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And what do we read there in Psalm 106, verse 1? Praise ye the Lord, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. You see the quotation. And in first Chronicles 16, verses 7 and 8 On the day that David delivered up this, on that day, that is the day he brought the ark from Obad Edom, on that day David delivered this First, this psalm to thank the Lord into the hand of Asaph and his brethren. Give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the people. Now, what do we learn from that introduction? God's people do sin. But God doesn't cast us off. God's people fail. But God doesn't throw us away. God has chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the world. With thee there is forgiveness that thou mayest be feared Sometimes that glorious presence of God is taken away just as the ark was taken into captivity. But God will restore again his people. And so in Psalm 105 and 106, the psalmist is recounting all their failures. Now you notice in the bulletin that the title of today's message is Encouragement for the People of God. Do your failings encourage you? Well, I hope not. Our failings shouldn't encourage us. And yet there is great encouragement in this passage because verses four and five of our text, which are going to be our focus this morning, or a glorious prayer and look at what is prayed there. Verse 4 of Psalm 106. I think I said 105 a moment ago. Psalm 106, verses 4 and 5 Remember me, O Jehovah, with the favor that thou bearest unto thy people. These psalms talking about God's judgment on their sins are psalms of his favor. Remember me, O Lord, with the favor that thou bearest unto thy people. Oh, visit me with thy salvation in all of my stumbling and all of my failing and all the times that I've rebelled against you and all the times I have made a golden calf while Moses was on the mountain to get the law Remember me. And visit me to thy salvation. And the psalmist gives three answer three reasons. Why he request that God remember him with his favor and visit him with his salvation. That is going to be the outline for our study this morning. That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine in heaven. And look at the wording there. There are three things that David wants to do. He wants to see. He wants to glory, or to rejoice, and he wants to glory. That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance. And then in those three phrases, look also at the way that God's people referred to. He's called, first of all, that I may see the good of thy chosen. But the people that you've chosen for yourself, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, the people that you have formed into a cohesive unit. The people that you've made a holy nation. And that I may glory with thine inheritance. Well, brethren, we are the inheritance of Christ. For in the second Psalm, God the Father says to God the Son, Ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen. That's the Gentile nations, the heathen, for thine inheritance. And so with that With that introduction, let us begin to consider this prayer that we find in verses 4 and 5 of Psalm 106. Remember me, O Lord, O Jehovah, with the favor that thou bearest unto thy people. O visit me with thy salvation. That I may see the good of thy chosen. Ode Augustus toplady The author of Amazing Grace, How Sweet the Sound, wrote in that glorious hymn, The Lord has promised good to me His word, my hope, secures. He will my shield and portion be, as long as life endures. The Lord has promised good to me. Now don't worry, we're not going to start preaching the rosy gospel this morning. We're not going to start preaching that everything will always be good for the believer. We go through a lot of trials. And a lot of temptations, and a lot of snares. But God has promised good to his people. And that is the first prayer that David puts forth, remember me, O Lord, with thy favor, that thou bearest unto thy people, O visit me with thy salvation. That I may see the good of thy chosen. Because you see, the problem is not that we don't have good, the problem is we often don't see it. The problem is not that God has forsaken us. The problem is we've turned our eyes away from Him. The problem is not that everything is wrong. The problem is we're looking at the wrong things. Rather than looking at the good of his chosen. And so, Lord, remember me with the favor that thou bearest to thy people. Visit me with thy salvation, that I might see the good of thy chosen. That I might see the good that they're doing. And look further into Psalm 106 in verses 7 and 8. Our fathers understood not Thy wonders in Egypt. Did they see the wonders in Egypt? Yes, they saw them, but they didn't understand them. Isn't that what we're talking about here in verse five, when we say, See the good of thy chosen? They saw what God was doing to the Egyptians, but they failed to see the benefit it had to themselves. They didn't understand. They didn't understand his wonders. He was doing great and mighty things for his people and they were oblivious. He didn't see it. Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt. They remembered not the multitude of thy mercies. But provoked him at the sea, even at the Red Sea. Don't you love the first word of verse 8? Nevertheless. Nevertheless, in spite of their blindness to the goodness of God In spite of their ignorance of the goodness of God. And that word ignorance, if you take it apart, means to ignore. They were ignoring. They were ignoring. They were ignorant. Of the goodness of God. He was doing great wonders for them. They didn't see it. Nevertheless, he saved them for his name's sake. that he might make his mighty power to be known. First of all, he saved them for his namesake. These were his chosen people. We read there in Isaiah chapter forty-three and verse one through five. We read the whole 1 through 20 for a responsive reading, but in verses 1 through 5, in verse 1, he says, I called thee by thy name. And verse 2, when you pass through the waters, I'll be with you. Verse 3, I am the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. Verse 5, fear not, I am with thee. What do we find there in Psalm 43 but a reference to passing through the Red Sea? You see, these were his chosen people. Pharaoh wasn't going to get them. Pharaoh wasn't going to kill them. They weren't going to starve in the wilderness. They didn't know anything about manna. They didn't know anything about quails flying through the camp. But God was going to take care of them. All they saw was the Red Sea. But these were his chosen people. These were those That he had called by his name with my people which are called by my name. But not only that, he had given them the new name. And the significance of names in Scripture is very important. We have Abram and then Abraham. We have Sari and then Sarah We have Jacob who becomes Israel. We have Saul who becomes Paul. We have Simon who becomes Peter. These changes of names are very significant. You see, God transforms a Saul who was a blasphemer into Paul the Apostle He transforms Simon, who is just a fisherman and nothing more, into Peter, the apostle. He changes us. These were his chosen people. And we read there in verse 8 that he didn't save them for their own namesake. He samed them for his own namesake. And then he put his name upon them. He made them into something they were not. He chose them. In Revelation 3 and verse 12, Him that overcometh will I make to be a pillar in the temple of my God. And he shall not go out, and I will write upon him the name of my God. God says I'll write upon him the name of God. The disciples were first called Christians. They had the title, the name of Christ written upon them The Old Testament Jews were called Israelites. They were children of Israel. Israel was Jacob. Jacob was the son of Abraham. Um Esau, uh Isaac. Isaac was the son of Abraham. They had been surnamed by their God. And so he saved them for his namesake, but that's not the end of the verse. Look again at verse 8 Nevertheless, he saved them for his namesake that he might make his mighty power to be known. You see, everything is for us. But nothing is about us. All that God is doing is for the sake of his elect. In the Garden of Eden, he promised that he would send a Savior. He sent his own son to die for his elect. Every bit of it is for us, but none of us is about us. It's for us, but it's about him. It's for us, but it's his glory. And my friend, when we begin to look at it that way, we understand that he's not going to do himself harm. He's going to work all things according to the counsel of his will. And it will all be for the benefit of his children. But it's not about us. So you see, if one of us becomes a martyr, is that some kind of great tragedy? No, it's not about me. It's for me. But it's about him. If this nation that we live in is overcome by communism, we would say that's a terrible thing. But will God not give us manna in that wilderness? Will he not open up a way? There's no promise in the Word of God that our blood won't be shed. That's right. But there is the promise that when we pass through the water, he'll be with us. And through the fire we'll not be burned. You see, it's all for us. But it's not at all about us. It's about him. And so indeed, remember me. O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people, O visit me with thy salvation, that I might see the good of thy chosen. That I might see that in all these things God's good is being worked for the benefit of his people. His glorious truth is going forth. Number two, remember me, O Lord, with the favor that thou bearest unto thy people. O visit me with thy salvation. That I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. We love the United States. We are privileged to be here, to be citizens of this nation. And yet, this verse says, Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor, that thou bearest from thy people, O visit me with thy salvation, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. You see, the United States is not his nation. Oh yeah, he owns Catholic Thousand Hills, and in that sense we could say, yeah, you know, it's his nation. All nations belong to him. But when it talks about thy nation, God's nation, it's talking about us, folks. Red, yellow, black, and white, blue with purple spots. Multitude of languages, multitude of nationalities, from all across the world. It's a different nation that's being spoken of here. And it tells us that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. Now we celebrate the 4th of July. We're happy about that. But there's a greater rejoicing that has nothing to do with this United States. And here the psalmist says he wants to rejoice in the gladness of that nation because his world is falling apart all around us. We see it on the news constantly. If you if you want to stay awake at night, watch the evening news. I'm not recommending it. I'm just kind of throwing that one out there. But here, in the midst of two psalms that are quotations from First Chronicles 16, which recounts for us God's return of his presence and return of his blessing to his people after their rebellion, after their failure, even after Uzzah has been died for trying to bring up the Ark in the wrong way. We find this prayer. Lord, let me rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. Kingdoms rise and fall Where are the Phoenicians today? They once ruled the seas. Where are the Romans today? They once ruled the world. Where's Alexander the Great? What happened to Greece? They're gone. And we do not find the United States in the book of Revelation. We don't find this nation in prophecy. We don't find it in Daniel or Ezekiel. But look at verse three of Psalm 106. Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. What do we relate judgment to? Well, nationhood You see a a lawless society where there is no nation, where there is no government, they don't have judgment. But here the psalmist says, Blessed are they that keep judgment. He's not talking about keeping the laws of this country. He's not talking about submitting to the judgment of this country. He's talking about the nation that's mentioned In verse 5. Blessed are they that keep judgment, that are under the nationhood of that nation. Blessed are they that keep judgment at all times. I won't happily raise your hand if you keep judgment at all times. I don't think any of us could claim or keep righteousness at all times. We all fail. And that's what we find in verse six. We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedness. And in my notes between verse 3 and verse 6 I have a great but in capitals. Blessed are they that keep judgment at all times, or judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times, but we have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done righteousness. Now, again, this psalm is a psalm of encouragement for God's people. Look at verse 7. They understood not his wonders in Egypt. They remembered not the multitude of his mercies, but provoked him at the Red Sea. They didn't understand what he was doing. They didn't remember it after he did it. And they provoked him in spite of his doing it. Would we put up with ourselves? No, we wouldn't. But God's still doing wonders for us today. No, we haven't seen the Red Sea parted. But we've seen some wonders, folks. We've seen more than a few. Did we understand them? Did we have any comprehension of the might and the power and the protection of our God? God is still doing wonders for his people today. We are his nation. He is leading us out of this world. We are traveling through a wilderness on our way to the heavenly promised land, the New Jerusalem Yea, even we are that new Jerusalem which comes down from heaven. We're on the journey. We're on the pathway, and God is doing wonders for his nation. And we don't even understand them We don't even perceive what he's doing. We're unaware because we're so wrapped up in the wilderness that we're going through. That we don't see what he's doing. You see, they understood not his wonders in Egypt. God made absolute fools out of the wise men of Egypt. The wise men couldn't stand before Moses because they had boils. Hemorrhoids, folks. Let's put it where it is. Their bodies were so racked with this stuff that they couldn't stand before Moses. It doesn't say they couldn't stand before Pharaoh. It says they couldn't stand before Moses. Pharaoh couldn't stand either. He had the same thing. God made absolute fools out of them. And we look at this world today, and I saw a picture of Buddha Jed and his husband with their two babies. They've just adopted two babies. I am the Lord, and I change not. Therefore, you sons of Jacob are not consumed. But the wicked will be consumed. Yes, they shall. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Foolishness! Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Green energy nonsense, let's say it, folks. That's destroying everything around us. They're trying to preserve the environment and they're destroying the nation in the meantime. God is still making Pharaoh's magicians foolish. And protecting his people all the while. And these fools cannot stand before this nation. They can't stand before the people of God. Be encouraged, folks. Don't watch the news and be discouraged. Be encouraged. The wicked, why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? He that sits in the heavens shall laugh. He's not discouraged or concerned about these things, and neither should we be. God made absolute fools. Out of the wise one of Egypt. Now as Jamies Jamies and Jambores withstood Moses So do these also resist the truth, corrupt men, are men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the food the faith, but they shall proceed no further For their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was, Paul said in 2 Timothy 3, verses 8 and 9. They worship this world that is crumbling around them and show themselves to be fools. God made fools out of the wise men of Egypt. And when God brought the plagues, God made separation for his people. See, the first three plagues of Egypt were upon everybody. But starting with the fourth plague, God severed his people apart. God separated his people, and God is still separating his people today. God will protect us. God will take care of his people. In Exodus 8 and verse 22, God says, I will sever in that day the land of Goshen. in which the my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there. In Exodus ten we find the Egyptians sitting in darkness, but we read that the Israelites had light in their dwellings. What a glorious picture that is. For you see the Buddha Jeds and and the nonsense of the Greens and everything else in our world. These people don't have a bit of light. They're walking in darkness. But the child of God walks in light. We understand this world We understand what is happening. We have a rational and wise view of what is taking place. And we measure it by the Word of God, and we look into the Word of God and we find that we've never seen the righteous forsaken or a seed begging bread. We look into his word and we find that great peace have they that love thy law and nothing shall offend them. We look into his word and we find that there shall be wars and rumors of wars, but it's all leading to the end. We find that there shall be pestilences and floods in various places. But let none of these things move you. Don't let them trouble you. We've read the end of the book. That's right. And so God made the wise men of Egypt to be foolish. And God separated his people from the judgment. Oh Lord, oh Lord God, remember me With thy favors thou bearest thy people, O visit me thy salvation, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. See those two words. Rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. Don't say anything about fretting and stewing. Oh, it makes me angry, folks. I see what's going on, and it makes me angry. But we're to rejoice in the gladness of a different nation. We're to rejoice in the gladness of his nation. And so God rebuked the Red Sea on their behalf. God led them through the Red Sea. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And it's interesting there. Look at verse 9 in particular. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up. So he led them through the depths as through the wilderness. He led them through the depths as through the wilderness. The wilderness is not a place of marsh and mud, it's a place of dust and dry. He led them through the Red Sea. They were so afraid of the Red Sea. Have you brought us out here to perish? What else do we know about the Red Sea? It was the death of their enemies. We read there, if you read through the chapter, there was not one of them left. God led them through the Red Sea that they feared so much, it became the death of their enemies, and the Red Sea was to them as the wilderness, it was as dusty as the wilderness. But oh, how they complained about the wilderness. Oh, how the wilderness was not a good place either. But God led them through the water like the wilderness. You see, there's changing circumstances, folks. You see the the comparison there. One day it's wet, the next day it's dry. One day it's a flood, the next day it's it's Drought. There'll be all kinds of circumstances, but God led them through the sea, just like they were led through the wilderness And just like the sea itself was a wilderness, he led them through on dry ground. He brought them through the wilderness, and God made The wilderness, or God made the sea the instrument of the destruction of their enemies. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage, take the clouds ye so much dread, are big with mercy and shall break with blessings on your head. Verse 4. Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people. Oh, visit me with thy salvation, last part of verse five, that I may glory with thine inheritance. And there's our third pair of words, glory and inheritance. Look at verse ten And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. Why? Because they didn't belong to the enemy. They were his. I mentioned in our introduction, Psalm 2 and verse 8, ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thine inheritance. We are God's inheritance. We are the inheritance of Christ, more specifically. He delivered them from the hand of them that hated him. And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. Verse 12 and 13. They believed his words, they sang his praise, they soon forgot his works and waited not at all for his counsel. Verse 19, they made a calf in Horeb and worshipped the molten image, and they changed their glory into the similitude. Of an ox that eateth grass. See, they were the inheritance of the Lord, and they were to glory in his inheritance, but they changed their own glory. into that of an ox that eats grass. They made a golden calf. Let me break that down for you a little bit. Man was created in the image of God. And the image of God created he them. The image of God in man was marred to the point of destruction in the fall of Adam. I'm aware that the cause against murder is that man is created in the image of God. And I believe that the elect are in the image of God by redemption. But there's not much of the image of God left in the unsaved. Now that doesn't mean you can go out and murder them with impunity. That's not what I'm saying at all. But what is it that God does at salvation? He makes a man a new creature. He recreates man in that image. Here we find that these children of Israel, who were the heritage of God. They changed their own glory into the similitude of a calf. In other words, rather than worshiping Jehovah God, they made for themselves a God of gold. They made a calf. And they became like their God, which was the calf, rather than being like their God, who is Jehovah. Now, we are to glory in his inheritance, not to change our own glory to be like this world Be not conformed to this world. Neither love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing, by the regeneration of your mind, by the changing of your mind. He or the children of Israel, rather than glorying in what they had been made of God, his inheritance. Well, they changed themselves back into the image of Calf. Thinking themselves to be wise to become fools, the New Testament speaks of those that turn from the truth. To paraphrase 1 Peter 1, verses 3 and 4, we are begotten again into a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible. An inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away. But they took that heritage they had from God and they made a golden calf instead. We need to glory in God's inheritance. The inheritance of God as the church We need not to change our worship in some way to please men. We need not in some way to make for ourselves a God that is more pleasing to ourselves as they made for themselves a calf. But O God, may you give us grace, may you remember us, O Lord, with the favor that thou bearest to thy people and visit us with thy salvation that we might glory in thy inheritance. Not worried about the Egyptians on their way, not burning ourselves about Pharaoh. You see, Pharaoh in scripture stands as a prototype of Satan. Pharaoh like Satan entrapped and enslaved the people. Pharaoh like Satan could not hold them. Pharaoh like Satan pursues after the people. Be sober, be vigilant. For your adversary the devil is a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. And Pharaoh, like Satan, met his end. And so the people of God need rather than glorying in this world and making for ourselves golden calves We need that we may continually glory in thine inheritance. I've read them many times before. In our message this morning, but let me read them again, verses four and five. Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people. Oh, visit me with thy salvation, that I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation. That I may glory in thine inheritance rather than changing my own glory into shame. To conclude this morning, look down to verses forty-four and following. We haven't touched much on the middle of the psalm. The middle of the psalm is full of the people's rebellion. But look how this prayer ends. Well look how the story ends. Nevertheless, there's that same word we saw up in verse uh number seven eight earlier. Nevertheless He regarded their affliction when he heard their cry. Verse 4 and 5 is a prayer, folks. They were praying for three specific requests. And he regarded their affliction when he heard the cry. And he remembered for them his covenant. Covenant. Covenant. What does covenant relate to? It relates to his chosen. It relates to his nation. It relates to his own people. He regarded their affliction. He remembered for them their covenant. And repented according to the multitude of his mercies. He regarded their affliction, he remembered his covenant, and he repented according to his mercies. mercies. Folks, God heard the prayer. God heard the prayer of verses four and five. Don't be discouraged. Don't look at the Red Sea. Don't look at the people problems around us. God's got this. God's in control. Let the people of God rejoice. Let the people of God be encouraged. And in the concluding two verses of the Psalm, Save us, O Lord God, and gather us from among the heathen to give thanks into thy holy name and to triumph in thy praise. Does that sound like heaven, folks? Gather it for our heavenly home. Let us sing around the throne for all eternity. Blessed be the people, or blessed be the Lord God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting, and let all the people say, Amen. And those last four words, praise ye the Lord, are the same hallelujah that the psalm begins with. Hallelujah. Amen. Let us stand for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you at the battle with the Lord's. There is much around us that can discourage us. But Father, we thank you that though it is all for us, it is not at all about us. It's all about Christ. You are doing all things for the benefit and the blessing of your people, but it's all to the glory of your Son. Cause us, your people, to do righteousness at all times, O Lord. In Jesus name, Amen.