To our discussion question, but first I'm going to read the text that we have at hand today as we march through Hebrews 11. We're looking at individuals from the Old Testament who are noteworthy And in Hebrews 11, we're now reading about a fellow you may have never heard of. Hebrews 11, beginning in verse 5, and then we're going to look at 5 and 6. By faith, Enoch That's his name, Enoch, was translated, that he should not see death, and was not found because God had translated him. For before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith It is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So that's our text today, and we're going to spend time looking at him as well as in Hebrews and back in the account of Genesis. So a discussion question. shouldn't be too difficult. Maybe it'll be embarrassing, I'm not sure, but think of somebody notable. That's a key word, notable can be notable in a positive sense or in the sense of notoriety, good or bad, in your family who has since died. They've passed along. Now, if you could sum up their life reputation in one sentence or one phrase, you know, say you want to engrave it on their tombstone, what would it be? Who is the individual and what would the reputation be that you would put on their tombstone? I paid my letter on half Your mother and the unhappy. Yeah, isn't that interesting? How how some people stand out in our minds they're just unhappy. What did she do to earn that reputation? She was mentally ill. Mm. Paranoid schizophrenic. Hm. Yeah, that would Yeah. Yeah. That's very difficult. Unhappy. That's a polite way of putting it really. Somebody else, somebody of reputation in your family or someone you know, they've since passed. You want to sum up their life in in uh in a sentence or a phrase? Perseverance Who's the individual you have in mind? Who's that? My mother. Your mother. And you would say of her she had great perseverance. Yeah. Hmm. What uh what did she do to earn that reputation? Well she under things that uh uh she kept right. I recall you mentioning that she had uh several children. You were the third one, but the first two she had died. Three died. First three died. You were the fourth And and and succe and succeeded to to vitality. Um and then uh she came from another country during a time of war. Yeah. Once or twice did she flip. another from Turkey to uh Syria, from Syria to Lebanon, from Lebanon to here. Wow, four different countries. Yes. And to still make it here. Yeah. And she died at what age? Eighty 86. 86. Yeah. Pretty pretty good long life, yeah. One who perseveres. My 56-year-old grandfather's epitap would be a powerful man who was feared because he was evil. Hmm. Interesting. So this would be someone of bad notoriety. And the opposite of my father. My father was loved because he was good. But his father was feared because he was evil. Both of them were very powerful, influential men. But my grandfather probably murdered at least two people. Hmm. He murdered two people? Never never proven, probably. He um he rode across Harper County with Roosevelt in Roosevelt Minnesota Well, if you wanted votes in Parkman County, Maryland, which was a Republican county. Mm-hmm. My grandfather. Hm. He was feared and that he was evil. Well, yeah. What does that say about their their character other than mental illness. What does that say about an individual's character? Either perseverance or uh uh evil or good. What what would that one line epitaph on the tombstone reveal about their character? Patience Would you say it was made up as you're just walking by, you look at it and go, no, that's uh that's just fiction. A character Being conformed to the image of Christ as a character lacking Christ. When you survey, thank you for that. Thank you. That's interesting. So when you survey someone's life and you get away from the you know terminal most recent issues and you look at the long view, you begin to see certain patterns in an individual that is reflective of who they are really deep inside. And that's what the penment to Hebrews is doing for us today with this Old Testament character. It's a fellow named Enoch. So let's first of all get some data in front of us, right? We're probably not too intimately familiar with Enoch, and so we're going to go Look, uh, and you might want to turn there in your Bible if you'd like, uh, because we'll be scanning some of these portions. In Genesis chapter 4, we're going to begin And we're going to pick up some context about the life of this fellow named Enoch, whom we find being brought before our attention. First we read in verse 25. We've covered last week Cain and Abel. And from Cain and Abel we saw that that uh Cain murdered Abel. Abel was a righteous individual, and we studied that last week because of the more excellent sacrifice he brought. Well the story then continues in verse 25. Adam knew his wife again, and she bare a son, and called his name Seth. For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. And to Seth, to him also, there was born a son. And he called his name Enos. It's a different fellow. Then began men to call upon the name of the Lord. Now, when we find that phrase, calling upon the name of the Lord, this is a An Old Testament metaphor meaning you had public worship at that point. You had men that were seeking to uh go before the God of heaven to beseech him in prayer, to offer sacrifices as would have been uh uh typical of the day, as we note from Abel, it was really when worship services began to be more in earnest. We began to see the peopling and the population of the earth. There's going to be more people involved here. And so now we have people calling upon the name of the Lord, just like we do on Sunday mornings. You know, the what we're about to read is something that God created. He created the biblical concept of history, and that's your first fill-in-the-blank in your bulletin. He created the concept of history with the opening chapters of the book of Genesis. You read in Genesis 2. 4, these are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. That word generations is Toladoth. Toledoth, and the New King James renders it history. I find that fascinating. God is instructing the human race how to capture history. God created all things by the space of six days, and he called it first uh evening and morning was the first day, evening and morning was the second day, evening and morning was the third. And so as he goes through, he's saying this is how you capture history. It's by events marked by time and what happened during that time. Because if somebody didn't tell us to do it, I'm not sure we'd know how Well, we then find the Tolodoth continues. God started history. And in Genesis 5. 1, we read this. This is the book of the Toledoth, the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him, and so forth. So we find that word history, Toledoth, in King James rendered generations is now going to be the Tolodoth of Adam. Now, you and I have a calendar on our wall, and the calendar has a year, and the year is pegged to a certain point, fixed point in time. The some Catholic monks back in the day, they got the calendar right and they pegged it to before Christ and after Christ. That was the centerpiece. Jesus Christ is our Toledo. These are the days of Jesus Christ. It's his time because he ever lived. He continues on, and so that's how they marked The unbeliever marks it before Common Era and Common Era. They call it C E and B C E. We still call it B C and A D. And so There would be no calendar on the walls in the early days. If you wanted to reference a time, you would mark it according to the patriarch of that age. So there was a season when it was Adam. And then we continue on We find out that Enoch came from a line of men, of patriarchs, who lived great ages. So we find in Genesis 5, and you can just scan there with your eyes, Just think about the life and the longevity of some of these individuals. We find Adam lived for 130 years, and then he bore a son named Seth. Now he would have had many other children up to Seth, but Seth would have been the next patriarch. And Adam goes on, it says in verse 5, for 930 years. Seth continues on. He bears a son at a certain point in time. And then Seth lives in verse 8, 912 years. Enos, his son, goes on. He begats a son named Kainon, or Kainon, Kainan. I'm not exactly sure how to pronounce that. Enos lives 905, Can and lives 910, and so on. Mahalil 895 and Jared 962. I can't fathom living that long. Can you imagine hitting your 900th birthday? Now, things didn't change too much then, but in a way they sort of did. I can't even calculate how many kids or grandkids you'd have. I mean basically you'd the whole nation would be you and you would be great-great great great great grandpa. You were the patriarch. You were the top dog of that tribe and that group of people. More candle than cake. It would be well, it'd be a mighty big cake and be a mighty b uh huge bonfire. I it's funny, my aunt, celebrated her 70th birthday and my cousin decided to put seventy candles on her cake and it was a roaring bonfire in the house. I mean it began an updraft that kind of swept up like this. It's like this is not a good idea Incredibly long ages, and you know, frankly, there's really nothing wrong with the human body. It in fact could live forever. But you and I have, because, and by virtue of the fall, but more importantly, by virtue of the pruning of the human genome at the days of Noah, is our lifespan shortened? And so we just don't see these kinds of years. You know, you ever you ever feel like I'm just finally getting getting it down. I finally figured out how to do things right in life. And then you're 67, you're like, well, another 15 years and I'm out. Just when you finally figured out you punched out. Well, not back then. Can you imagine you finally got your act together? Now you can start to get in the position of influence and I mean it's quite impressive. These ages are just incredible. Enoch, we find out, was the father of Methuselah. So Enoch's father was Jared. We find in verse 18 Jared begat Enoch. And Enoch, when he lived for 65 years, he begat somebody called Methuselah. Methuselah has a reputation for being the longest lived human being that we have on record at 969 years. You see that in verse 27. Almost a complete Uh a thousand years, a millennia. That's a mighty long time. So, in fact today uh Methuselah is a reference to old things when they revived the date poem from a very ancient date tree that went back 2,000 years. The biologists were able to uh germinate it and the plant sprouted and grew. They grew a 2,000-year-old seed. You can go see it in Israel. And guess what they named the palm tree? Methuselah. Yeah. It has that kind of reputation. Furthermore, we find that Enoch is in the lineage of the Messiah. You don't have to turn there, it's in your notes. In Luke 337, it says which was the son of Methuselah, which was the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, and so forth. Luke is giving Jesus legal lineage And so in the line of the Messiah, we find Enoch. And of course, all the patriarch figures that we've just read are also in the line of Messiah. Curiously enough, you don't see it from the text of Genesis, but you do find it from the book of Jude that Enoch was a prophet. Now, we don't have record of his prophecy in our captured scriptures, but Jude, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, has either some oral tradition or some other uh extra biblical information that will now be captured in Holy Writ. And the book of Jude says this in verse 14. There's only one chapter in Jude. It says, Enoch also And to make sure we know which Enoch we're talking about, he says the seventh from Adam. That would be not the seventh individual ever there, but the patriarch. Prophesied of these. He's talking about a false prophet, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints. And he goes into this incredible prophecy that God's coming to judge the wicked As a notable prophecy because he uses the word ungodly four times in that section. So Enoch was a prophet. He was somebody who declared, God's coming, God's coming to judge. Now it could be that we're coming up close to the days of Noah, because after Enoch, you have Methuselah, and then you have Lamech, and then you have Noah. Maybe it could be in the days of Enoch, the earth was beginning to become very corrupt. Already he was beginning to see it. Already he was beginning to observe the distance of men from the memory of God. The fear of the Lord beginning to wane and peter out and disappear. And so Enoch would come through prophesying, God is going to come, God is going to judge. And indeed, he did in the days of Noah. But what is Enoch's distinction? And that's what Hebrews is pulling at, and you see that in Genesis 5. 21. Enoch lived 65 years and begat Methuselah. Now that's interesting because the earlier patriarchs had their next progeny who would be. the patriarch for their generation, come around 120, 130 years. But here it's only 65. That's interesting. I'll uh comment on that just a moment. Well I'll get to it now because I'm not sure when I'm going to get back to it. If you look at the age of Methuselah, because he lived 969 years, and when Enoch begat this son who would live a mighty long time, And then lead up to Noah. The very year that Noah entered into the Ark is the year that Methuselah died All of the godly patriarchs would have since left the scene, leaving only Noah and his family. The Lord knoweth them that are his. He protects and preserves them. Well it says Enoch walked with God. This is the first comment we have on any of the patriarchs so far other than Their name, how long they lived before they begat the next patriarch, how long each lived and then they moved on. Isn't that common of tombstones? You have a name, date of birth, date of death, maybe who they were married to, some familial fact. That's it. That's typical or a tombstone. And that's no deal when these individuals we've read so far, as we saw from Luke briefly, they were in the lineage of Jesus Christ In fact, Jesus himself is called the second Adam. So even Adam himself is in that line. Of course that makes sense, right? The Son of God would come. from the seed of the woman, from the man. Alright, we find here an interesting epitaph. Enoch walked with God. After he begat Methuselah 300 years and begat sons and daughters, all the days of Enoch were 365 years. And Enoch walked with God. There it is, it was repeated. Twice it's mentioned. If something's in Scripture once, that's important, you can take it to the bank. If it's in there twice. As it were, God's putting a yellow pen highlighter on it saying, pay attention, don't miss this point. He walked with God. And he was not, for God took him. Now, Genesis 5. 24 says God took him. Hebrews 11. 5 says Enoch was translated. When I talk about translations, what comes to your mind normally? Languages, yeah, you're you're you're converting a language from one script dialect to another. Tell me a little bit more about that process of translation. How does that work? What's the goal? What's the objective? How does it function? Takes one and transforms it into something else. Yes, yeah, it is a transformation. Um What about the uh original language and the target language? Um I'm trying to get it meaning. How what's the goal of the translator? Can understand what was said in that original language. So I don't know any languages other than English. Uh that's a shame in some countries, but that's just the way I am. I was uh privileged to be born in America where English is the top dog language for the moment, and so it uh it sort of doesn't matter But the goal of the translator is to preserve the original sense and meaning of it. Now, some of you who do know multiple languages, how difficult is it to translate, say, idioms? You know what an idiom is? It's a little phrase that is unique to that language. I know one in Spanish, masimanos. It roughly translates more or less. And it's used typically on the construction site when a board's not nailed well enough. They say must it not mean it's good enough. It literally renders more or less, but it means yeah it's good enough. So we would render that idiom good enough, but it literally renders more or less Do you see how there are some words and idioms in different languages that are difficult to translate into others? In fact, missionaries face this. They have difficulties when they take the gospel into foreign lands. I heard of an account where The evangelists landed on an island and the most valuable thing to them was a pig. And so they didn't have lambs. They'd never seen lambs, they'd never seen sheep. And so when they got to John 129, they said, Behold the pig of God that takes away the sin of the world I would fault that translator. They need to render it lamb. I get what they're trying to do. But that's the struggle. Here, the translation is not speaking about a word. It's talking about a person. And I think that's interesting. He was translated. He went from, as Pastor mentioned, one form to another. But the goal of the translator is to preserve the meaning. Here God's preserving the individual The individual was totally preserved. He's still Enoch in a different form. I think that's an interesting insight into how we go to heaven. We're transformed We're translated. We're still you. You still have your identity. You'll always be Lisa. Yet you'll have your Father's name, your Heavenly Father's name I think that's interesting here. This shortcut to heaven was only bestowed upon one other Bible character. Does anybody know who that was? Yeah, Elijah, he's the more popular and well-known individual that we read in 2 Kings 2. There appeared a chariot of fire, horses of fire, parted them both asunder. He was walking with Elisha And Elijah went up by whirlwind into heaven. So I have a couple of basic observations on this, and then I've got some questions here. First of all, this type of specific detail and insight of a patriarch is recorded of none other in Genesis 5. So he stands out as very unique. God, as it were, is saying, you know, you need to pay attention to this guy right here. This is one you need to pay attention to. Second, it's evident that this is his primary life characteristic. On his tomb would be walked with God. That was his reputation. He was one who walked with God. And the third point is Well, I'll leave that because I want to discuss that a little bit more later. Let's look at God's assessment of Enoch, alright? Now, my question is this. We're going to compare two verses. And I want you to to help me understand this because Hebrews didn't exactly quote Genesis 5. So let me, it's in your handouts, in your bulletin, but compare the two verses. You have Genesis 5. 24, it says, Enoch walked with God. But Hebrew says this, before his translation he had this testimony, this witness, this reputation, that he pleased God. So Somebody compare and contrast those. Why? What's different? What does that inform us? What does that tell us? Any ideas? All ideas. Right. Uh so I think about um I says he walked with God. I think there's a verse that says, Can two walk together except they be agreed. So walking together means that they're of the same mind, that they have the same interests. And Certainly that would please God. Yeah, you're making a reference to Amos 3. 3. Can two walk together except they be agreed? That's a really good comment. Any other thoughts? That's pretty good. But I think of walking I think is something we do continuously day by day. It's a part of every movement. It's just like who we are and what we do without even thinking about it. So if you walk in with God, that would be God because he's in continual fellowship with God. Yeah, I like that word continual. Continual fellowship. Exactly. Um let's look at that word walked here. Um I I am fascinated with the etymology of words and and how they get recycled and reused. You know, you go From one town to another they every town is a main street. They just recycle that word Main Street. Um there's always an oak street somewhere. I mean it just it's just and the same is true with words, they kind of get free cycled. And English is a horrible language to learn because it's adopted so many words from other languages into ours. In fact a fair number of Greek words have made their way into the English language. English is a hodgepodge, really. But this Hebrew word walked is interesting. Generally it refers to movement. It can be an animal, it can be a river. And it's a metaphor. It's a metaphor for the pathways of life or behavior. So it's not literal you know, with your feet, although certainly we're not saying Enoch was a cripple. But it has to do with behavior. And you see this actually in the Old Testament, various places. For instance, the 2 Chronicles 17, 3 is an example of this, where we read, The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto Balaam. That's a really good Instructive verse about walking. Here, Jehoshaphat uh behaved himself like David. He didn't go seek after the Baals, Baalim, anytime you see the word or the letter I am at the end of a word. That's plural in Hebrew. Seraphim, I. M. , that means seraphs, plural. That's the plural form of it. He didn't seek into all the bales that were out there. Genesis 6. 9, we also read of another fellow who did the same. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man. And perfect mature in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Here's another individual that's known as somebody who walked with God. It's in the sixth chapter, it comes a little later. Genesis 17. 1, look at what God told Abram. When Abram was 90 years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram. And said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me, and be thou perfect. Walk before me. Well, God's not telling him stand up and just march around, right? He's telling him that your behavior needs to be that which Is becoming of a Christian, of a Hebrew, if you will. But we have a cross-reference there. That's the Hebrew word for walked, but Hebrews is giving us a direct commentary, and I really hope that you're understanding my approach here that would help you in your own Bible study. Whenever you have a New Testament quote of something in the Old Testament, dig at it. Mm-hmm. Dig at it, pull at it, examine, cross-reference. Look, is it an exact quote? Hint, it rarely is. And that's not a fault That is not a fault because it's not an identical quote. That's actually a strength. Because while the scriptures are still being captured, while the word of God is still being enscriptuated What you have is God's commentary on that Old Testament passage. It is God's commentary. Now the text critical scholar will look at it and say, well, this is evident that they were quoting from something that was another text and so this isn't the real they'll go down they'll take it in the worst possible light and it's nonsense that's unbelief that's ridiculous they don't believe that God breathed this book into existence through organic means, through human individuals, through pens of his hand called men. So when you see these differences, you can actually compare them. And I just find it to be fascinating. It really is insightful. And we're going to do that a little bit more here. So we looked at the Greek word for walked. It's a pattern. It's a behavior. Enoch's behavior was one that was with God. I think Penny Gabriel put it well, but with Amos 3-3 and this continual ongoing activity. That word is very rarely used in the New Testament, but it is used later in Hebrews 13, and it's rendered well-pleased. Hebrews 13, 16. To do good and communicate, forget not, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. So whatever walking with God is, his behavior We have a commentary in the New Testament to make it clear that God was well pleased, not just a little bit pleased, was well pleased. And it's kind of consistent with Abel's sacrifice. He offered a more excellent sacrifice. It was above and beyond. It was over the top, we would say, today. There's an idiom that's not going to trend well into other languages. So the penman to Hebrews crowns that observation with a point that is not found in our text, and this is another interesting hermeneutical point. The Apostle Paul often would compare a scripture with another scripture to shore up a doctrinal point. For instance, pastors are to be paid. Why? Because he pulls out something from Deuteronomy and says, you shall not muzzle the ox while it uh it treads the corn. He says, does God care for oxen? I mean, yeah, he does, but he's saying, does God really care for oxen? Is that his big plan? No, he's talking about ministers ought to be paid. So we will find Old Testament uh Passages to use that to support a New Testament doctrine. But the pen then to Hebrews often pulls at arguments from silence, which I find to be interesting Now, this is not entirely an argument from silence, but it's silent because you don't see the key word here in Genesis, which is the word faith. You find walk, behavior, well-pleasing, all of that sense that goes with it, but you don't see that word faith. And the pen to Hebrews makes this conclusion. Without faith, but without faith, it's impossible to please him You see how he backends this point in? In other words, if you see that and God took him, that implies something that you don't see. And that was faith. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So what does it mean to have faith in God? Discussion time. You trust him? Trust And therefore you trust in his word. And you trust what he says? His word? Confidence. A confidence. Now, what are some ways that people try to please God without faith? What kind of works? I mean we would say that Enoch worked. He obviously did something. Make themselves uh work themselves to look good to themselves, thinking that God is on that same Try to give a merit some failure of that. To try to gain some merit, okay. Man's good works typically are trying to cover something Just like Adam's thick leaf clothes, you know, um, I'll do this because I know I did that. That just please go. Yeah, right. What are some other ways that men try to please God apart from faith? Those are all correct. They'll confess to someone else. They'll go to a priest, you know, thinking that will the priest will make up the difference. Please sir. I can do it earlier. Some form of penance? What about somebody like an evolutionist who keeps trying to put God out of his mind and he doesn't want to have God in his thoughts whatsoever? He doesn't he doesn't believe that there's even a sin. That's what Church of Scientology teaches. There is no such thing as sin. As soon as you're liberated from the concept of sin, then you're free. That's their plan of salvation. Their their plan of salvation says there is no such thing as sin. That's like walking up to a house that's smoking and burning and it's on fire. Well there's no such thing as fire. So I can go into the house. Yeah, it just doesn't work. What do what challenges do people face trying to have faith in God? Challenges. I'm sorry. No. No. Okay. I mean even the Bible says uh somewhere and I don't want to mangle that past I believe helped all my unbelief. Um you know, um it's it's we have the written word, mm-hmm, you know, we we see the trees they all grow up typically and you know we know God is but we only know him by his word. I mean we only understand him to the to the ability that he gives us to understand by his one word, the Bible. Jeff brings up a good point. We cannot create faith in ourselves. From within ourselves. Faith is itself is a gift of God. You know, so I believe helpman unbelief. You know, he's he's hitting it right on the head there that that faith itself comes from God, and though we are to garden our faith to to use a term to hoe the weeds and etc. Also the faith comes from God. What other challenges do we face? The trial of the Mm-hmm. So we've just gotta have faith that what he said is true. He is working all things out for the business people who formed to the image of Christ, but may not feel like it right now. You have a lot of frustration trying to do what you consider to be having faith by works, is doing the same doing just trying to do. And you just get frustrated because you never really arrive at what you trying to gain. That's true. Well, God. You do this, oh, if I get married that'll be good. If I get a good job, that'll be good. If I do that, that'll be good. It's all of these things that try to be happy or with Christ or whatever and it none of them work. Not only they don't work, we just have to empty 'em and go back to the fact that God is things and forth. Do you have some? Yeah. I think another challenge is living in the end times with all the scoffers that are trying to poke holes at it, that are trying to reason their way and and reason you out of faith. That's part of the challenge. Living in an ungodly environment. Do you think Enoch had uh an environment like ours or was it still pristine and nice or Has it really been easy for any generation, frankly? And I think back in their day they didn't have the word of God. Where do I go when my faith is challenged by some standards and scoppers? I turned to the scripture. He couldn't do that. He couldn't even come to a Sunday church service such as we have and be encouraged by other believers and by the preaching of the word. That had to be Yeah. Yeah the scriptures, uh the first five chapters were not really captured, uh, and I use the word captured until Moses came. uh when writing was there, the the patriarchs would have been the ones who would have been word of mouth. And that oral tradition, by the way, is extraordinarily reliable. This isn't the game of whisper in your ear and what did you hear me say and you go around it comes out nonsense and decide, oh no, no, no. Oral tradition means a large group of people, right? from the family who were the s same thing. If one person got it wrong, they would all correct them. I mean it was a very large body. And there wasn't a lot of information to give. But what was given was very much preserved The the challenge of faith is we have to work at it. Faith without works is dead, being alone. You know, that it does need to be You have to work at not doing works. No, you have to work. Yeah, I I understand what you're saying. I'm not reproving it, but I'm saying that's the that's the conundrum. It's not works of righteousness which we have done. We're not doing things to glorify ourselves. I think Jeffrey talked about that men are doing it to get some merit, to point to themselves. But Enoch had a mindset that I'm walking with God. He understood his place in this relationship between creature and creator. He saw God as the big sea creator, him as the little sea creature, and he kept that in mind in all things he did. He was dependent as he went forward. Lord, how would you have me to do this? Lord, how would you have me to do this? Okay, off I'll go. Lord, I'm stuck here. Now what? It was the relationship. Oh, in light of what Penny just said, does is it does it mean that them not having those first five books, that when God created man, he gave him the innate ability to know that he is God. Is that how they You're very you're very close. I I I I I don't doubt that a bit. Uh certainly the law of God is written on men's hearts and there's been no change there. But they but they had a far better memory. They had a far better memory. You know, it's been estimated we don't use much of our human brain. But that's because we no longer live to be nine or some odd years old. These people had memories that just didn't fail. They could recite it precisely that you know some things you'll just you'll never forget Like I'll never forget the birth of all of my children, that event. I'll never forget that. There's certain things you just don't forget. I didn't really take you off crack earlier, but um it's kind of come around. Um in Genesis 3. 8 Adam heard the voice of the Lord, which goes to not having the written word, walking in the garden. I didn't know if it was the same walking you were reasonably for or not. It is. He heard walking in the garden. You know, and and there's there is that that fellowship communion that Adam was having with God was described as the voice walking. Keep your heart with all diligence is is the work of faith. Isn't that what Romans 1 Absolutely. Before we had that written word. And uh so anyway, so I see from this passage that at least two things come out is that Enoch believed that God existed, right? That's the pretty basic thing. He that comes to God must believe that he is. That was like a very low first step. You can't walk with somebody if you don't believe in them. You're you're not con you know, you you might go once. I think this is a good restaurant. You go there once, you go, this is a disaster, but you don't keep going back. There may be but it's not a you keep in company, if you believe they're credible, they're worth being with. And he diligently sought the Lord. What how do you see God rewarding those who seek him? They'll find him. Yeah, they will find him. He says and Jeremiah will when you think he will be a whole heart, he will find me. Yeah. I will surely be found here. That's right. God rewards faith with more faith Yeah. If uh any man will do his will he shall know of the doctrine. So this is Enoch. He's an interesting character. And he walked with God. What a marvelous reputation. And my challenge to you is what if you were to die before you left this parking lot this morning What epitaph would somebody put on your gravestone? What would people conclude of your life? If you don't know, ask somebody. And then ask him, am I Enoch? Or am I Cain? Or somewhere in between? Might be an interesting, insightful thing. Well let's uh close in prayer. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this testimony of Enoch. He still witnesses to us all these years of faith. Help us, ever Lord, to have faith in thee and to walk with thee. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.