May your Holy Spirit grant us understanding and insight into thy truth. Lord, open our hearts to receive thy truth. Open our minds to understand thy truth. Open thy truth to our hearts and minds, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We read the opening portion of the fifth chapter for our responsive reading this morning. That is the passage, of course, which we refer to as the Beatitudes. And Matthew 5 is the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. The Sermon on the Mount continues through chapter 5, chapter 6, and here in chapter 7, the two verses which we read. are a latter portion of the Sermon on the Mount, and the sermon actually ends at the end of this seventh chapter. This is a long sermon that Christ preached. I will not endeavor to preach as long as Christ preached We're going to focus our attention on these two verses. But before we look at those two verses, I would like to turn to a pit a passage with somewhat parallels in the book of Luke and chapter 13. And if you would like to turn, you can turn there, or I'll read them for you. In Luke chapter 13, verses 23 and 24, we read this. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in and shall not be able. Coming back to the seventh chapter and this Sermon on the Mount, we find that the entire Sermon deals with the kingdom of heaven. It is in this sermon where Christ says our fat taught them to pray, our Father which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and lead us not into temptation, for thine is the kingdom and the power It is in this same sermon that Christ says, if your eye offend you, pluck it out, because it's better to enter into life with one eye than having two to be cast into hell. In this same sermon, Christ says, if your hand offend thee, cut it off, for it is better that you enter into life with one hand maimed than with two hands and to be cast into hellfire. This sermon throughout talks about the kingdom. It's also in this same sermon we find, seek ye first, the kingdom of God and his righteousness And so that is the whole theme of this sermon. But we come down to this 13th and 14th verse. And Christ says, enter in at the straight gate. And folks, when Christ said, enter in at the straight gate, he was not giving you an invitation. He's not saying, hey, come, come enter here. Nor is he giving you uh uh directions We might stop and ask, well, okay, where is such and such an exit? He's not saying, well, it's over there. But rather, this word enter is a Greek imperative. This is a command. Enter in at the Strait Gate Christ is telling them what they are to do. Enter in at the straight gate And that word straight is an interesting word. It's what we call in English a homophone. It is a word that has the exact same sounding as another word that has a different spelling. This is S-T-A-I-C. T straight. I left the R out. S T A R I T. Do I have it right? S-T-R-I-T. S-T-R-A-I-T as opposed to S-T-R-A-I-G-H-T. One is something that is in a perfect alignment, but this is a word that means straight. And we're familiar because of recent news with the Strait of Hermuz. It is a very narrow passageway. It is uh my my family has a lot of English people in in the family and we we enjoy these uh homophones. Um we hear the word of God here Okay. Two totally different words, but it sounds exactly the same. Yes, uh I see the sea Well, one is vision, the other is is the ocean. No, I did not know that. It's two totally different words. Well this is not enter in at the gate that's all in a nice line But Christ says, enter ye in at the straight gate. It's a very narrow way. Now the world has all kinds of ways to enter into what? The kingdom. To enter into heaven. But Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. Christ declares there is one God, not a multiplicity of gods, but there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man. the man Christ Jesus. You see, no prophet can mediate between you and God. Mary cannot mediate between you and God. The saints cannot mediate on your behalf. There is one God. That's pretty narrow. If I were to tell you how to go from here to my home in Harford County, I could tell you that you if you go by by to the road out here, 200, 202, whatever it is. Or you could go around the belt way. There's several different ways. You can avoid the tolls by going this way. Folks, there's one way. There's not a way to get to heaven avoiding the tolls. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so Christ is not here giving an invitation, nor is he giving directions. He's giving a command. Enter ye in by the straight gate. And to read the verse again, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction Folks, it's very easy to go to hell. It's not hard to find that pathway. In fact, you're born on it. It's appointed on the man once to die, and after this the judgment. But Christ also suffered the just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. There is a very broad, very wide, very easy way. And some people think it's a lot of fun. And they may very much enjoy their journey on the broad way to hell. But at least the death. And so Christ says, Enter ye in by the straight gate Now I read also to you the passage there in Luke chapter 13. And Luke chapter 13 and verse 24 says, strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many I say will seek to enter in and not be able. And this is in the context of the virgins and the feasts. where they came after the door was closed and tried to enter in. Or like those in Noah's day who came after the ark was closed and the floods were rising and there was no entrance left for them. They will seek to enter in But the door has been closed. And that word strive is an interesting word. It's actually the Greek word. It's the word that comes from the same word as agony. The word strive in the Common Greek, the Greek of the day, but not in Scripture, is a word that means to wrestle. It's a word that means to fight Strive to enter in. Give diligence to make your calling and election sure. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Strive to enter in. Because the way is very, very narrow. There is a wide way that leads to hell. And there is a narrow way that leads to the kingdom of God And we find also that not only is it a wide way that leads to hell and a narrow way that leads to heaven But the multitude finds the wide way, many there be that go in thereat. But the narrow way, few there be that find it. In Hebrews chapter 3, we find the account of the children of Israel that came out of Egypt 600,000 men that walked, probably two million people in entirety when you count the women and children. And yet of those 600 men that came out of Egypt with Moses, only two went into the promised land. Joshua and Caleb. Moses himself did not enter in, and Aaron did not enter in. And Hebrews 3 tells us very clearly that they could not enter because of Now these were people that had seen manna spread on the ground. Every one of the men that walked that walked around Jericho except for Joshua and Caleb died in the wilderness. They had been fed with manna. They had seen the Red Sea parted. They had had a multitude of opportunity to believe, but they did not enter in because of unbelief. And further, the number is not given to us in Scripture, but if you calculate the years between Adam and the flood, And you calculate the lifespan of people before Adam and the flood, multiplied by the number of generations, there were probably about 7. 5 million people alive. Before the flood. Some estimates put it up much higher than that, but but I believe 750 million is a pretty good estimate. But there were eight souls. On the earth ark. Noah and his wife, his three sons, and their wives. Four men, four women that were There. Folks, there is a broad way. You're on it. It's easy to follow And many there be that go in thereat. But there is also an exceedingly narrow way. and view there be that find it. In fact, if you look down in the Matthew passage to uh verse 15 we're too told to beware of false prophets but then look down to verse 25 I believe it is um I'm in the wrong chapter. Let's see if I can find the verse on it. Um Many will say to me in that day, I don't have the verse in front of me, but I know the verse. Many will say to me in that day, trust me, it's in the passage. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord Have not we prophesied in thy name, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Then will I profess unto them, Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you It doesn't say a few are going to be thus deceived. It says many. Many. Well say, Lord, look, look at my works. Lord, look how many times I went to church. Look, Lord, look how good I was. Lord, look at all the things I've done. Surely I should have a ticket. But God's word gives us a very narrow way. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the resurrection and the life. Mary, believest thou, Martha, believest thou this. And so there is a wide way and a narrow way. There are the many and there are the few. But folks, there's more than that in these two verses. For again there in chapter 7 and verses 13 and 14. Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate And broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. And many there be that go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Folks, Be careful which gate you're standing at. Be careful which gate you're seeking. For if you are not seeking for God, you will find Satan very easily. If you are not seeking the kingdom of heaven, the way to hell is wide open and free. broad. There is one way. I um am fascinated with history and several years ago, not several years ago, I guess about four years ago. We were visiting out in Idaho with my son-in-law and daughter lived there. And we went to the little town of Wallace, Idaho. In 1910, there was a horrendous forest fire in that area that consumed 3 million acres of forest land. It burned uh for two or four days, just a huge fire, and then continued to smolder for weeks. The the entire town of Wallace was burned in the fire, was burned out But a man named Ed Pulaski, a forest ranger, knew that rugged territory Like the palm of his hand, as we say. It is very, very rugged territory. Ed Pulaski had a group of 45 men That were his firefighting team. And the fire was coming up the mountain, and there was no way for them to go anywhere to go, but up. But because Ed Pulaski knew those mountains like no one else did, he knew where there was an old mine shaft. The entrance of the mine shaft was smaller than the piano. It was about that bit. You couldn't stand up. You could just kind of stoop in it. He led his group of 45 firefighters running up this mountain through some of the most rugged territory. I hiked it on a trail. But they were running through uncut woods. He knew where this very narrow entrance to this mine was, and he took his men into the mine, crawling. Of the 45 men that went into that mine, 39 lived. The others still, they were too close to the entrance and they perished in the heat. This thing only went like 100 feet up into the hill. But he knew where that mine was. I hiked two miles to get to the mine. It was actually twelve miles that that they had to rush to get there. But folks, the story is this. They found the narrow way. And that was the only possible way of escape. There was in their presence, by God's provision, a man who knew where the entrance was. It's reported that he told the men that went in there. Some of the men wanted to go back out and and try to run down the mountain. And he told him, anybody that goes out, I'm going to shoot you. Because he knew, he knew That narrow spot was the only safe place they would find. Folks, that is the gospel That is what we are telling you today. That is what we tell our friends and our family. There is a raging fire, and there is a way to escape. And the way to escape does not look inviting. It does not look like where you want to go. And it's very difficult to find. But I know in all these mountains where that hole is. And if you will follow me into that place of safety, you will be spared. If you come in, but you don't come in far enough, you just kind of hang around the entrance, you will perish. If you say, No, this is not for me, and you go back out, you will perish. But if You will come into the one place of safety. There you will be sad. Just like Ed Pulaski said, get in there and don't get out. Christ says, Enter. Enter ye in. At this very narrow place. Because outside is nothing but destruction. Inside you will be saved. Folks, that's the message of the gospel. That's the message that those who know Christ have believed. It is the message that we proclaim to a lost and dying world. Enter ye in at the straight gate. There is life, and there is destruction. But if you look down further in the chapter to verse 24. Christ gives the conclusion of this Sermon on the Mount that began in chapter 5, verse 1. And in verse twenty-four he says, Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, that enters at the straight gate, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, because it was founded upon a rock And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these things, the people were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as Folks, this passage warns us of false prophets. This sermon tells us of a narrow way. This sermon tells us to seek first the kingdom of God. This sermon tells us to pray, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. This sermon teaches us, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This sermon tells us, enter ye in at the straight gate, at the narrow way. For wide is the gate that leads to destruction. Many there be that go in thereat. But narrow is the way that leads to life, and few there be that find it. Folks. Tell your lost loved ones, strive, agonize to enter into the straight gate. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Stand with me for prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your glorious word. We thank you that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. We pray this morning that you would bless your word abundantly to our hearts. Father, bless it to the ears and the hearts of the unbelievers. Father, may they truly believe and be saved. May they enter in through this great gate Father, bless it to us that we might use these tools given to us in thy word, Father, to be a witness and a testimony for Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.