Continuing in the twelfth chapter of Hebrews, and we are in the tail end of a sentence which we began last week. Hebrews 12 begins uh in verse 14 It says, follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord, looking diligently, and there's three lesss. We're gonna look at the third one this week. Last week we covered the first two lesss Lest there be any fornicate uh lest looking diligently, verse 15, lest any man fail of the grace of God, number one, number two, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and thereby many be defiled, and this week's sixteen and seventeen, lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau. So we're going to talk about him today, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Alright, our challenge question this week, our probing discussion question, which I trust you had a little a few seconds to meditate on before you arrived was this What is the worst business transaction you've ever made when you sold something short or too soon or too cheap or didn't take advantage of it? Uh when instead if you'd held on it would have been worth so much more. Some of our online audience responded about the uh stock market crash of 2008 uh that that was a horrible business transaction. Along those lines, that was about the same time when my uh dear father had passed and I came into some inheritance money Some colleagues at work were saying, wow, this is a great time to buy stock. GM was down to a buck a share, and Apple was down to five dollars a share And they were so and one colleague was telling me Apple's about to release the uh the iPod, if you can think back to those days. And I thought, touch screen, that's not gonna work. I remember Toshiba tried that, it was a disaster. I hate touch screen. Well, if I had invested in that Small, tiny $5 a share. It shot up to $250 a share. I could have easily had an extra $250,000 to $500,000 in an account had I done that. So that was a bad or a missed opportunity beyond imagination. Uh what about you? What's the worst business transaction you've had? Maybe you let something go that you should have hung on to or bought something that uh That uh just didn't you sold something good for something worse. You've all had successful business transactions You've had many successful business projects. The only one I can think of is um just in terms of I'm open to like money, so I I may my business transactions are mainly just by well, just like okay, hopefully this will appreciate over time stuff. And uh I think I just had it wasn't a bad financial well it was a bad financial transaction because my car at the time was had covered And I just should have known that at this point it was time to get a new car. But instead I wanted to take out it I had tenement value in the car and I wanted to fix it up and I wanted to sort of to be around all so I put in like I think five thousand to fix it and like another twelve hundred for like the brace and stuff. And I don't think it lasted like a year Ouch, yeah. Sentimental value, you're right. I had a old seventy two Chevy and Paula thing drove like an ape and just yeah that sentimental attachment, you know the That you just want to keep it alive. I've bought and sold cars since I was 14 and uh made money on every single one except my favorite Which I had about twelve hundred dollars invested in it. It was a sixty-three impalo, a super sport convertible. Ooh. Nice. Um It was in my dad's garage. We were on deputation for for Jamaica. I wanted just to put it away forever. Dad said, can you get this thing on my garage? I said, okay, Dad. You can sell it, but I have to get at least a thousand dollars. I had like thirteen hundred dad. And dad called me, I sold the car, oh what did you get? Five hundred dollars. Today that car, if I had done nothing to it but protect it, keep it in the garage, it'd be worth about $35,000. Yeah, sometimes we you at least rightly estimated its value. You just didn't have a uh willing storage unit then. Well we brought the Jamaica and every we gave way. Yeah Well, if I were your dad I probably would have said the same thing. I'm not a storage. I would have charged rent for the storage. No we we were leaving for Jamaica and nothing nothing was off the table. Miss Faba, have you ever uh parted with anything where you'd like should have kept that? Uh You collect all kinds of interesting things. You can't remember anyone of the particular Well as we continue on, I think you'll see where we're going with this, but I think you can all appreciate the uh the fellow that uh maybe sells something at a garage sale and finds out later the person who bought it has, you know. polished it up, cleaned it up and sold it for, you know, ten, fifteen, a hundred times what uh you thought it was worth because they actually knew its true value. I remember wrong. Oh you remember one now? Yeah Uh I had an offer to go teach in Bahrain for the American kids in Bahrain. And they sent me you know, they sent everything expenses, they uh transport my my car and everything. Everything was uh paid uh. But then I said yes and then I changed my mind. Yeah, to teach in Bahrain. Yeah. uh except they would have appreciated you as a teacher over there as opposed to Montgomery County. Yeah, you look back sometimes and you wonder. So well our immediate context has this warning lest any man fail of the grace of God Lest any root of bitterness arise. Now that's now it says, lest there be any fornicator or profane person. I'm kind of focusing on this part, this this last, because the Divine Author now reminds us of two seemingly obscure accounts between Abraham's two grandsons. We're all the way back in Genesis 25. If you want, start to turn there because we're going to go to Genesis 25. Because we're going to review that historical context and we're going to look for some biblical evidence that supports this third warning. against fornication and profanity. Now when we use the word profanity in our English vernacular, we tend to associate it with curse words But the the broader sense and the broader sense of the meaning of the word is different. But let me ask you, what does it mean to be profane? What is a profane person? Any ideas? When I pick propane, I think very vulgar. Yeah, a very vulgar person. Certainly that would be a very apt description of someone who's profane. And that would even be on the extreme end of profane. Uh there's actually a less extreme end which may strike you as a little more uh more mild. That's not wrong, but that's a good answer. Maybe someone who holds nothing in safety So that they would abuse the name of Christ. So give one similarity. Yeah, one who cannot distinguish between that which is holy and sacred versus that which is common or public Uh it's uh go ahead. On the initial level, all of sin that comes short of the glory of God. Anything that does not measure to God's standard of righteousness is perfection. Right. Yeah, the idea here is uh, you know, someone who's unholy, someone who's ungodly. I've been struck recently of the concept of an ungodly individual. An ungodly individual is not somebody who's cursing all the time, though they are. But it can also include those who simply are very nice, intelligent, educated, except they never mention the name of God. They never credit with anything. They don't talk about him. They have no interest in him. That's an ungodly individual. And they actually have counsel according to Psalm 1. Well, we're going to look at a profane individual called Esau. We're going to find out uh a little bit more insight into that. So if you will, please turn your Bible to Genesis 25, and I'm going to read starting in verse 29, and I'm going to ask questions as we go along because I want to kind of build this up. This isn't going to be a complicated study. It's got some very straightforward points to it. But I really want to drive this point home here. Genesis 25 and verse 29. And Jacob sod or boiled pottage. He had a stew going here, it turns out to be red lentil soup. And Esau came from the field and he was faint And Esau said to Jacob, now remember, these are the twin sons of Isaac, feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. Edom, by the way, means red. And the kingdom of Esau would be not the Esauites, but the Edomites, which later would become Eidumia Well, let's discuss what we've read here. So first, somebody described to me Esau's state of mind at this point. I'm going to drop it down to first gear. We're going to go real slow. What is his state of mind? What's his state? He's hungry. Desperate. Yeah. Yeah. He's uh he was known as the hunter. He was uh uh one who would get his venison from the field. If you've ever been hunting, you know, Joey, unfortunately, in those days they didn't have 30 aught six rifles, right? He had the old school. Not even he probably would have had a bow and arrow. He probably would have known about that. That might have been what he would go after But his uh you know flints, his his heads were not broadheads. He probably had to, you know, carve it out. This was a an an exercise You know, it's hard if you've ever been hunting. Even with modern weaponry, animals really know how to hide. And you can really kind of get tired and exhausted. So pretty much he's faint. Apparently it's also a hunt that has failed, right? He's hungry. He doesn't have anything to offer. Hey, look what I just caught here. Can we add it to your You know, he doesn't offer to amend the lentil soup. Alright, then we keep reading. Look at verse 31. We see Jacob's answer And Jacob said, sell me this day thy birthright. Oh, wow, that's an interesting response. You know, consider all the options that Jacob had in which to respond. If somebody comes to you and says, hey man, I'm hungry, can I get. Can I have something out of the fridge? You know, just consider all the options he had to respond. Uh what are some of the ways he could have responded? Sure, there's a bowl of soup. Sure, it's a bowl of soup. I mean it could have been real simple. Yeah, you're my brother. You're my brother? Yeah, sure, here you go. Have a bowl of soup. But how would you describe his response that he chose? Cunning. Cunning? Yeah. When I first read it, I think think about my relationship with my brother. It comes across kind of Harsh. A little bit harsh. Okay. Harsh? Yeah, good. I don't have a brother. I have a younger sister There's only two of us in the family. Um I have two wonderful brothers-in-law and they would absolutely never say anything like that to me, so I couldn't even imagine the nicest, the best uncles my children could ever have Yeah, harsh. It's like, whoa, dude, I'm just asking for soup. I'm not trying to exchange, you know, the back 40 here. I just want all the soup. We go to verse 32 Now look at Esau's answer. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. And what profit shall this birthright do to me? Hmm. Now that's that's that's that's an interesting statement here. Uh what does Esau's line of reasoning tell us? He was thinking clearly about himself and short term. He's thinking, well, what is the point of a birthright? This I can't profit from and if I'm taking you right now I don't profit Yeah, he he he's looking for something for right now. I mean he has a need, right? We ag we didn't disagree that he's hungry and faint. He declares that He's been hunting. It makes sense to us that there actually is a a a real, no-kidding, you know, physical need. But but his reasoning is it says what profit shall this birthright do to me? What what uh what was the birthright? It was a it was spiritual blessing as well as monetary blessing It would be a spiritual blessing and a monetary blessing. And uh now is that something that's immediate, Joey? Do you think the spiritual blessing? Is that immediate, the future thing? What's the nature of a birthright? I would say part of it's immediate, but then part of it would be as you grow in faith it naturally expands. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Uh you know, thinking back on the um uh the time when birthrights were a big deal. Uh how would we refer to them now? In parents. Yeah, an inheritance. Right. It just simply meant the firstborn son had a greater portion of the inheritance. And when do you get the inheritance? Well, somebody's got to die, namely your father or those who have control of it. So there was obviously something off in the future, some future value Well you could have had that. He's his reasoning is, what profit shall this birthright do to me? And the point Rick brought out is what profit shall it do to me right now? There's a hilarious set of posters that I always thought were kind of humorous that were found in offices and they were called the demotivational series. You've seen these motivational posters, right? The picture of the lighthouse you know, vision and uh teamwork, everybody rolling. Well there were these demotivational pictures that I thought were hilarious where it said Uh you know, uh uh exercise exercise pays off in the long run, but slothfulness pays off right now. That always cracked me up. There was other similar things that just showed that why look at the future you got something here and now. I'd like to procrastinate by keep putting it off. Right. Mm-hmm. Well maybe it was procrastination pays off right now. Yeah. Well, we go then to verse thirty-three of Genesis twenty-five and we read this. And Jacob said, Swear to me this day. And he sore unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. Now, what is the point of making Esau swear? Why would Jacob request that It's binding. It's binding. Who's there to witness it? God is and Esau and Jacob. The two of them know, hey, you swore to me And then also the Lord heard it. More importantly, the Lord heard it. So he swore. And then we read in verse 34. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he did eat. And drink, and rose up, and went his way. Thus, Esau despised his birthright. Why does it say Esau despised his birthright? Because because there was nothing uh that didn't help him much. Give him any immediate benefits. It didn't give an immediate benefit. And so what did he think about it? What was his opinion of that birthright It's just temporary for probably that's what we thought it's a big thing. Doesn't last. It's uh Yeah, that's right. What else? Didn't didn't see any value in it. And in in essence he insulted his father at the same time Okay, he didn't see any value in it. Certainly not for his present circumstance. The present circumstance I see no value, no benefit for this birthright. Well What all did Esau throw away? What all did he actually sell in that? Thinking about the birthright. Joey, you were touching on it some. Thinking on the birthright, what all did he actually sell? What all actually conveyed over to Esau in that transaction? Everything In many respects everything. That's true. Now I want to break it down into smaller chunks So let me give you some thoughts here. When you think about the blessing that Abraham had, and he had passed that on to Isaac. The birthright. God said, His son, in Isaac shall a seed be called. Not Esau. I mean not Ishmael. So there is the promise of a Messiah. In that lineage. And so it would have come now down Jacob's line when it could have come down Esau's line. So now he is not in the promised lineage of the Messiah. Would the Messiah eventually come? Oh yes. Is God going to protect the lineage through which the Messiah will eventually come? Oh yes. There's guaranteed protection because the Messiah must come You know, in those days God spoke to individuals. We don't have the nation of Israel yet. We have Abraham and then we have Isaac. We have a very small clan here. He gave up the ability to serve as a future prophet to his descendants, to his progeny, to his generation. to be a priest over his household because he would have access to God. God would speak to him and through him he would give that up. He was giving up the uh the right as a king to the heritage over his family. He would have been in a godly lineage, he would have had an established name. It would have been of tremendous value. He would have been a champion of faith. He would have been found in Hebrews 11, heralded as one of the heroes. And ultimately, he gave up heaven itself. That's a mighty, mighty, mighty big price to pay. You could say for Jacob, it was the steel of the century. It was the deal. Now turn ahead to two chapters to Genesis 27. We're going to look at Esau's vain attempts to recover what should have been his blessing. I'm going to read Genesis 27, 30 through 33, Genesis 27, and verse 30. Here we read this, and it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, this is when old blind Isaac is now finally Bestowing the blessing upon his sons. He is unaware of this transaction that occurred in the field. It's recorded in Holy Writ for you and I as a lesson And old blind Isaac is unaware of it. And Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father that Esau, his brother, came in from his hunting. He also had made severy meat, brought it unto his father, that was his father's request, and said unto his father, Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. Now remember Rebecca had doctored up some clothing so that Jacob would look like his hairy brother Esau. Verse 32, Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau. And Isaac trembled very exceedingly and said, Who? Where is he that had taken venison? Oh wait, I'm sorry, uh Esa uh this is not Jacob coming in, this is Esau coming in This is the hairy Esau. This is the one that uh has missed out on the blessing. Isaac's already re uh Jake Jacob's already received the blessing from old blind Isaac, and Esau is now coming back. Yeah. Sorry, I'm getting my historical accounts backwards. Verse 33, Isaac trembled exceedingly. He's trembling because he's already blessed the guy that came before, and he's trying to figure out who is this guy that came before. Who? Where is he that hath taken venison, brought it to me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest and blessed him? Yea, and he shall be blessed. Now, we pause right there for a moment. Sorry I messed up the beginning because that threw us a little bit. We're dealing with Esau here. Isn't it curious that now Esau when it's time to get the blessing, returns from a rather quick hunt. He was successful very quickly at this point. It seems that He could turn that around pretty quick. Normally he was a good hunter, but in a time back early in a day, he just wasn't that good. But now He moved quick, but you know what? His mother moved quicker and pushed Jacob to get the blessing before Esau could get the venison. Verse 34. When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry And said unto his father, bless me, even me also, O my father. And he said, thy brother came with subtlety and hath taken away thy blessing. And he said, is he not rightly named Jacob? For he hath supplanted me these two times? Jacob means supplanter. He took away my birthright, and now behold he has taken away my blessing. It's interesting Somehow we find in this that Esau stupidly has seemed to have mentally disconnected Birthright from blessing. He says he's got me two times. Well, no, he got you once when you sold the birthright, because when you sold the birthright, you sold the blessing. That thought apparently didn't enter his mind two chapters earlier. What profit is this to me, he said It's just a birthright. To him, it was just a certificate. Imagine you inherit something and in your Rich uncle's, rich father's drawers, there was some papers of certificates, certificates of deposit at a bank. They had large numbers on them And maybe you didn't know where the bank was, you've never seen it, you didn't seem much interested in it. Uh you go to the 7-Eleven, hey, here here's a CD, I I want to get a soda. They look at that and said, no man, I need cash. He's like, well, it's all I got. I'll sign it over to you. You would say, that person doesn't understand what a certificate of deposit is. There's There's real benefit there. There's value there. It's not the thing, but it's the promise of the thing. It's a promissory note from the bank that says, when presented, And you want to claim it, you turn it over. Show me a death certificate, show me a will. It's all yours. Esau didn't get that that's what the birthright had. That didn't connect in his brain. To him it was two separate things. Does that show you how little he valued the birth rate? He didn't even know what it meant. He had no idea what it really meant. He had no idea what he was really giving away. We read continually, continuing now in Chapter twenty seven of Genesis and verse thirty six the last part he asked his father uh And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me? And he Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy Lord And all his brethren have I given to him for servants. So those are some additional benefits that we didn't realize were part of the birthright. And with corn and wine have I sustained him. Now he's been given a promise from his father that he's not going to starve ever in his life. And what shall I do now unto thee, my son? And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice. Wept. Now, old blind Isaac would bless Esau, but it would be with earthly material blessings. That would be all that he would get. We would find later that he would have children from his multiple wives, and he would have plenty, lots of flocks of and herds of goats and sheep and so forth and cattle And he would go to meet Jacob later. And he'd be quite content. Matters behind him. He had everything this world could offer, and he was fine. We read from Romans 9. 13, which is a summary of what the book of Malachi and other passages such as Obadiah have taught. That God heard that vow. God heard that despising and he said, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. I wrongly taught many years ago that that meant that, well, God just loved him a little less. Oh no, it doesn't mean that at all. It meant God hated him because he despised the third person. I can't imagine what it's like to have a child utterly despise their parents. Utterly despise everything their parent does. To look upon the care that they've received, to consider the spiritual, rich, spiritual heritage they're receiving to see all of the blessings that God has abundantly bestowed upon him. He's seen how the he's heard the stories of Abraham. He's seen the struggles of his father Isaac. He's seen how continuously he He was blessed of God to survive in a difficult world. The birthright will not prevent you from having difficult times, right? But it does have substantial promises at the end. Esau failed of the grace of God by despising God's promises, by despising and little esteeming any worth to God's blessings He counted them of less value than a simple hot lunch to satisfy the flesh. As a result, God chose not to forgive that. God can choose to forgive it or not. And he chose not to, to make him an example. We see God's choice at times. He says, Woe unto you, Tyran Sidon, for if the mighty works that had been done in thee had been done in Sodom and Gomorrah, it would have remained to this day But God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Why we learn from 2 Peter and from Jude to make them example to those afterward who should live in that manner. Matthew Henry and Jamison Fawcett Brown have two excellent commentaries on this that I'd like to share with you. Just two sentences. First from Matthew Henry, Esau in his great wickedness had made the bargain And God in his righteous judgment ratified and confirmed and would not suffer Isaac to reverse it. You know, some things really are sticking God's eye. They really are Jameson Fawcett Brown says, as in the believers case, so in the unbelievers, there is an afterwards coming. It says afterward Eve's crying. There's an afterwards coming, when the believer shall look on his past griefs and the unbeliever on his past joys, in a very different light that in which they were respectively viewed at that time. I do have this sense in me that someday in heaven I'm going to look back, if this is how it plays out. I don't know. The scripture says the former things shall not be remembered nor come to mind. But if there is such a thing as I'm envisioning, again, this is just an idea, I I can't support it from scripture, but if there were a case where I would look back, I strongly suspect that I'm going to look back and go, you know what? That gut feeling you had that maybe I really ought to be knocking myself out in evangelism really wasn't a bad idea. Maybe I ought to have invested a little bit more time doing this because maybe that really wasn't a bad idea considering what I'm seeing now. And and maybe I should have not worried so much about what my parents and grandparents and aunties and uncles and unsafe family members thought about me that maybe I should have been a little bit more forceful towards them to say No, you've got to flee from the wrath of God to come. I'm telling you, there's wrath to come and it's horrible and it's a nightmare. I just have this nagging sense that maybe that is the case. We continue on because there's a couple of Old Testament passages that echo this theme, which I'm terming Despising the day of small things. It's a phrase in the book of Zechariah, chapter 4, and verse 10. Despising the day of small things. That's what we're in now. Scripture calls us little children. You know, you look at a child. They're full of bright hope for the future. They can't bear the weight of the future. It would be wrong for me to Gin up some resume for how old's your son now? Elias? Three-year-old Elias and post it on LinkedIn and give him a profile. put an avatar out there and claim that he can do a lot of work, be unfair. He's not able to bear that. He can't do it. Even so we're not fit and ready for heaven yet. Will he face difficulties and trials? Yes. Where are they likely to come from? His father His father? Why is Dad an oppressor? Is he the oppressed and dad's the oppressor? Oh, what a horrible situation. Revolt! No. You see, the unbeliever views that as the eye of misery. What profit does this birthright do to me? Let's look at some Old Testament Listen to Job 21 and verse 7. You don't have to turn there if you like, but if you do, it would be one I think you're going to want to mark. And then we're going to go to the book of Malachi. Which is one book before the book of Matthew. In Job 21 in verse 7, this is a great, great statement concerning this theme of despising the day of small things. Job 21, 7, it says this. I'm going to go through the verse 15. Wherefore do the wicked live? Become old, yea, or mighty in power? Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes. Their houses are safe from fear. Neither is the rod of God upon them. Their bull gendereth and faileth not, their cow cabbeth and casteth not her calf. They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. Man, it's all Fun, wealth, riches, and partying in their house. They take the timberland harp and rejoice at the sound of the organ. They spend their days in wealth and, in a moment, go down to the grave. No long-term disease, no two-year dragging out of death, no none of that. And therefore, therefore, because of this, because their life was too easy, therefore they say unto God Watch it now. Depart from us. We desire not the knowledge of thy ways. What is the Almighty that we should serve Him? What profit should we have if we pray unto Him? Yeah. What prophet if we pray unto him? You see, they count it as a thing of naught. To them it's nothing. Malachi chapter two, I have to uh chapter three, excuse me, I I have to be moving here because we're It's getting a little tight on time. Malachi 313. Listen to how God speaks here. And this is one chapter after God has said, Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. That's found in Matthew, uh Malachi 2. Malachi chapter 3 and verse 13, God says this, God speaking to the prophet, your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said, it is vain to serve God. And what prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up. Yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. This is what the wicked say. What prophet is there? Look, in the here and now I have this other approach to dealing with my problems. These are my real problems, the one I'm facing right now. They have no respect for what may happen in the future. Death to them is just I die and poof I vanish. Oh no. Man has an immortal soul. Jesus said, Fear not them which kill the body and afterward can do nothing to the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy body and soul in hell. There is a soul, it does continue. All souls belong to God. And verse 16: then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard it. And a book of remembrance was rem was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name They shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels, I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. You know, in the New Testament, Jesus gave a parable, and I'll close with this passage in Matthew 13 It's a familiar one. It is this day of small things that is so oft despised. And in Matthew 13 and verse 31, it is the parable. Of the kingdom of heaven and the grain of mustard seed. It's just one verse that says this: Matthew 13, 31 And another parable put he forth unto them, saying, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed. Which a man took and sowed in his field. He cast it. And another parable he said, The field is the world. There's the seed of the evil ones and the seed of the righteous. Which indeed is the least of all seas. That word least, you know that word least. It's come over into our language, micro. You take a macroeconomics course, you take a microeconomics course. You deal with microcircuitry, micro, which is micro, it's tiny. Least esteemed, least considered. It's the last thing on anybody's list. the least of all seeds. But when it is grown, it is greatest among herbs. It becomes a tree, which is in fact true for the mustard tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. So my conclusion is this in my remaining 90 seconds here. You know, apostasy from Christ What the reprobate does is he has the fruit of preferring the gratification of the flesh as opposed to the blessing of God and his heavenly inheritance. We all have difficulties and trials. That's why Hebrews is warning against it. Don't take this path. Don't be tempted from this. Yes, you'll suffer difficulty. But don't throw, don't give away the most valuable thing you got. Point number two, sinners will not always have such lowly thoughts of the divine blessing and inheritance as they do now. The time will come when they will think no pains too great, no cares nor tears too much to obtain the lost blessing. There is a collection, I cannot vouch to its validity, but it's interesting if it's true, of the famous last words of atheists. Some were crying out, I'm seeing the flames of hell even now, or they're regretting, oh Oh, that I had hearkened to my teachers as you read in Proverbs 1. That time will come. It will surely come. Number three, when the day of grace is over, they will find no place for repentance. They cannot repent aright of their sin, and God will not repent of the sentence He has passed upon them for their sin. That's a scary thought. When you make that vow, when you cast it away and say this is worth nothing, that's when you're making a massive mistake. And the design of these warnings, point number four. Is that Christians should never give up their title and hope of their Heavenly Father's blessing and inheritance and risk his irrevocable wrath and curse by deserting the faith to avoid suffering? To avoid suffering. I remember as a young boy walking around the mall, that's the thing we used to do back in the 70s, is hang out with your friends, walk around the mall My uh best friend at the time wanted to go to uh this one place. They sold a lot of black light and it just looked like dark arts and things that potheads dealt with and all that. I was in junior high, you know, maybe a freshman in high school. I wasn't interested in that. And I said, No, I don't think I want to go into that. Ah, sure, let's go. I said, nah, I don't think that's, you know, that would be in line with the Bible. He says, Oh, you you don't believe that stuff, do you? We'll lose my friendship. Oh, okay. Yeah, we'll go in. I had enough Bible teaching at least to say, but there wasn't any gravitas to say no. I can't imagine what pressure Daniel was under on a foreign country saying, you only want to eat what? And finally our fifth point, our physical health should never take precedence above our spiritual. Job says, though he slay me, yes, though I trust him. So I hope that gives you much to think about as we consider Ethaw and how he made the baddest, worst possible deal of the century. Let's close in prayer. Father in heaven, Lord, may there not be a reprobate among us. Your word is very clear of such warnings. Oh Lord May these teachings serve as examples to us to learn from them and to not be tempted to know that indeed sufferings and trials will come, but the glories that are hereafter are not even to be compared. They are far, far greater in value. You've done exceedingly above all that we were able to think or ask. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.