Our text today that we're looking at is in Esther chapter two. So if your Bibles if you have your Bibles with you, please turn to Esther chapter two. It's um a little bit before the book of Psalms, which we read, before Job. We'll find Esther there. Before we read our passage for this morning, let's um open in a word of prayer. Father in heaven, Lord, we pray that you would teach us from your scripture today, O Lord. Even as Christ prayed, O Lord, that thy word is truth and that that the church would be sanctified by thy truth. Please, Lord, set us apart. Teach us now, help us To see the pictures, O Lord, the teachings of your gospel, even back in the Old Testament, Lord. Help us to reap from these things, to draw closer to thee and to self-reflect, uh to look within ourselves to see how we match up to these things, O Lord. Please continue that work in us, conforming us to the image of Christ. Pray you would teach us now in your word, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. We'll be reading the first seventeen verses of Esther chapter two. It's a lengthy portion, but it's all relevant to what we'll be considering this morning. Esther chapter two just to give you a little bit of a background. Uh the first chapter is much about uh the king, King Ahasterus and and um speaks about his kingdom, the the Persian kingdom that he has, the uh and even the celebration that he's put together And uh we read also how he's put away his queen, his bride, for not coming. And now proceeds this second chapter, Esther chapter two. After these things, when the wrath of King Ahasiris was appeased, he remembered Vashti and what she had done, and what was decreed against her. Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king, and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young virgins unto Shushan, the palace to the house of the women, unto the custody of Hege, the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women, and let their things for purification be given them, and let the maiden which pleaseth the king be queen instead of Vashti. And the thing pleased the king, and he did so. So they've put together this mission, how they're going to find a new bride, a new queen for the king, and the king approves And now we continue in verse 5. Now in Shushan, the palace, there was a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish of Benjamite. who had been carried away from Jerusalem, with the captivity which had been carried away with Jechaniah, king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had carried away. And he brought up Hadassah, that is Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother, and the maid was fair and beautiful, whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead. took for his own daughter. That gives a good little introduction, a good little overview of Esther, where she comes from. She was part of those Jews that was that were taken captive and ended up In Nebuchadnezzar's land. And of course, King Ahasirus, he was part of the Persian kingdom, he took over eventually. But this is important for us to know. Just note that here. We have that introduction on Esther. In verse 8, So it came to pass when the king's commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan the palace. to the custody of Hege. That Esther was brought also unto the king's house, to the custody of Hege, keeper of the women And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him, and he speedily gave her her things for purification. with such things as belonged to her, and seven maidens which were meet to be given her, out of the king's house, and he preferred her and her maids unto the best place of the house of the women. Esther had not shown her people, nor her kindred, for Mordecai had charged her that she should not show it. And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women's house to know how Esther did, and what should become of her. So so far we see all these virgins are gathered. The maidens are gathered. They're ready. They're uh brought together from all the land. And uh that they'll be Looked at, looked upon by the king, they're getting ready, they're going to be prepared for this. It's important to note there Verse twelve. Now when every maid's turn was come to go into King Ahasiris, after that she had been twelve months, according to the manner of the women, for so were the days of their purifications accomplished To wit, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odors, and with other things for the purifying of the women. Then thus came every maiden unto the king Whatsoever she desired was given her to go with her out of the house of the women unto the king's house. Note there, these women, before they could meet the king, they could take anything along with them, anything they wanted We'll go over that a little bit later, but just remember that they really had the option. They could choose what they could bring. In verse 14, In the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into the second house of the women to the custody of Shajgaz, the king's chamberlain, which kept the concubines. She came in unto the king no more, except the king delighted in her, and that she were called by name Now, when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abbahail, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter was come to go in unto the king. She required nothing but what Hege, the king's chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favour in the sight of all them that looked upon her. So Esther was taken unto the king Ahasiris, into his house royal, in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign. And here's the response that the king has. Here's the uh big moment that we're looking forward to. Verse 17. And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins. So that he set the royal crown upon her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. That's our account, that's our passage for this morning. And we'll go over those portions and how that was all brought together, how the king selected the queen. But first I want to give a little bit of an introduction to Esther. Esther is a highly contested book Um many think that it shouldn't be in the Bible. It shouldn't be in the canon. We might as well just go ahead and get rid of it. But that's not so. God's promised to preserve his word and we have it even today Many deny it because there's no mention of the word God in all of the book. So they wonder what's what's this about? It can't truly be it must have been an accident that that it's in here. We should just take it out. It's just a historical account The Roman Catholics canonized the apocryphal version of Esther, which adds some more things to it. It has a couple of extra chapters, more words, and there it references God, so they thought, alright, this is a better version But no, that's not a good solution. We can't add to the scripture. Martin Luther, he's a famous figure as well of the past. He said that there were too many heathen unnaturalities, such as Esther's marriage to a pagan king and her participation in pagan banqueting. So he thought it also shouldn't be in the Bible. What is this? There's a bunch of heathen practices. What can we learn of this? He thought it shouldn't be in there But nonetheless, it doesn't truly matter what men say. What matters is that God's preserved it. It's still in His canon. The faithful have always recognized it through time and we still have it today. This is part of God's word. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our Lord shall stand forever. And so we have Esther here. So what do we learn of it? Why is it here? Since indeed it takes all the i i it does describe some uh seemingly by historical accounts pagan practices. Why is it here? Well, we'll learn today as we look into this portion that it's full of gospel pictures. And uh I took a close look at these as part of Mission Bible Church Academy that I'm uh currently enrolled in I've looked at uh a lot of the gospel pictures all throughout the book of Esther and of note some of the major characters. You'll see that Esther is a pretty clear picture of the church. Uh Mordecai is a pretty clear picture of Christ, and King Ahasirus is a picture of God, and Haman a picture of Satan. But today this portion that we look at specifically is one big picture of how God gathers and ultimately selects and glorifies his church. We'll see that today. Uh even though some people will doubt the inspiration of this book. And so they'll look into all the details and say that's of no significance. It's just pointing to some historical teachings and Uh there's really nothing for the godly people to reap from here. That's not so. The details actually have a lot of important value in them. And we'll look into that. So this first portion of Esther chapter 2, there's a search for a new queen. And really what this points to is God sending his gospel to all the nations, to all the world. King Ahasirus, he's a picture of God, as I mentioned previously. If you think about him in this account, in the book of Esther, he's the one that's ruling over all the kingdoms. When his word goes forth, men take heed to it. They fear because they know it'll come to pass. He's a picture of God. And this book is filled with allegories and parables. And there's a lot of Old Testament accounts and the New Testament will point out that yes, some of those accounts in the Old Testament were allegories. Even Abraham and his two sons. But King Ahasirus's actions aren't always instructions for what the believer is to do, just like the parables in the New Testament. We don't look at the uh marriage supper that was prepared for the king's son and see how the king went up to the one individual who was wearing a wedding garment. w and uh he said, Let him be cast out into utter darkness and where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. We don't look at that and say, Oh, well If I host a wedding and someone's not wearing the right garment, I'm gonna throw them out, they're gonna be tormented, I'm gonna make sure they weep and gnash their teeth. No, no. That's not what it's teaching there Instead what it's teaching is uh it's pointing to a heavenly picture. If you prepare or if you um go before the Lord with the wrong garment, if you go before the Lord not having the righteousness of Christ, you're gonna be cast out. That's what it's a picture of. And so it is here with King Ahasirus, when he put away Bashai. That's not an instruction for us when we call our wives, if they don't come to us immediately, we have to divorce them. No But instead, that in itself was a picture of the Lord putting off putting away national Israel for refusing to come And interestingly enough, we heard this morning in our Sunday school that some arguments can be made from the silence of Scripture. What is God silent on? He could have pointed out that King Ahiserus was a wicked king and he did all these things. He could have used uh great language to describe his wickedness, but he doesn't. And I believe that's for the po for the purpose of pointing out these allegories, these parables. In Esther 1 verse 12, if you uh look back, it's just one chapter before it says But the Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment by his chamberlains. Therefore was the king very wroth, and his anger burned in him. Yay, the queen refused to come when he called, when he was having a celebration, she denied coming, and he was angered at that. He put her away for that. And uh in Esther 2. 1, that's the beginning of our passage, this is what initiates that search for the new bride. He remembers. What Vashti did. He remembers how he put her off. In Esther 2. 1 it says, After these things when the wrath of King Ahashirus was appeased, he remembered Vashti. And we see that. We see in the scriptures that the Lord put away national Israel. He parted from her before sending out the gospel to all the nations. In Jeremiah 3 8 it says, And I saw when for all the causes whereby backslitting Israel committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a bill of divorce And likewise, the Jews refused to come when Christ came. Christ was their prophesied Messiah. They had the scriptures that spoke of Christ, and yet they would not come to him. In Matthew 23, 37, Christ says, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together? Even as the hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not they would not come. And in John 11 it says that he that is Christ came unto his own, and his own received him not And in Matthew 22, verses 2 through 3, we read of the parable that the king prepared, that marriage supper for his son. And there were those that were bidden to the wedding, and yet they didn't come. It says, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, and sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden These were those that were bidden. They had the scriptures. They they had that calling. They were bidden to the wedding. And it says they would not come. And that's what Vashti is a picture of there. She denies her king. It's that heavenly picture of the original bride, national Israel, departing, by and large, refusing her king, her husband. And that's really what sets off the search for a new bride. Let's reread verses two through four. And we'll see how that search is brought about. Verses two through four of Esther II, Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him. Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king, and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young virgins unto Shusha in the palace. to the house of the women, unto the custody of Hage, the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women, and let their things for purification be given them And let the maiden which pleaseth the king be queen instead of Vashti, and the thing pleased the king. And he did so First thing to note here is that it was virgins that were sought. And this is really nothing new either. Christ uh speaks and he delivers a parable that's about virgins. He makes a distinction between wise and foolish virgins. And this is of course a a picture of the calling of people. Whoever will come. These are the virgins that are gathered. In Matthew 25, verses 1 through 4, we read a little bit about this parable of the virgins. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins. which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their lamps, or in their vessels, with their lamps. Virgins are those that are pure in a sense that they're willing to come. They're not entangled with another husband or master, and they've not known another man. These are those when the Lord sends out the call, they'll come, they'll come, they will come. They're not entangled, they're not uh saying that they're with another God, they're saying, okay, I'll come to the king. And interestingly enough, it is somewhat of a command. It's not just an invitation as uh as we read here. This is what the king appointed, gather the virgins. And that's what happens when the gospel call goes out. The the virgins are gathered. Anybody who hears, come. Go ahead. Come. And um This is a a picture of that gospel going forth, since those that were bidden didn't take it. Supper made For the king's son. It says in Matthew twenty-two, verses eight through ten. Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good And the wedding was furnished with guests. Just because the virgins are gathered doesn't mean that everybody becomes the queen, the bride. This just means that they're virgins. They're known to be virgins. They've made some allegiance to prepare to meet the king, yet it doesn't mean that they necessarily will be the queen. Well this is a picture of the gospel going forth to all nations as I've uh said before in Mark sixteen fifteen Christ, after his resurrection, says that he told his disciples, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. This call is going out to every creature. This is what Christ commanded. And I spoke a little bit earlier about uh the the danger of how people will take away portions from God's word and they want to be the judge of what's in God's word and what's not. Well, Mark 16, 15 is also not in those critical text Bibles. So that's another example. It's a scary part when you take things out thinking, oh well, man is wiser than God. Well, we see that Paul speaks to the Jews and he tells them why the gospel went forth, the message of salvation. that the that by and large the Israelites didn't hear it and so the gospel goes out further. In Acts twenty nine verses twenty seven through twenty eight he says For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them. Be it known, therefore, unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it. So it is. That that first queen, that first bride of Ahasiris, she didn't want to come. She didn't she didn't honor her role, her place Just like the Jews, they didn't honor the scriptures that were given to them, the prophecies. And so when the Lord called, they wouldn't come That's the same uh this is what happened with the Jews and therefore the gospel, the message of salvation, it went out to the Gentiles. And note as well in our passage here in those first two verses we see that the king appoints officers in all provinces of his kingdom. And really what this is is the king is appointing messengers. He's appointing someone to do that work, to gather in the virgins. And so we see there's prophets in the Old Testaments. We see there's preachers and pastors and evangelists in the New Testament that are gathering these virgins. They're sending out the call. The king's commanded, let all the virgins come, let them come in, let them be prepared to meet the king. And so really what this is a picture of is that God's committed to seeking his church. Uh if it hasn't been made clear yet, King Ahasirus, he's a picture of God himself. And he is sending out this call to gather the virgins. And we see he's appointing people, he's appointing officials to gather them in. God's committed to this work. And then we'll find out that Esther, this woman here, is among the virgins. Turn to verses 7 and 8 in Esther chapter 2. Let's read those two verses. It says, And he brought up Hedassa, that is Mordecai. That is Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother, and the maid was fair and beautiful, whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead, took for his own daughter. So it came to pass when the king's commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan the palace, to the custody of Hage. that Esther was brought also unto the king's house, to the custody of Hage, keeper of the women. We read Throughout this chapter, we hear a little bit about Esther, how she was uh her origin is from the Jews, the ones that were taken captive by Nebuchadnezzar. But at this point, who is she to the king? Truly think about, who is she to the king? She's a nobody. That's what Esther is. She's a nobody. She doesn't have any royal place. She doesn't have any royal blood. Oh, this is the king's second, third cousin, she's high up there. Marry her. That'll be a good fit. No, she doesn't have a prominent place in power. She's not a princess of this or queen of that. No, she's really a nobody. And she was even an orphan girl. She had to be brought up by her cousin And guess what? More than that, she was the captive of the old king, that king Nebuchadnezzar, the one that the Persians came in and overthrew. She was a captive of him. She was a slave of his. And so what significance is she? She's really a nobody. But really that's a picture of us. That's a picture of us who are called. The only way that we get to meet the king and stand before him and he has a favorable disposition towards us is fully by grace. It has nothing to do with us being good or having sufficient good works or anything like that. And we read in 1 Corinthians 1 26 through 27. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And so we can look at Esther. She was truly a nobody, nobody special to the king at this point. And so we've seen how the virgins were gathered. And now there's something that they must do. There's something that the king appoints before they actually meet him. And that's the a second point here. They're have a they have a set apart time to prepare to meet the king. And really that's a picture of God perfecting or purifying or sanctifying his saints before they meet him. This is what the Lord's ordained. He doesn't just call them and keep them the way that they are The virgins had to be purified. I'll jump around a couple of verses here that really point to this purification process that that they continue to speak of in this chapter. Verse three. It says, And let the king appoint officers in all provinces of his kingdom that they may gather together all the fair young virgins And you skip down a little bit unto the custody of Hage the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women, and let their things for purification be given them And then again verse nine. He, that's Hage, speedily gave her, the Esther, things for purification, with such things as belonged to her, and seven maidens which were meat to be given her, out of the king's house Again, talking about the purification. Verse 12. Now when every maid's turn was come to go into King Ahasirus, after that she had been twelve months, according to the manner of the women. for so were the days of their purifications accomplished, to wit six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odors, and with other things for the purifying of the woman That was important to them. There was the purification process. The uh virgins that were called weren't just to meet the king right away. Hey, you got them all gathered? When did that happen? Yesterday? Alright. Send in the king. He'll meet them right now. No, but there was a purification process and that was important. And that, as I mentioned before, is a picture of how God works in his believers. He never just calls them and t and keeps them the way they are. But if God has truly called you and He plans to save you, plans to make you uh a part, a member of his eternal bride, he'll purify you, he'll prepare you, he'll work in you until that day that you meet him. He's preparing believers for judgment day And note in verse twelve, it says that there was a period of twelve months, that's one whole year, six months with oil, and six months with sweet odors. These were the things that were given them for purification. And even that in itself is a lot of symbolic language. We know in the scriptures that oil is a picture of the Holy Spirit. Even in the parable of the ten virgins that I spoke of earlier. Uh the five wives, they had oil in their lamps. They were ready. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. And the scripture of of course also calls us to not be filled with excess of wine, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. This is the this is what the Lord does. He fills his people with the Spirit. This is how he prepares them. And then as well it says, six months with sweet odors. And in the scriptures we know the sweet odors or incense are a picture of prayer In Psalm 141, too, it says, Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense in the lifting up of mine as the evening sacrifice. So these are these graces that are given to the believers, to be built up in the faith, to grow, to be purified, to be the more and more sanctified. This is something that the Lord works, this is something that He ordains for His people. And it also says in that same verse 12 that there were other things as well that were given them for purification. And this is all these this is a picture. All of these things that are given for purification. It's to set set these virgins apart, to prepare them to meet the king. These are all the godly exercises and practices that the believer goes through. when they become a true member of the church. First Thessalonians 4. 3 says, For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication. And second Peter 3. 18, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. There's a preparation. You know, it's not just, oh the Lord's called me, I believe, and now even though forty years have passed, I'm the same person. Nothing's changed. I just believed and that's it. Uh I don't really even care to go to church. All of those things. I don't care to fellowship with the saints of God or read God's word. That's a scary thing. God doesn't leave his own to be that way, but instead he purifies them. He ordains this process. He commands them to grow in grace and in knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. He commands them to be sanctified, to abstain from the f filthiness of the flesh, to put off those things. This is how we occupy until the Lord comes. This is how we prepare ourselves. This is what we do in the meantime before we meet the King. We take heed to His Word. We become more and more filled with the Holy Spirit. We pray. We use all of these graces that the Lord has given us. We cast off sins. Anything that would offend the king, because we know we're going to stand before him. And Hege is an interesting character here. It speaks of him aiding in this process of purification. His name literally means eunuch. That means he's uh committed to never marry again. Perhaps even he was castrated. We don't know here, but he was that's what his name is. He's a eunuch and he's a keeper of the women He helps in this purification process. He has one goal. It's just to prepare these virgins to meet the king. And that's a picture of a faithful church leader. Or perhaps even the Holy Spirit himself. We see that God gives these people, God gives these graces, somebody to help the believers to prepare to meet the King. He's undistracted in his duty. He's ready. He's uh his work is to prepare the virgins to meet their king. And we know that the Lord sends helpers. He uh sends helpers to prepare and perfect his saints before they meet him. In Ephesians 4, 11 through 13 it says, and he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministries, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. And that was Hege right there. It was his work. It was his committed task to prepare the virgins to meet their king. Note that Esther pleased him. She received preferential treatment more than any of the other virgins, and that's interesting to see too. Look in verse 9. It says, And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him, and he speedily gave her her things for purification. with such things as belonged to her and seven maidens which were meet to be given her out of the king's house, and he preferred her and her maids unto the best place of the house of the women You know, there's uh many people that will claim they've come around to the faith or they start making an appearance at church. But you wonder what is their purpose in being there. God of course knows their purpose, and those that are true believers will know the purpose very soon too, because out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks And so we can see what is the intention. So we see here Hage, he picked up on Esther quick. He saw her and she found favor in his eyes. And so it is for those that genuinely turn to the Lord, those that are hungry and thirsty after righteousness. We see that they are filled. And we see any new genuine convert that wants to know the Lord, they hear these things, they're pricked, they're convicted. The Lord will quickly, speedily feed them. He'll fill them up They'll start uh digesting the the Bible very quickly. They're hungry for it. They'll read it, they want to hear sermons, they want to fellowship, and the Lord will fill them up speedily. The other virgins Not so much. You don't see a preferential treatment there. They're just, okay, you can come along every Sunday. We'll greet you. But where is your heart really? Are you really being purified? We see Esther was purified. The King's Chamberlain was pleased with her. He gave her those things for purification speedily. And it's as Christ said, For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance. But whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. So those that desire to know the Lord, those that desire to prepare to meet the King, the Lord will help them, the Lord will teach them. And now we come to the last portion, and that's selecting the queen. And we know of course Esther is the one that's selected. And this is really a picture of God choosing his elect. God choosing them and acknowledging them in the end when they meet him and glorifying them. Up to this point we see the pictures of how God's looking for his bride. He's put away the one that didn't come, that uh wouldn't come. And he sent out his gospel to all the nations. He sent out that search party. He's gathered the virgins into his kingdom. And he's ordained the purification process for the virgins. And now it's his time here. This is the king's time to choose the bride. Let's read verses 15 through 17 of our passage. Now in the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abbail, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come to go in unto the king. She required nothing but what Hege, the king's chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favour in the sight of all them that looked upon her Soester was taken unto King Ahasiris, into his house royal, in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth in the seventh year of his reign. And here's the king's response. And the king loved Esther above all the women. And she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins. So that he set the royal crown upon her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. Note first that Esther wisely came to the king, with only what the king's chamberlain appointed, with only what Hage appointed. She was wise. As we read earlier, the the the women, the virgins that were preparing to meet the king, they could bring anything they wanted. Go ahead. Whatever you want to take. If you think it'll please the king, go ahead and bring it You want to bring some good work? Go for it. You want to bring some beautiful garment that you think the king will be pleased with? Go ahead. Take that one. But Esther was wise She listened to the king's chamberlain. She only went with what he had appointed. She knew that the king's chamberlain knew the king. He knows what he'll be pleased with. He knows what the king's word is. So let me listen to him. Let me go before the king with only what Hege appoints. And wow, what a picture that is. She understood uh the gospel. We don't come to the Lord bringing our own good works. We don't come to the Lord with something that we think will please him. Oh well I'm so smart. God will have to take me because of my wisdom. Oh well I've done so many good things. Yeah I've had some sins, but that's all right. God will look at my good works. No no no This is what Christ said. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. It's just not going to work. You're not gonna make it uh to the Father and have his approval unless you come in Christ. This is what the Lord, the King of Kings, has appointed. You can only come to him in Christ. You try to come any other way, you'll be like that multitude of virgins that was just cast aside. Oh, how rare it was to be selected to be the queen. All these virgins gathered from all the kingdom. And it was just Esther who was chosen. What a picture there. What a picture. And so we see that having listened to Hegebe, she obtained favor. She passed the test. She won the crown Esther was ready, as it says in Revelation 19, 7, Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come. And his wife hath made herself ready. She was prepared. She knew the gospel. She knew what would please the king. And that's how she came before him. But consider this, what an upgrade and glorification it was to Esther. Esther was a nobody. Did anybody know her in the king's palace? Esther, who's that? Nobody knows her. until she's gathered as a virgin, until the king appoints her. Yep, she's my queen. She's my bride. She really had no influence on the nations, but now she's become the king's queen. He's highly interested in her. He'll listen to her cry and to her pleas. And you see that throughout the rest of Esther. She's the one that's pleading on behalf of her people. The king is very interested in Esther, who is before nobody special And that's us. That's us. If anyone truly is uh a believer in Christ, if anyone will truly become that bride of Jesus Christ. Uh it's not because of anything special in them. It's because you're a recipient of grace. You're a recipient of mercy And I loved uh Mephibosheth's response when he had a similar experience, being received into David's kingdom, and uh King David told him that he could now sit at his table. Uh his statement was What is thy servant that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am? He understood there was nothing special in him. He was a recipient of great mercy and grace. And that's us if we're truly in the Lord. We understand it's not because of anything we've done. It's all of the Lord's grace and mercy. And uh I want to look at these words that are used, the the way that the king responds when he meets Esther and receives her, and we'll see that this is just so much how God speaks. Look at um that seventeenth verse. It says The king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight, more than all the virgins, so that he set the royal crown upon her head. She became loved by the king. She obtained grace and favor. These are all words that God uses towards his elect And it's interesting here. It says she received grace and favor above all the other virgins. There were a lot of people seeking it, but she was the one that received it. And in the end she received that royal crown. She became the queen. All of that is language of just how God speaks. We read in Zephaniah 3. 17 of the Lord's love for his elect, for his bride, the church. The Lord thy God is in the midst of thee. Sorry, the Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty. He will save. He will rejoice over thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with singing. The Lord is ecstatic about his church, about his bride. And we know that he shows them grace and favor. Genesis 6:8, Benoah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. It's not something deserved, it's not something merited, but they find grace in the sight of the Lord. And there's a lot of scriptures, especially in the New Testament, about the church being crowned. 2 Timothy 4. 8. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing These are those that are ready. They're loving the Lord's appearance. They can't wait to meet him. They're looking forward to see their king. And they receive a crown, just like Esther. And I really like the way 1 Corinthians 9 emphasizes that there's many that run. Indeed, there's many virgins. There's many that would call themselves Christians But it's just one. It's only one that receives the crown. That's what 1 Corinthians 9 points out. 1 Corinthians 9 says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize So run that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible Paul says that there is just one that receives the crown. That doesn't mean that there's just one individual out of all people that will be saved. No, there's There's many, as uh as is spoken of in the scriptures, that are members of God's elect. But it's rare, but it's few. There's many that claim to be Christians, but that salvation is for few. It's for those that are looking for that crown. Those for that are striving for the incorruptible crown. They receive it And uh it's James also mentions, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Believer, are you looking for that crown? Do you know that you'll receive a crown when you meet the king Or are you just like many of those other virgins that are tossed to the side? They come by the cle by the king, but he's not pleased with them. And one of the other things I want to point out here is the name of Esther and Hadassah. In Sunday school we heard that names are very important. And this is true. This is true. God uh chooses the names specifically. He has a purpose for them. Esther's name, Esther's Hebrew name is Hadassah, and that means myrtle, like the tree, myrtle tree. And that's one of the trees that God plants in the wilderness. That's a picture of the church. Isaiah 41, 19 through 20 says, I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shit tree, and the myrtle and the oil tree And I will set in the desert the fir tree and the pine and the box tree together, that they may see and know and consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it It's the Lord that's brought these together. It's the Lord that's planted this. And that's what Esther is. She's a picture of the church. She's one of those members of the elect. And her Persian name means star. And stars as well in the picture are or in the scriptures are a picture of the church. We know that the promise that uh God gave to Abraham was that uh he said, In blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven. That church, the the seed of Abraham. They're uh described as the stars of heaven. And this is what Esther's name is. She's star. In Psalm 147, that was our responsive reading. We see some more of how the Lord gathers, he collects his church And he describes them again as stars. In Psalm 147, verse 2 through 4. It says, The Lord doth build up Jerusalem. He gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. He healeth the broken in heart and bindeth up their wounds. He telleth the number of the stars. He calleth them all by their names. And so we see that it's God that builds Jerusalem. There's so much effort, so much concern that man that that man has, and rightfully so, about this labor of building up the church. We want to do the best here that we can But at the end of the day, it's God's church. He's the one that's building it. He's the one that's gathering his elect. He foreknows the church and he and he gathers his people. He knows the exact number that they are. He says he he tells the stars and he calls them by name. He already has names in a book of life. He knows who his elect are. It's just a matter of gathering them in. Isaiah forty verse twenty-six says, Lift up your eyes on high, and behold, who hath created these things that bringeth out their host by number? He calleth them all by names, by the greatness of his might. For that he is strong in power, not one faileth. It's God that gathers these stars. It's God that knows how many the are. It's God that names them. He he knows every one of their names. And furthermore, he doesn't let one fail. If you're a star, if you're an Esther, if you're a member, a true member of God's kingdom, who He's intended to save, you have great assurance. He won't let even one of them fail. Not one faileth. Ultimately, we need to know that the church business is God's work. He's the mastermind behind it. He's the one that's ordained it. He's the one that's thought it out through Of course, he sent his gospel message to all nations. Of course, all here. And of course, there's many that will claim to be Christians. I am in Christ, all of that But God knows the rare few that are truly his. God knows the true virgin that will become his queen, his bride. He's planted before the foundation of the earth. He's sent out the general call. And he knows his choice bride is in the midst He purifies and prepares his elect before they meet him. And in the end, he glorifies them. What a great promotion we saw in Esther. He glorifies them. So we see in Romans 8. 30. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. And whom he called he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. That's God's work. Esther, what a fitting name. I hope some of these parables and allegories are being opened up to your mind here. And in closing, I want to give a little bit of an application. You're all here today. You've heard the call going out to all the virgins. You've heard the gospel message before if you've attended this church any previous Sunday or heard one of these messages. You've heard the gospel message before, and you're hearing it now. I'll tell you. We've all fallen short of the glory of God, and we've committed sin that's worthy, that's fit for an eternity in hell But there is salvation in Christ, the Son of God. And you're witnessing here in the church some of the Lord's purification, some of the Lord's sanctification, how he's preparing, how he's working in his saints. We hear messages week after week. We're admonished to put away our sins of the old man. We're admonished to grow in grace. to study the scriptures, to become more diligent, to become more and more like Christ. You're witness that. You've seen, you've heard the call, you've witnessed some of the purification, but are you ready to encounter him? Are you ready to meet the king? Are you a member of his true bride, the true church? Or are you simply one of those many, many virgins, many virgins that were gathered there? Many virgins that prepared, and yet they did not please the king. The king wasn't excited, the king wasn't happy, the king didn't receive them as their their bride, as their queen. Which one are you? You haven't met the king yet, but the time is coming soon. The end will be like the coming of the bridegroom and those virgins that prepared to meet him. Will you be like the five wise virgins that had oil in their lamps, that were ready to meet the bridegroom They saw it within themselves. They had the Holy Spirit. They were ready. They were true members. Were you like the foolish virgins? Who weren't ready, they weren't prepared, they didn't really have the oil in them, they didn't have the spirit within them. And of course the bridegroom tells them in the end, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. And so, believer, make sure you're ready to meet the king. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we uh thank you for your scriptures that you have preserved to us. Help us not to doubt your word. Help us to cleave unto it, so men may attack it, O Lord, and help us to reap from it. Help us to grow indeed in grace and in knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray that you would help us to meet thee, O Lord. uh it's appointed uh after we die oh lord to to meet the lord to meet thee oh lord we pray that we would be ready please lord uh help us to search ourselves and um We pray that you would help us turn us to thee. We praise Him and we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen