Continuing through Hebrews 13 and I must admit I was tempted to simply tackle two verses at once because our passage for today is practically a Sunday school, junior high level, memory verse, Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. The more I poked into it, it turns out that this is quite a packed statement Well I want to have a discussion question first, and my apologies to folks online. This did not get out in advance, but it's a fairly simple question, and it should generate some some ideas that I think that will be helpful. And it's a very simple question. Is change a good thing? Is change a good thing? Why or why not? Why do we like new clothes? Why do we like new cars? Why why do we like new technology on a technophobe? Tend to I have to restrain myself from wanting to jump in and to why do we like new rulers? We don't like Uzan, we want change. Is change a good thing? Why or why not? Any thoughts? Sometimes, okay. Why? Um, I don't know, I'm teaching it actually. I'm very content to Things keep things the way they always can know you're easy, comfortable and know what to expect. Easy, comfortable, know what to expect, right? Because with change comes what New learning, new circumstances, the unexpected. I've heard it phrased uh among engineers and when they're faced with two different choices, do you go with the devil you know or the one you don't? Don't want to get too philosophical here, but the the first change was not good because the first change was the fall. Um or the fall of the angels before that. Therefore our changes are under the under the curse. Um true repentance is a change, but it's a change we can't make on our own. I'm looking at it very philosophically. Thank you for that. That's that's that's correct. I'm looking at it philosophically. Rick, what do you think? Is change There's that you know French? Correct me if my French is right or wrong, but there is a phrase from an old band in the 70s that said this plus les chances, plus c'est la même chose. The more that things change, the more they stay the same. Did I say that correctly? That's the only French phrase I know. That's it. Maybe merci, but that's it. What are your thoughts on change? Um I think it'll depend things pending. I think sometimes you can well I guess it depends, like on the physic philosophical level. I think Change is only good if something is bad. There's an issue. Sometimes the system can be changed out of necessity. We have no technology now, but Work is a lot like work is changed. There's no more papers that are kind of all you know sending emails to the system. So they don't have to react-to-back active change. There's also like a change of like greed. It's like can you need to change a new car or do you want to change a new car? But sometimes you necessary change and think sometimes get a new car. Other times you just want the new car Yeah. I can tell you work in the technical industry because you use every engineer's favorite word in answering anything. It depends. And you're absolutely right, it does depend. Uh so if a new firmware update rolls out Does that imply the change is good or bad? Hmm. No, I don't think so. I think part of the You do have to always be asking, what are you changing and why? Correct. I think like Pastor Joe said, we we do make a change, but it's a change that we don't make. on our own and we have a book kind of explaining the why the change is being made who we are. And sometimes um We don't necessarily apply that today level to other decisions we make. Yeah, that's interesting. That's really good. So let's take Penny and let's make her your technical boss for a day And you say, hey boss, I got a new new change rolling out. She says, I hate change. Just stick with the old stuff. Just just stick with it. Don't change it. What would happen if you didn't change your router firmware year, two years, three, five, what what happens? Notice that not changing out of necessity is going to negative in fact. Why? How? Well, it would depend on if the router just kinda gets worse over time, worse than over time, and we just don't replace it while your competitors, everyone around you is sort of on the latest router out of just necessity for business and things like that. Your company would most likely be your boss is a theologian and she says everything that's new is bad. That's a tough place to be. You're correct. I just want to keep teasing out there because I want to run with this illustration before I get to my lengthy study that I've got here So falling behind, what does that mean? What does that look like? So you don't have a shiny front panel that's dusty, but it's we know what it is. Falling behind in the sense of Uh as long as you can still be just the basic necessities of the button. If the router is so slow that it's just causing you to not get any work done, then that's an issue. Especially as like other companies are taking on more clients and more scraping up with more information. Would you your router is working fine and you're doing things at a sustainable level, that you don't need to change. Yeah. It and it it's it um Would you agree with the statement that the change that we consider to be necessary is there because the thing that was first put into place clothes, cars, technology, rulers, whatever, wasn't good to begin with. It couldn't make the distance. It couldn't survive that long. Would you agree with that statement? The things that we make as humans, yes, like the first car, we now probably have better versions of that. The things that we make as humans can always be improved upon because the person making it is flawed. But the one that made us we were originally, there was no need for change then that we were made by something that does not change. Right. Yeah, we're just exploring different ideas of change. We'll have more opportunity to discuss that as we get into the study, but I want to just immerse your mind into the philosophical point is is change in and of itself a bad thing or a good thing? And we'll have some more opportunity to consider that as we move ahead. You know, turn your Bible to Hebrews 13 because the at first blush this verse pops out of nowhere. It's like, why is it even here? If you look at verse 7 of Hebrews 13, it says, Remember them which have the rule over you, which have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Now skip verse 8. Be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. Well, that would seem to follow paying attention to the rulers, right? Because they rule over you They speak to you the Word of God, so don't follow strange doctrines. It's a good thing the heart be established with grace, not with meats which haven't profited them that have been occupied therein. And we'll get to nine later, but seven and nine seem to connect. And then out of the blue, verse eight pops up, Jesus Christ. The same yesterday, today, and forever. It seems like Like the author of Holy Writ just kind of, this is a good place to put, oh I forgot to put this verse in here. Let's stick it in here. I'm obviously being facetious, but you know, it just pops up. What's the connection Well the connection I think is this. It's a transition, but it's a transition by way of continuity. You know If you take it out, it seems to make sense, but theologically the doctrine is strengthened by verse 8, because this verse is a central pillar that ties verse 7 to verse 9. Why do I remember them that have the rule over you? Why do I remember those who have spoken to me the word of faith, the word of life? Because Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and day forever. Therefore don't be carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. It strengthens it. Those of you who have known something about construction know that as you're adjoining two boards together that have, you know, they're going in the same length, but you've continued you've stopped You've got to the end of that board, you're going to another one. You've got to strengthen that end. You either have some another board on the backside or something to strengthen it so it goes on. Scripture is much the same. There are a lot of strengthening statements, and this is one of them So we're going to focus on verse eight. I was frankly this study came together one Tuesday morning in about an hour and a half because as I asked the right questions, and Joey, that's the key to everything, ask the right questions The failure to ask the right questions, you'll get nailed with the surprise later on. How, first of all, it says Jesus Christ. Now what is that? What is that phrase Jesus Christ? Is it a first name and last name? What is it? Julie, what is that? You're a recent college grad Identifier, I guess. Okay. So Jesus is his earthly name as anointed by the angel Gabriel. What's that word Christ? Is that his last name? Right, it's a title. And Christos is from the Greek root chryso, or kristos, kryo, which means to anoint. He is the anointed one. Jesus the anointed one. If you were to say anointed one in the New Testament, that's that word Christ. Anointed ties us back to the Old Testament word Messiah. Jesus has a lot of titles, but it's focusing on Jesus, the anointed one. He is that same anointed. And in fact, the only place we find that word Messiah is twice, and they're practically in the same verse. So turn to Deuter Deuteronomy. Daniel. Daniel chapter 9 and verse 25, if you're Struggling to find Daniel, I do have all of my notes today in the handout so you can cheat and look. But for those online, you might want to look at Daniel 925. And we read this, know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto Messiah the Prince Shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks. The street shall be built again in the wall, even in troubless times. After threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. And the people of the prince, this would be in fulfillment of prophecy, referring to uh Titus, who was the prince of uh the emperor who would later become the ruler of Rome, people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary And the end shall thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the wars, desolations are determined. That's the only time in the Bible the word Messiah appears. And it is the word anointed. So that's where, and it's interesting because Daniel, for the most part, is writing in a different language, right? He's in Babylon, so that large chunks of Daniel are in Aramaic The Messiah. So when you see Jesus Christ, you're saying Jesus the Messiah, Jesus the anointed one, the anointed one. So that's quite interesting. Let's look at the ramifications of this verse. Jesus the anointed one. It says he's the same, yesterday, today, and forever. Clearly it points to his eternality. I don't think we miss that. But I got to thinking about it more concretely. What does that mean? What are the ramifications? Well, in your handout, in your bulletin, you do have some fill-in-the-blanks. And the first one is this is that Jesus was in fact in the Old Testament. Jesus was actually in the Old Testament, folks, and sometimes he appeared as a, here's your word, theophany. He appeared as a Theophany. This would be a pre-incarnation, materialization, body of Christ Jesus. You know, we read about that in Hebrews 7. We've already covered it I believe that Melchizedek was a theophany of Christ. It says, for this Melchizedek, Hebrews 7, 1 to 3, this Melchizedek, king of Salem, prince of the Most High, priest of the Most High God, who met Abram returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all, first being in my interpretation king of righteousness. That's what Melchi Sadak means, Melchi King, Sadak, righteousness. And after that King of Salem, which is king of peace. Salem is the word. for peace. Without father, without mother, without descent, and again, this is what Holy Writ testifies, having neither beginning of days nor end of life But made like unto the Son of God. And here's the part that pushes me over the edge to say, yeah, that was a theophany. Abideth a priest continually, meaning he's still around. He still abides a priest continually. And so Abram was actually paying tithes to Jesus Christ because he abides a priest continually. Abideth. It means he's still around, obviously not physically here on earth. You also find, and I had no idea what Pastor was going to preach on, and he had no idea what I was going to cover in this, but obviously he's also Joshua's captain of the host. As Joshua comes to take out the city of Jericho, he's preparing, he runs into an individual and Joshua falls on his face and says, What saith my Lord to thy servant? Are you for us or for our adversaries? And he says, Nay, I'm the captain of the Lord's host. Take off thy as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come, loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy I'm not going to expand on that any further than that, other than I believe that's a theophany, an early uh appearance. Many understand and know that Daniel's three friends who were thrown in the fiery furnace heard a testimony. A testimony from the king. And he says, I threw three into the fire, which destroyed some of his mighty men who bound them up and tossed him in. But he says, Lo, I see a fourth one In the fire, and it says, four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, they have no hurt, and the form of the fourth is like unto the Son of God. I think Jesus Christ himself showed up in personal appearance and extended his, however he does this, wings of protection around Daniel's three friends so that there was no So Jesus was in the Old Testament. Jesus is not just a New Testament character, though he's predominantly figured there because that's where his greatest work was. But he in fact Is the same. If you believe Hebrews 13, 8, because it says he's the same yesterday, well, what is yesterday? But all the way back to the beginning of time in the Old Testament. You you have to acknowledge that. This isn't just a Cute little saying. There's some interesting theology in here that Jesus was in the Old Testament. You can't say he was not. Second thing, it says he's with us today. I know some people that have a very nice habit that at their dinner table they always leave an empty chair. And they say, this is where the Lord Jesus is at. It helps to remember that he is present, he's with us, and he guides our conversation. But in what sense is he with us today? Because when he walked on earth And that would be part of yesterday, that uh he was in the flesh. Well, he is with us today, right now, as our, and here's your next fill-in-the-blank, as our intercessor before the Father He is an intercessor. Hebrews 7. 25 says, wherefore he, speaking of Jesus, is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. Well, you say, well then that's in heaven. Okay, yeah, but he's hearing your prayers. All right, I got it. But there's a more practical way that he is with us today. In fact, he's not very far from you right this moment. He's right here. I got a book in my hand. You say eventually holding the Bible. That's right. Because we read in John 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word Was God. And later we read, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And so, yes, he is present with us in his word. That's why this is a very different book. Peter tells us, look at this, 1 Peter 1. 23. I want you to turn in your Bible and pay attention to this verse. This is a powerful, probably one of the most powerful verses in all of Scripture. For the case that there is a a book called the Canon, the Word of God, that's eternal, and we still have it, and we've never lost it. Not one bit of it. Because 1 Peter 123 testifies as follows. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the what? By the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. It lives forever. It abides. It dwells forever. It lives forever. This is a living book, a living word, and it abides with us. So he is with us today. Isn't that the thing that's highlighted in the gospel accounts is Jesus' speech? Never man spake like this man. It's his words, it's his teaching. They were astonished at his teaching And his doctrine, for he taught as one and as authority, and not as the scribes and Pharisees. So in that sense, he's with us today. Very real sense, very real, tangible. In fact, look at 1 John. The opening verses of 1 John, as John describes that, the very one who talked about in the beginning was the Word. Turn to 1 John 1 verse 1. It's right there in the opening portion. John the Apostle testifies to this as well. He says, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard. See, he focuses on a hearing, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes. So yes, there was a God man walking around Which we have looked upon and our hands have handled what is it? Of the word of life. Yeah, wait. I used to have Brother Bernie's Bible up here. He handled it a lot. There was a lot of fingerprints on this thing. There was a lot of manipulation of the pages. And and our King James translators capitalize the word to indicate that it's not just words, but it is a person Amen. Good good observation. Absolutely. The word of life. And so, yes, there is clearly a testimony of the New Testament scriptures that Jesus is present with us. in the form of the word and also as our intercessor. Now of course we know that Jesus will surely come again. This is our hope He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Forever is of course looking forward. That's a future looking time, as well as in a time past. And so we think about that He's coming again. He's going to be seen by all. And the Corinthian church had a question about this. Well, in this resurrection business, with what body do they come? There's a question about it. It's actually a pretty good question. It's still relevant today. Is it a body of sin? You know, this body we have now is frail and falling apart. But it was created by God at the garden that was designed to live forever and frankly would have. There's nothing inherently wrong with it. There it's just been cursed. There's thorns and thistles, and I'm beginning to think that the thorns and thistles in the ground is a reflection of the thorns and thistles in the heart of man, which are there presently as well. But we read in Daniel 7. 13 about Jesus coming again and being seen by all And then we're I will I will want us to turn to Acts 1 as well, but I'm just going to read Daniel 7. 13. We read this, I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the ancient of days. And they brought him near before him. This is a prophecy that the Christ, the Christ, the anointed one, would come, and he's called here the Son of Man. would come and he'd be brought near to the Father. Acts 111 is a great verse, and I want you to turn to this because if you ever encounter uh Jehovah Witnesses uh or uh uh Mormons, they would make a point that uh it's Michael the Archangel that's returning, not Jesus. That's one of their teachings. I forget which sect. But in Acts 1. 111, the angel standing there to the men who had just witnessed Christ's ascension to heaven tells them this. Which said also, ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? Who? Michael? No. This Same Jesus, and that's the same word we find in Hebrews 15. 8, Jesus is the same, this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as you've seen him go into heaven. Now when he was here, he hid his glory. It was briefly revealed at the Mount of Transfiguration when his clothes became white and glistening and And there was a cloud around him, and everything just shone radiantly. So he veiled his glory intentionally when he was down here And yet it says he shall come in like manner. This same Jesus. It's the same Jesus. We're not expecting somebody different to come down from heaven And look folks, I don't know all the details and mechanics of what a spiritual body looks like. Uh I have never seen one. It by definition is immaterial. There's Bible language. There's clearly going to be a change. He's going to change your vile body and fashion it like into his glorious body. Corinthians says, flesh and blood shall not inherit the kingdom of God. And yet we saw that Jesus was in the Old Testament, that he could appear in human form. Does that speak of us that way as well? Jesus says, you know, uh in heaven men neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like unto angels. There is a little element of intrigue and a little element of mystery when we talk about this new body. I guarantee you you're not going to want to change it. You're going to be quite content with it, and you're going to wonder how you ever lived without such a magnificent vessel. Well, Jesus we find here is in fact the same. But then I began to ask the question, so Is he coming back to be a sacrifice again? Well, we would say no. The body has been sacrificed once for all. There's an end of all things. In fact, Hebrews earlier said if we'd had to do it all over again, that would be to crut bring Christ back down and sacrifice him again, and that was a bad thing But it doesn't say Jesus, the sacrifice, the same today, yesterday, and forever. You get where I'm going? It doesn't say Jesus, the fill-in-the-blank, the same yet. It's very specific. Jesus the Christ, Jesus the anointed of God, what has changed about Jesus are his roles over time. His roles have changed and differed over time. He himself is the same, but he's in a different role. You mothers know what this is like. You have diff you're mommy. Okay. Pure and simple. But you'll have different roles. At one point you may be uh the the caregiver of the child. The next time you may be the chef and the cook in the kitchen. Another time you're the counselor to resolve this debate over a piece of plastic toy from China. you're etc. You got different roles. You're the educator when it comes time for homeschooling. You've got different roles, right? Now In the Old Testament, Jesus was the spirit of the prophets. That's your next blank. He was the spirit of the prophets. We read in this in 1 Peter 1, that of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently I'm in 1 Peter 1 ten, who prophesied of the grace that should come into you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ, the Spirit of Christ, which was in them, did signify When it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. So the Spirit of Christ was his one of his roles in the Old Testament. He was the Spirit of the prophets. They uh and so it's no surprise to us that Jesus is in the temple at age twelve arguing and reasoning with the Pharisees because he's the very one that wrote this. This wasn't a mystery to him. Jesus wasn't on a crash course from age five to twelve studying the book and memorizing it. The book is in human form in front of them. Every fiber of his being echoes what is here In the New Testament, at his incarnation, he was God's Lamb. And your next fill-in-the-blank is this. If he was the spirit of the prophet in the old, in the New Testament, he's our sacrifice. He's our sacrifice. He was typified in the old as a sacrifice. But in but his role was to be the Spirit speaking to the prophets. He was typified only in those sacrifices. And the new the sacrifice really came. You know what John the Baptist said, he seeth Jesus come and said, Behold the Spirit of God, no, the prophet of God, all of that would have been true. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the Spirit of God That was his role. He was the Lamb of God. So he came as our sacrifice for that New Testament era, that period. And in the future Of course, right now he's our intercessor. In the future, he returns as our Savior. Now you might argue with me on that to say, well, wait a minute, he's our savior now. And I had to ask myself, well Vince, are you saved right now? I was, well, yeah, I think so. No, Vince. You're gonna die at age 76, right? 20, 40 F buy twenty thirty-nine, buy a casket, find the plot, because this carcass is hitting the ground. I got four generations of clues that have all died of seventy-six. It's wonderful to know what you're it's this now Psalm 90 says teach us to number our days. I know Angela you don't like this. Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. So can I say, really, I'm saved? Yes and no. I have a promise of it, but I haven't received it all. And here's the point I'm making. Turn to Titus 2. 13. In Titus 2. 13 Because in the future he does return as our Savior. We call him our Savior now because we have hope that he will redeem us and rescue us from all this nonsense we live in to include the world, the flesh, and the devil Titus 2. 13, it says, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. See, he's looking for something. He's looking for the Savior. Why? Because he will save us not only from the the the remaining aspects of our sins, but the giving in the new body, the glorification of the saints, the inheritance of the kingdom, etcetera, etc. , etc. Philippians 3 has the same language that says, for our conversation, our conduct is in heaven, our citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So there is these fancy, and I'm not trying to take away from the fact that yes, we call him our Savior now. He's the only hope we've got. But when he returns, he's coming back to bring home Isn't that what salvation is to finally bring out of harm and dangers away? All of it. Scripture says the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Death is an enemy to be destroyed. Amen. I was just thinking we were just talking just then and uh the phrase that we're sealed into the day of redemption. Doesn't mean we've partially saved Well we we're saved. Nothing's gonna happen when there's a continuance and we've been sealed, so we don't have to be afraid of losing What he's already done. Amen. The actual phrase you're uh drawing from, and that's a correct phrase, that's an accurate phrase, but it comes from a passage in Corinthians that says uh who uh uh hath delivered in whom we trust will deliver and he doth deliver, he has delivered, and we trust he will deliver. Use that phrase deliver three times, referring to his deliverance. That's a good good reminder This passage is in my mind, I may be quoting it wrong, but isn't there a passage in Revelation where it says and is and has become our salvation? Yes. Yes. Right. So th there's a almost a separation here in the apocalypse where, you know, at the end he has become our he was our savior as Messiah, but now he has become our Yeah, right. And again, I I don't want to strain too hard at that point, but I'm just looking at different roles that that you know seem to manifest themselves in different times. Throughout all of it, however, whether it was the old or the new, whether it's the future, throughout all of it, he is the Messiah, that you're filling the blank, the anointed one of God, because God has ordained an eternal purpose for the Son There is was apparently some kind of a council. And you read about this in the prophet Zechariah, I think, comes to mind. It was a council. within the Godhead as to how all this is going to play out. And God the Son is the one who willingly, joyfully, lovingly took on the role, I will be the sacrifice. I will be the atonement. The Spirit of God is one who would come and fill in those people. God the Father is the one who is that authority that sits on the throne that can dispense. And yet I'm speaking of them as three persons and yet they're one. The Trinity sometimes might be better referred to as tri-unity. To whom can you compare God? It's extremely difficult because there's nothing on earth that reflects God well enough. And so he is the same. He has that eternal purpose. You know, God the Father didn't hang on the cross. Jesus Christ did. The Holy Spirit was not anointed as king. And so you do find different roles within the Godhead, and yet Christ Himself doesn't change. Now there's some applications. Having covered all this, I have ten minutes for some applications more this. What are we to do with this? Okay, Jesus is the same. Yep, he's God. Move on. Well, well, let's pump the brakes a little bit and think this through. Remaining the same implies what? You don't change Jesus doesn't change, folks, because he's already perfect. Why do things change? Because something is broke. Why do I need a new car? Because the only thing worth keeping is a radiator cap. Why do I need fill-in-the-blank? Because the old thing was poorly designed. It didn't account for issues in the future. It didn't, it didn't, it didn't. Jesus never changes. That's hard to imagine. I'm impressed our brother built a structure in Smithfield, Jamaica, that survived a Category 4 and a Category 5 hurricane. That's pretty impressive. That's a really nice baptism by two fires to see if it's gonna survive. Um I'd hire him as a builder, but he's not on sale as a builder So when we think about the fact that he's already perfect, he's always been perfect, he always will be perfect, there's no need for him to deviate. He's got it. Um and therefore, for us, if we find any problems in life You would be well served to turn your eyes in the direction of Jesus where perfection lies. Why turn anywhere else Yes, he has ordained aids and assistance from others, but you must understand that he is able fully to resolve any and every issue because he's perfect Why would you not want to go to the absolute truth? You know the biggest word that was on the Google search engine. I think the Google search word of the year a couple of years back, according to Dr. Elliott, was the word authentic Because with the advent of AI, there's so much fake out there. Is there anything true? And you know, I would submit to you that we've learned to live with fake for a long time Well, what good is a system that gives lots of errors? Well you listen to the weathermen all the time, don't you? I mean they w they can't get it right past three days. Here's the ten day forecast Seriously? It's never hit. They can't go out ten days. They're doing good to get 24 hours. So we've live with error all the time. You know, it says in Scripture that we are predestined to be conformed to his image. That's a glorious statement from Romans 8. 29. That in fact God has anointed Christ, he's the anointed of Christ, and he is therefore anointed and ordained that you will be conformed to his image. You're going to be conform to Perfection. There won't be anything wrong. There won't be need of any change. And you know what? You're not going to want to. It's going to be absolutely perfect. Beyond what you're able to consider. So the first application is that that he doesn't change, therefore he's perfect. Look to him. You know, as we look at Hebrews 13, 8, let me ask you this. Where do you see your name in there? In Hebrews thirteen eight. Where's your name in there? Spoiler alert, it ain't there It's not there. Because we all fade as a leaf. Our life is but a vapor. It's a handbreadth. Our years are 70, or if by reason of strength 80, we're soon cut off, and we fly away. Yet Because he ever lives, so do we. In the New Testament, it uses an analogy of a body that he is the head and we're the body. Well what's nice about that is that if you're being conformed to his image, you're kind of out of view of that verse because you're there, but behind him. You're seeing the head. The body is there too. You too will be changed and conform to his image. Look at uh Malachi 3. 6, and this is kind of the verse I would go to concerning our answer to the opening question is change a good thing or not, philosophically. Malachi 3. 6 is a passage my father wanted inscribed on his gravestone. Malachi 3. 6 we read this. It says, For I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. God doesn't change. Inherently, change is a bad thing. Change implies, as you pointed out, what are you changing from? To change from bad to good, that's good. But if you have to change it all, it means you were in a bad state to begin with. Or you're really rebellious. Think about Adam. He didn't have the sin weaknesses like you and I do. He wasn't tainted or tempted like we are by sin. He was perfect to begin with. Do you see how great his rebellion was? To go away willingly, knowingly. He was perfect to begin with. He had far more of his mental capacities. He walked with God. He heard the commandment. He didn't convey it adequately to his wife, whatever excuse you want to come up with or reason. And so he made the worst possible change from the excellent state, the greatest state that mankind has ever known into the worst and dragged his posterity into them. You know, as we see Christ our head with the body not far behind, we too have our God ordained an anointed purpose throughout our life. Before we existed, we were written in the Lamb's Book of Life before the foundation of the world. We were in the mind of God long before there was a Freddie, a Joey, a Penny, a Rick. It was always there in that Lamb's book of life. During your time on this life, it's given unto you. It's a gift. It's ordained to believe and to suffer. It's a gift of God. And also your glorious future, where he says, inherit the kingdom prepared for you since the foundation of the world. And so we are being conformed to his image. There is a certain similarity we have in that there is an ordination. We're carrying out that path, though the time is a little difficult, but all has been ordained and anointed by your God. Isn't that a fascinating verse? If you just stop and strain at it a little harder and think, how was he the same? How was he what's changed, what's different? So I hope that's a blessing to you. I've run out of time Yeah, I I love the coordination of scriptures. I've I've mentioned this before. But um you know the the book of Hebrews, these were people who had seen a lot of change. They've seen the end of the priesthood. Not sure the exact date of Hebrews, but you have the destruction of Jerusalem. They needed something that was unchangeable Jesus Christ. And that strengthens this argument to say, look, I'm giving you these directions, but Jesus Christ was the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's he's making that connection and says, look, I'm not holding out a new character to you. This is the eternal anointed son of God who hasn't Yes, right. Heaven and earth will pass away, my words will never pass away, and he is one who will indeed endure. Uh could you close in print, Earl? Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is indeed a light to our path and a lamp to our feet. Lord, we thank you, uh, Father, for the teaching that we receive week after week. What is my brother has mentioned, I thank you how often the uh lesson in Sunday school The lesson in the morning worship are coordinated not by our imaginations, but by the Spirit of God working and leading us Through thy truth. Father, we rejoice in what you've given us here at Mission Bible Church, or we pray that you would hedge us about or protect our doctrine. uh week by week, Father, we never stray from this book, for this is unchangeable. All around us is changing and decaying. But this remains. And so Father, though The church, the visible church, in many instances has departed from the book. May we always stand for that one. In Jesus' name. Amen.