I want us to focus our hearts and attention on that third verse of this third chapter. But let me read the first three verses of the chapter so we have the flow of the context And then we will dive in. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself, even as he Is pure. Let us bow for prayer together. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the holy inspired Word of God. We read in your word of many times when every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And Lord, we see that taking place in the world around us today where Where men are denying the truth of God, one man and one woman. Men are denying the truth of God before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee Lord, men are in rebellion against thee. But Father, we thank you today that by your grace you have brought and are bringing us into submission to your will. And Lord, this morning as we gather in this place, we gather as a people who willingly and joyfully submit ourselves to the authority of the Word of God. Trusting in Jesus Christ and in Christ alone for our salvation, claiming no merit of our own. But claiming the glorious merit of the blood of Christ that cleanses us from all sin. Father, this morning we come before you as weak and failing human beings. Realizing that faith cometh by hearing, but hearing by the word and hearing by the word of God, but that hearing is not the hearing of the mind and the ears, rather, it is the hearing of the heart It is the hearing of that which your Spirit would teach us through the Word. And so, Father, this day we plead that you would teach us truth and guide us into that truth. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Every man that hath this hope in himself or in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Notice in the first three words of this verse the exception. Has anybody found it yet? There isn't one. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself, even as he is pure. There's no exception here. No one can have hope in Christ and yet have hope in the world. No one can claim to have hope in Christ and yet find themselves inseparably entangled in the iniquities of this world. The man who has no interest in the purity of his soul has no interest in Jesus Christ. The man who has never known the burden of sin has never known the forgiveness of sin either The man who can sin without consciousness of guilt is not saved. It's as simple as that. Now we'd like us to consider three passages from Christ that buttress this truth. First of all, we find in Luke chapter 6 That Paul, or that Christ, gives us warning against false fruit. Look with me at Luke chapter 6, and I'd like to read there verses 43 through verse 46. Luke chapter six, verse forty-three, for a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit. Neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit, for every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns do men gather figs, nor of bramble bush gather they grapes. A good man Out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasures of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil For of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say You don't go to a weed in your backyard and gather grapes. A good tree brings forth good fruit. And an evil tree brings forth evil fruit. Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure And then go with me to Matthew chapter seven. And there I'll read uh Let me read more than I have on my notes there. Let's let's go to Matthew chapter seven and I'll start there in verse twenty Matthew chapter seven and I'll read from verse 20 Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wondrous works Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. And so Christ warns that there will be those that make false claims of knowing him. Every man, without exception, that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself even as he is pure. And then one more passage from Christ I would like to read is in Matthew 13 and verse 24. Matthew chapter 13 and verse 24. And here Christ gives warning that there will be tarrors, not tarrors, but tares among the wheat. Matthew 13, 24. And another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which sowed good seed in his field, but while he slept, and his enemy came And sowed tares among the wheat, and went away, went his way. But when the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared tares also And so this verse in 1 John 3 is very clear. There is an exclusion here of anyone who does not Make himself pure. The man who has the hope of Christ in him will be zealous about righteousness. Will be zealous about the purity of his soul. But also we need to look at the fourth and fifth word of this verse. Every man and every man that hath. Now those two words don't seem to have a lot of significance, do they? That hath. But when we consider the alternative, change the text just a little bit and read it, every man that hath not this hope. And oh, when we consider the alternative, there are those that have, and there are those that have not. But every man that hath this hope in himself purifies himself even as he is pure. These two words are of great importance. And I would like to show you from other passages what the import of these words are. This word hack means to have to possess, to own, to lay hold on, to hold to oneself, or to be in such a condition. Now, let me tell you why it's significant. This word indicates an indisputable state of possession. There's no arguing it. It's not a gray area. It is black or white. You have it or you don't have it. And the best illustration of this Is the fact that this same Greek word, which is translated hath, here in 1 John 3 and verse 3, is the same terminology used of Mary when she was pregnant. With the Messiah. In Matthew 1, verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child. Of the Holy Ghost. And that with child, that with there is the same word hath. She had child. Before she and Joseph came together, she was found to have child. It's the literal interpretation. Now, you can't be a little bit pregnant. You are or you are not. It is one one or the other. You can't be halfway a Christian. You can't be partially a believer. You can't be of the Lord on Sunday and of the devil on Monday. There's a dichotomy here. Every man That hath. The body of a woman shall encompass a man. That's the terminology used of the Messiah. The child of God encompasses this truth within him. It is in my soul, just as surely as a baby is in the bowels of the mother. It is there. It is true. There's no disputing it. And so Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself even as he is pure. And if I repeatedly say hath this hope in himself instead of in him, as is what our text says, forgive me, because My tongue gets ahead of my brain. But there's more here, folks. There's more. Because this same terminology perhaps is used again when it talks in scripture of the healing of Christ. In Matthew 7 and verses 28 and 29, let me read those to you. And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these things, the people were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught as one Having authority and not as the scribes. And it's the same terminology Christ taught as one who had authority. He was in indisputable possession of authority. Authority was encompassed within him Now, when we consider these two little words that hath, in that frame of reference, we understand that there's great importance here. Because, brother. You either have it or you're not a brother. Child, young person, brought through these doors Sunday after Sunday. Do you have this hope? Is your soul in possession of this hope? And even more so, is this hope in possession of your soul Do you know this hope? Every man that hath this hope in himself purifies himself Him purifies himself even as he is pure. But there's more here yet. Every man that hath this hope My father used to say I wouldn't give anything for I hope for I hope I'm saved or I may be saved. I know I'm saved. This word hope that we have in our scriptures is not the wishy-washy desire that something will take place that we have in Scripture. But rather, this is a term of a certainty. This is the hope of the believer. It is a specific hope that is spoken of. It says, every man that hath this hope in himself purified him even as he is pure. When we perform a wedding, We say to the groom, will you take this woman to be your wife? There's an exclusion there, isn't there? My father used to say that a young lady would call him on the phone and say, Pastor, will you marry me? And he would say, I'm already married, but if you can find a man, I'll marry the two of you. Every man that hath this hope in himself. You see, some people hope in their good works. Some people hope in their religion. Some people hope there is no God, so they won't have to answer But the man that has this specific hope in himself Or in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. And just as when we perform a wedding We are speaking to one young man and say, Will you take this young woman to be your wife? Keeping yourself from all others above all other women in this world, will you take this woman? And young lady Above every other man, and in the exclusion of every other man in the world, will you take this man to be your husband? And here John says, Will you take this hope? Not another, not any other hope you can find Every man that hath this specific hope in him Purifies himself even as he is pure. Paul gave a graphic description. Of the case of man without Christ. It's found in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 11 and 12. You can make note of it, but I'll read it for you quickly. Paul there says, Wherefore, remembering that ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh, which are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope. without God in the world. My friend, if you do not have this specific hope, Paul described you in Ephesians. To. Aliens from the Covenant of the Promise. Strangers from the Commonwealth of Israel having no hope without God in the world. Ah, what a terrible place to be. What a horrible condition to be in. But every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. What is this hope that we speak of? What is the hope of the believer? Well In Titus one, chapter two, or Titus one, verse two, in hope of eternal life Which God that cannot lie promised before the foundation of the world And again in Titus chapter 2, verses 13 and 14, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us That he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works And then look at our context to the verse we considered last week. 1 John 3, verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. This hope is a person. This hope is Christ Himself. Every man that hath this hope in him Every man that hath Christ within him, in him the hope of glory, and that's the next word. In him. A lot of people have I start to say have Christ on their wall. They don't have Christ on their wall at all. But you'll see pictures of a Hebrew man with a beard. And they'll say, oh, that's a picture of Christ. No, it's not. It's a blasphemy. Or you may go someplace and see a crucifix on a wall, which is an even greater blasphemy. A lot of people have quote unquote Christ around them. The child of God has Christ in them. Every man that hath this hope, not on a shelf, not in their imagination. Not in their family or some other place, but every man that hath this hope in him. Internalized, personalized Christ in you, the hope of glory. And that's what John said in John 14, verses 18 and following. Or John didn't say Christ speaking, John recording. Christ says in John 14, 18: I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me because I live. Yea, ye shall live also At that day ye shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me, and I in you, Christ in you. And that goes right back to verse 2. When we see him, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. You know what, folks? It's all about Jesus Christ. It's all about Christ. Every man that has this hope, not in some mental ascension, not in some, yeah, I guess that's true, not in here's my tricky ticket on the gospel train. And has this hope in himself. Internalized. Christ dwelling within me. And again, John 14, verse 23, Jesus answered and said, If a man will love me and will keep my words, and my father will love him, and I will come unto him and make our abode. with him. And again in Revelation 3, behold I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and sup with him. and he with me. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself, even as he is pure In Sunday school this morning we had a a excellent exposition of Psalm sixteen. And there in Psalm 16 we find that same Hope in Psalm 16, verse 9, therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoiceth, my flesh shall rest in hope. What was it Christ was speaking there? He was speaking of the salvation that he would give to all that would believe in him. Every man, without exception, that truly hath this hope In him, internalized within his soul, purified himself There is a popular opinion that has grown out of sadly the American church, American fundamental fundamentalism. That there is a being called a carnal Christian And you will find many cases of somebody, are you a believer, are you a Christian? Yeah, I prayed the prayer. Yeah, I I filled out that little little page on the back of the Gospel of John. I went down an aisle. I hit the sawdust trail. Nah, don't go to church. I pretty much live the way I want to live. No, I don't read my Bible. Oh, but oh wait, I'm a Christian? No. Yeah, yeah, I I prayed the prayer. I did the hocus pocus. I said the magic formula. I must be saved. And a lot of people will look at it and say, well, they're just a carnal Christian. They yeah, they were saved because they prayed a little prayer If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things have become new. If you are saved, there will be a transformation. I've told you before, the kids in Jamaica used to sing a lovely little chorus. The things I used to do, don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. Again. And my friend this morning, young person this morning, old person this morning, middle aged person this morning Every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself. There is a discipline that will take place in the life of the believer. Now, John does not speak here of one making himself pure. The language would appear to say that at first glance, but the leopard can't change his spots, the Ethiopian can't change his spots. Scripture is very clear on that. And all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. And so what is it John is saying here? Well It is not a matter of I'm going to stop doing everything I've done before. I'm going to change my ways. I'm going to turn over a new leaf. And there I've got it Notice we have to go back to this hope in him. Christ will make a transforming difference in a man's life. Because the man who once was dead is now alive. But remember Paul's penetrating question? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid And so what does John mean when he says that everyone who hath this hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure? Christ has made me pure. Brethren, dear flock, I would love to tell you that your pastor is perfect. But that would only be an indication of my imperfection because it would be a lie But all brethren, I can tell you from the bottom of my heart that there is within me a burning desire for righteousness. When Peter denied his Lord, he went out and he wept And what John is telling us here is that one of the marks of the believer, one of the marks of those that hath this hope in him. Indeed, every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself Ah, the things I used to do, don't do them anymore. I can't go there anymore because that place is a den of temptation. I can't be friends with them anymore because their language uh is draws me down. I cannot look at that book anymore. I cannot go to these websites I must put a guard around my head. I must be a have a guard around my heart. Every man that hath this hope in himself Guards his soul. Be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Ah, my friend, every man that has this hope in himself will be jealous of righteousness. Will model his life to the best of his ability after Christ, will discipline his heart, will not give place to the devil. John does not speak here of a man making himself pure, but rather of a man endeavoring to maintain the purity that Christ has made Every one of us does laundry. Our clothes get dirty And they need to be washed again. And oh my friend, everyone that hath this hope in himself will or in him him will find himself daily on his knees in repentance before God. Father, I have to sinned against you, and I'm no worthy no longer worthy to be as your son. Make me as one of your hired servants. You see, for the child of God, there is a continual confession of sin. Lord, make me more like Christ. Lord, I stumbled again. Help me, Lord. Make me righteous. Make me pure in thee. I'd like us to read the last portion of this or next few verses in our text. this morning. And we'll probably come back to verses 4 through 10 in a separate message. But let me read for you again in 1 John 3 and starting at verse 4. Whosoever committeth sin transgresses also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. And ye know that he was manifest to take away our sin, and in him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil. For the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. The child of God will not continue living in sin. If you are a child of God, you will flee from Satan. You will flee from sin. If you claim to be a child of God and yet you're comfortable continuing in a sinful lifestyle, according to the word of God, you're of the devil and not of Christ. Christ. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself even as he is pure. The true child of God will always be anxious over the purity of his soul. The true child of God will always endeavor to keep himself pure, and the true child of God will have great great grief. When he fails in righteousness. Every man that hath this hope in him purified himself But that's not where the verse ends, is it? Even as he is pure Those of us that are husbands, those of you that are wives, know that we quickly learn things that annoy our mate. But it's not just in the family relationship of a husband and wife. As children, we all knew what our parents expected and what disappointed them. We know our friends and those relationships as well. Would any loving husband deliberately Do that, which he knows is a grief to his wife? Would any loving wife deliberately Do that which hurts the husband? Obviously not. Obviously not. Jesus Christ is our measure. And those that are in him and have this hope Purifieth himself him even as he is pure And that's what verse 2 is talking about, isn't it? We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. We shall behold him in the full glory of his righteousness. Oh, may I be like Christ. And I'm not a great fan of this little saying, what would Jesus do? Because it's been broken down into initials and so overused, it's lost, it's import But I ask you, friends, is your life more like Christ or more like the devil? Is your life that which becometh the gospel? Or is your life like the world? Do the people you meet on a daily basis know that you're a child of God, or do they think you are one of them? And when you're with your friends, which would you rather be? Would you rather be Be like Jesus Christ? Or would you rather be like the world? For if you remember back to the first chapter, when we considered Christ and the light, we said that in him is no Darkness at all. Brethren, friends, it is not my intention to shake the faith of any man It is not my intention to make you doubt, and yet it is incumbent upon me to faithfully preach the Word of God. And the Word of God says that every man without exclusion that hath this specific hope, this hope in Christ Internalized within him, purified himself, even as he is pure. Are you living for Jesus Christ? Or are you not? Do you really know him? Or do you not? Peter said in 1 Peter 1, verse 13, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace of God that is brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation Because it is written, be holy, for I am holy. Let us stand for prayer together today. Father, bless your word to our hearts, I pray. Lord, may we not be forgetful hearers. Father, make us a people that are zealous of good works. Make us a people that are zealous for righteousness. Lord, may we set a watch at our mouth. Father, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word God, may we as your people daily take heed to our way according to the Word of God. Father, I thank you for the children, the young people, the teenagers that are here with us today. Father, I pray that every one of them will know the saving grace of Jesus Christ. Father, I thank you for the adults here today. Lord, Uh various backgrounds, various families, various experiences, but all Lord, all in need of one Savior. May we truly know you by living faith. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.