Open in your Bibles with me this morning, and the scriptures will be placed on the screen for us as well. But opening your Bibles with me to the book of Ezekiel and chapter 21, and I'm going to read verses 26 and 27. as the text for our consideration of God's Word today. Ezekiel chapter 21 and beginning with verse 26. Thus saith the Lord God, remove the diadem and take off the crown. This shall not be the same. Exalt him that is low, and abase him that is high I will overturn, overturn, overturn it, and it shall be no more until he come, whose right it is, and I will give it him. Let us vow for prayer Gracious God, our great Heavenly Father, now we pray as we have prayed so many times before. O Lord, open your word to our hearts, and open our hearts to receive thy word. Father, we thank you for this glorious prophecy found here in Ezekiel. A prophecy of Messiah. A prophecy of Jesus Christ. O Lord, may we be blessed and edified by our consideration of it this morning. And O Father, may Jesus Christ be exalted and glorified in the eyes of our soul, and may we worship Him, the great King of Kings, this day. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. God declares there in verse 27, I will overturn, overturn, overturn it. What is the context and meaning of this glorious portion of God's Word, of the Holy Writ? What glorious truth is contained here? How is this scripture profitable for doctrine, for correction, for reproof, for instruction in righteousness? And you may even ask, what does this passage have to do with the incarnation, with the birth of Jesus Christ? And dear friends, I would submit to you that it has everything to do with the birth of Jesus Christ, the King of Christ. Kings. Let's consider the historical context of this passage. The context of this passage is very graphically recorded in Scripture It is recorded in history and even in archaeology. We find evidence of the truth of this passage. In 589 BC, Nebuchadnezzar besieged Jerusalem. And 2 Kings 25 records for us. And the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. And on the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine prevailed in the city. And there was no bread for the people of the land. And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by night. So they took the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon, and they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah. and bound him with feathers of brass, and carried him to Babylon. Here Zedekiah, who is referred to as a wicked prince He is overthrown. His sons are slain before his eyes, and his eyes put out So the last sight that Zedekiah would remember through the rest of his life was the sight of the death of his sons. And he's carried into Babylon in feathers of brass. That is the context That we find in Scripture for this 21st chapter of Ezekiel. I'd like to work our way through the chapter, verse by verse. Until we get to verses 25 and 26 and 27, which will be our actual text for this morning, but I believe to get the full grasp of the glorious doctrine That is expounded to us in verse 27. We need to work our way to the chapter. And so beginning in the first verse of chapter 21 of Ezekiel, and the word of the Lord came unto me, saying Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy words toward the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel Say unto the land of Israel, Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I am against thee. And I will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and I will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked. If God be for us, who can be against us? But oh dear friends, if God be against us, who can be for us? And here, through the prophet Ezekiel, God declares, I am against thee. I have drawn out my sword, and I will cut off even the righteous with the wicked. The presence of the righteous in a wicked land is a great mercy, and it's a great blessing. Yea, even to the wicked and to the wicked land. And yet, when God's wrath is poured out upon a land for their wickedness, how often are the righteous cut off along with the wicked? And that is what God is declaring here in this third verse. Note, remember, that Ezekiel was a righteous man, not of himself, but in the righteousness of God. Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, I prefer to say Hanani, Azariah, and Misheel, their Hebrew names. They were righteous men in their generation. And yet when the wicked were cut off, they were cut off as well. And so God declares that He will cut off the righteous with the wicked Continuing there in verse 4 and 5. Seeing then that I will cut off the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of its sheath all flesh against all flesh. from the north, to the south to the north, and that all flesh may know that I the Lord have drawn forth my sword out of its sheep, it shall not return any more. Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of the loins and bitterness, sigh before the eyes, their eyes. And it shall be when they shall say to thee, Wherefore sirest thou that thou shalt answer for the tidings, because it cometh And every heart shall melt, and the hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint And all knees shall be weak as water. Behold, it cometh and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord. Ah, here the prophet is told to sigh, for the tidings are great. We do not sigh for joy But oh, when sorrow comes, how that sigh escapes the bosom. Sigh before the people And we read in verse 8. I'm sorry, verse 7. And it shall be when they say unto thee, Wherefore siest thou? That thou shalt answer for the tidings, because it cometh, and every heart shall melt. And all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water. Behold it cometh And shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord. Again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord, say a sword, a sword is sharpened. And also furbished. It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter. It is furnished that it may glitter. Should we make mirth It condemneth the rod of my son as every tree Oh, should we make mirth? For the sword is sharpened and it is furnished. In other words, it glitters as the edge has been wetted with the stone of God's wrath. And there in verse 10, God declares, it condemneth the rod of my son as every tree. What a glorious prophecy this is! For here God is referring to Nebuchadnezzar, the wicked king, as his sword that has been sharpened, that has been shined, and his sword contemneth. Or his sword despises, his sword stands in opposition to his son. The sword of Nebuchadnezzar despises the rod of God's son, Israel. Remember the prophecy in Hosea. Chapter 11 and verse 1, when Israel was a child, then I loved him and called my son out of Egypt And so this sword of God, who is Nebuchadnezzar, despises and stands against the rod of God's son, Israel. But then again, the sword of Nebuchadnezzar, this evil world, the pharaohs of this world, the Nebuchadnezzars of this world, stand against the rod, the Son of God. of Jesus, that he was in Egypt until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord of the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son. And so here God is graphically painting for us a picture through wicked Nebuchadnezzar, the same through wicked Pharaoh. of the evil rulers of this world. The kings take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break this court. Promise. Let us. destroy his works. Let us free ourselves from his rule. And yet he that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. And notice also in the context there in verse 10 That it is God that has drawn forth his sword. Oh Pharaoh who stood against the people of God, and Nebuchadnezzar who stood against the people of God, and the Jewish leaders that stood against Christ himself. They believe that they are their own masters. And yet we know from Scripture that God controls it all. And here God declares that he will draw his sword. Nebuchadnezzar was the sword of God. wielded by his own hand. And so we read of Christ, that he was despised and rejected, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him There are no mistakes in God's plan. God's plan is perfect, and God's way is eternal. And so coming to verse 11, we read, and he hath given it, that is the sewer, to be furnished, that it may be handled. This sword is sharpened and it is furnished to give it to the hand of the slayer. It is sharpened that it may be given to the hand of the slayer. Remember the words of Christ when he was speaking with the disciples on the road to Emmaus? Ought not Christ to have suffered? Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and entered into glory? What we're finding here in Ezekiel 21 Is the Garden of Eden plan of salvation in its fulfillment, in its carrying forth, in the prophecy of the sword that stands against The Messiah. Verse 12, Cry and how son of men, for it shall be upon my people It shall be upon the princes of Israel. Terror by reach of the sword shall be upon my people. Smite therefore upon my thigh. Smack the thigh. Oh, what grief! is coming upon the people of God because it is a trial And what if the sword condemn even the rod? And of course the rod is the rod of Jesse in this Christ. Even the rod. It shall be no more, saith the Lord God. Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, smite thy hands together! And let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of the slain. It is the sword of the great men that are slain, which are entered into the privy members I have set to the point of the sword against the gates, that the heart may fade, that their ruin be multiplied. Ah! It is bright, it is wrapped together Go thee one way or the other, either on the right hand or on the left, whithersoever thy face is set, I will smite my hands together And I will cause my fury to rest. I, the Lord, hath said it. Then in these next verses, which lead us up to our text for the day, we find King Nebuchadnezzar in verse 21 at the parting of the ways. And we find there at the end of verse 21, for the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of two ways, to use divination. He made his arrows bright, he consulted with images, he looked in the liver. Ah Nebuchadnezzar here is standing in one way is the way to Jerusalem, as the other way is the way to to the Amorites. And he's trying to decide, do I attack Jerusalem or do I attack the Amorites? And he made his arrows bright. He shot arrows, and when the arrows landed, that would be to him a divination He consulted with his images, and he even looked at the liver. We hear about foolish men trying to read tea leaves or somehow divine the future for themselves Here, wicked Nebuchadnezzar, he makes a sacrifice, and then he looks at the liver of the sacrifice, and somehow the liver is going to tell him what to do The poor wicked king has no realization that he is being directed by the Spirit of God. And he does not go to the Amorites for another five years. But rather in God's direction, he turns his wrath against Jerusalem. Now, that was a long context and along leading up to our text. But I would turn your attention now to verses 25, 26, and 25. And verse twenty-five, and thou profane, wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come When iniquity shall have an end, thus saith the Lord God, remove the diadem and take off the crown. This shall not be the same Exalt him that is low, and abase him that is high. I will overturn, overturn, overturn it And it shall be no more until he come, whose right it is, and I will give it him There in verse 25, Zedekiah is called a profane prince, profane, wicked prince of Israel, and his day has come. Remove the diadem, verse 26. The diadem is a reference to the royal, kingly but priestly headdress that was placed upon Aaron. It is the emblem of the priesthood. It is the emblem of those who were to be the righteous religious leaders of the people. Zedekiah has not been a righteous leader. He has been a profane and a wicked prince of Egypt, of Israel. And so remove the diadem, remove the mitre. The time of this judgment has come. The form of godliness is taken from his head The royal and the righteous diadem belongs to one head alone. It belongs to the head of our great high priest. Jesus Christ. It is his alone, for he alone is the righteous priest. He alone is the sinless priest. He is the prophet. the priest and the king. And so the diadem is here removed from the head of Israel's priesthood How significant that is. Some talk about a restoration of worship in Jerusalem, but who will be their priest The diadem has been removed from the head of man. It is for the head of Messiah alone. And then in verse 26, take off the crown. This shall not be the same. God is done with the wicked kings of Israel. God is done with manly kings. Zedekiah, you will no longer be king. And God was supposed to be their king all along. Remember what God said to Samuel in 1 Samuel 8 and verse 7. And the Lord said unto Samuel, hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee. But they have rejected me, that I should no longer reign over them You see, the crown belonged to the head of Jehovah God. He was their king. The kings of men did that which was right in their own eyes. And now God has said, the throne of Israel is done until he come whose right it is, who is the rightful king. This shall not be the same. The earthly temple shall not be the same either. This is an escalotic and logical, you know what I'm trying to say? Passage. It's a prophecy telling us that Of what is to come, there is no further need of a temple in Jerusalem below. The temple now is with God. And the verse continues there: Exalt him that is low and abase him that is high. Geteriah was made the ruler there in Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. He was left a lowly man. a sorry ruler who had no authority at all, he was just a figurehead. The lowly was exalted, and Zedekiah was carried blind into Babylon But oh here again we find Christ, for he is meek and lowly, but is exalted. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just and having salvation Lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon the colt of an ass. And then again in Isaiah 53, he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root. out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness. And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him, the lowly babe of the manger of Bethlehem. He is exalted. And so indeed, why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? And the kings of earth set themselves against the Lord, take counsel against the Lord and his anointed God declares, yet have I set my king upon my holy hill. And then verse 27. What a glorious and stunning verse this is. God declares, I will overturn. Overturn. Overturn it. This word overturn means to destroy. It means to ruin. It means to profane or to pollute. It is repeated three times because the word of the Lord is sure. God will overturn it. He will overturn it. He will overturn it. It was God the Father who offered Christ to be the sacrifice of sin. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. It pleased the Lord to bruise him In 2 Corinthians we find, for he hath made him to be sin for us, God has overturned the works of man. God has overturned the kingdoms of men. God has overturned the vain religion of man, and it is all overturned in Christ. It is all overturned in the Messiah, and it shall be no more, verse 27. Back in verse 26, it said, This shall not be the same. It shall be no more. Until he come, whose right it is. Ah, there will be no kingdom until the kingdom of Christ is come. And so we find that intertestamental period when there was no king in Israel and Israel was in dispersion uh in dispersion and And there was no prophecy and there was no vision. But then Christ came. And he came as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. In Luke chapter 1, we read, And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord shall give unto him the throne of his father, David. Ah, the kingdom shall be no more. until he come, whose right it is. The crown is removed from the head, until he come, whose right it is. The priestly diadem is removed from the head, until he come, whose right. It is hallelujah. He is come. Jesus Christ is King of Kings and Lord of Lord. And he shall rule over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom. There shall be no end. And so it is fulfilled the prophecy of the Old Testament in Isaiah. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and his peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it. And to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. And so God declares, all the way back in Ezekiel 21, that the kingdoms of earth are coming to an end The crown of the kingdom of David, the kingdom of Jerusalem, is removed from the head of earthly monarchs. And it is held in trust by God the Father. It shall be no more like that again, until he come, whose right it is. And the last phrase of verse 27, God declares, I will give it him. God the Father, because of the sacrifice of God the Son, has now given him the kingdom. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name. And so, as we conclude our consideration, let us consider the words of Isaiah, the prophet, in Isaiah chapter 40, verses 1 through 5. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith the Lord. Remember, they were told there in Ezekiel 21 to sigh. To mourn, but now they are comforted. Speak comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished. Nebuchadnezzar is coming in, he will destroy Jerusalem, but now her warfare is accomplished. And that her iniquity is pardoned. Oh, isn't that great? Ah, the warfare against my soul, the warfare of Satan to capture my soul, it is ended. It is ended in Christ. Her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that cries crieth in the wilderness Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. And every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. Ah, dear friends, God has taken away the vain religion of man. The mitre is removed from man's head. God has taken away the supposed rule of man. The king, the crown, belongs to Christ. It is given to him alone. And so dear friend, as we conclude this year our celebration of the incarnation and the birth of Christ Let us acknowledge that indeed this is the one to whom it belongs. This babe of born in Bethlehem was born the king of the Jews, and to him it pertains. My friend, if you trusted him, do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Do you know that he is indeed the King of Kings? And Lord of Lords. Are you still trusting in your own vain religion, in the works of man's hands? Are you trying to put a mitre upon your own head? Or have you submitted to the righteousness of Christ alone? Let us thank God for his word this day Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the marvelous truths contained in the Word of God. We thank you for this great and glorious prophecy of the coming Messiah, of the sword furnished against Messiah, Lord, how you use the wickedness of men Lord, for the glory of God and for your purposes. Father, bless your word to our hearts this day. And may we truly know the saving grace of Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name