Morning, everyone. Well, uh today we're gonna round out the backside of a study we began last week on looking at faith promise giving. What do we do with that? So um I had talked last week about uh things that I believe were right with faith faith promise giving. I want to reiterate that. Because it is a mixture, I believe, of truth and error, and it's also implemented differently from congregation to congregation. I like the emphasis on giving. I like the emphasis on sacrificial giving. I like the emphasis on supporting missions work. I like the idea of um uh of being generous to the Lord. All of those are good and and useful components to it. And so I don't want to uh throw out the baby with the bathwater. But there are some components that I believe uh have a little bit more of a a bad angle to them which needs to be addressed, which will cause some people to bristle at faith price. promise giving. We looked at some uh last uh week. I thought I had my other last week's set of notes. But uh the twisting of scriptures, they The founder of the Christian Missionary Alliance, A. B. Simpson, back at the 1800s, early 1900s, looked at 1 Corinthians 10. 15, and you can look in your Bible. 1 Corinthians 10. 15 Where um uh is it first or is it second it's second Corinthians? Second Corinthians ten, fifteen Where he says that not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labors, But having hope, and here's the punchline, when your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you, according to our rule abundantly. When your faith is increased, and that was the justification given for faith-promised giving. And many have latched onto that and find in that phrase, absent from the context, yes, this is exactly the biblical justification we need for faith-promise giving. Well, others have appealed to other passages of Scripture, but uh we're going to continue to look today at what's wrong with faith promise giving. So other than the twisting of that scripture, which we covered last week. There's another point I want to make, because apparently faith promise giving is implemented something like this Preach a rousing faith promise giving sermon. Try to go over all the passages that I believe are being twisted in favor of that view. Calls are made for prayer and more importantly, cards are distributed and uh commitments are requested. Why, in fact, here's one such card. My faith promise mission offering. It's got a little fill-in-the-blank you can check off the box. Here's on the back side, is it scriptural? Here's the mottos, what is it? Those are handed out and then they're collected at the end Um you sign your name, deacons collect them, they total them on the spot, and the results are announced to the delight of the evangelist sitting up front because now he believes he can go forward in the mission field with The full faith and promise of these individuals that God will provide on their behalf of what they have just signed up to. Uh what would you think if you were sitting in a congregation and heard or saw that approach? false response or false uh incitement. Enticement. Okay. If you do this then that's what happens. Okay, yeah, you sense that there's something false about it, right? False insight I like that word incitement. Enticement or incitement. Yeah, incitement's a good word too. They're being incited to want to do something. If you do this, then God will do that. There are instances in scripture of public vows, but by and large a vow is to the Lord. It's a private thing. And um a lot of the faith promise totally throws out let not the left hand know what the right does. But uh it's it's um you know a big push and almost like Anonus and Sapphira who lied about it. Um there's that pressure to, you know Um well you know Bob here he's he's gonna give a thousand so you better give a thousand and one. Um It's interesting you used a word right up front, the word vow, because that's kind of a contrast, isn't it? It's a vow versus a willing mind. Now, what would your thoughts be on signing a faith promise giving commitment? W would you sign this? Okay, well the thing is when you sign you feel like obligated and sometimes we can't do it. You feel then you are restful. You are restless. Ah. When you don't uh oblige. Yeah. You're restless, yeah. There's some uneasiness that comes with that, right? You you mentioned the word obliged, you're obliging yourself. You know, you take your signature seriously. All medical offices, have you read such and such? Yes, sign here. Do you agree to pay this amount? Sign here. Uh you get a bill at a restaurant, give them your credit card, sign here. You're making a commitment, and the key word is a vow. Can you think of a biblical precedence for this? An apostolic example of where A request for money was made and there was vows given to support. Can you think of any apostolic examples of that? There as brothers mentioned, pastors mentioned, public vows, but I don't know that I can remember any of those in connection with the financial. Yeah. There's kind of time when they're mentioned, but but a vow is my heart and God's heart. Okay. So we're straining a bit to find any biblical examples where Peter preached a sermon, passed out some parchment, looked for some commitments, and then did that. That that approach doesn't seem to strike us correctly. You know, in fact, when faith promise giving is implemented in the way I've described, and again they're not all implemented the same. There's great variety. of ways in which people implement it. I believe some can be done better than others, but in general it is in the the end where you're making a commitment. It's a vow, whether it's in writing or even a verbal contract is binding in America. Uh it's harder to prove in a court of law, but it's binding. And it's certainly binding before the Lord. In the Old Testament, the father could disavow the vows of his daughter if she made a vow uh uh um unadvisedly or hastily. He could say, nope, that's null and void. But you see, when the faith promise is implemented that way, it is a vow. And of course scripture has strong warnings against vows. And that's the first Passage in your handout. If you look at Ecclesiastes 5. 4, we read this. It says, When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it. For he hath no pleasure in fools, pay that which thou hast vowed. Better it is that thou shouldest not vow than that thou shouldst vow and not pay. What's interesting about that passage is it says defer not to pay it, meaning you defer not to pay it. It doesn't say Don't worry, God will pay. If you make a vow and don't have it, that's okay, God will make it up for you. That's somewhat is the basis of faith promise giving. Don't worry. God'll rescue the day. And that gets back to my point. If God's going to rescue my vow, if he's going to fulfill it, well why not pledge a billion dollars? I mean my God's not broke. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. All the trees of the forest are his. Why not go big? And of course, we begin to really sense that something's amiss there So when Scripture commands bountiful sharing, it is always according to the giver's purposes. 2 Corinthians 9. 6 is the next passage in your handout, and I direct your attention to that. Here, the apostle says this, this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. Uh that is, if you give little to gospel ministry, you give very small amounts to the things of the Lord, you devote little time to it, don't expect a lot of spiritual fruit to come out of it. Laboring in spiritual things is no different than laboring in a garden. If I just chuck some seeds out there, occasionally kick the dirt around, let the rain water it, as opposed to uh irrigation in a watering system. If I'm not pulling wheat, I'm not gonna get much fruit. I may get some wild cherry tomato going off and putting out a few rogue ch uh cherry tomatoes, but I wouldn't expect a lot. We understand this He which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. But notice this, and Joey alluded to this last week, every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. not grudgingly, nor of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. That word necessity is what Miss Saba was talking about, this obligation, this need, this burden. That word necessity is very interesting. If you chase it through the New Testament, there's the sense of distress, in distresses sometimes. it's rendered. You know, you you've got to there's nothing like being under a schedule pressure or a a a monetary commitment where a bill is due and it's due at a certain time and you feel that stress upon you. The apostle says, not grudgingly, not of necessity, God loves a cheerful giver. It's one who's cheerfully and joyfully giving, not because he's Oh man, I foolishly signed that vow. Well, Ecclesiastes says, you defer if not to pay it. God's not going to rescue you. The other passage to which appeals for faith promise giving are made in Paul's second letter to Corinth, and look at 2 Corinthians 8. 1. Again, it's in the handout. 2 Corinthians 8. 1, and we find this. Here it says, Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit. Now that's an old English phrase, that word wit. We still use in our English language, we use it in the term of witness. Somebody who is an eye-witness is somebody who has knowledge Firsthand knowledge. We do you to witness we would have you to know of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. So this would include the church of Philippi. How that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy, notice the joy, God loves a cheerful giver, and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves, praying us, begging us, beseeching us, with much entreaty, that we would receive the gift And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. They wanted to be partakers of this mission effort. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord. And unto us by the will of God. When he says, Not as we hoped, it means, you know, we kind of hoped that they wouldn't really stretch themselves too far. We really didn't want to burden them Now, I want to make an observation. It says in verse 3 that the Macedonians' church sacrifice was, quote, beyond their power. Beyond their power. What does this mean beyond their power? Let me uh put it another way. What does it mean when your doting auntie uh gives a huge dinner for you and uh a friend? That's beyond her power, beyond her means. She's probably she is not feeling well even though she Maybe she's not feeling too well, but she still gave the dinner, okay? She's not a billionaire, so it was it was a sacrifice, but it wasn't fun. She didn't didn't have. But um it wasn't it wasn't like she had you know a sock for a sock a sock drawer full of money. Uh i it was for her a sacrifice. Okay. But it was a sacrifice of love It was for her a sacrifice. Have you ever had anybody who is um uh I've had aunts who were not super wealthy and yet uh when I'd come around were very doting. Very doting. Very very giving. My Aunt Ruby could whip up a five course meal and was Ruby the fastest cook on the planet? She was unbelievable, this woman. And at the end there were three types of dessert and all of them had chocolate in it. And they were all different. Pecan pie, chocolate chip cookies, brown, it's amazing how this woman could crank out the food. I it's it's magic occurred in that kitchen as far as I'm concerned. But she had a portable dishwasher. You know what those were like? You had to roll it from there to the sink and hook up the the the water into the onto the faucet nozzle and and then push it back. I mean it was she wasn't Rich per se. So yes, it means they gave sacrificially, but it also means it was something within their possession that they already have. saw a proper application of this. It was a church that had a building fund. They needed five million dollars for the building. They had reached the two million dollar mark. Uh and the congregation learned of another congregation that suddenly had a serious need. It seemed like there had been a fire or something and their billy had burned. And his congregation said that congregation needs this too million more than we do. And so they gave away their building fund to another congregation. And Lord bless them, a few years later they had their fund five million. But um that I think is a perfect application of this passage. So when it says beyond their power, it doesn't imply that uh the sacrifice went into dangerous territory. They weren't giving uh the auntie that I'm speaking about didn't pull out the credit card and go into deep debt She had it. Maybe she didn't eat as rich of a meal later that week. Maybe she only had uh meat once that week, not twice, or you know, she ate beans for the rest or whatever. But that's kind of the sense that I'm getting when it says beyond your power. I had a man, uh, my dad's sister in Mexico and we went for a visit and we went to we visited her very poor. But she let us Bread, like you wouldn't believe. Wonderful food. So we all got things with me. I noticed my dad with her and holding her hand with something. And she was crying. And she just she was almost gonna kiss his hand and he says, No, no, no, no. And he just hugged her and I said, Later on I was curious, so I asked my dad, he said, Why did you go here and later require? He said, You know that wonderful dinner that you put out for us That was all the food they had for a week. So he gave some Yeah. Yeah, all the food she had for a week. Wow. And it's sacrificially in love. It's not motivated by fear or guilt or coercion, but it's love for the Lord and for his people that prompts that kind of sacrifices. Absolutely. And this is where the faith promise giving has entwined with it uh some good and some bad The Bible does commend sacrificial giving. In fact, the very appeal, shortly we're going to see in 2 Corinthians 8, the very appeal is going to be made to the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. But the appeal to sacrificial giving does not go to such an extent that you enter into making a rash vow. It doesn't go into an area where You're committing to funds that you don't currently have. You're not going to that extent. There you could say is a practical limit, scripturally speaking, to where that is Now I will talk about some other ways that faith promise giving, I believe, can be implemented biblically, a little more biblically, but uh I don't think I call it faith promise giving. Uh let's look at um 2 Corinthians 8, let's keep going now in 2 Corinthians 8 because I want to jump down to verse 6. And let's uh Uh I want to talk about this this word grace that they use in here. 2 Corinthians 8, beginning and 6. Insomuch that we desire Titus that as he had begun So he would also finish in you the same grace also. So now he's turning his attention away from the Macedonian churches, and he's talking directly to the Corinthian church. Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith and utterance, and knowledge and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others. Others have been very forward, implication you have not been, and to prove the sincerity of your love. Your love stands in question at the moment, is what he is implying. Verse 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye, through his poverty, might be rich And herein I give my advice. For this is expedient for you, you, the Corinthian church, you that I have questions about the sincerity of your love. Who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Now therefore, perform the doing of it. that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which you have. For if there first be a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. Well, this is an interesting passage here, because here Paul exhorts them that ye abound in this grace also. And he mentions grace in verse 6. He would finish in you this same grace? Verse 7, see that you abound in this grace also. Verse 9, he ties that back to Christ. What is this grace that he's referring to? Hint, it's not salvation. Okay, the ministering to the saints, yes. All right, and uh there's something a little more tangible to that. It's ministering in a particular way. Yes. Yeah. A financial offering, a donation, if you will. Uh he calls it your grace. Uh I will use that term when I thank people for their offerings. I'll say thank you for your grace. Um So what is Paul reminding them of in verse 10? He's reminding the Corinthians of something in verse 10. What is that? No, talkie's good. Like they had given before a year ago. Okay. And it sounds like he's reminding them to be forward with Okay. He's tying it to something that happened a year ago. Now you're suggesting it's that they gave before. That's close, but not quite. That they made a commitment, your readiness to will, so there may be a performance. Yeah. But they hadn't followed up on what they said Yes, exactly. So here he's chiding them because they said a year ago, yes, we will give you such and such, and they were seemingly ready of mind. And now he's chiding them, now do it. Follow through on this He said you would do it, so he's holding them to their feet, which is interesting. So there's a couple of things here, let's talk about them. Can you Matt what was that phrase you used earlier when about faith promise giving made? Oh, yeah. Um the missionary church makes a promise of Missionary better ho better have a lot of faith. Oh yeah, the church makes the promise the missionary better have a lot of faith. And you can see why that's the case, because in the moment they're emotionally moved to do this We've all made emotional decisions before. You're just all gung-ho just seems so right at the time. And then you sober up from that later on. I mean that parabolic says and say, ooh, that wasn't such a great idea. I don't know how I'm going to deliver on that. That appears to be what the Corinthians did. So it's interesting, I suppose, you could say, on the basis of This, if you're holding the faith promise giving, that the missionaries could write back to the individual churches, I have a vow letter from you. Cough it up, pal You said you were going to give, and you could go thumping 2 Corinthians 8. 10. There was a willingness of mine, now there better be a forwardness, deliver, pay up. Do you know how many missionaries have done that? I suppose if you're going to implement faith-promise-giving that way, they would also have to include a stern note from the missionary because that's an apostolic example to take him to task. So it appears that the Apostle Paul is calling them out on their promise to give over a year ago and he wants them to follow through. He points out the love and the joy of the mission of the Macedonian churches that they were following through, that they were getting, but these others were not. What point do you think in verse 12 that the apostle is making here? 2 Corinthians 8, 12 If there first be a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to the hat that to that he hath not. A little awkward language there, but what do you suppose the apol what point is the Apostle Paul making? Sounds like if you're gonna make this kind of commitment, it should be within your means. Yeah. Not beyond. Yeah, if you're gonna make some sort of commitment, it ought to be within your means. It also kinda hints at the delivery. You know um, if you can deliver If you can't deliver don't promise exactly Brother Bertie used to have a a phrase. He was also in the auto business and uh He says, uh my dog needs meat, not promises. I can't feed her over promises. If I stand out there and tell Zoe, my cat, how wonderful her dinner bowl is gonna be and how she can look at me and just keep meowing her head off. Right? Likewise with the Lord. He says, uh, you know, this an interesting mind and a verbal commitment doesn't cut it, the following through does. In fact, he even gave a parable about that He says, which of the two do you suppose is right? A man had two sons. He said to the one, Go in my vineyard and work. And the one said, I'll go, and he did it not. And the other son said, No, I won't go, but afterward he went and labored in the vineyard. Which of the two do you think did his father's will? He says it's not about talking about it, it's about doing and that's kind of his point here. Thinking back to the verse you were reading about vows, it's interesting that at the end of that he says if you can't fulfill the vow, God takes no pledge. Like it is a foolish thing to commit to something you cannot follow if you want. Good point. Very good point. Very good connection back to Ecclesiastes. Yeah, he takes no pleasure in fools, and I think that's probably where the apostles uh drawing it from. One could almost say it sounds like the The Corinthian church was practicing faith promise giving and he's calling them out for it. In the negative, he's flaming him for it. Interesting. He continues on. Well, I want to uh mention something real before we leave verse 12 here, because Matthew Henry summarized this nicely. He said this When men purpose that which is good and endeavor, according to their ability, according to their ability, to perform also, God will accept of what they have or can do And not reject them for what they have not or what is not in their power to do. And this is true as to other things besides the work of charity. I thought that was a good point. You know, you can think of other examples. Jesus said of the woman, leave her alone. She's done a good work. She has done what she could. She's done what she could. And of course the famous widow with her two mites casting in all of her penury in the temple in Luke 21 also comes to mind. She's cast in more than all because she's cast in of her living. Henry again. That was good. Matthew Henry, one more time. When men purpose that which is good and endeavor according to their ability to perform also, God will accept of what they have or can do. And not reject them for what they have not and what is not in their power to do. And this is true as to other things besides the work of charity. I thought that was very good. He knows the position he puts you in. If brother can't commit to $1,000 a month, God ain't laying that burden on him to do it, because he doesn't have that ability. But to whom much is given, much is required. God does expect that. And so I think there's some equity there. And that's what we get now to verse 13 as we continue in 2 Corinthians 8. He says I mean not, I intend not, you Corinthians, that other men be eased and you burdened. In other words, I'm not coming to you because I'm trying to make it life for somebody else. but by an equality that now, at this time, your abundance. He knew he's been to Corinth. It was a wealthy city. It was a crossroads of all kinds of trade All the land trade had disembarked onto the seacoast and went to other parts of the sea. There was all kinds of trade that went through. Corinth was a happening place, folks. It was very wealthy. All kinds of different it was a port city. It was a New York city of their day, you could call it He says, but now by inequality, your abundance may be a supply for their want, their lack, that their abundance, back in the day, may also supply for your want, that there may be equality as it is written. He that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack. It's interesting that he pulls out that scripture verse. He that gathered much had nothing over. And he that gathered little had no lack. That's an interesting quote from the Old Testament. You remember where that account occurs at? This gathering? So the manna fell from heaven. Here you got the tent, the Coliabin tent, right? There's the Coliabin tent. Man, they got a bunch of mouths to feed there. And so they're out gathering a bunch of stuff. They got a lot. And then here's the uh uh uh somebody else's tent. They don't have a lot of mouse to feed, and they gather a little bit. Uh there was an equality there By application and by implication, let's say somebody in that small poor tent couldn't get out and gather that day But those who are in the big tent could gather a lot. Now I'm making a little bit of a stretch here, but I think it's a good stretch. It could be that those who gathered much said, hey, we have plenty today, but this poor widow over here who sick could we'll just go give her some There we says there's an equality there. The equality is not how much was gathered. The equality was that everybody had what they needed. So, Paul's basically saying that the Macedonians gave very heavily last year, but they're poor. Now you need to step up. Remember what you said you would do. He supports these from two examples, Jesus' life of sacrifice, that though he was rich, he became poor for your sakes, and equity among the wilderness Jews who gathered the manna. So, 2 Corinthians 8, while appealed to by some in the faith-promise-giving camp, in fact this is their third point in this particular handout, 2 Corinthians 8. 1 to 5. Passage depicts several churches in the province of Macedonia giving beyond their financial ability by faith to missionaries, Paul and Silas. It just says beyond their means, not their financial ability. So the third point I have is obligating God versus if the Lord wills Obligating God versus if the Lord wills. That's really what a faith promise is. You're obligating God to give through you. But God used it as a vow. You know, James says this, and uh Uh hey Elias, he's got a point to make. James says this, go to now ye that say, Today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow. What is your life? It's even a vapor that appeareth for a little while and then vanisheth away. For that you ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. Now, why do I bring that verse up? Well, faith promised giving claims a gain will come even without going into a city and buying and selling and making gain or not. So that doesn't seem to fit. If in business, I'm supposed to say, if the Lord will. if the Lord will is a big thing. We say that even for hey, you come into our event on Saturday at one o'clock just to pick something of mind And uh maybe you've got a lot of things going on at that time, but you think you can squeeze it in. Well, Lord willing, we'll be there. Right? That's a very common phrase we say among Christians. Well, why isn't that sad of the faith promised giving? I Lord willing doesn't come with an all sign right here because now you're making a vow, you're committing to it. So we're not looking at whether or not That may be in God's will. You know, God's intention may be that that missionary be starved out. Maybe that missionary all of a sudden has gone off the rails. He's no longer believing in the miracles of Christ. He's no longer believing in the deity of Christ. He's lost the fundamentals of the faith, and he shouldn't be supported And maybe this is God's way of starving him out of business, saying, Nope, I'm not blessing that. Why would I send my children's bread to feed a dog to pick on a different analogy So the idea here is that faith-promise giving claims a game is going to come, but that's not scriptural. Biblical giving is according to one's prosperity. And I draw your attention to these last three verses because I think this really puts a pretty heavy final nail in the coffin of the approach of a vow-based giving. Look at Acts 1129. In your handout, it says, Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judea. Which also they did and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. So there was a recognition of the need. There's nothing wrong with doing that. There was a concern of the church from one area to another related to missions. Nothing wrong with that. The body of Christ isn't all in one geographical location. and determining to send relief. Nothing wrong with that. But the key phrase is, is each man according to his ability. You don't go shake people down beyond what they have and hand them a credit card slot and say, slide your credit card in here. We'll take you off. That's not if you choose to do that voluntarily, well that's between you and God and the credit card company, whoever loans you the money to make that happen. You've got to carry that out. Look at 1 Corinthians 16, too, as well. Notice what the Apostle Paul says here, again directing the Corinthians, upon the first day of the week, that would happen to be today, Sunday, let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come. You're not supposed to be scrambling at the last minute to figure out, oh, can we get something to the missionary? The plate's coming. You weren't expecting the plate. You didn't know he was coming. He just popped up. You're shuffling in your pants. Maybe I I don't know. I'll write you an IOU. Well that doesn't work either. He says, let every one of you lay by him in store. Set this thing up, set it aside, be prepared in your mind. Giving to the Lord's work is a commitment and it's a preparation. You have to prepare for it. When you're sitting down to make your family budget, and I encourage everybody to do that. I use the zero-based budget. It works wonderfully. That is, I'm bringing in $100 or $1,000 a month. And I have certain expenses. Well, I'm going to make sure everything fits within $700 or $800. 10% goes to the Lord. Off the top, not after Uncle Sam comes in. Off the top, that's the Lord's. It's never hurt me, by the way. And then Uncle Sam gets his slice. You ought to save a slice as well for a rainy day because someday you are going to wake up and you're not going to feel like going to work and your back is going to hurt and your legs are going to hurt and everything's going to be way too sore. It's like, nope, I can't make it But that other 70%, yeah, okay. Now you live within those means and you get used to living within those means and you don't live beyond your means. My dad one time said, and I love this quote, love this quote from his, he's had clients, he said, that made millions of dollars that were on the books, on the ballots, they were underwater. They were in the red. He says it's not how much you make, it's what you do with what you got. He said you learn to look, my dad, as far as I'm concerned, was one of the richest people I knew. And he never made over $40,000 a year in his life. Never. Back in the day, never did. But when he uh just shortly before he passed, he owned 17 acres of land, outright. He owned a herd of cows, about a dozen or so, outright. He owned his house outright. He owned both vehicles, truck and a car outright. He had a beautiful tractor. Oh, gorgeous tractor. He owned that outright. And the cows paid for all the taxes he owed, because he only owed his sum total of taxes, you'll love this upon, was $780 a year, and that was Texas property tax, Texas uh State of Texas property taxes because it was registered as agricultural use. He only paid $780780. 00 a year in taxes. That's smart, folks. Who's what's not to like about that? I don't know. Hurt my heart to sell the ranch. I'm way off track here. Anyway. Laying by in store, preparing, thinking about what you're doing with your finances. Don't leave it to the wind. At the last minute a bill comes in. Ah no. The Lord's work comes in. Oh, I can't do that. I got no. You're just being stupid, sorry. Second Corinthians eight fourteen he says, uh and we've read that already, I'll repeat it again, but by an equality that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want and their abundance may be a supply for your want that there may be equality. You see, if Paul believed in faith promised giving, he wouldn't be looking for any such equality. Why look for equality if you believe in faith promised giving? That doesn't connect either. So again, I said I don't want to beat up too hard on it because I do believe there are reasonable ways to implement this. And let me share with you as I close out here one of the best ways I have seen this implemented. And I thought it was quite good. I really did. And I've done this before and it's kind of amazing and you might want to try this yourself. So you can assess your current budget, you allocate your 10% to the Lord, as I've already mentioned, and you commit then to giving him a portion, say 25%, of any windfalls you happen to encounter that year. Maybe you get a more than generous tax return that you were beyond what you were expecting. Just add up in advance everything you expect to get for that year. Just go ahead and throw it all in there. I expect to get this much back from taxes I expect to get this much income. I expect to do whatever. Those of you on salaries is a little easier to do. But then any windfalls that happen to come. uh garage sale proceeds, etc. So some uh you're uh part of a um uh uh a um what do they call these uh class action lawsuits where you happen to have something and then you're you're gonna get some money because of that. And then just Give 25% of that to the Lord. Now you're committing to a percentage of what you may get as opposed to committing to the dollar amount without knowing whether you're going to get it or not. You're still saying if the Lord wills. And if not no windfall comes through, no windfall comes through. 25% of zero, zero. You've done your commitment, because nothing came through So I thought that is a reasonable way of implementing that sort of thing, to go a little bit above and beyond. And I've always been amazed and impressed at what God has done. I haven't done that in a while, maybe I need to revitalize that for myself. So I share that with you, and for those who may be watching to say that Vince is beating up on faith promise giving, well, I'm beating up on the on biblical elements and hopes of refining and sharpening that approach. We we use the term tithes and offerings. And uh I think sometimes we need to understand the difference between the two. Yes. Because that that tithe is that ten percent that belongs to the Lord before we touch anything. Our offerings are, you know, we hear of a need and you know, Lord, I would like to help with that. And so, you know, I can I can put fifty dollars towards purchasing these Bibles or towards this bishop. But that that offering is not tithes. That's great. Separate category of giving to the Lord. It's an above and beyond amount. Absolutely. Um well I need someone to close us in prayer. Who would like to close us in prayer? Yvonne, if you would. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for the abundance of riches, Lord, that you've given us, Father, in life and salvation, Lord Uh we owe everything to you, Lord. And Father, we ask that you would help us to be ready, willing, and actionable And returning, Lord, to the kingdom that which uh is is rightly yours, Lord, and Um pray Lord that in whatever uh requests are are made of us, Lord, we would always be discerning, Lord, and Father give to uh good ends, Lord and Father, that all of the resources that we put forth towards the advancement of your kingdom would indeed go to uh accomplish uh Even Lord the the salvation of of lost sinners, Lord, the ultimate uh purpose Lord of our witness here as we traverse Lord through through the And uh we just pray Lord you're helping all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Yeah, we'll keep recording. I do want to close with one final point. lest you think this was an opportunity for me to get up here and stump for more money at Mission Bible Church. God has blessed us very handsomely uh for such a small congregation, we do have sacrificial givers here. And I thank all of you uh for doing that. Um and uh but I I I share this just so The question was asked, what about faith promise giving? That was my only motive in uh in covering this. So uh thank you to all who are supporting the work so generously. Thank you.