Gracious Father, we do indeed thank you that we serve our risen Savior. We thank you, Lord, that we understand what Easter is. But the noise and the chaos of the world does not enter into the truth of thy word. And so, Father, indeed, we do pray this morning that you would free our hearts and minds from all that would distract. From all the noise, chaos, and glitter of the world that can so easily intrude into our thoughts, distract our hearts and minds from thee. And follow this day, may we by thy spirit indeed worship thee in spirit and in truth As we open thy word together this morning, may thy Holy Spirit indeed be the preacher, the exegete in our midst. To proclaim truth to our hearts, to show us Christ in the Word, to convict us of our sin, to lead us to repentance. To inspire us and encourage us to greater service and greater devotion to the King of Heaven Our Father, blessed to these ends we pray, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning. is one of the familiar resurrection passages from Matthew 28. And the angel answered and said unto the women, fear not ye For I know that ye seek Jesus which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen. Come see the place where the Lord led. Amen. Good morning, everyone. Turn to your hymnal. You'll notice we've swapped out to the Trinity hymnal today. As we do from time to time, we swap out our hymnals just to visit Old familiar songs and today we sing number 205 in the blue hymn 205. A good one from Wesley. Christ the Lord is risen today. Number 205. And we sing all five Sanders. I saw the Lord is present. Page your choice and triumph, singing hands. Hallelujah, Christ has worked on case on hell hallelujah. Or based on Christ and open terrace. Death is now nice thing all we find our souls to say Aleluya, when I take glory of name, Aleluya. Amen, Amen. Please be seated. Wonderful songs. Well we turn now to our professional uh reading and brother Anton will come and lead us in that Good morning. If you have your bulletin with you, please turn to the back of it as we continue our reading through the Belgic Confession. Coming to us out of Belgium from 1561 A. D. This is the 18th article regarding the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Christian, in what do you believe? We confess, therefore, that God did fulfill the promise which he made to the fathers by the mouth of his holy prophets, when he sent into the world at the time appointed by him, his only begotten and his eternal son Who took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men, really assuming the true human nature With all its infirmities, sin accepted, be conceived in the womb of the Blessed Virgin Mary. By the power of the Holy Ghost, without the means of man, and did not only assume human nature as to the body. But also the true human soul. That he might be a real man. Since the soul is lost, as well as the body It was necessary that he should take vote upon him to save vote. I hope you were paying attention as we were reading that The uh eighteenth article points out some interesting things, uh things to to be considered. But overall the article is regarding the fulfillment of prophecy. And fulfillment of prophecies specifically regarding the sending of the Savior, that one that would be sent to redeem mankind, to redeem a remnant of this world after the fall through which all men were condemned. And really this is concerning everybody. This isn't uh the gospel message, the message of the Savior isn't just something that involves a particular group of people. But it actually involves the entirety of the world. Doesn't matter where you're from. Everybody has to deal with this Savior, the one that was prophesied, the one that came. Either indeed he will be your Savior Or he will be your judge at the end that condemns you to an eternity in hell. So this is an important teaching here. But it's about how this article specifically is about how those prophecies were fulfilled. We see prophecies of Christ coming, of what was spoken to Eve, that she would have that seed that would come and bruise the serpent's head We also uh have heard prophecies regarding Christ spoken to Abraham and to David. We also read of them in Isaiah, Zechariah, and there's many other places, but these were all fulfilled in that final or in that initial coming of Christ, in his incarnation. Who is the Savior, he's the second person of the Trinity. He is the Son of God that really came He was God's eternal son, and he is God himself. That's what we read of in the scriptures. But at that prophesied time, at that time when God would be manifest in the flesh, God actually had to come And indeed, put on flesh, he was manifest as in the flesh, as it says in First Timothy three sixteen, and without controversy Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. And at the end of that verse it also says, and this is what we celebrate today, he was received up into glory. He truly did, uh he was resurrected and he truly did ascend. And it's interesting here that the article points out that he's the only begotten son of God Not just any son. And the KJV is uh points out that term, only begotten son. in many of the references in the scripture. If you were here for Sunday school, you would have heard that being briefly mentioned. But um yeah, truly, w when the uh ESV says he's God's only son, it's a bit confusing. Because God has many adopted sons. But he has only one eternal son, only one begotten son, and that is Jesus Christ. And we also read that Christ took on human nature and it involved both body and soul, which is an interesting concept there. He didn't only receive a human body, but he also received a human soul. And I did some digging into this and it and it is quite interesting. It's It is somewhat flawed to think he was just flesh. He just took on flesh and that's all there was. There wasn't any kind of human soul there, but no, he was given a soul. He received a soul that came at the uh conception which occurred in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Uh the soul developed. We see that he grew in wisdom. There's the scriptures that talk about that. from babyhood to adulthood, his soul, not his flesh, but it says that his soul was tempted. He is as the scripture points out, in all points he was tempted like as we are, yet without sin. And in Matthew twenty six, yeah uh we read again about Christ's soul specifically before his uh before he was taken to be crucified. So then he Saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful. My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. And uh I think one of the biggest things that points out that that he had both a flesh and a soul is Acts chapter 2 There's a reference to something that uh that David prophesied of. In Acts two, verse thirty one it says he that is David Seeing this before, spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption. So indeed, Christ had to put on both a human body and a human soul for the purpose of redeeming both And for any believer that is resurrected, they actually are resurrected with a new body and they also have their soul. They have both body and soul. God had to redeem both, and so Christ put on both Praise the Lord, what a marvelous Savior that he came to redeem the entirety of his elect. Thank you. Yes, we find that when Christ saw the unbelief of the people, he was grieved in his spirit. And that is a reference to that that same soul, that inner man. Well, we have much to pray for in addition to our regular prayer requests for the health of God's people and the provision of God's people. Um we're praying this morning for one who we still think of our own, even though she hasn't been with us for a while, for Trinity Bensell, who is on a mission trip in Jamaica this morning. Um I know exactly where she is right now. because it's a very precious place to penny and I. The mission trip that she's a part of actually began in 1972. I went on that same mission trip at Easter in 1982, and then Penny and I were the host of that mission trip from 1988 through 2005. So do remember Trinity. We have looked back and said that the true fruit of that ministry has something emotional here, has been the young people from the United States, myself included, whose lives were totally transformed by that one week on a mission trip in Jamaica. Let's pray. Gracious Father, we thank you that death could not keep his prey. Jesus, my Savior. He tore the bars away. Jesus, my Lord. Father, we thank you that though man tried to seal Christ in a tomb He could not be kept there. And men have tried ever since to deny the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But we know it to be true because the risen Savior lives within our hearts. Father, we thank you and praise you. For the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the ultimate confirmation that the sacrifice for our sin was acceptable and accepted on the altar of the throne of heaven. We thank you and praise you. Father, we do bring before you this morning the uh mission trip that is taking place at this time. And Lord, we pray for this young lady who is very dear to us, Father, that you might indeed bless her and work and move in her heart. Establish a godly pathway for her life through this time we pray. Father, be with Brother Maggie and his dear wife, Sister Barbara, that are very near and dear to us and who are known well to us. I I pray, Lord, that the week of Bible school, both up in the mountains at Fern and down on the seashore at Smithfield, would be an encouragement and a blessing to them. And Father, we pray for the young people that are attending. Lord, may you raise up a new generation of believers in those two congregations. Uh Lord, um I believe Pastor Meggie himself was first attracted to the gospel of Jesus Christ through a vacation Bible school that took place up there in Fern. Lord, use your word mightily for the salvation of souls, for the glory of Christ, for the edification of those that attend, and for the furtherance of the kingdom of God. Father, we thank you that you are indeed our God of healing. And Father, we thank you that we see those here today who have suffered great illness, and yet, Father, we know that we are gathered here today with aches and pains, with illnesses from the minor to the very grave. And Lord, we understand that we are in these bodies that are dying. And we begin to die the day we are born, and in fact, living is indeed the process of dying. And yet, Father, we find in your word time and again where your people called out to you on behalf of the sick, and you through mundane to miraculous means. Healed and spared and extended days. And so, Father, that is our prayer in our midst here this morning. Lord, that you would help those that are dealing with aches and pains. That you would strengthen those that are struggling with weakness, that you would work within the bodies of those that are fighting off grave illnesses, Father. Lord, you are able in these things. And you have told us in your word, yea, you have promised us that the prayer of faith shall save the sick. And so, Father, we come before you this morning in prayer, praying in faith believing, without any shadow of a doubt, that you are indeed able to peel if you so ordain. And yet, Father, the truth is this, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. And Lord, we pray, even so come Lord Jesus. We are not fatalist. We are not suicidal by any stretch of the imagination. But Father, we understand that this world is only preparation for the next. And we find in your word that we are to work while it is day, for the night cometh when no man shall work. And we find in your word that the stewards will give account of the talents that you have given to us. And so, Lord, we live in the recognition that we will give account of every day that we live. Whether we have lived that day to the glory of Jesus Christ and the furtherance of his kingdom, or whether we have lived that day in sin and in pleasure. And so, Father, may we be sober in our days. And Lord, may we make the fullest of those days you give us. Father, we thank you. That you clothe the lilies of the field. We see the trees in blossom, the beautiful flowers beginning to come up out of the ground, the springtime. And Lord, we rejoice in all these things, and we know that if you so clothe the grass which is today and tomorrow withers, tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will you clothe your children? And so, Father, you do indeed supply every need according to your riches and glory. When you send us out without purse and script, we lack nothing. And so, Father, we do pray that you and your faithfulness would continue to supply the needs of thy people. Father, they are well known to you. Lord, in the Wednesday prayer meeting, we oft enumerate them Father, we pray that you would work in each financial situation, that you would provide the advanced employment that is needed, that you would provide the business coming in through the door that is needed. that you would rectify uh uh financial wrongs, O Lord, according to your will. And again, Father, we do not pray these things, wringing our hands, wondering uh how ends will meet. But Lord, we are concerned and we are diligent, but Lord, we believe that you will, at the moment it is needed. Oh Father, we've all seen birds picking at a piece of bread And yet, when a raven flies to the prophet without eating the bread, we know it is of thy hand. And so, Lord, the world would eat away at our finances, but they are protected by thee. And so, Father, we commit them into thy care. Lord, we rejoice in Mission Bible Church. What a great blessing and a privilege it is to meet together. And Father, we recognize that we have a special treasure in this place. Father, may you protect it from the evil one, as our brother was praying earlier. Lord, may you hedge us about For oh, how Satan would love to cause disruption, how Satan would love to enter in through any means to disrupt our fellowship and to prevent the proclamation of the gospel. Lord, you have given us a big megaphone You have given us a broad ministry, even across the world, not in this country alone. And we thank you for it. We pray for Brother Burbs over Lord, that you would bless him there in the Philippines and bless the ministry. We do pray again for the ministry in Jamaica. Father, we pray that you would prosper your word, prosper your gospel. Lord, may we be faithful to thee And Lord, indeed, we thank you for the resurrection, and we pray, even so come, Lord Jesus. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 2 for a responsive reading. Once you've located Acts 2, please rise. Just wanted to give a little bit of commentary before we read this passage, just for us to think through as we're reading through it. This passage follows the pouring out of the Spirit on the day of Pentecost, that's fifty days after the resurrection of Christ. And at that time many were wondering how it is that the d the uh disciples were able to speak in tongues, in these distinct tongues of other people's nations, other people's languages. And of course Peter at that time quotes from Joel regarding the pouring out of the Spirit, as well as the other signs that occurred at that time, that occurred both in heaven and in earth even the uh darkening of the sun following Christ's crucifixion. And really what Peter is pointing out is that the prophecy was being fulfilled there at that time, at that time of Pentecost. And this was a confirmation that the same Jesus that that they were dealing with, that same one that they had witnessed being incarnated and crucified and resurrected, that that really was the true Messiah that was prophesied to come Today we don't need those extra signs and revelations because God's already given us His Word, the explanation of these miracles that had come. So today may God help us to believe His Word. Now for our responsive reading, we'll read Acts two verses fourteen through thirty-six But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said unto them, Ye men of Judea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem. Be this known unto you, and hearken to my words. For these men not as ye suppose See, it is but the third hour of the day. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God. I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I will show wonders in the heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire, and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and notable day of the Lord come And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Ye men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know Him being delivered by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, he hath taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain whom God hath raised up having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be holden of it. For David speaketh concerning him I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved. Therefore did my heart rejoice And my tongue was glad. Moreover, also my flesh shall rest in hope. Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell Neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou hast made known to me the ways of life. Thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the Patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day. Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne He speaking this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither did his flesh deceive corruption. This Jesus hath God raised up whereof we all are witnesses. Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost He hath shed forth this which ye sees. For David is not ascended into the heavens, but he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand. Until I make thy foes thy footstool. And altogether, therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly That God hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of the Holy Ghost. And then we turn now to our red Psalter, the Book of Psalms, number eight B. An adaptation of Psalm eight eight B to the tune of Amsterdam. Uh you know that tune from hiding in thee, if you're familiar with that. Number 8B, we will sing all three stanzas and conclude with the Amen. Lord our Lord in holy urban thou expellent your name and your love. Some spender on your name, all Lord Shown to raise the most. In the place of the bandit holes Well I will strike some of the When I see no more and stores which you can go to me What is my soul? That you should bring that many shall not be for you. God you have made my own place to hold your work. We can all stop our beast turns and push the ocean's way. Thank you. Open in your Bible with me this morning, please. To the book of Colossians and chapter 3 for our scripture reading. And then we're going to be going to the books of 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus for our actual message this morning. Our scripture reading is from Colossians chapter 3. And I'll read verses 1 through 7 once you have your place there. Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians in your New Testament. Colossians chapter 3. And reading verse one through verse seven of the third chapter. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry For which things the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience, in which ye also walked some time when ye lived In them. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, now again, as we approach the Holy Word of God. We come not seeking words after man's wisdom. We do not gather in this place to hear a lecture. We do not gather for a stand-up comedy routine or in any way to be entertained. But, O Lord, we come earnestly desiring that your Holy Spirit would teach us from the Word of God. And we come desiring that we might be guided into all truth by that same Spirit. And so, Father, may we approach thy word with a humble reverence. May we approach thy word with a hunger, hungry desire. And O Father, may we hear thy truth this day. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn over with me to the book of 1 Timothy. If you're in Colossians, you have 1 and 2 Thessalonians and then 1 Timothy. So in most Bibles, you're only a few pages away from 1 Timothy, going towards the End of your Bible. Colossians and then Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, 1st and 2 Timothy. If you move to fight it. 1 Timothy and chapter 1. And in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 15, we find these words. This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am truth. Of whom I am chief. We're going to use that phrase from the Apostle Paul as our outline this morning. There he says, this is a faithful saying. Paul repeats this same phrase five times. It's found in 1 Timothy, it's found in 2 Timothy, and it's also found in the book of Titus. Which of course was inspired by God, but written by the Apostle Paul. He says, this is a faithful saying. That word faithful means true. It means reliable. It means without dispute, without error. There's no deception. This is a faithful saying. And that word saying is the Greek word lagos. which we're familiar with. It is actually the same word that is used as a title or a name of Christ. In the beginning was the word. The word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. This is a faithful saying. Now All the word of God is faithful sayings. It's all true. But when you were in I'm sure you can remember a time when your teacher or your professor said, now listen to this, it's going to be on the exam. And so when all the body of knowledge is true, but certain pieces are singled out in their truth. And highlighted a spotlight is shown upon them. Break out your yellow highlighter and mark it in the book Well that's what Paul is doing here. He's saying, this is a faithful saying. This is true. This is worthy of all acceptation. And so, look back up to verse 12 there in 1 Timothy 1, where we find this declaration. And beginning in verse 12, Paul says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious But I obtained mercy, because that I did it in ignorance, in a did it ignorantly in unbelief. But the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Howbeit, for this cause I obtain mercy that in me first Christ Jesus might show forth all long suffering for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. Paul said, this is a faithful saying. This is something that is true. This is something you can hang on to. Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. And Paul said, I'm the worst one there was. There is no man that is beyond the saving grace of Jesus Christ. There is no one so wicked, so sinful, so despicable, that Christ cannot save them, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. And we remember the Pharisee and the publican that went up to the temple to pray. And the Pharisee said, I thank God that I'm not as other men. I fast, I tithe of all my possessions, I'm not like this publican. But the wicked publican we read smote upon his breast and said, God, be merciful To me, a sinner. And Christ declared that that wicked publican, that tax collector, that thieving IRS agent, if you want to put it that way went down to his house justified routing the other. Folks, this is a faithful saying Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, and I'm glad he did, because he saved me. And I love that old song, Naught have I gotten but what I received. Grace hath bestowed it since I have believed. Boasting excluded, pride I abase, I'm only a sinner. Saved by grace. Folks, uh D. L. Moody, the preacher of a generation past Used to love the phrase, but for the grace of God, there go I. You find a wicked man on the street and you say, Oh what a wicked man that is But for the grace of God, I would be him. Why am I not locked up in jail this morning for murder? Because of the grace of God Why am I not out in some iniquity today? The grace of God made all the difference. Paul describes himself as a blasphemer. He had a foul mouth He describes himself as injurious. He did many wicked things to righteous people. He was a persecutor of the church. But God saved him. We find here that Jesus Christ came to save sinners. He came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. The Lord is nigh unto them. That are of a broken heart and save as such as of our a contrite spirit. But not only do we find in this passage That Christ came for the express purpose of saving sinners. But we find that he comes and he's full of grace and mercy. Look at verse 13, the last part of the verse. Paul says, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. I didn't even know what I was doing with bad. You know, the the unbeliever often has no conscience of his sin. He can lie, steal, and cheat, and as long as he doesn't get caught, he thinks it's okay. But the reality is that he is storing up wrath against the day of wrath we find in Scripture. But when the grace of God comes along, it transforms a person, it changes them. Suddenly they have a consciousness of sin. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. Why? Because he's a fool. He doesn't know better. But when the grace of God awakens a man out of the death of his sin, suddenly he realizes I am a sinner and I must repent. Remember this Saul on the road to Tarsus? Lord, what will you have me do? Sirs, what must I do to be Saved. We find that this Christ came full of grace and mercy and faith and love. Look at down at verse 14. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant. Aren't you glad God's grace was exceeding abundant? It took a lot of grace to save me. Took a lot of grace to save Paul. Took a lot of grace to save you as well. The grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith With faith. You see, faith is not something you work up within yourself. Faith is something Christ comes to you with. Faith is indeed a gift of God with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. But not only do we find that it's a faithful saying here that Jesus Christ came to save sinners, and that he came full of grace and mercy, but his coming is with transformative power. Look there at verse 12 Paul says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Paul was highly trained. We know that he had gotten his education at the feet of Chimalia, one of the great scholars of his day. He was a Pharisee. He was taught in the law. Paul uh I say Paul, we know he was Saul at that time, but he was one who would be set for leadership in the community. set for leadership in the synagogue. He had been taught how to be a leader. He had been through leadership skills classes. He was someone who uh you know he was set. He was going to do good things, great things. But here he acknowledges that none of those things really worked in the ministry of Jesus Christ. God has not chosen the wise Or the mighty. He's chosen the foolish things. And here he talks about the minute. He says, God has enabled me. God had totally transformed him. He had made him into someone who he was not before. And then look down at verse 16 He says, Howbeit for this cause I obtain mercy that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering For a pattern to them which is hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. Paul said, All these things that happened to me, God sent them forth that I might be a pattern. Remember when he said to Timothy? Shall they self a uh an example to believers in word? Paul is putting Timothy on notice that he has the same responsibility. Paul said God set forth these things to be a pattern, and wow, what a pattern Paul has been What an example. Because God transformed him. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And so this is the first time that we look at this phrase. This is a faithful saying. Turn over with me, or if you want to just listen, you can. I'll read the verses for you But by way of transition to our next one, I'd like to go to Revelation chapter 21. The scene of Revelation chapter 21 is not here on earth, it's in heaven. And in Revelation twenty-one, the work of redemption is done, and the saints are gathered in heaven. And in Revelation twenty-one and verse three, we find this Revelation 21, verse 3, and I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he shall dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God shall be with them and be their God. The tabernacle of man of of God is with men. What does that mean? Well God is meeting with his people. God's people are dwelling with him, just as God walked with Adam and Eve in the garden in the cool of the day So now God's people are resident with God, and God is resident with his people. Verse 4. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. These words are true and faithful. You know what that is, folks? It's the same phrase that Paul is using. But here in Revelation, it is God speaking it from the throne. You want proof of inspiration? You want proof that sixty-six verses or six sorry sixty-six books all have one author who Gave his word by inspiration to a multitude of men. Well, here God uses the same phrase from the throne that he inspired Paul to write in 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy and in Titus. Now what's the point here? You see, Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to find the chiefest of sinners to save him that his people might be with him. And here, at the end of all things, God declares, this is true and faithful. This is right. God dwells with his people. And so God uses this same phrase. But the second time, going back to our outline, that we find this phrase This is a faithful saying, is found in the book of 2 Timothy. You were in 1 Timothy, in 2 Timothy chapter 2. And here I'll begin reading in verse 18. We find, first of all, that Jesus, this is the faithful saying, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Secondly It is a faithful saying, for if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. 2 Timothy 2, and starting in verse 8. 2 Timothy 2 verse 8. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. Wherein I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound. Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. This is a faithful saying For if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. Folks, it is a faithful saying. This is a faithful saying. If we be dead with him We shall live with him. That's what we celebrate this morning, isn't it? We celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ being risen from the dead has become the first fruits of them which slept. You will either die in your sins Or you will die in Christ, but you're going to die regardless. It will be one or the other. You will die in your sins. Or you will die in Christ, but it's appointed that a man wants to die. You're all going to die. And so Paul said, indeed, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. But he also says there, if we suffer with him, we shall reign with him. You know what that is? It's truth. It's a true and faithful saying. If we suffer with him, we shall reign with him. Folks, this life isn't easy. And Christians, believers, are not well liked in this world. There have been a few times in history when the people of God have been well liked and it hasn't lasted long and it frankly hasn't been good for them. If you look at the history of the church, the time when the church has had the greatest spiritual prosperity have coincide with the times when the church has had the greatest persecution. We're in this world, but we're not of this world. But folks, this is a true and faithful saying. If we suffer with him, we will reign with him. But then also he says there In verse 13, or the last part of verse 12, if we deny him, he will also deny us. Now, this is not talking about Peter's denial. Okay, this is not talking about someone who has a a moment of faithless unbelief. Because God's people do have moments of faithless unbelief. Take down my life from me, I'm no better than my father's. Yeah, we we find that multiple times in Scripture where where someone will get into a great trial. Peter was walking on the water until he looked at the winds and waves. Peter denied Christ. We have those times when our faith is shaken and those days when we say, Where is now my God? That's not what this is talking about. But this is talking about the unbeliever The fool who says in his heart there is no God. This is talking about the reprobate who will not come to Christ. and who cannot come to Christ, and who their life is a pattern of unbelief, and they die denying what's around the corner. Christ says, if ye deny me, I will deny you. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so don't let this verse be a shaking of your faith, but rather an encouragement to your faith, because in this life we shall suffer persecution. And in this life, as long as we live in these bodies, though we make no excuse for sin, we understand that sin is still our constant adversary and enemy. And there are times when the winds and the waves of this world can begin to shake our faith in Christ, but our faith will not fail, just as Peter's did not fail, because Satan desired to have Peter that he might sift him as wheat. But Christ had prayed for him. And so Christ declares that we are in the palm of his hand and no man can pluck us out of his hand. And he turns and says we're in the Father's hand and no man can pluck him out of his hand. But folks the true believer will not deny Christ. Christ but will always flee back to him. But folks, those that deny Christ, they will be not denied. And you know what the denial sounds from me? Or sounds to? Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. There's the denial. Scripture quotes it for us. I never knew you. And then finally, if we believe not, it's tied to that one. If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. Folks, it does not matter. It does not matter that the gods of this world deny the existence of God of Christ. It does not matter that the gods of this world deny the deity of Jesus Christ He cannot deny himself. Are you then a king? Pilate asked. And the answer was, thou sayest. You know the truth, Pilates. You know. He cannot deny himself. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And what was Christ reply to that? Peter, flesh and blood have not revealed this unto you, but my Father, which is in heaven. And so we find this is the faithful saying, if we be dead with him, we shall live with him. Number three is back in 1 Timothy again in chapter 4. First Timothy chapter 4. This is a faithful saying, godliness is profitable unto all things. Again, I'll read the context to get where we are First Timothy chapter four, verse nine is the verse where you find this saying, but actually the the the this is the faithful saying follows the faithful saying, so we begin in verse six 1 Timothy 4 verse 6, this if thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, then thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. nourished up in the word of faith and a good of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained. But refuse profane and old wise fab wives fables and exercise thyself rather unto godliness, for bodily exercise profiteth little. But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is And that which is to come, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation And so the faithful saying he's referring to is what has been stated before. What is the faithful saying? Bodily exercise profits little. But godliness is profitable unto all things. I've joked with some of the people at the gym where I go several days a week. Yeah, I I'd ask, are we trying to extend our lives or end them this morning? And I think some of us have felt that way when we're exercising, especially when you start getting the gray hair and the the creaking joints and get to my age. You know, I was talking with my cardiologist just a few weeks ago. I'm planning to do some scuba diving this this summer. And I said, You think that's okay? And he's like, Yeah, sure. But sometimes when we're exercising, we feel like we're about to die. Bodily exercise does profit a little. But folks, godliness is profitable. in all things. Folks, what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? There you go. What yeah these athletes that that exercise their bodies, mo most of the Olympians If they continue in school, it's very minor. They exercise eight and nine hours a day training for their sports. And they get third place and who cares? Or they don't place at all. And, you know, okay, who won the Super Bowl last year? Could probably figure it out, but who cares? What difference does it make? You know what league soccer team is number one? I have no idea You see, these things that the world trains for and puts so much effort into, I don't care how many miles you run a day, someday you're not going to be able to run two feet. You see, bodily exercise is good and wise and and we should keep our temple, we should protect the body. But those things really only last here for these little few years. But godliness is profitable in all. Folks, it has been proven over and over again that the righteous people are happier people In spite of all their troubles and trials. It's been proven over and over again that godliness with contentment is great gain. It has been proven over and over again that those that spend time daily in the Word of God and exercise themselves on the godliness, they are blessed. But those that seek the things of this world are always disappointed. Because the things of this world never live up to their promise. I remember when I was in junior high and I just couldn't wait to be on the varsity basketball team. And I still look back on that and think, you know what, that just never lived up to its promise. It just wasn't really what I expected it to be. Folks, godliness will never disappoint you. Folks, this is a faithful saying. This is a true saying. Godliness is profitable in all things. And so if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. If thy foot offend thee, cut it off. If thy eye offend thee, pluck it out For it is better to enter uh into life, blind and mame, than to go into condemnation. It's the faithful saying, godliness is profitable in all things. What good will wickedness do? What profit is there to the unrighteous? Oh, I'll pull down my barns and build greater. Thou fool, this night shall thy soul be required of thee. You see, the I I saw a thing that popped up on my computer screen yesterday that showed a map of the United States and it showed the billionaires in all the different states, how many billionaires there are in the United States. You know what The moment they die, they're paupers. Because not one scent will follow them to the grave. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust of corrupt and where thieves to break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rough Roth stuff corrupt and where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Moving alone, number four This is a faithful saying. They which believe in God must be careful to maintain good works. And this when we go over to the book of Titus and chapter 3. The book of Titus and chapter 3 and verse 8 and following. Or actually I'll read verse eight, but verses one through seven we're going to consider as well. Titus chapter three and the eighth verse we find this. This is a faithful saying And these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which believe in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. This is a faithful saying. This is a true saying. If you call yourself a Christian, You need to live like your calling. This is a faithful saying that they which believe in God might be careful. Be careful to maintain good works. That's the verse. But look at the context now going up to verse number one. Of chapter 3 of Titus. Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready unto every good work. That's your public behavior. The public behavior of the believer must be careful to maintain good works, subject to principalities and powers, obey magistrates, ready into good works And then we find our personal behavior. Verse 2, to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, not always being a fight over something. but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men, for we ourselves also were sometimes disobedient, deceived, serving our diverse lust and pleasures living in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. We have our public behavior uh subject to my manus to Magistrates, we have our personal behavior, speak evil with no men, not brawlers, and we have our previous behavior, for ye yourselves were sometimes foolish. You see, the child of God is to live like the child of God. Continue there in verse 4. But after that the kindness and the love of God, our Savior toward men appeared. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us by the washing of regeneration of renewing of the Holy Ghost Which is shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. We are to be careful to maintain good works. But then there's one more time. And with this we'll close that we find this phrase. And that is found in 1 Timothy 3 and verse 1. 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 1 This is a true saying, that word true is the same Greek word as faithful. This is a true saying If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work This is a true saying. This is a faithful saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. This is not a statement that we're to be greedy of power. This is not looking to lord it over other people. Oh, I want to be the bishop. I I want to be the pastor. I want to be the administrator. I want to be the Sunday school teacher so I can tell everybody what they're doing wrong. That's not what Paul is saying at all. But rather what he's saying is he that desireth the office of a bishop desireth a good thing. This is not a matter of pride or position. But rather, we as Christians are desire to be the absolute most that we can be for God. My father told me again and again and again, Joe, if God calls you to be a missionary, do not stoop to be the President of the United States. Now that's a big step down today. But you see, as the children of God, we're not to say, where's the corner of the church I can sit in? Or not to say, well, you know, somebody else somebody else could be the Sunday school teacher. I'm just gonna sit here and listen. But no, rather, as the children of God, he that desires the office of a bishop desires a good thing. How can I be used in the kingdom of God? Where can I find something that I can do? It doesn't have to be the office of a bishop. We've got some real servants in this church. We've got some folks in this church that that find the things that no one else is doing and say, oh, okay, I can take care of this one, I can cover that one. But the idea is that as the children of God This is a true and faithful saying, if we find the best work we can do for the Lord, that is a good thing. And so we have a glorious series of admonitions. It's a faithful saying that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. It's a faithful saying that if we be dead with him, we shall live with him It is a faithful saying that godliness is profitable in all things. It's a faithful saying that we must be careful to maintain good works. And it's a faithful saying that we should strive to be everything that we can possibly be for the kingdom of God. Stand with me for prayer, please. Father, today we do pray that you would bless your word to the hearts of your people. Lord, simple and yet a clear outline through Scripture. That gives us a pattern, gives us a framework by which to live. May you apply it to our hearts. We thank you that Jesus Christ is indeed risen from the dead. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. We'll turn to our closing hymn in the blue song book, number 206. 206. Closing him. Low in the grave he lay. Number two hundred and six. I trust you know the tune. All three stanzas. Jesus Christ with the coming day Jesus My Lord was from the grave he arose with a highly cry of for his home. He arose a victor from the And he lives forever with the saints to reign in a roll in the Hallelujah Wait, they watch his bed trees as my stay. Jesus my Lord talked from the crazy road with the body file. For his full room, he arose a victor from the dark gold day, and he lives forever with the same ray. Hallelujah price arose and cannot be straight Jesus I say your borders always my door from the grave need a road. We arose over the dark don't take any place forever with his face to rest. Amen. Then please be seated.