Turn with me to the book of Malachi. You may remember that we began a series in Malachi long, long ago. And it has been long neglected. It wasn't really the intention, it's just the way that things have worked out But we're returning today to Malachi. And for our scripture reading, I'm going to read the last three verses of the third chapter. And as I've said many times before A lot of times the scripture reading is sufficient to bless, rebuke, and challenge the people of God. Um it is sometimes difficult to expound on the Word of God because the Word of God says it all. And these three verses are three verses that certainly fit that Malachi chapter 3, verse 16. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels. And I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we approach Thy Holy Word, we acknowledge that we come to Thy Word with human minds and human thought. And if we are to truly understand thy truth, it must be as thy spirit opens our hearts and our minds to receive that truth. And so, Lord, today we pray that by the Spirit of God, the Comforter, who was promised to guide us into all truth, may you open your word to our understanding. May you strengthen us where we are weak. May you encourage us where we are discouraged. May you grant us boldness where we are fearful. Father, bless thy truth to the hearts of thy people this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. Our scripture reading today there in verse 16 begins with that word then. And of course, then is a connector word. As I said, it's been a while since we've been in this study in Malachi, and so I'm not going to try to review everything we've considered. But to understand these last three verses, we do have to briefly look at the first seven And so if you look back up to verse one of the chapter, God declares that he would send his messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple. And so the chapter begins with a glorious promise of the coming of Messiah. And of course the children of Israel were looking for a Messiah, a deliverer to deliver them from Rome. They were looking for someone to take care of all their earthly problems. But Christ declared, my kingdom is not of this earth. He was not coming to solve their earthly problems. He was coming to solve their eternal problems. He was coming to deal with the problem of their sin. And so verse 2 continues, but who may abide the day of his coming? For who shall stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire and a fuller's soap. He comes for judgment. He comes to set things right. He comes to fulfill the Old Testament sacrifice. He comes to fulfill the law which was broken by man. Verse 3, and he shall sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi. And he shall purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord. And remember in the Old Testament, God says, no more of your vain ablations, away with them. But when Christ comes as the refiner, the purifier, then Then shall the sacrifice be acceptable as light and that sacred sight and that sacrifice would be the offering of Christ Himself. Verse 5, and I will come unto you in judgment. And I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers, and against the false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless And I will turn and turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith the Lord. And that last one of the list is the key to the whole verse. It's the key to the whole chapter. And it's the key to the whole book. And it's the key to everything. that is wrong in the world today. Men do not fear God. There is no fear of God before their eyes. For I am the Lord. I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. Verse 6. And then verse 7. Even from the days of your fathers, ye are gone astray from mine ordinances and have not kept them. Return unto me And I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye said, wherein shall we return? Now those first seven verses, which we've gone through very quickly, you may remember we considered back about eight months ago. That brings us to the last part of this chapter. And it brings us to these last three glorious verses. God declared, I'm going to send my messenger, John the Baptist. in the person of Elijah in the proud person of John the Baptist. My messengers will come. He will prepare the way before me. And I will suddenly come to my temple, but not the way you're expecting me to come. I'm not coming to deliver you from Rome because I don't care about Rome. God says, What is Rome before God? I'm coming that the worship, that the ordinances, that the sacrifice might be purified That God's people might be made into what they shall be. Then they that feared the Lord, verse sixteen, spake often one to another And so this book of Malachi precedes four hundred years of silence. 400 years in which God will not speak to his people, God withdraws his word for 400 years. But the then in verse 16 is before that. In other words, through this 400 years, then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. God's word's been withdrawn. They're going to live in terrible, awful, wicked circumstances. But they still feared the Lord. And that's the theme of the message today. The title of today's message is Faithful Men in Evil Days. Yeah. And folks, we live in evil days, and our days are not more evil than theirs, and theirs were not more evil than ours. And our days are not more evil than the apostles. We think it's getting worse and worse, and it is getting worse and worse, but their days were as evil as our days. Because men didn't fear the Lord. And our days are as evil as theirs because men still don't fear the Lord. But in the midst of this time, may God make us faithful men. That fear the Lord. And so that's the theme of what we're going to consider this morning. And the first thing, I've already given you the first point of our outline. Faithful men feared the Lord in evil days. Look at verse 16, the first part of the verse. Then they that feared the Lord. In Malachi 3 verse 5, the verse I've referred to already, we find the surf sorcerers, the adulterers, the false swears. But the last one is they feared not the Lord of hosts. And this whole book of Malachi follows that theme. In the first chapter, we saw a son honors his father. If I be a father, where is mine honor? In chapter two, verse seventeen, every one of them that doeth evil is uh every one of them that doeth evil is good. Sorry. Wherefore you say, everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. In other words, in chapter 2, the complaint is that men do evil, you say, Well, this is good in the sight of the Lord. And so we find in verse seven that from the days of your father you're going astray. And I'd like us to begin by noting What was taking place in the religious world, the national world, and the social world at this time? What are these conditions that they're dealing with? And we'll see if they're no different than ours But they still feared the Lord. We find, first of all, that they rejected the ordinances of the ordinances of God. Look at verse 7 Even from the days of your father, you're gone away from mine ordinances and have not kept them. Now we tend to think of ordinances as suggestions. We think of the ordinances of God as optional. These are things that ye should do. You should keep the ordinances of God. But that's not at all what Scripture teaches about ordinances. The ordinances of God are prescribed tasks or obligations. The ordinances of God are also called statutes, decrees, and commandments. They are that which is due and owed to God. They're not optional. And we're not going to do a word study on this, but just a few ways in which this same word ordinance is used. In Genesis, when Joseph made laws for the land of Egypt, that a fifth part of everything belonged to Pharaoh, the word that's translated laws there is the same word ordinance. Now, you didn't dare not give Pharaoh his fifth part. It wasn't an option. It was an obligation. And then when Moses comes along and the taskmasters begin to beat the leaders of Israel because they're not making enough bricks. The taskmasters say, wherefore you have not fulfilled your task. And it's the same word, ordinance. Now the children of Israel didn't have the option to make bricks. And they didn't have the option to make less bricks. It was an ordinance. They were to keep it. And then again at the Passover. This is to be an ordinance for you. You're to keep the Passover. And in Deuteronomy 7 and verse 17, thou shalt therefore keep my commandments and statutes And it's the same word, ordinances. You see, these ordinances which God laid down for the people, they didn't keep them. They weren't concerned about them. But you know what? The faithful men in verse 16 did. In fight of the fact that everyone else didn't fear the Lord and didn't keep his commandments, then they that feared the Lord. Folks, the laws of God today are not the laws of our land. And the laws of God today are not being kept. But we as the people of God, if we truly fear God, we must keep them. Amen. And so they denied that they even needed repentance. The people said, hey, we're okay. We're keeping God's laws. We're keeping God's ordinances. We're all right. Look at verse 7, the last part of the verse. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return? To me? What did I do? I haven't not kept God's laws. And God gives them a very simple, basic illustration of how they have failed to keep God's ordinances. Verse 8 and 9. Will a man rob God? Ye have robbed me, but ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me even this whole nation. Now think about it. When they were in Egypt, did they fail to give to Pharaoh his fifth part? No. That was an obligation. But here the children of Israel have failed to give to God his tenth part. Folks, Brother Vince has said many times, you can tell a man's love for God by his checkbook. It's not about giving. Did God need 10% to keep the Bank of Heaven solvent? No. God does not need your ties, but God demands them. Because those that fear the Lord keep his ordinances. Not that we give out of obligation. We give out of love. But it's not about the gift. It's about the one the gift is given to. Because you see, when we give a loved one a gift, it's not about the gift. It's about the one who's worthy of the gift. The one to whom we give. So this is not a tithing message, folks, and this passage is so often as used to beat a church into fiscal solvency. This verse is not about the giving. It's about the obedience. You see, you haven't kept my ordinances. How haven't we kept your ordinances, oh God? He said, you haven't even given me the tenth part. And you remember that the priesthood was given as part of that tenth. Instead of giving your son to be sacrificed, the priesthood was God's part of the nation. And yet they held back the priesthood. So God gives them this very simple illustration. But in spite of their sin, God still offers them repentance Look at verses 10 and following. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that it may be meat in my house. And prove me here now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts. If I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing, there shall not be room enough to receive it. You see what God's saying there? I will bless you so much that you won't have enough barns to put it in. It's not about the giving. It's about the one to whom it's given who owns the cattle on a thousand hills. And God promises, I will rebuke the devourer for your sake, and he shall not destroy the fruit of your ground, neither your vine cast a fruit before the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts, and all nations shall call you blessed. for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts. But here we find that these people who did not fear the God fear God would not even admit they needed to repent. Wherewith shall we return? But not only did men reject the ordinances of God, we find that men spoke boldly against the Lord. But the faithful men still feared the Lord. Look with me at verse 13. Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet you say, wherein have we spoken against thee? Isn't that a description of our society? Your words have been stout against me And folks, this goes so far beyond just taking the name of the Lord in vain. The words of our society are stout against God. You did not create me. You cannot tell me if I'm male or female. Male and female made he them. You cannot tell me that this baby inside of me is a human being? How dare you say your Ten Commandments should be on the walls of the courthouse? And if a football coach wants to pray after a game, he should be arrested. You see, man spoke boldly against the Lord. Your words have been stout against me. Then they that feared the Lord. It's in this time, folks. Verse 16 is while all this is going on. And folks, we live in a world that speaks boldly against Jehovah God, but we still have to fear the Lord. Faithful men still fear the Lord when men speak boldly against him. And we find also that in the midst of these trials men begin to give up on the faith. Men begin to give up on God. Look at verse 14. Ye have said it is vain to seek. Serve God. This just isn't working. It's worthless. It's vain. I'm not going to serve Him anymore He said, It is vain to serve God, and what prophet is there that I have kept his ordinances, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? You see, in troubled times, the seed by the wayside and those that have grown up on the rocks begin to fade away God purifies his church through persecution. And in this wicked time, men begin to say it's vain to serve the Lord. What prophet is there to serve the Most High? My God. We've kept his ordinances, but no more. We're done. We've had it. But there were still the faithful men of verse 16 in the middle of this, folks. God didn't promise us it was going to be easy. But as my father said, don't throw away your Confederate money. Don't give up. And and maybe that's uh maybe I shouldn't have used the illustration because back when I was growing up that was that was a common phrase for don't give up. But you understand maybe I've I've I I shouldn't have said that I guess. But you you understand what what what the idea is. Things are tough, but keep going, folks The children of God are not run away by persecution. The children of God are strengthened by persecution. In this time, many who once walked with God began to say it's vain. It's worthless. To serve the Lord. It is vain to serve God, but the faithful persecuted persevered. Even Job, we find in Job 21:15. Getting discouraged, he said, What is the Almighty that we should serve him? And what profit should we have if we pray unto him? Folks, have you ever felt that way? Why why am I still praying? Why am I still praying? I've been praying, Lord, over this same request for years and years and years. Oh Lord, I'm so tired. I'm so weary. And the psalmist said in Psalm 73, Verily I've cleansed my heart in vain and washed my hands in innocence, for all day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. Folks, the Christian way is not easy. And in this evil day, we've seen a great falling away And we continue to see a great falling away. And it was seen back in Malachi's day during the 400 years of silence. But faithful men still feared the Lord. And we still need to fear the Lord in evil times. And we find also That men called good evil, and evil good. Look at verse fifteen And now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up. Yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. Let me read that verse again, folks. It speaks for itself. And now we call the proud happy. You ever hear of a pride? Parade? We call the proud happy. The other name for them is gay. Happy. Does Scripture ever miss a beat? They that work wickedness are set up. They become secretaries of transportation. They get high positions in government. And they born men now run around in the dress and are uh you know in the government. Folks, this isn't new. This isn't new. Malachi talked about it. 400 years before the birth of Christ. But in the midst of this, when men called evil good and good evil, they were still faithful men. Then verse 16, they that feared the Lord. You see what we're doing here, folks? All this takes place before verse 16. And the then is pointing back to it. When men did this, the faithful feared the Lord. We live in a day that's very discouraging. We live in a day that could turn us away from the faith if God did not hold us fast. But we have to be faithful. We have to be faithful in this generation. In chapter two, verse seventeen, everyone that doeth evil they say everyone that doeth evil is good, and he that uh good in the sight of the Lord Lord. But you know who the evil people are? The evil people are the Christians who won't accept us. The evil people are the Christians who won't call me ma'am. Mm. And ins insist on calling me sir. It's an evil day. But faithful men have to fear. the Lord. If you look over to the next chapter, chapter four, verses two and three. But unto you that fear my name Shall the Son of Righteousness arise with healing in his wings, and ye shall go forth and grow as calves of the stall And ye shall tread down the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts. God's got this, folks. God's going to take care of it. And so in 3. 16 we find then they that feared the Lord, and in the next chapter, God makes a promise to those But fear his name. Except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant. We should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like Gomorrah. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, this is our call to worship, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the day times, for the days are And so the first thing we find in verse 16 is that there were still faithful men in evil days. They were still faithful. But the second thing we find in verse 16 is the faithful men spake one to another often in evil days. Now, this is important. We find faithful men speaking to themselves in evil days. What's going to happen for the next 400 years? There will not be a jot or tittle of scripture written. God has given them all the revelation that He's going to give them for their day. And they talked about it. And it wasn't occasional. It was often. Look again at verse 16 Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. This is what they talked about. They weren't distracted with the NFL. They weren't concerned about the stock market. They didn't get themselves all tied up in knots about who said this and who said that and who their concern was spiritual things. And yeah, folks, we have conversations about things, but oh, shouldn't we be talking often about the things of God? You see, iron sharpens iron. We saw there that there were some that said it's vain to serve the Lord. And oh, that a brother had gone and said, No, brother, it's not vain. Hang on! Because iron sharpens iron. You see, Christians are called sheep And sheep are flocking animals. They join together in a flock for mutual encouragement. For mutual security, for mutual warmth. When I scuba dive, sometimes I'll come into a great big school of fish, thousands and thousands And you swim into the school and they will make a pocket around you, but then they all come right back together behind you. And this time of year, frequently you'll see flocks of millions of birds flying, and you'll see the whole flock moving as a huge block. That's protection from hawks. Because the hawk will go after one, but the flock seems much bigger. That's what's being talked about here. It's talking about the children of God sticking together. Amen. They feared the Lord in the evil day, and they spoke often one to another in an evil day. The faithful encouraged one another. The faithful joined together. Come, ye children, hearken unto me And I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Hearken and I will teach you God's fear. Psalm 34, verse 11. Psalm 66, 16. Come and hear, all ye that fear God. For I will declare what he has done for my soul. Are you discouraged? Let me tell you what God's done for me. And he'll do the same for you, brother And one nation. God will take care of his people. Turn over to Hebrews 3. I want you to see this one and maybe mark it in your Bible. Hebrews 3, verses 12 and 13. Remember that some said it's vain to serve the Lord. Hebrews three, verses twelve and thirteen. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily. Doesn't that sound often? Exhort one another daily while it is called the day, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of the Sin. It was an evil day, folks, but the faithful still feared the Lord. It was an evil day, folks, but the faithful spoke to one another. They encouraged one another. They exhorted one another. As we see in our communion passage, they tarried for one another, that they might stand an evil day. But then thirdly, from our text. We find, then they that feared the Lord spake one another, spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord. and that thought on his name. In an evil day the fearful feared the Lord. In an evil day the the faithful spoke one to another, and in the evil day the faithful thought on his name. They thought on the name of the Lord. Oh folks, how often we think on the name of Biden. Or Putin. Or you know, name any other, or some sports figure, or some entertainer, or some folks the problem, we're not thinking on the name of the Lord. You see, when we think on the name of the Lord, it doesn't matter who sits in the White House. When we think on the name of the Lord, it doesn't matter who's got nuclear weapons overseas. When we think of the name of the Lord, it doesn't matter who is doing whatever. It was an evil day. And the masses of Israel were departing from God. And the priesthood was unfaithful to God, but there were still those who feared the Lord and talked to one another. thought on his name. They meditated on the name of the Lord. You see, faithful men will defend the name of God. We need to defend the name of God in this generation. The faithful men will even die for the name of God, and the faithful men will not fail to proclaim the name of God. Folks, we need to be focused on the name of God and not on the names of this world. In Psalm 20, verse 7, some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. Think what that verse says. Let me read it again. Some trust in atomic weapons, and some trust in F-17s, and some trust in AK-47s. And some trust of whatever, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. In spite of everything that was happening, they thought on the name of the Lord. Faithful men will think on the name of the And then Psalm 124, verse 8, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Our hope is not in the name of any politician. Our help is in the name of the And then Proverbs 18:10. We studied this verse a few weeks ago. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous runneth into it and is safe. Deuteronomy 32, verses 2 and 3. My doctrine shall drop as the rain. my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as showers upon the grass, because I will publish the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness. So we live in an evil day. We've got to be faith be fearing the Lord. We've got to be encouraging one another. We've got to be thinking on his name. But that's not the end of the passage, folks. I skipped over the middle part of the verse. Look again at verse 16. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened and heard. God was in control. He hearkened. That word hearkened means he paid attention. He took note. The Lord hearkened and heard it. And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and thought on his name. And doesn't that tie beautifully into our Sunday school lesson? Here's the writing of the book we discussed in Sunday school. And folks, I really had not looked ahead to see what Vince was teaching. It just it just all works together. Here's the writing of the book. The Lord hearkened and he heard and he wrote it down. And no man can erase what God has written. And so God took note. He hearkened and he wrote it down. I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of the things which were written in the books, according to his word. Hebrews 6 verse 10, for God is not unrighteous to forget your work of work and labor of love, which you have showed toward his name. in that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. Doesn't that one verse let me read that verse again because it it it capsulates all three of these points. They feared the Lord, they spoke to one another, they rumored his name. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. It would be enough if God simply hearkened and heard and wrote it down, but that's not the end of the chapter. Verse 17. And they shall Shall be mine. Glory. He's talking about those that feared the Lord and spoke to their brethren and remembered his name, they shall be mine. saith the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my jewels will I spare them As a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Now are ye the sons of God. And God says, I'm going to make up my jewels. That word jewels is often translated peculiar treasure. But I make up my peculiar treasure. And if you go back up in the chapter to verse 3, and he shall set as a refiner and a purifier of silver. And he shall purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver that they shall offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Now, here in verse 17, he's talking about jewels. The jewels here is a reference to precious stones. But where do we set precious stones? We set them in pure Purified gold and silver. God says, I'm going to purify the sons of Levi. I'm going to purify the priesthood. And what are we? But a royal priesthood. priesthood to God. These faithful ones who, in spite of all the problems of the world, still fear me and still stick with the church, stick with the brethren, and still remember my name. I will call them mine, and they shall be my peculiar treasure. And verse 18, then shall ye return! What was said earlier? We don't need to return. Wherefore shall we return? We don't need repentance. Oh, but the faithful, they return. They are constantly in a state of repentance Then shall return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between them that serveth God and him that serveth him not. The saints shall judge the world, folks. The last verse of the chapter, verse 18, is speaking of the church judging the world. Then shall you discern. He shall judge. He should determine between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him. Folks, we live in an evil day. We must continue faithful. Then they that feared the Lord. They that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and they remembered his name. Our day is no worse than theirs. Their day Shall we stand for prayer? Oh Lord, we thank you for the glorious jewels and treasures that are found in your word. We thank you, Lord, that you are seeking to yourself a peculiar treasure. We thank you, Lord, that you will claim us. You will call us your own. O Father, bless thy truth to our hearts this day. Lord, give us grace in this week to fear the Lord, to speak to one another, and to remember your Name, in Jesus' name, amen