Gracious Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering to worship the great King of Heaven. We thank you, Lord, that we have a message for us today. No, not the words of the preacher, but the message is this book that is before us. The message is the holy, inspired, and preserved Word of God. And so, Father, we pray this morning that you would quiet our hearts before Thee. May we be more ready to hear than to speak. May we come into your presence desiring to be fed with the bread of heaven, desiring that our hearts may be convicted by thy word. O Lord, indeed we pray, search us with a candle. Try me, O Lord, and see if there be any wicked way in me. Bless us by thy truth. And Father, we pray that you would create the fruit of our lips this morning. Lord, that you would create within your people worship that is acceptable in thy sight. Not the fleshly worship which the modern church so loves, not the stirring up of the emotions and the entertainment of the flesh. But O Lord, the Spirit of God drawn to the worship of the great King of heaven. We thank you, Lord, that we are able to worship. For indeed the unredeemed are incapable of worshiping the God of heaven aright. And Father, we pray today that we worship you in spirit and truth, that your word would be pointed to our hearts. And that Christ will be honored and glorified in all that is said and done. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship from the fourth chapter of the book of Micah. But in the last days it shall come to pass. That the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills, and the people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall say Come, let us go up into the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways. And we will walk in his path, for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And uh good morning everyone. Good morning. Right late spring day here in Maryland. It's a nice day, lovely day. We open to our uh Opening hymn number 346, Son of My Soul, in your blue songbook, only songbook for today, 346, Son of My Soul. Uh Savior Deer. 346. And we sing all six stanzas Someone by soul. I need to enter the light. Peace we are pleased with my last one sweet. I have learned to take your holy spirit, your grace has put me to With blessings from my top destroy to my game. It can't stop me. Brother Anton, I'll do a swap with you. I'll hold uh or or no it doesn't matter. Oh okay. Well yeah that's a better set of arms for sure. Uh I might borrow your rod from you if I take him just out of hand of please, brother, give us the nothing wrong with carrying him up with you. Please uh turn to the back of your bulletin. We'll be reading from the twentieth article of the Belgian confession this morning. This is regarding how God hath manifested his justice and mercy in Christ. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that God, who was perfectly merciful and just, sent his son to assume that nature in which disobedience was committed. To make satisfaction in the pain and to make the punishment of sin, Christ's most bitter passion in the death. God therefore manifested injustice against his son when he laid our iniquities upon him. And poured forth his mercy and goodness on us, who are guilty and worthy of damnation, out of mere and perfect love. giving his son unto death for us, and raising him for our justification, that through him we might obtain immortality and life eternal. I really like the title and main port point of this article. How is it that God could save you, could free you from that judgment and condemnation of hell and yet uphold and satisfy his mercy and justice. Both of those characteristics that are his. He's both merciful and he's just. So how can God free you from those things? Of course, some people just think, well, it's okay, it doesn't matter what happens to me, God will be merciful to me. There's no requirements needed. God's mercy will just pass over everything. Doesn't matter what I do, doesn't matter if I'm a believer or not. I'm sure in the end God will just be merciful to me on my sins. But no, there has to be if God is just, and He is, He must punish sin. He must uh be just in paying a in in requiring that payment for those sins And at the same time, if justice is poured out, if God truly gives you justice, and uh sadly people think, well, I just want uh justice from God. I want God to pour out justice on all on on the whole earth. Well, if God really did that, then you would be crushed instantly. There would be no hope of life for you if God simply gave you what you deserve based on Weighing both your goods and your evils, uh your sins will always cast you down into hell And so how could it be that God being both just and merciful could spare a a a sinner from the condemnation of hell Well it's only at the cross of Christ that both mercy and justice could be satisfied to free you from condemnation. In Isaiah 53, it uh that prophetic uh teaching there, that prophetic portion of Scripture points out so clearly how it is that Christ put our sins upon him and took them to the cross where they were fully paid. Listen to that language in Isaiah fifty-three it says, But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. That includes everybody. Everybody's turned aside. And the Lord hath laid on him, that's Christ, the iniquity of us all. Yea, verily, all men Our sinners, all men, have deserved and stored up that wrath of judgment and condemnation upon themselves And yet we see that Christ has borne, uh he he he bore the iniquities of his feet upon himself. In that God's justice was manifest. That judgment that had to be poured out on sin was fully poured out on Christ at the cross. He received the full wrath of God, as it says in the scripture, it pleased the Lord to to bruise him. He was a sufficient and worthy sacrifice and offering unto the Lord And now no sins remain on the sinner. None of God's sheep for whom he died. There's no judgment to wait for. And now, uh, yeah, mercy can be applied to the sinner justly. Now if the sins have been dealt with indeed, God's mercy can be poured out on that sinner He can take that child that was deserving and awaiting of condemnation in hell and make them a child of heaven. Make them a child that's waiting to to be in eternal life with Christ in peace and in joy. And somebody can say, well, why is that sinner free? How did that sinner get up into heaven? What is he doing? How is it that this sinful person that sinned on the earth could make their way up into heaven? But then if you look at his record, you see that debt has been paid. That record has been cleaned Wrath has already been poured out on the sin. Christ fully satisfied it. The sinner now has a way to be clean. They're now righteous. They have a spot in that heavenly kingdom. And I love the way the uh hymn, Arise My Soul, Arise, uh points out this uh this very doctrine. It says, Five bleeding wounds he bears received on Calvary. They pour effectual prayers. They strongly plead for me. Forgive him, O forgive, they cry. Forgive him, oh forgive, they cry. Nor let that ransomed sinner die. Indeed, Christ's wounds have uh have have borne the uh just punishment for your sin, where he was crushed on the cross so that the sinner could live, so that the sinner could free could could be free, could be forgiven of their iniquities And I just want to leave you with this point that, you know, this really is the main display of God's love. A lot of people will talk about, well, I know God loves me. He gives me a lot of these nice trinkets on the earth. He gives me uh a a pleasant home, a nice job, good money, all of this. But really when you look at what God's love is, his main display It's in that. It's in the forgiveness of sins. It's in that eternal looking out for his people, for his sheep, to spare them, to free them from that uh judgment that was coming upon them And I'll leave you with with uh first John four verses nine through ten that pours it out uh marvelously. In this was manifested the love of God toward us because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sin. Thank you, brother. It's good to be back with you this morning on my Family and I were worshiping with you last week, but we were online for Sunday school in morning worship. So it's good to be back with you in purse person. Let us bow for prayer Our gracious Heavenly Father, we boldly approach the throne of God. Coming not through our own merits, but through the merits of Jesus Christ. Coming not because we are righteous or holy or worthy of coming before you But coming because Christ is righteous, and because we have been made worthy in Him through the remission of sins. Father, we thank you that you are the God of our comfort. We thank you that you are the God of our strength and our song. We thank you, Lord, that you are the God who knows us better than we know ourselves. And so, Father, we thank you that when we come before you in prayer, we are not informing you of our needs, for you know what things we have need of before we ask. But we are coming as the poor beggar that calls to the neighbor at midnight. And Lord, we pound upon the door of heaven and call upon you to do great and mighty things on behalf of your people. Father, we pray that you would visit those that mourn. For Lord, our congregation, though we are small, does have many. that are in various stages of the mourning process. And Lord, we we never forget our loved ones that are are gone from us on earth, but we rejoice that we sorrow not as others which have no hope. And so, Father, we thank you for those that have been bereaved but have that blessed hope. And Lord, we we pray for our unsaved family, Lord, who Every soul on earth is one second from eternity. And so Father, we pray that you would indeed save them before they pass from this life. O Lord, may you be gracious to do so. But Father, comfort your people this morning. Be very dear to those that are dealing with very fresh and raw emotional wounds. Father, may you bless and help. Father, we do pray, Father, for the physical needs of the congregation, and Lord, they yin or many. We thank you that we have seen miraculous work in our midst, not because of physicians, in some cases in spite of physicians, but Lord, often through the means of this earth. Through the elements of this world, you have ordained the healing of your people. And Father, you don't necessarily have to miraculously create manna on the field in order to heal your people. Sometimes you use things that are already in existence, but use of the And so, Father, we pray that you would be with those that are undergoing treatments. We thank you that the treatments have been positive thus far. But Lord, pray that you would continue to work in our bodies. Lord, a lot of our people are dealing with sleep issues and just flat-out fatigue because of that which these bodies go through And so, Father, may you give us good rest at night and good strength and energy for our days. Lord, you promise that as our days, so shall our strength be. And so, Father, may you supply that strength and energy. Lord, we have several that are dealing with ongoing chronic pain issues. And Father, these are known to you. And Lord, we pray that you would work in each one of them according to your will and for your glory. Father, may you give us relief from pain if that be in thy perfect will. And yet, Father, you've told us your grace is sufficient for us. And so Lord, uh there are indeed cases within the lives of believers where you have endured have ordained for your children to suffer greatly in the flesh. Lord, that their mind may be continually on thee. Lord, we pray far more when we're in pain than we pray when we are not. And so, Father, may you use every circumstance of our lives not as circumstances but as loving providences. to fulfill your purpose, to conform us to the image of Christ. For Lord, indeed, all things do work together for good, even our pain and our sorrow. Father, we pray for the financial needs of the congregation and thank you, Lord, that you do exceeding abundantly above all that we can ask or think. Lord, you know the need. We have laid it before you many times. And Father, we thank you that we can pray with confidence that you will supply our needs Maybe not in the time that we would desire, maybe not in the way that we would expect. But Father, indeed we cast our care upon you, for you care for us. And Lord, we claim the promises that the righteous have never been forsaken, and the seed of the righteous do not beg bread. And so, Father, may you bless your people and bring the business through the doors that is necessary for the supply of your own. Father, above all, we we pray, Lord, for the spiritual condition of our congregation. Lord, we pray for the young children in our midst. What a blessing and a joy they are to us. O Father, may they indeed be elect children of God. And O Lord, we pray, give us more. Fill this room with crying babies, O Lord. The the crying and cooing of children does not bother the people of God. Rather, it is indeed a blessing, for children are an inheritance of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. And so Lord greatly reward this congregation with children, we pray Father, we pray for our young children that are beginning to talk and walk about and can now interact with us and are coming to the age when they begin to understand who God is. And oh God, may they understand who they are. That they are sinners. Oh, as innocent and as precious as they may seem, they are sinners in need of salvation. And O Father, we pray that at the earliest possible age you would awaken their soul from the death of sin and save them for all eternity. We thank you, Lord, for our young college age and young singles in our congregation. Just in the early stages of life, O Father, may you bless them May you direct their paths. Your word has told us that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. O Lord, give our young adults a way in which they will delight. Bless their paths with righteousness. We thank you, Lord, for our middle-aged, our young families, Father. Bless them. Again, bless their homes with children. Bless them in their endeavors. Bless them, Lord, in their employment. Lord, bless them in their growth in grace and the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. Lord, may they indeed grow up to be pillars in the house of the Lord. We thank you, Father, that you have blessed this congregation with senior saints. With those who have been through many battles and can testify to the unfailing grace of the Lord. They can testify to you bringing them through hard and painful trials, and yet, Lord, you bringing them through hard and painful trials. They are a blessing to us. They are a testimony before us. They are a witness to our hearts. They are prayer warriors. Their part in this congregation is vital. And Lord, we pray you would bless them. Bless their senior years. Give them good mobility. Give them safety on the home and on the street and on the road. Give them, O Lord, the blessings, the reward of their labors, we pray. Father, bless our grandchildren. O Lord, save them every one. Bless our children Father, this congregation is almost six years old. It is hard to believe, Lord, that we have come this far. Lord, may we never rest upon our leaves. Lord, don't let us be comfortable, Father. Lord, may we never be satisfied, O Lord, but Father, may we indeed hunger and thirst after righteousness. A hungry belly is not a comfortable thing. There is a degree of pain with hunger. To be thirsty, to be dry of mouth is uncomfortable But O Lord, there is great blessing to those that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. And so, Father, may this congregation never be lacking in a message from thee? May an apostate never stand in this pulpit? May this congregation never be assaulted by me or by any other man. Father, may this congregation always be blessed with a message from heaven. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 for our responsive reading. Once you've located First Corinthians twelve in your Bibles, please rise We'll be reading First Corinthians chapter twelve, verses twelve through thirty-one, from verse twelve to the end of First Corinthians twelve. 1 Corinthians 12, 12. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free. And made the drink of the one spiritual drink. For the body is not one member, but many. Is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole body were hearing, where we were smelling. But now hath God set the members, every one of them, in the body, as it hath pleased him. And they were all one member, but now are they many members, yet but one body. And the other cannot say on the hand, I have no need of me. I have no need of you. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. And those members of the body which we think to be less honourable Upon these we bestow more abundant honor, and the uncommonly parts have more abundant comeliness For our comely parts have no need, but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked. That there should be no schism in the body. But that the members have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Not the body of Christ and members in particular. And God has set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers After that, miracles, then gifts of healings, helps governments, diversity of songs Are all apostles, are all prophets, are all teachers, are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret and all together put upon it earnestly. And yet show I unto you a more excellent way. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Amen Turn again to our psalm book with our sermon psalm. One of the nice things about being in the Trinity is that you do have psalms in here. It's number 451 Teach me, O Lord, thy way of truth, 451. Adaptation of Psalm 119. To the tune of Bishop. It's unique to this song, but I trust you'll be able to follow along. 451, we also sing the Amen. All four stances. Teach me already, and for As I may said passing over. With my command, or in my law my joy. I shall be with me because I will call this concern. Turn thou mine eyes from cause me and thy way. We led to women now we will change my righteous stars. Come back to know my praises, I believe I need to be. Thank you. Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Ezekiel. And the 33rd chapter, Ezekiel chapter 33, and I'll begin our scripture reading with the first verse. Ezekiel 33. I believe the bulletin says we'll be reading through verse 9, but I'm actually going to read through verse Verse number twelve, I believe. Ezekiel thirty-three, beginning with verse number nine. Again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, speak unto the children of thy people, and say unto them When I bring the sword upon the land, if the people of the land take a man of their coast and set him for their watchman If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet and warn the people. Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning If the sword come and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning. His blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. But if the watchman see the sword come And blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned. If the sword come and take any person from among them He is taken away for his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand. So thou, Son of Man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore, thou shalt hear the word at my mouth and warn them from me. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die. If thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way That wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked, and he turn from it, if he do not turn, sorry, nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way, to turn from it. If he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul. Therefore, O thou Son of Man, speak unto the house of Israel. Thus ye speak, saying, If our righteousness and our sins be upon us And we pine away in them, how shall we then live? Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked But that the wicked should turn from his way and live. Turn ye from your evil ways, for why will ye die, O house of Israel? Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children of thy people, the righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him in the day of his transgression. As for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from his wickedness, neither shall the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the day that he turns. sinner. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, Lord, now may you bless your word to your people. Father, may you indeed open your truth to our hearts and open our hearts to receive thy truth. Father, we pray that you would set aside all the things which would distract us from thy word. All the wanderings of our hearts and minds, Lord, that we might hear thy truth this day. Father, bless thy people. Meet with thy people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The companion scripture this morning is Isaiah 56, and we're not going to turn there at the moment. We will look at that passage later on in our message. But if you are interested in titles of messages, the title this morning is Faithful Watchmen and Worthless Dogs. And this Ezekiel 33 passage tells us about the watchman and his responsibility. You'll notice that it says, again, the word of the Lord came unto me, because if you were to turn to Ezekiel chapter 3, you would find that Ezekiel 33 almost exactly quotes Ezekiel 3. This is the second time that this message has come to Ezekiel. It speaks to the watchman, and by way of introduction, I want to point out that the watchmen are appointed and assigned by God. Because we're going to get very deeply, Lord willing, into the selection of the watchmen that is instructed to the children of Israel. But the true watchman is not a creation of man, nor is the true watchman the creation of the church. But rather the pastor, the teacher, the shepherd, the watchman of the people of God is appointed and assigned by God. And if you look there at the seventh verse of our text, we just read, so thou son of man, I, that's Jehovah speaking, have set thee a watchman on the house of Israel. And in the parallel passage in Ezekiel chapter three, verse seventeen, it says, Thou son of man, I have made thee a watchman. And those two words, one in our English in chapter 3, one in our English in chapter 33, are the same word in the original languages. It is a word which means to make or to create or to set. It's also interpreted to appoint or to give charge, to cause something to happen And so we're going to look at the selection of the watchmen by the people of God. But before we do that, we've got to understand that God selects the man before the congregation selects the man. And that area of failing has so done so much damage to what we call the visible Church of God. Because there are many, many, many people today that are pastors, that are shepherds, that are teachers, that have no business in the pulpit. And in fact, many of them, I believe, are not even believers. And yet they populate the church in mass. How do you destroy a people without a battle? You infiltrate. They used to refer to it as a fifth column. uh where a foreign power would flood a country with their people and totally change the whole society. Sound familiar? It's happening in our own nation today. And so Satan has used that tactic against the church. But the true minister of God is appointed by God to that ministry and he will know it and he cannot escape if he wanted to. Because God will make that very clear In our response of reading this morning in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we read about the spiritual gifts that are given In verse eleven, it says, dividing to every man as he will, as the Spirit of God will. And in verse 28, But God has set the members, every one of them, verse 18, and verse 28 of 1 Corinthians 12, and God has set some in the church. It's very clear there in the definition of the spiritual gifts that God has appointed, God has determined who within the congregation, who within the church serves in what role. And the whole point of the chapter is that none is above the other, that they're all necessary, they all serve their purpose, but it is God who selects one another. And again, one of the great problems that the church has had is when one who is given one role tries to take another role because he thinks it's more visible, or because it carries with it more cloud. And so he gave some apostles. And it was the Holy Ghost in Acts 13 that said, separate Paul and Barnabas. for the work of the ministry. And so now to get into our outline, the first thing that we see about this shepherd about this watchman, about this pastor in the Congregation of God, is he is chosen, he is selected by the local assembly. He's selected by the people. Look at verse 2 of Ezekiel 33 and verse Ezekiel 33, our chapter, in verse 2. Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land Take a man of their coast. The pastor is chosen from the people of the land. He's chosen locally. The Catholic Church just celebrated the selection of a pope. What a bunch of nonsense What a bit bunch of popery. What a violation of God's truth that they have uh in some Beautiful whatever chapel have voted and decided this man now is the vicar of Christ. It's blasphemy. The pastor is chosen by, is selected by the local assembly. And I conferred with Brother Vince on this just to make sure I was remembering correctly that they The second or third Sunday that we met, this congregation voted that I would be the pastor. It was determined, you know, according to the biblical pattern, that I would be the pastor of the congregation. It says, speak to the children of thy people. The instruction and responsibility was given to Israel, was given to the church in our New Testament. The watchman Of the people was not appointed by some ecclesiastical body, but rather was chosen by the people Paul's admonition to the young pastor to Timothy in Second Timothy two and verse two, and the things that thou hast heard among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men Who shall be able to teach others also. But not only is it the children of the people that were to make this election, he was to be local. He was to be a man taken from among the men. It says there in verse 3, a man of their, or verse 2, a man of their coast. Son of man speak unto the children of Israel, when I bring the sword upon the land, if the people of the land, take a man of their coast. It was a local man. It was someone who had been a part of the assembly And this is well as well is found throughout Scripture in Acts chapter 1, when they were choosing a replacement for Judas. Judas who had been betrayed. They we read there in verse uh in Acts 1 verse 21 Wherefore these men which have accompanied us from all that uh us all the time In other words, the pool of men from which they were selecting Matthias, who eventually was to replace him with Judas, was men that had accompanied them all the time. And then in verse uh 22 of that chapter, beginning from the baptism of John under the same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness unto us of his resurrection And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. We find this with Timothy as well. in Acts sixteen. Timothy in verse two was one which was well reported by the brethren which were at Lystra and Iconium. He was a young man that had come up through the congregation and was well known to the people and was chosen. And I already mentioned the passage there in Second Timothy, where Paul instructs Timothy that the gospel is to be committed to faithful men who will be able to teach others. When they were choosing the deacons of which Stephen is the one we remember most, uh, brethren, look ye out, faithful men. And so the the first thing we find is that the watchman was chosen by the local assembly and was chosen within the local assembly. But then also we find that the watchman was set apart to a specific ministry by the local assembly or by the church, by the people. There was something that needed to be done. God says, when I bring a sword into the land, brother, there's a sword in our land today. There is a great danger among the people of God. When I bring the sword into the land, if the people of the land take a man of their coast and set him for their watchman. To be a watchman, what is that word? Well, in the Ezekiel passage, in Ezekiel chapter 3, verse 17, he says, Son of man, I have set thee a watchman under the house of Israel Therefore, hear the word at my mouth and give them warning from me. I love to take the word in Scripture and see how else it's used. See how else it's translated because that is the best commentary, the best window. Consider this In Psalm chapter 5 and verse 3, we find these words. My voice thou shalt hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee and will look up And that word look up that we find there in Psalm 5 and verse 3 is this same word, watchman. The first thing we find about the watchman is he's to be looking up and not down. He's to be looking to God. O Lord, may I be a watchman at thy courts every morning May this congregation be a congregation of people who are watching at the courts of the Lord, folks hungry and thirsting after righteousness Hungering and thirsting to hear the word of God, to know his truth, O Lord, make me a watchman every morning to thee. May I look for the truth of God. Also in Scripture we find that God describes Himself as a watchman. In Psalm 66 and verse 7. He ruleth by his power forever. His eyes behold the nations. Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. And that phrase, his eyes behold the nations. It is this same word, watchman, that we find here in Ezekiel 7, and Ezekiel 3, 17, and in Ezekiel 33, verse 7. God's eyes behold the nations. God's the watchman over all the creation. Then we find in Proverbs fifteen, verse three, the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. But folks, this one, when we talk about the watchman ministry, the shepherding, the pastoral ministry, this one is even more glorious in Proverbs 31 and verse 27. Speaking of the virtuous woman, she looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness. And that praise looketh well. She's a watchman. She's a watchman And so here we find that the watchman is given a very specific task. He's assigned a responsibility before God Just as the virtuous woman looks well to the ways of her household, just as the shepherd looks well to the care of the sheep. So those that are given responsibility from God over the house of God, they've got to be watchmen They've got to be looking well to the cares. What is needed here? What is needed there? Who is sick over here? Who is sorrowing over here? Where is this sheep straying? What over here needs attention? And so God has placed his children as in varying responsibilities within the congregation of God, as we saw there in 1 Corinthians 12. But each with duties and responsibilities to care for the house of God. And so we find that the watchman is set aside, set apart to the ministry of hearing the Word of God. And that's why I use Psalm 5 verse 3 first, I would look up. He's to hear the word of God. Consider Ezekiel 33 and verse 7. Thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman under the house of Israel. Therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth and give them warning from me. The first responsibility of the watchman is to hear the word of God. If the watchman's not hearing the word of God, he won't hear the enemy either. Or maybe we'll hear the enemy too much. Maybe I said that wrong. But the first responsibility of the watchman within the house of God is to hear the word of God. is to hear God's word. And again in the Ezekiel 3 passage, therefore hear the word at my mouth. Consider this. In Micah chapter 7 And verse 7, we read this. Therefore, I will look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God shall hear me. Micah says, Therefore I will look unto the Lord, and guess what I will look is? Watchmen. It's the same word that we're considering. Micah said, I'll be a watchman unto the Lord. I will look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation, my God will hear me. The responsibility of the watchman is to hear. In Habakkuk, or Habakkuk, if you prefer to say it that way, I grew up saying it Habakkuk Chapter 2 and verse 1. I will stand upon my watch and see upon the tower and will watch that's the word watchman, will watch, and will watch to see what he will say unto me. And what I shall answer when I am reproved. What will God say to me? Folks, that's where every Sunday school lesson begins. That's where every prayer meaning devotion begins. That's where every message must begin. What will God say to me? That I may have something to say to God's people. I will stand up on my watch. I will watch And hear what he will say to me. But not only is the watchman responsible and selected and appointed to hear, but the watchman set aside the watching. He is set aside to be a watch man. Some of you have been in the military and know what it is to stand watch. What happens when someone is found asleep on watch? What are the dangers when someone is found asleep on watch? What are the dangers when they're not found but they're asleep on watch? The eyes have to be open The senses have to be alert and the trumpet has to be always ready. Because you see the watchman who doesn't have a trumpet. Really isn't very good. Oh, he may yell and holler, but the sound of his voice does not go far enough. He must have his trumpet ready. Turn with me to Isaiah 21 The 21st chapter of Isaiah. I'll give you a moment to find this one, because I'd like this one to be in your Eyes as we read it. Isaiah chapter 21, and we're going to consider verses 11 and 12. Isaiah 21, verse 11. The burden of Duma. He saith to me out of fear. Watchmen, what of the night? Watchmen, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night. If ye will inquire, inquire ye, return and come. Duma was one of the cities of the Ishmaelites. The Ishmaelites were the heathen. The Ishmaelites were descendants of Abraham, but were not of the chosen people. We are Ishmaelites. Oh, you know. Uh I told you before I have a little bit of Jewish blood in my veins, and for that I'm very thankful and very pleased, but we're we're Gentiles. We're we're not of the the chosen people. The call comes out of Mount Seir. Mount Seir, one of the main mountains in the area. One of the mountains was inhabited by the Edomites again. uh descendants from Abraham, but not descendants of promise. Watchmen! What are the night? Watchmen, what are the and some some of the commentators believed that actually they were almost mocking. You bunch of Christians! What's up? You, you, you silly church people, what's coming? And yet among there some there may have been a sincerity. I'm fearful. What's coming? What's coming? The watchman, in this case, is the prophet Isaiah. The watchman replies He says, the morning cometh, and also the night. If ye will inquire, inquire, ye return and come. The morning of repentance is coming. Except you repent, ye shall all likewise perish. You see the picture of Isaiah, the watchman here. And he's telling people, repentance is coming. The morning of repentance is coming. The night of judgment is also on the way. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. If ye will sincerely seek the Lord, if ye inquire, then now is the accepted time. Repent. Return. Come. And so the watchman to be watching is always to be ready to give an answer of the hope that lieth within him And so that is the third thing we find as well, that they set apart too. The watchman is set apart for the ministry of warning. Ministry of warning. Look at verse 7 again. Thou shalt hear the word at my mouth and warn them from me. And that from me is very important when it comes to preaching the Word of God. We're not here to warn about politics. We're not here to warn about climate change. We're not here to warn about economic downturns The warning we give is from me. It's from God. We're to warn to stand before men and warn them that judgment is coming and repentance is needed. Look back at our passage further there in verse eight. I'm going to go ahead and read it again. We read it at the beginning, but I'd like it to be in plan in your minds. Verse chapter 33, starting in verse 8. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die. If thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way That wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Folks, what a terrible thing it would be to stand before God at the judgment. There's no condemnation of them there in Christ Jesus, but we will give account of the things done in the body. To stand before God and that one that we should have given the tract to is there on the other side of the judgment. That one that we should have preached the gospel to, that we failed to evangelize. They're there as well. Nevertheless, verse 9, if thou warn the wicked of his wicked way to turn from it. If he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity. But thou hast delivered thy sin What a great warning is to be given by the righteous, by the watchmen to the wicked of their way. In Isaiah chapter sixty-two in verse six we find these words God says, I have set the watchman upon the wall thy walls, O Jerusalem. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to make mention of the Lord key not silence. And so the watchman is to be constantly giving warning. Paul told Timothy not to neglect the gift which was in him by pros by prophecy. And so he's to give warning. So the watchman is chosen by the local church. The watchman is chosen from the local church. The watchman is set aside to a specific warning. ministry, the ministry of warning God's people, of watching for God's people. But we find also that he is given responsibility for the well being and protection of the local assembly. Look at there at verse 3 of Ezekiel 33. If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet and warn the people. He blows the trumpet. He warns the people of that which is to come. Turn over with me to Isaiah 62. I just read verse 6 there, but turn to Isaiah 62, verses 6 and 7. And let's consider them together. There in verse 6 of the 62nd chapter of Isaiah, I have set the watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shall never hold their peace day nor night. Isn't that beautiful? Never hold their peace. Never silent. Never complacent. Folks, there are times when we get tired. There are times when when we say it's enough now, O Lord, take down my life from me. There are times when we're tired of being that witness, tired of being that mouthpiece. But the watchmen upon the walls of Jerusalem are to never keep silence day nor night. Ye that make mention of the Lord, keep not silence. You know folks how often we have opportunity to be a witness and a testimony for Christ and we're just uh I don't want to talk to that guy. Uh boy they'll they'll think I'm a nut. They'll think I'm crazy. We can look all kinds of reasons not to evangelize But they're never to keep silence day or night. Verse 7, and give him no rest till he establish and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth Folks it's verse seven there that I want to focus on. And give him no rest. Who is it that we give no rest? Jehovah. Okay? Let me read the whole context. I have set a watchman upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shall never hold their peace, day nor night. Ye that make mention of the Lord, keep not silence, and give him no rest. This watchman is not talking about evangelism as much as he is talking about talking to God The watchman is to be calling upon God and not keep silence and to give God no rest Till he, till God establish, till go he, till God make Jerusalem the praise of the earth Folks, the watchman has a responsibility for the well-being of the church. And so the watchman is always to be banging on the door of heaven. Lord, establish Jerusalem! Lord, establish thy people. Lord, I will not get tired. Lord, I will not give up. I will continue to plead with heaven until God establishes church. It's the responsibility of the watchman not to be silent before God. Plead with God until He makes Jerusalem a praise in the earth. Plea with the elect of God until the end of time. And so Isaiah says in Isaiah 52 And when I say Isaiah says, you understand, it's not the man that says that it's the man through whom the message came. But under inspiration, Isaiah says in the 52nd chapter, verses 7 and 8, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings. That publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion, thy God, reigneth. The watchman shall lift up the voice, with the voice together shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord shall bring again Zion. What beautiful words. And so the Watchman has a responsibility for the protection of the church. If you look down there again in verse eight or verse uh six, but his blood, if he doesn't give warning, but his blood will acquire at the watchman's hands In verse 7, I have set thee a watch for unto the house of Israel, therefore thou shalt hear the word of my mouth and warn them from me Turn with me now to our secondary text, which is in Isaiah 56, verse 9, and following. Isaiah chapter 56 and verse 9. We've been talking about faithful watchmen, but we also are looking at dogs that do not bark In Isaiah 56 and verse 9 and following, O ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all the beasts in the forest. His watchmen are blind. They are all ignorant. They are all dumb dogs. They cannot bark. Sleeping. Lying down loving to slumber. Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough They are shepherds that cannot understand. They all look to their own way, every one for his gain from his quarter. Come ye, say they will fetch wine, and I and we will fill ourselves with strong drink, and to morrow shall be as this day, and much more abundant. What a contrast we find here of the dogs that cannot bark. Folks, how many churches are filled with non-barking dogs? I know, I understand that people today train their dogs not to bark. But a dog's intended to bark. A dog's intended to give warning. But here our pastors say, Oh, come, let's eat and drink. We can never have enough. Tomorrow is going to be just like today and better. I shouldn't name his name, but I already started, so I'm going to Joel Sting Tomorrow's gonna be better than today. Isn't that what he's preaching? But he's not barking. Folks, a bark is except for your pen, you shall all likewise perish. A bark is you're not a nice person. You're a wicked sinner. And your only hope is redemption in Jesus Christ. May God always give our congregation faithful wit watchmen instead of non-barking dogs. Or dogs that cannot bark. But the final thing that I want us to see about the Watchman is the local assembly, the local congregation, the house of Israel is responsible to listen to the watchman. They're responsible to listen to the watchman. I'm sure all of us have heard of situations where an alarm has gone off and it was a false alarm. And it's going off again. And it was a false alarm. And it just keeps going off. It keeps going off to the point when people don't pay any attention to it anymore. But then there's a fire. And no one runs. See, the people of God are responsible to listen to the warning that comes through God's appointed watchman. Look at verse 4 of our text there in Ezekiel 33. Ezekiel 33 and verse 4. Then, whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet Can't say I didn't hear. Heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning. If the sword come and take him, his blood shall be on his own. And verse 9, nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his w way to turn from it, if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity but thou hast delivered thy soul. And again, Jeremiah six and verse seventeen, I also have set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. Folks, it's not enough to be in church. You gotta hear. It's not enough to simply be close by. You've got to listen. And folks, I'm not talking about listening to me, the man. But when the preacher stands and says, Thus saith the Lord, and faithfully expounds this book not in words after man's wisdom, but in that which the Spirit directs. If the message is true, you better listen. Not because I don't say it because I'm standing here, I'm saying it because, thus says the Lord, this is his word. And if I ever preach something that's not from this word, please take me out of the pulpit. Because I've got no business there if I'm straight from this book. But the people of God have a responsibility to listen to the word of God, not the part you like. Not the parts that please you. Not the parts that talk about the sin of the person beside you. But the parts that talk about your own sin, about your own lack of devotion, about your own straying from the truth of God. The people of God have a responsibility To listen to the watchman. In fact, scripture even talks in Revelation about removing your candle if you don't, taking away the watchman. In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17, we find these words, obey them that have the rule over you. And submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they must give account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Now we conclude by just reading three verses from our four verses from Jeremiah. The first one from Jeremiah 6, verse 16 and 17. Thus saith the Lord Stand in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest to your souls But they said, We will not walk therein. Also, I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken unto the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. And then in Jeremiah 31, verses 6 and 7, for there shall be a day that the watchman upon Mount Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye! Let us go up. to Zion to the house of the Lord our God. For thus saith the Lord, saying with gladness for Jacob And shout among the chief of the nations, publish ye, praise ye, and say, O Lord, save thy people, the remnant of Israel. May God give us grace to listen to us watching. Shall we stand for prayer? Father, I thank you this day for your word. Father, I pray that your word may find application and proof within the hearts of light people. Lord, bless it to us. Make us students of it. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, brother. We turn to our closing hymn this afternoon. 400, come thou fount of every blessing. 400, so we're closing yeah. And I trust you know the tune. We'll sing all three stanzas This is itself. To thy heart to see thy place, strings of mercy ever sees, told those thoughts of God's grace. She space on the white wake time sound time, sexual I don't think I raised my belly I'll My final pleasure take me to all thy stranger wonderful Follow God he could answer Health Caterse precious dawn for you, praise God. Pray the death, daily I was made to thee, let thy place down by the death, by my one great heart. Go to my Lord I feel it Go to leave the one God I love Here's my heart take and see Please proceed in.