And I'd hope to cover it in one session, but uh it seems fitting to maybe spend two. And the topic is faith promise giving. This is a common practice that you find in uh a lot of different churches. And uh and so I've been asked what do I think about this and what is the Bible's stance on it. Is a biblical position or not? So let's first of all just define what is faith promise giving. Maybe some of you haven't even heard what that is. I'm going to give you some definitions from some internet resources that I've uh uh cultivated, uh curated, I guess is the better word, try to get some reasonable sources. One is the place called Got Questions. They do a nice job of kind of succinctly distilling down the common conventional wisdom. They put it this way. They say faith promised giving encourages believers to give beyond what they think they can give in order to increase world missions. Many churches and parachurch ministries use the model to promote sacrificial giving. Faith promise gifts differ from regular offerings And that a faith promise requires the giver to commit to giving what he or she does not currently have. A promise requiring faith that God will provide. I thought that was a pretty good, concise definition that I found across a number of sites. A couple of Baptist churches, including the Baptist World Mission, had some definitions on definition this as well. From Life Ridge Baptist, they broke it down backwards. They said faith promised giving. They said, well let's define giving, then let's define Giving, they said faith, promise, giving is just that. Giving financially to world missions. We give generously, joyfully, and sacrificially because Christ first gave himself for us Now then they look at the word promise. They say faith promise giving is simply a promise to give a certain amount of money on a consistent basis over and above your tithe. They had many other like words in here. I'm just kind of getting right to the crux of the uh of the definition. On faith, they said, like everything in the Christian life, faith is required in order to be pleasing to God Such faith enables us to keep our promises even when it seems humanly or economically impossible. Such faith is demonstrated by consistent giving even in hard times. Such faith trusts God to do his part in providing and commits to doing our part in giving eagerly, generously, and faithfully. That was Life Bridge Baptist. Now, Baptist World Missions have a little bit more interesting insight to this, and it will serve as the segue to the next part of the Sunday school. Here, uh they say uh that it is a biblical method that most people credit. This Canadian preacher, a fellow named A. B. Simpson, I don't know what the A. B. stands for. He lived in 1843 to the turn of the century through 1919 for developing this whole faith promise program. He claimed he got it from the Bible, and according to Baptist World Mission, they say we agree. The program is built upon solid biblical principles. Practicing faith in finances is as necessary as practicing faith in all other areas of life. No great work for God can be accomplished without faith, and 2 Corinthians 10, 15 to 16 states the case for faith, promise, mission, giving. So that's kind of a quick survey of an overview of what this means and how that uh and so let me kind of open with some questions. I mean have you heard this preached before? Honestly I had not until about a year, year and a half ago. Have you heard this ever preached or taught before in a church? A couple of yeses? Okay. Some no's, some yeses, gave a little yes. All right. So those of you who heard it, what are your observations about it as you've seen it practice? Mm-hmm. The the joke among missionaries was always was um the member makes a promise and the mission But that that's that's sarcastic. I I would would see it as biblical, but I would take it back to um Samuel mother and her vow with the Lord is Lord if you give me this child I will give you this child back to you. And that's essentially what a person said, Lord I don't I don't have a thousand dollars to give this ministry. But if you will give Okay, so your view on that is uh uh i is kind of the concept that um uh uh Hannah had uh when she had the child. You know, if you give me the child I will do this. Okay? Other observations that you've perhaps seen. Uh to first you have it and then you can give it. But I don't believe You've developed that habit of the Right. Um have you heard it described differently than what I've mentioned here? Yes. Okay. Okay. And that's been my observation too, is that there is a variety of ways I've seen it implemented. Uh it's not always done the same, but it's kind of comes under the same stamp and the same label. So now what has God promised his church concerning finances? He wants ten percent. Okay. But yeah, okay, he seeks ten percent. All right. What is he promised concerning finances to the Church of God? I think of that And I could be misapplying it but where it says, My God shall supply all your need according to his riches inquiry. Maybe that's the people though, you know. Okay. But that is a good principle to look at. My God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Yep, absolutely. Um what does he promise the church regarding personal finances? Penny, you had your hand up. Sorry, I'm going in a different direction, but it's okay. We can go in that direction too. Um just thinking more of like so it was more of an example than a comment. Yeah. I think of the Pauline epistles And how many times different churches he mentions things like She's given to me out of your necessity. Like these are people who did not have but they gave anyway. And then he promises beyond that and my and I think it is actually Actually in Philippians, one of the next promises is my God shall supply all your needs as you have given to me. Uh that's correct. We will turn to those. Uh we may not be getting to the ones you have in mind today, but certainly by next week, Lord willing, we'll we'll have those covered. What does he promise concerning personal finances to you and I? Um my observation I may be leaning a different direction. My observation, perspective, is that it is not what he has promised. It is us the people Who are not obedient. For example, the church, as was said, he will supply our needs, those who have would give to those who don't have many times God has blessed certain part of the church, certain people in the church that has the the the abundance or that has the resources to furnish the church and those People are unwilling, like the tree that is planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth their fruit in their season. Um that that fruit does not belong to that tree, but it belongs to those who will come. and and and fleeze from that. So when I look at it is is yes God has promised He will deliver His promise. But we as a people when we get it we are supposed to spread it and that's we I find a challenge. Yeah, that's a good observation actually, is uh you can certainly see perhaps the impetus for something like faith promise giving. Uh let's beat them over the head uh with the Bible until it loosens the wallet from their pocket. And uh uh and and and things start to flow. But you're right. Um uh it's uh I've been a treasurer for a number of years at different churches, and uh it is uh always amazing to me that when it comes time to discuss what we're going to do, what we'd like to the congregation to do next as a church, where we'd like to spend our money Those who are most vocal with their ideas are those who give the least amount of money. They're happy to spend somebody else's money in the way they want it and be very adamant about it. But um uh yeah you're correct. It is the rare individual who will commit to supporting the Lord's work, and you're absolutely right, that is a problem still even in our I think nationally I think I've seen the average for giving uh and and this is across a very broad swath of people here in our wealthy land of America that the average donations is about one to two percent per individual Uh and yet there are those who uh will uh seek to to honor the Lord in what he says in turn in terms of tithes and offerings. Yeah, absolutely. Um are there limits to financing by faith? You know what I mean when I say financing by faith, uh committing to something you don't have? Are there limits to that We use the expression, He promised the moon. Um, you know, there are things we cannot deliver, but if we're looking to the Lord to provide it, um you know he is limitless. Uh at at the same time, you know, for me to say, okay, I'll give you five million dollars Oh I'm going for five billion. God owns heaven and earth. I mean, you know, let's just go big. Go big or go home. I go home. Yeah, absolutely. Why not? Is God broke? Definitely. Is God broke? Go ahead, Joey. according to his able, don't give a promise that you can not absolutely be expected to fulfill. Excellent. Right. Right. So uh yeah and and then you're also connecting it to a promise you can't fulfill, which is very interesting. Interesting. But isn't it as children of God our resources come from Him? We depend on Him to provide And it's like Elijah and Elijah. Um we need a double portion. And if we don't uh The the the emphasis not we are depending that we don't have it but we know where it is or who will supply our need The healing. Who has the healing? We don't have the healing. Who has the protection for our lives? We don't have it. He has it. So in a sense, I think too the church in a in a day and age. Depending on God to grow the church is a sense that God we will do what we need to do. That means we are open to the reality that you will have to do the supernatural Mm-hmm. But I think sometimes too, I'm flipping all over the place of giving. I think sometimes too that we want to do if we can't do the supernatural, then we w we won't do anything else So if I could summarize, I think you're getting at faith by depth by nature uh reaches out to the Almighty who can provide above and beyond what we're able to think. even ask. But at the same time the question was, are there limits to financing by faith? Which is why I was kind of going with that. Uh if if I have great faith that God could move mountains, if I have great faith he could provide all my needs, well Lord we need five billion dollars. because we have a lot of stuff to do. And you would start to bristle at that, and rightly so, but that seems beyond a normal, reasonable limit. I'm trying to explore where that limit is. And Joey hit on something that was good So anyway, so faith promise giving from what I'm addressing today, let me just try to nail it down to one definition so that we're not jumping around several. Fundamentally, is this it is making a promise to God to give him something, to give him some amount above and beyond your regular tithes and offerings. So you're already stretching to make that commitment to the church. If it's 2% to 10% or whatever it is, you're doing what you can there. But this faith promise gift is specifically for missions and it is a commitment. Oftentimes in writing, they have you sign something and hand it into the deacon so they can tally it up and announce it to the congregation so the evangelists can go, woohoo! It's a commitment for a dollar amount that you do not currently see in your bank account. It's not there. You're committing to giving something that's not there And maybe in the back of your mind you're thinking, well I may get some money back for my tax return or you know there may be something other here. You know, you may have that in mind, but your commit it's an obligation, it's a vow towards that. And I use the word vow because effectively that's what it is. Now, if if that's if if my definition of faith promise giving is acceptable and correct, and I believe it is given what I've seen. There is an earthly analogy to this. I've spent a number of years in corporate America, some of you know. And Victoria and I were recently looking at something regarding Enron. And the approach to this faith promise giving sounds a whole lot like Enron's scandalous mark-to-market approach. approach of financing where they credit the future valuation of something what may come to pass as currently on the books. And of course that's what caused the largest catastrophe in financial history. Industry in 2008, the CAR two thousand, when did Enron collapse? I think they were in early early two thousand. It was a massive collapse Um and uh and and so there's something fishy about it. So let me start with the background of the originator, and then I'm gonna take you through the things I like about faith promise giving, the things I don't like, and then we'll start to look into some scriptural parts about the reasons and the portions that I don't like, so we'll do that. The originator is a fellow named A. B. Simpson. I've never heard of this. Have any of you heard of this fellow before? You're very familiar with A. B. Simpson. Okay. He is a founder of Christian Missionary Alliance. That's where that came from. He was born in 1844. He was raised a devout, strict Scottish Presbyterian. He was ordained young as the pastor in 1865 at the age of 21. A few years later, in August of 81, he embraced miraculous healings after he was healed of some heart problem. He says, well, yep, I guess that's a biblical thing. And he then took all of Mark 16, 12, and following as for today, handling snakes, healing uh all of those sorts of things. In October of eighty one, uh eighteen eighty one he rejected the Presbyterian uh denomination, went Baptist, and he taught A fourfold gospel, a full gospel. Fourfold means they view that Jesus is Savior, sanctifier, healer, and coming king, with the emphasis on healer. So there's a big emphasis on the healing aspect of the ministry. And so he began to connect healing and tongues and the miraculous towards worldwide evangelism. And to um uh to to further that along, faith promise giving was introduced to help them. In the 1900s, he adopted Pentecostalism, belief in tongues, and also that women could teach men. And so he began to support women teachers. He died in 1919. He was buried in NIAC, New York, and there's a couple of institutions that are teaching institutions that are credited and named with him. The passage that he primarily used to support this was 1 Corinthians 10. Excuse me, 2 Corinthians 10, 15 to 16, which we will look at in a moment here. What do I find that is right with faith promise giving? What do I find is right? Well, I think it's right with a desire to support missions Right. We do that here at Mission Bible Church. And I think it's even right to have a time set aside to focus on support for missions. Our month of November is for the our annual thank offering. where we pull together funds, we advise people of different evangelical and missionary efforts that we're interested in supporting. And we advertise that to the congregation and we collect that. And we've been able, by God's grace, to send four to six thousand varies, uh, per year to different uh of uh ministries, which is which is great. Um I do like the fact that faith promise giving implicitly accepts the tithe as normal and for today. There are those who would say the tithe is for the Old Testament. It's not explicitly ruled out in the new, and I think it's a reasonable number that one should provide ten percent of your uh revenue. I don't say income, revenue, what you have, off the top before Uncle Sugar gets his cut. That would be be the government. And God will bless the remainder, and I've certainly seen that. So they do accept that as a normative for today. And I've I believe that's fine. They also recognize offerings and givings beyond the tithe. That too is biblical. There's portions in the Old Testament which speak about uh giving beyond what uh the tithe it would be called free will offerings what it would be The only place in the Bible the word free will is used is in reference to an offering. And I also like the fact that it's seeking to walk by faith in all areas of life. And certainly when you do set aside that 10%, if you get used to living without it, and then I would also recommend you put aside 10% for future savings, and by the time you cut it down, you need to get used to living below your means. You can't live hand to mouth. You have to kind of learn to live below your means. And I haven't been the worst off for it I I've not been hurt in the least by doing that. So I can testify that that that there's uh no issues there. God takes care of it. You just learn to be content with things such things as you have. So those are things I find that are right about faith promise. I I don't want to disparage those whose churches implement it uh without some of the wrong things, nor am I trying to disparage Baptist or Presbyterian or anything in this. I mean I could certainly uh take aim in a number of denominations, but that's not the purpose for today. I'm dealing with the practice and how it's implemented in particular. But I find three fundamental issues with faith promise giving, and I want to go over those And I want to look at what it is that's wrong, I believe, scripturally from this. And the first point I would have is that it is twisting scripture to justify the position. uh as uh uh to be implemented the way I described it, where I'm asking you to make a firm commitment to a dollar amount, sign it in writing or pledge or whatever, I don't I I don't believe that's biblically sound. So let's start with the proof text that is given and a number of sites, Baptist missions, the history of A. B. Simpson. and so forth. A number of them all point to 2 Corinthians 10. So it's in your handout. Feel free to uh look at it there or turn if you will in your Bible because I will be referencing some of the context But 2 Corinthians 10, 15 is the passage that is used to support it. So let's look at that proof text and let's read it here. It's somewhat in the middle of a sentence, and he says in verse 15, the apostle writes of himself, not boasting of things without or beyond our measure, that is, of other men's labors. But having hope, when your faith is increased, there shall be, that we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand. And the punchline that they're getting at is when your faith is increased, meaning when you commit to this faith-promise-giving approach, that we shall be enlarged by you, they're saying the Apostle Paul is uh somewhat being kind about this, being he's indicating that we're going to get some largesse in our bank from you. There's going to be some increase there. Financial increase is what they believe is in mind. That's the way that the A. B. Simpson viewed this verse, and everybody seemed to latch onto it and run with it. But however, I would assert boldly that the way that that is viewed is quite deceptive. Because that I don't believe is what the passage is speaking about at all. It's not that at all. Allegedly, the faith to be increased in this passage, if you you believe that A. B. Simpson is correct, is to believe that God will commit to providing a large sum of money which you currently do not have. That's what you'd have to to own up to in that if that's the case. And that's not the case, because verses 13 and 14 up above are ignored. Isn't it interesting that the proof text begins in the middle of a sentence? That's a problem. So when you look at 13 and 14 above of the very same passage, it says this, we will not boast of things without our measure. meaning beyond our reach, but according to the measure of the rule which God has distributed to us, a measure to reach even to you, for we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure. Here the apostle says, I don't stretch myself beyond my measure, beyond my rule. He keeps referring to a rule in here, which is kind of interesting. As though we reach not unto you, for we are come as far to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ. So apparently Paul is refusing to boast of things without, meaning beyond. or out of or outside of his measure. What is that measure? That word beyond our measure is one word in the Greek. Greek is kind of like Lego blocks. You can latch on certain words to it and it amends and sh it's a metron. And you know these. A like not and metron, where we get our word metric system or metrics. It would rightly be rendered a measurement. But you know what a metric system is, it's it's something you you measure things with. He says not uh not measured, not beyond our measure. I like the way that Matthew Henry, he very succinctly summarized this portion, and I like it very much. I'll read it for you. It's a two or three sentence comment on this passage He says the Apostle Paul's meaning here in 2 Corinthians 10, 13 and 14, is either that we would not that he would not boast of more gifts or graces or power or authority than God had really bestowed on him. Or rather, that he would not act beyond his commission as to persons or things, nor go beyond the line prescribed to him, which he plainly intimates the false apostles did While they boasted of other men's labors. The apostle's resolution was to keep within his own province and that compass of ground which God had marked out for him. So we're let me try to boil all this down a little bit here. The Apostle Paul was the apostle to the Gentiles, correct? He went to the Gentiles. Peter was the apostle. Jews. That was his swim lane. That was his wheelhouse. That was where he was to operate He wasn't going to be as the false prophets who would go where somebody else had gone, plant their flag, and say, look at all this wonderful things I've done here. And begin to encroach on somebody else's territory. Not that Paul's being territorial, oh no. Oh no He wants the gospel to grow. He wants it to expand. But he wants it to expand through biblical means, not with these false prophets But it needs to be done through biblical means. And the biblical means of evangelism is real simple. We're looking at an example here. Somebody goes, preaches the gospel, the natives pick it up, and they spread it from their person from that point of view You preach it, somebody finds it, they learn, and they go and they spread it. You ever seen strawberry plants? Strawberry plants are a great illustration of the gospel. You got a little patch of strawberry, I've got wild strawberry in the lawn, it's hard to get rid of But you got a little patch of strawberry and it sends out this little shoot and it and the end of the vine hits the ground it takes root. And when it gets root there, it sends out other little shoots. It takes root. But it only shifts up so far. But you've got this chain. And if you break that chain from the original one, it's rooted. It's not going to be broken. It just keeps spreading like that. And in that way that strawberry patch is enlarged. And so the apostle is basically getting at that he is not going to go outside of the bounds that God has given him. He can't be the evangelist to the entire world. It's too big of a place. He can't go everywhere. The second point I want to make is this enlargement. What is this enlargement? Look at that very carefully. Look at that very carefully. It says that we shall be enlarged by you. It does not say. We shall be enlarged by your offerings. It doesn't say we shall be enlarged by your grace, which is the way he often refers to offerings, is this grace that you've given us. He doesn't say that. So the enlargement does not appear to be money, but people. He says, we will be enlarged by you, meaning we want this ministry to grow. We want there to be more saints. The Corinthians were to be the enlargers. They were to be the evangelists. They were to be the ones in their local community spreading the word. Paul's on the move. He was for the longest time I ever see that he spent at one place was, I think, two years. at one location. And then he moved on. You were in Jamaica how many? Eighteen years or sixteen. Sixteen years? Long time? That's eight times longer than the Apostle Paul would have hung around. But that was multiple that Yeah, yeah. But can you imagine being there for two and moving on and hoping the work continues and never getting back to it? You would want it to enlarge You know you're not getting back if you're the Apostle Paul. You want them to grow. That's the whole point. Um So Paul wants them to be missionaries, not that he wants their money to go and do the job for 'em. That's not the idea here. And also I would point out a third point is that the increase of their faith is not connected. to money. The increase of their faith is not connected to money. As the Corinthians become stronger Christians, Paul hopes and assumes that they are going to take up the work of evangelism. Paul can't be everywhere. And so I think this is the s the the sense of what's going on here to try to stretch that into a faith promise gift where he's asking that they make a vow to give something they don't have, I I would not have ever guessed that from the first time from reading through this. Any comments or questions about this or other observations? Well as you mentioned Simpson did uh veer off towards the Pentecostal mindset and and basically this principle that that they're talking about when they try to use this scripture to go to faith promise giving is is essentially what the um prosperity gospel and the the Pentecostals are known for that um you know there's there's this great blessing out there waiting for you and you just gotta have the faith to receive it. But scripturally, the great there's a great blessing waiting for those that work Right. Um God will supply all my needs, but that doesn't mean I'm gonna get a check in the mail. I wasn't anticipating, which is what what you'll hear them say on TV, only you know, your checks coming, you know. Rather, God will supply my needs because there'll be a work opportunity here and a work opportunity there. And annual 74th. Um when a ministry starts to talk about money, they're often on the downward slope. You know, and that's why we don't pass the plate. There's a plate the back, you know, and it's not mentioned. You know. So I guess I just guess I just mentioned it, but in the last year who said anything about splice in the back? Correct. It's there. And God provides. God burdens his people to give. Absolutely. Yeah. I put it this way, God does provide through normal means. Yeah. I've seen that again and again and again. again a work opportunity will come up. A um uh a uh uh a a friend, somebody close by has the solution to what I w otherwise might have had to pay for. Uh God does provide the normal means. Pastor Daly was talking on the way here that the church that he's pastoring now, we he came in and the building was in disrepair and a group of men got together and That's great. And again, I'm just narrowly focusing on the aspects of the faith promised giving that I disagree with. There are plenty of things I think that are correct, but I could not see how this passage would be the premier proof text. There are much stronger passages to support other biblical doctrines. Uh you know, you who were dead in sins and trespasses well Does man have a spark of life in him? No, you're dead in sins and trespasses. Ephesians speaks pretty clearly of that. And it's not the only place that talks about it. There's a number of places. Now, uh the faith promise givers would say, but what about 2 Corinthians 8? And what about 2 Corinthians? Well we will look at that word willing next week. Uh I didn't think I would be able to do that justice by trying to jam it in today. And so shockingly of all shocks, I'm actually done early for a change rather than uh droning on so that uh we only have nine minutes before services. So we'll cut it there. But I hope this gets you to thinking about it some and then uh we will continue looking at this more next week. Yes Penny you have a question please please yep. I know you've talked a lot about the fact that you can tell where a man's heart is by a checkbook. Absolutely. And if God is working on an individual to support a certain ministry or to give something beyond his needs. And God's done that with us many times. And I remember even in a recent situation, you know, Joe's like, How much can we give? And I'm looking and I'm doing the math and and I'm like, Yeah, well we've got this and we can and Joe looks at me and he's like, Sometimes maybe we We need to stop asking how much we're able to give. And just ask how much God wants us to give. And then trust and meet our needs. So I think that's kind of similar to this. But I think it's different from preaching to your congregation, forcing them into making the Zow, making a son of um as a group. Whereas individually working on your heart and because all we have belongs to him. It all comes from him. It all belongs to him. It's all that we use for him. And if he has our heart and our finances him Yeah, you're absolutely correct, uh Penny, the uh and I appreciate th those words. I'm glad you remember some things I say. That's nice. Sometimes I wonder if people remember certain things. That's a good one. Um a number of things have influenced me over the years about that. You know, if God can get it through you, he can get it to you. Uh that's that's one. Now that's borderline faith promise giving, but I'm not, you know, committing to it. I remember back in the day when uh when the the wall came down. in uh East Germany. And uh Family Radio at the time had an opportunity. They found a print shop there near the Iron Curtain where they could send in Bibles in German, in Russian. And they were really making a press to get Bibles into Russia because the church had grown so anemic there that their biggest request was, please send us Bibles. And I saw that as an opportunity of a lifetime. Who knew how long that wall would actually be down? It had been up and enforced ruthlessly by despotic communistic leaders for a long time. time. And man, I had to look myself in the mirror and I said, Vince Cluth, on your watch, you're going to miss this opportunity, really, with what God's given you? I said, I don't care if it's in the bank or not. I went to the bank and I took out a thousand dollar loan and I sent it that way. I said, ship Bibles like mad. Go, man, go. It's the best investment I ever made Best investment I ever made. I have no idea what came of it. Someday I'll find out. But I was willing there and there have been times in my life when I've seen that remote like wow here's a grand and glorious ministry opportunity how can I not drop whatever and jump on that I'm not the worse off for it. I really am not. I really am not. But I had it. I had it. Now in that case it was a loan. I knew I could pay it back, but you know that was uh an effort Joe and then uh The widow of Nain had a little bit of meal, a little bit of oil. And the command was make the cake for me first. You know, but it wasn't that she had no oil and there w there was a resource there that she was to give and trust the Lord to replace the resource. source. And so kind of goes into what you're talking about, where wasn't that she was given what she didn't have. She was given what she did have. It was a widow's mic. The second thing, real quick, and and I'll move on. But um faith promised giving wreaked a lot of havoc in farm missions. Because every church has their annual budget. Okay, and they are trusting, you know, that this budget is based on what giving has been plus a little bit, because they expect giving to give you good. But the problem was this people would make a five thousand dollar commitment to emission and never fulfill it. And the mission, missionaries could not budget for their year because there really was no way of knowing what was coming in. So um Ed and I did not have any churches that gave by faith promise Uh all of our churches gave by by commitment of their past history. You know, and we had some churches that were giving six to eight hundred dollars a month, an individual church, you know, towards what was going on in Jamaica at that time. You know, the Lord was blessing. And we were f we were also blessed that we did not have 60 or 70 churches like a lot a lot of missionaries did. We had about 18, 19 churches. that support the work. Some of them just $25, $50. It all adds up. That's an excellent point about the widow of Nan. That almost gets borderline faith promise giving, but not quite. It really is not quite. I appreciate that insight on the uh how that Faith Promise Giving has made a record foreign missions. I know that in a former denomination I was in, I very much liked the way they did their mission support. That is, they collected through their annual thank offering. I stole that idea from them and shamelessly reused it because it was a good idea, one of the few good things they had going for them. But they also, as a result of that, that actually funded 90% of their missions work. So they had the money in the bank Then they could make a decision come December, January, what missions work we can send forward. So they knew for that year this was the money that was in fact in the bank. And it wasn't a so so they were f you know, the whole point of being free of worldly care, one of the things that distracts the minister's mind is am I going to get paid this month? Should I go out and farm my garden right now because it's springtime? Or should I be focused on the Word of God because there's opportunities come? There's a few new kids coming to Sunday school and really need to be teaching That's the reality of it. He has to make that decision. And if he's not on shaky ground, he can say, nope, it's in the bank. You you're here to do a job, focused on the job you gotta do, and then you know he's he's clear in his mind what he should do. Um I think we should pray for Christians who are at a point in life like Jonah. It's not that God has not spoken and it's not that they don't belong to God. They're just disobedient. So I think We should pray for for for Christians in that faith and where the devil is trying to move them from obeying God by by by giving to the work of God. Because God has spoken and we have observed it. Even a chunk strong Christian many times will come under this strong oppression of flesh and this and self and the devil where they know that they should as in your case you said will I miss this opportunity to give Because God has opened this door and I knew it was a struggle for you in the in in the incense to really. Am I going to take this risk? Am I going to do this? For the Bibles to be and I'm not going to look and say, Okay But if I send it and this doesn't happen, what will become of the money? I'm taking a chance that God has spoken to me and I'm fighting it myself, fighting with the devil, so that this my part of the job is done. I think we should pray for Christianity at length. Mm-hmm. Yeah, absolutely. Um I think it's not so much that oh a bird It's almost borderline, you know, face promise giving. I don't think it's so much there's not necessarily borderline phase promise giving, there's more of a fine line between what the body teaches about faithful giving and then what is not faithful giving. And there's a fine fine line there. It's not so much like this is borderline, you know, incorrect. It's there's a fine line And it's distinguishing where that fine line is between the two. That's I think that's where a lot of incorrect teaching comes is crossing over that fine line into Okay. Yeah, you're correct. I am trying to draw that fine line, and I believe the fine line gets to the part when you bind men's conscience through a vowel. Mm-hmm. When you're you're encouraging to vow publicly, uh and it typically is a public thing, to publicly vow to commit to something that they absolutely don't have. Now, that's brushing up against and very close to someone personally saying, no, I feel very deeply committed to this And I really want to do this. Well, I'm not I'm I'm not under uh uh another man seeking to put me into a vow. I I th there is a fine line there. There is a fine line. The the Lord love of the cheerful giver. It doesn't say the Lord love of the fearful giver. Oh no, I've made this commitment, now I've got to fulfill it. Right. But uh rather the Lord's blessing. So we'll continue looking at that fine line next week because there are other passages that come to bear and Joey's kind of jumped ahead and poked right at the uh The the one of the main parts, according to that, a man hat, which is a big principle in scripture, and we'll see that repeated quite a few times. So I heard something about the copra when he said he believed it that he said, if you are not going to give me I have to raise this much money, otherwise God will kill me. That's what But he lived on the money didn't come in. Right. Um can I ask uh for the daily if you pray for us to close us out? Yeah. Thank you for this Sunday school hour for your servant that you kind of Continue to strengthen and continue to use. Dear God, as we go through out this week, help us to apply these things to us Lives in our hearts. We're thankful for this. Gathering. Continue to be with us. In Jesus' name. Amen.