Chapter fifteen of Second Samuel. We're reading verses twenty-four through twenty-seven. If you recall, last week David had fled Jerusalem. His son Absalom was coming with an army. And he had ill intent towards his father, to say the least. And as David fled, Uh he had a unusual group that went with him. They were the Gittites from Gath, the Philistines actually, who had converted to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And that was quite an encouragement in one of David's darkest hours. And this week, as we continue, I want you to see that although he's going down in the valley of Kidron and and fleeing up into the Mount of Olives and so forth, I want you to see that in this tremendous trial that David has, the Son wants him dead, that God is there all the way encouraging his faith, encouraging, encouraging Encouraging him. It started with the Philistines, the converted Philistines, but we see more of it today in the title of the message, Encouraged Faith or Faith Encouraged. So here we have him as he's fleeing out. In chapter fifteen and and it says if we just go back at half a half a verse, uh to verse twenty three, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness. And then chapter 15 verse 24. And lo, Zadok also, and all the Levites were with him, bearing the Ark of the Covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God. And Abiathar went up and tell all the people had done passing out of the city. And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God in the city. If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me again and show me both it, that is the ark and his habitation, God's habitation. But if he thus say, I have no delight in thee, David, behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good unto him The king said also unto Zadok the priest, art not thou a seer that is a prophet when he sees visions? Return then into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz, thy son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. See, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness until there come word from you to certify or to secure me or to make me feel safe. And Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem. And they tarried there. And David went up by the ascent of Mount Olivet, and wept as he went up. And he had his head covered. And he went barefoot. Imagine King Barefoot. He must have had to flee pretty quickly. out of the palace. And all the people was with him covered every man his head. And they went up weeping as they went. And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said, Oh Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. And it came to pass that when David was come to the very top of the mount, that's the Mount Olivet, where he worshipped God. Behold, Hushai the Architect came to meet him, with his coat rent and his earth upon his head. And unto whom David said, If thou passest on with me, or if you stay with me, because my travels aren't through, he knew he would be fleeing from mountaintop to mountaintop. probably cave to cave, and he says, and if thou passest on with me, then thou shalt be a burden unto me. But if thou return to the city and say unto Absalom, I will be thy servant, O king, as I have been thy father's servant hitherto. So will I now also be thy servant. Then mayest thou for me defeat the council of Ahithophel And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the priests? Therefore it shall be that what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house, thou shalt tell it to Zodok and Abiathar the priests. Behold, they have therewith them their two sons, Ahimaz, Zodok's son, and Jonathan, Abiathar's son And by them ye shall send unto me everything that ye can hear. So Hushai, David's friend, came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem. As we noted last week, and we just make mention of it again this morning, in verses 16 and 8 through 18, which we did not read. The early numbers that gathered with David as he fled Jerusalem were not large. In fact, as you look at those verses, basically it was his household that fled with him, his servants and 600 Gittites from Gath or converted Philistines. That's not a large army for David to flee with. on such short notice. To give you an idea of the concept of Absalom coming with his army, they will meet in the next chapter or two on the battlefield. And in that battle, David's men will kill twenty thousand of Absalom's army. That gives you an idea how big Absalom's army must be, if David's army will kill twenty thousand of them I don't know how large David's army was. It had probably grown somewhat in that time. But 20,000 of Absalom's men would die. David's got 600 Absalom can spare 20,000 who will die fighting David. I mean this is a large army chasing David, and he has about 600 people. And as they're crossing the Kidron And we know that he was lifted up, he was encouraged last week, because at the Kidron River along came the Gittites of Gath, converted Philistines And of course we remember the conversation there and and David said, You've come so recently to me, you're you're newborn Christians as it were, newborn followers of the God of Abraham, Isaac and and Jacob. You you don't have a dog in this fight. Why don't you just head back out to Jerusalem and sit and clue your heels till this whole thing is over with But they would not. They refused. They said, As the Lord liveth, as the king liveth, we're going to stick with you. Now it was a real uplifting thing for David. And so they're all crossing over the Kidron, and they're all across the Kidron. When we read in verse 24 And lo, here comes a final little straggling group, and lo, Zadak also, and all the Levites were with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And Abhi Athar was with him as well. Abhi Athar was the sole survivor. Of all the priests that Saul killed in the city of Nod, the city of the priests. 85 priests were killed. One escaped Abiathar. He was the only one that escaped. He is also crossed the Kidrun with the other Levite priests. And he was the coming in there bearing the ark and Abiathar the soul survivor of Saul's rage. He comes with carrying an ephod. We read in 1 Samuel twenty two twenty of his escape and again in twenty three six for the fact he escaped with the ephod. That was something that the priest could use to determine God's will for their life. What an encouragement that must have been to David as he crosses the Kidron down the deepest valley, the darkest hours of his life probably will ever read in Scripture. And there comes all the Levites. All the Levites come. And not just all the Levites, but Abiathar, the sole survivor. of Saul's savagery. What an encouragement to David that they all came. David was told earlier, as we recall, that all the hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom in chapter 15 and verse 13 All of Israel has gone out to Absalom, the man with the long flowy hair, the golden locks of his day and age. They've all gone after Absalom. And David must have believed it, all except his household and his servants And then he finds out it wasn't true. That all of Absalom's manipulation, all of Absalom's religious veneer, I want to go up to Hebron and worship and sacrifice to my God I made a covenant with my God. We read about that last week. That all that manipulation, religious veneer, didn't have an effect on any of the Levites Not a one. All the Levites came with David. How encouraging at the bottom of the valley, in the deepest of despair, the darkest of his hour, that all the Levites came. All the Levites came. Wow. David's support, although small, in reality it was enormous. He had all the Levites, and he had the army Do you recall in times past when Israel would go into battle and they carry the Ark of the Covenant and all the Philistines would flee because the Ark of the Covenant represented the presence of the God of Israel with them Can you imagine as as his son Absalom would have been charging up out of the valley of the Kidron and up into the Mount Olivet or wherever he might find David For David and all the Levite priests to stand around in the forefront with the ark of their covered on their shoulders. Can you imagine how intimidating that would be to Absalon? How intimidating that would be to those who used to fight for David in con To see the Ark of the Covenant on top of Mount Olivet was surrounded by all the Lev priests. Wow. That had to be encouraging. So as David is running from his son This encouragement we see starts to unfold. Running from his son, by the way, let me just say that he's if you go through the life of David, you find that he was not only running from Absalom, but we often find that David's sons were running David's life a lot. Parents, don't let your children run your lives. They'll ruin your life. They'll chase you off. That's what Adonijah would do, another one of his sons. That's what Absalom is doing here. They had let the sons run his life so much that now they were running him out of Jerusalem. And so we have this, and what a surprise it was. What a what an encouragement for all the Levites to have this. This is just David's support was so enormous. And if you are born again this morning, may I say say to you that you also have uh reason to be encouraged, a reason uh in your faith to hope, because you have an ultimate support in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Lord Jesus Christ said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Hebrews thirteen and three. David didn't know if how many of the Levites might come How many might stay with him? How many might stick with him? But we know that Christ, who sticketh close in the brother, he says he will never leave us or forsake us. We have a greater support, a greater reason to be encouraged in our faith, regardless of what's going on around us, regardless of how outnumbered we might feel Within our family, within our neighborhood, within our country, we have an enormous reason to be encouraged this morning. Now, surprisingly, verse 25 really took me aback, and it may take you back too. The king says unto Zadek, one of the Levite priests, carry back the ark of God into the city. Say what? We've got this intimidating piece of furniture. And we've got all these Levites. And David says, no, I'm not going to keep the ark, the symbol of God's presence. And I don't want the priest by my side It may be intimidating to Absalom's army, but out of the care of the ark, and out of the care and the concern and the reverence for the priests, I want you Go back to Jerusalem. I know what it cost the priests in Nob when the savage Saul came into Nob And I'm so concerned what the angry Absalom would do to the ark and to the priests. Take it back down into Jerusalem. Pray for me. Keep your ears open. Find out what's going on. Send me knowledge when things transpire that I need to know. But I will not jeopardize the ark. I will not jeopardize the priests. Wow. David didn't need God's furniture. All David needed It was God's favor. Think about that. It's nice to have the furniture, but we know in the days of Eli that the Ark of the Covenant didn't do so well, did it? The Philistines captured it and they destroyed the Israeli army And so David doesn't want the furniture, he just wants God's favor, and that's not me saying that, because verse 25, David says that If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, He'll bring me again. He just wants God's favor. He doesn't need God's furniture. There's so many people out today that they're so excited because they've got a piece of the wood of the cross in their church. Or they got some of the nails from the cross where Christ was pinned to or sat upon the cross or nailed to the cross. Or they got Peter's chair, or they got straw from the manger. We don't need the furnishings of God. We need his favor. And that's where David was here. And that's what we should learn from this ourselves. David would not expose him to the anger of Absalom. All he wanted was God's favor. And he said, If I have favor in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me again. That is back again to Jerusalem. And he will show me both if he will show me again the Ark of the Covenant. I'll be able to see the Ark of the Covenant again. And he says, and his habitation Wow. The resting place of the Ark and God's habitation took precedence over seeing David's throne He didn't say, Oh, if if I find favor in God's eyes, I will be back and I will see my throne again. It took presence. He wanted to see the ark of God again. He wanted to be where the habitation of God was again. He didn't care about his throne. He didn't care about his palace. He didn't care about his home. The preeminent thing that he wanted in his life was to be in the presence of the Ark of the Covenant, where God it was said resided. And to see To be again or someday in the habitation where God lived. Wow. Is the sight of God's heavenly habitation a priority in your life? Because that's what it was for David. He could hardly wait to see the habitation of God. And God has a habitation. He has a heavenly habitation Is that your priority in life, or do you have other priorities that take precedence over living in the heavenly habitation where God is? That's what David wanted to do See, I know we say well he's talking about the habitation of God living about the Ark of the Covenant. Oh yes. But David also wanted to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Psalm 23. The habitation of God is Is that your priority this morning? If it isn't, you've got the wrong priority. And then David says in verse 26, but if he thus say, this is the hard one, I have no delight in thee, David. Behold, verse 26, here am I. Let him do to me as seemeth good to him. How many here this morning are there already? If God has disillusioned me or upset with me Or maybe God has other plans than what I have. Let him do to me. Can you say that? Let him do to me. Oh Lord, do to me whatever seemeth good. To you. Boy. Talk about a spiritual saved man, that's David. How many of us are really satisfied sometimes? Satisfied with what God's doing in our lives. How many sometimes we don't think God knows what he's doing or he's not paying attention? I mean, how could this happen? If it was people, have you ever heard this one? If it was really God, why is there all this evil around? Well, what we judge as evil is God's sovereign plan to bring beauty out of ashes But that's a tough one. And David here says, Let him do to me as seemeth good. So whatever God does to you, he does it because God thinks it's good. Let him do what he think seemeth good. Does this verse encourage you, pilgrims? That everything that happens Happens to you is because God sees it as good for you. People have lost a loved one and they said, I've never been so close to the Lord since I lost a child, or since I lost a spouse, or since I lost lost my mom. I never used to pray as much, and now I have a close relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And it has been good. David said had he had he not been chastened to the Lord, he would not have sought the Lord as much. Knowing him and loved him as much. So it should encourage you that whatever is happening to you this morning, or what may happen tomorrow, what you may fear is going to happen tomorrow, and it may happen. But it is done because he let him do to me as seemeth good to God. All fears and complaints that we have against the Lord, who is our shepherd, right? Isn't the Lord our shepherd? I shall not want. I mean, how can we fear the Lord who is our shepherd we shall not want? All fear and complaints we have against the Lord who is our shepherd are removed when we can sing. Surely good Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the day, all the days of my life You ever sung that? I'm gonna I will someday sing that. Okay, I'm trying, I'm working at it. How do we rehearse that Verse. How do we say, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me? I must we really believe that surely goodness and mercy shall follow us all the days of our life. I must we really believe that Why are we complaining about what God is doing in our life? If surely goodness and mercy shall follow us. Psalm 23 and 6. All the days. All the days of our life. The only problem is that we don't believe some of the things we say. We don't believe some of the things we quote. We don't believe some of the things we memorize. But if we did, then we would be pleased that everything God is doing in our lives is for our good. Trust if you can Pray that you can trust that Christ in every event your life is doing what seemeth good unto him. He's doing what seemeth good on him. And if God, and God who knows all, he knows all the future, he knows all about us, he knows all about our friends, our family He knows everything. And so surely if anyone is capable of making good come out of something, or surely if God is going to make a decision, it's going to be good because He knows all the secondaries. He knows all the Plan Bs. He knows all the things that could go wrong and can go wrong and will go wrong. And then he's able to do what is good for us. He knows it all. And we just need to trust That the Lord Jesus Christ, trust him, that every event in your life seemeth good unto him. And if it seemeth good unto God, it's got to be good unto us. It's got to be. And that's why Job could say, though he slay me, will I trust in him? Job 13 and verse 15 That should encourage you. That everything happening to you is for your good and for his glory. And there's another encouragement here for David. We discovered in verses 27 and 28. We've already had Zadok, we've already had the Levite priests, we've had Abiathar, we've had the Ark of the Covenant. We've got all of this. And then in verse 27-28, the king said also unto Zadek the priest, art not thou a seer or a prophet? Now we didn't know that before. We just knew he was a Levite Well we discover that he is a seer. He is a prophet. This is an individual we read 2 Chronicles 9 and 29 that seers, they know things, they see things, they have future visions. They're tremendous in telling us what's going to happen. And how we can prepare for what's going to happen. And so David not only has Zadek the priest on his side, but he is a seer, a prophet, a visionary. God tells him things. And he says, return to the city in peace, and tarry, and I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness until there come word from you, O seer, O Zadok. David has a seer, David has a prophet in his corner. How much more encouraging can that be? And David also has these priests that he trusts. Oh, he he did trust them. You wonder how much David trusted them? He told them where he was going to be. I'll be in the plains of the wilderness, just beyond Mount Olivet. You know, you don't tell that to a bunch of people who are heading back into Jerusalem where Absalom is, and one of them just might tell Absalom And Absalom might decide, I'll make you the high priest of Israel. But he trusted. He trusted the priest they would not betray his location. He trusted the priest that they would not betray his condition. He's only got about six. And her guys, and her Philistines. I mean, how trustworthy are a bunch of Philistines? I mean, he trusts these priests that they wouldn't betray his location or his condition or his flock or his family Wow. These priests could keep a secret. Pilgrim, can you keep confidence? When people confide in you? Can you bridle your tongue? Or as James says, or is your religion in vain? Can you bridle your tongue, James 1 and 26, or is your religion in vain? Do people know you as a tailbearer, as a gossip, as a busybody, as a tatter of 1 Timothy 5 and 13, or can you keep confidence? The priest could, Zada could, Abyathar could. In verse twenty-nine, therefore, what an encouraging thing that David had. These men that could keep confidence. He's not already got the Levites, he's not already got these priests, he's not got the Ark of the Covenant, he's got us here, he's got people he can trust who will have their ears open in the city of Jerusalem and will send back the information. that he needs to have. In verse 29, Zadek therefore and Abiathar they carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem. And they tarried there, that is, in Jerusalem. And David went up by the ascent of Mount Olivet, and he wept as he went up. You know, when King David was being chased by Saul and a large army, we never read that he wept. And yet here he's being chased and he's weeping all the way up. If everybody some of you have been over there, you know down the Kidron Valley. And you start weeping. If you were to if you were to walk in the Kidron Valley up to the top of Mount Olivet, and you were going to weep all the way up as he did, you're talking about several hours of weeping. That's that's quite a climb, isn't it, Carol? You look down that deep valley You come out of Jerusalem and go down that deep valley back. I mean you're telling and and uh Marianne, keep you there too. How long do you think it would take us to walk that? At least at our age, it'd be several Hours probably. And he wept all the way. He didn't weep when Saul was chasing him, but when his favorite son, who's been running his life as it were, rejects him and goes after him and wants him dead, David weeps. You got troubles in your home this morning? You got troubles among your family? Why there is very little that hurts more than problems in your own household I listed a few things that could be your problems. Maybe have a witch for a wife or a busybody. Maybe have a belligerent brother, a swearing sister, a nattering nephew. That means a A gossiping granny, a s a spouse that's sleeping around, caustic children and cousins, an uncle unconverted, and a harsh husband. That's at the start of the things that can go wrong in a family Have you troubles in your home or among your family? Our sharpest trials come from those that we have given our most to in a relationship. The horror you work at a marriage and then one cheats on the other, what pain that is. You know, sometimes a wife will say, well, maybe it was partially my fault. I wasn't giving the home a lot of attention. But if you've been a good wife and you've loved that man, you've cooked his meals and you've and you've done his laundry and you've and you've done it, you've been everything you could be, that man. That really hurts. The more you put into your kids, the more you put into your marriage or your relationship or your Spouse, the more you put in the relationship with your family or your parents, the more you put in the betrayal hurts all the more. And from Absalom here, David had poured his heart. He had spoiled this kid And he admits that in 1 Kings 1 and 6. And never, never did I ever say no to Abdonijah and probably not no to Absalom as well. And so the king on the Mount of Olive is weeping as he ascends. And the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, we read in Luke 19, 37, he was weeping over Jerusalem from Mount out of it as he descended. Had the Lord put a lot into Jerusalem? The Lord Jesus Christ? He gave us all to them, didn't he? Healing those people, preaching to those people, speaking, answering questions. Asking questions from the time he was twelve, he was in Jerusalem every Passover and all the holy days, all the high. He had put a lot into Jerusalem and the betrayal of Jerusalem. And the people of Jerusalem crying, crucify him, crucify him. Oh, this was going to hurt. And he knew it was coming. But Christ didn't weep so much because they had rejected him. If we read Luke 19, 37 through 3044, Christ wept over Jerusalem not just because Because they rejected him, but for the doom that awaited them for rejecting him. Look at that verse, those verses. sometimes. And if that was enough for the weeping of David, as he reaches the top of the mountain, verse 31, one came and told David, You can imagine how exhausted and tired you are and you've been weeping and you've been crawling up there barefoot and you reach the top and one comes and tells David a hithophil Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. Ahithophel is in cahoots with him. And David said, Oh Lord I pray they turned the council of Hithophel into foolishness. Pilgrim, are you praying against those that take counsel against the Lord's anointed? Against the Lord's anointed, the Lord of glory, the bride of Christ. Are you praying against that crowd? David's praying against that crowd. He's saying, take those who've got counsel who are counseling against the king of Israel and make it foolishness. And we need to pray the same way today. Those who take counsel against the anointed one that are Christ, the King of Israel. Make their counsel foolishness. And David He writes about this in Psalm 3. If you if you look over in Psalm 3 of your book, your Bibles you'll see it says a Psalm of David. And David writes in probably at this time they believe, and he writes And he says, many say there is no help for me. Have I people tell you that? Boy, there's no help for you. You're done. You're finished. No hope. Maybe a doctor's told you that. Maybe a mother's told you that. There's no hope for you. You'll never amount to anything David writes, Many say there is no help for him or for me. But I cried unto the Lord and he heard me out of his holy hill. Wow. And you wonder when he might have said that. They believe he wrote this when he was climbing the mountain, when he reached the top. Because it says, When I cried out to the Lord, he heard me. out of his holy hill. And what happens here? David knew the scriptures and it teaches that God is the controller of every tongue and every heart. And so I said, make the counsel of Ahitho foolishness He knew that God could control the tongue of Ahithophel and make him speak foolishness. David knew this, Proverbs 16:1, the preparation of the heart of man and the answer of the tongue. is from the Lord. So don't pride yourself in winning that spelling bead because the answer of the tongue is from the Lord You give God the glory, you give God the credit when you win that spelling bee. And don't pride yourself when you as you're lawyering to get someone to witness standing, you tie them up in circles and twist them up and He spits out and says things he didn't mean to say and convicts himself or somebody else, because even on the witness stand it says here that the answer of the tongue is from the Lord And if in some political debate your side seems to really get the best of the other person, oh boy, my side, he really spoke well or she really spoke well and she really nailed it, boy, she really put him to shame Don't you think so? The answer of the tongue is of the Lord. We must give God the credit all the time. God controls every utterance. God controls every syllable. God controls every jot and every tittle. So turn their counsel, David says. You have the ability, Lord, to turn their tongue and do what you would with their tongue Unless we haven't said enough about God controlling the tongue, you asked Zacchaeus, when he's inside the Holy of Holies, and he doesn't believe that he's going to give him a baby named John the Baptist. And God made him so he was not able to speak. Luke 1 and 20. God controls the tongue. And then the man who came before the Lord who could not speak in Mark seven and thirty-five in Christ spoke to him and his tongue was loose. God controls the tongue. Or how about the Tower of Babel, when they're building a large tower, and God confounded her language, Genesis eleven nine, and they couldn't understand each other, and their tongue spoke all kinds of gibberish, and Babel as it were like a baby babbles. It's called the Tower of Babel because a God controls the tongue And so David cries out, Oh Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. You can control the tongue and control what he says And David had every reason to pray that prayer against Ahithophel because Ahithophel, he knew the wisdom of Ahithophel He says in Psalm 55 of Ahithophel, he was my guide. We took sweet counsel together, and we walked even on the house of God in company. This is Ahithophel. He is a wise individual. It made Ahithophel a very dangerous fellow for David, for he knew David inside and out. He'd been with he'd worshiped with David, he prayed with David. Counsel with David. He knew David inside and out. He could anticipate David's every move and where all his hiding places were in the days when King Saul was chasing him. David feared Ahithophel's counsel more than Absalom's covetous heart. And he had reason to. 2 Samuel 16 and 23. We'll read it in a couple of weeks. The counsel of Ahithophel was as if a man had inquired of the oracle of God. You got all these Levites, you got the Ark of the Covenant, you got Zadek, you got Abiathar, you got all these men, and you even got the one who's a seer. But Ahithophel's consul was so wonderful that it says that The consul of Hitler was if a man had inquired at the Oracle of God. And the Oracle of God was inside the tabernacle before the Holy of Holies. When a priest would walk in there and inquired of God What you came out with was fan was phenomenal. This was a hithopel. That was his reputation. Having a hithophel in Absalom. Absalon having a Hithophel in his corner. It was like having Babe Ruth on your baseball team. Game's over. And so David said, Oh Lord, I pray thee. Probably a short prayer as he reached the top of the Mount of Olives. But verse 31 says, And God heard How does he know? How do we know that God heard him? In verse 31, another encouragement. And God heard me, verse 31, because in verse 32 through 34, and when David was come to the top of the mount as he had prayed, where he worshipped God, behold, Hushai came to meet him. Who shall I was his companion? We read about him being his companion in the scriptures, and we read about him being his counselor and his friend. He came to meet him, and unto whom David said, Thou shalt be a burden on me. Return to the city. And say unto Absalom, I'll be thy servant. Return to the city and say to the new king, thou mayest use me, use me rather, Davis, I will use you to defeat the council of Ahithophel. Word comes that Ahithophel, the Babe Ruth, is with Absalom in the next earth. Who shies there? A counselor and a companion who loved David David had fervently wept and he had prayed, and God encourages his faith. Behold, Hushai came. Hushai, 1 Chronicles 27 and 33. He wasn't just David's companion and friend and counselor. He was a wise old man. And we know that from the verse where he says, Thou shalt be a burden unto me. David was shocked. He races the top of the Mount of Olivet, and he's got the young Levite priests on him, he's got Zadek and Abiathar, and he's got the Gittite soldiers, Philistines, and they're they're in pretty good shape and they make at the top from the Kidron. But when he sees Hushai, his old companion, who would be a br you know, you I don't know how you made it this far. I can't believe you made it to the top of the mountain. What a what a wonderful thing to see you. It's unbelievable. But I can't I'm gonna be running all over this mountain You'll be a burden to me. You can't keep up with us. This is this is just the beginning of what's going on here. You're an old man. Get back down to Jerusalem. Find out what you can find out for me. But he's an old man, yes A burden of David if he stays, yes. But he's a wise old man I I don't understand today why the churches say we've got to do something to get the young people in. How about we've got to do something? Let's get some wise old men in. That's what we need Some people are not so sucking on the pabram, but they're they're they're they're eating and devouring the meat of the word of God. We are being reached out to the elderly in the communities who know the word, who know the Bible, who love the Lord. They're not a burden. I can't tell you the the joy I have is sitting I talked to Pastor Al Cook this week on the phone. Let me pray for Pastor Cook. He's got colon cancer. They're going to be some surgery. Boy, I'll miss him someday when he's gone. I mean to tell you, I love sitting down talking to that wife He's 80, so he probably wouldn't mind me calling him wise old man. But uh why are the churches so geared up in Attracting all these unsaved young people. To get them saved, I understand. But how about also attracting some of the old saved people, the wise old men? We got it backwards Let's fill a church with unsaved young people. No, let's fill a church with saved old people who are going to be in heaven very soon. The young people might not be there for a long time The fervent prayers of a righteous man availeth much, James 5. 17. And David says, Oh God! Make the foolishness of a fifthel resound in the ears of Absalom's army. And his prayer was answered. Why how encouraging that must have been a David with Hushai, that old man, made it to the top. of Mount Olivet. It appeared. It says he came with his garments torn and dirt and earth all over him, probably falling down, getting up, falling down, getting up, and he finally got there You ever had a prayer answered so quickly as David's was here? You ever had a prayer answered so quickly, your jaw dropped? A prayer answered so quickly you got goosebumps. A prayer answered so quickly that you wept because you hadn't trusted God to answer the prayer someday, somehow, somewhere Boy, to get a prayer answered quickly. And you see that when they're backed up to the Red Sea, don't you? Oh, where are we going to go now? It's over with your brother's time to die. We're going to made our graves in Egypt. Now you go, oh, what are you doing to us Moses? Whoa. They were in sea barns. Jaw dropping, isn't it? Jaw dropping. Or how about Jonah? Chapter 1 and verse 14, 15, and 16. The sailors of the ship find out it's Jonah's God that's got him in the storm. It's Jonah's God. And Jonah says, well, just toss him off the ship and things will be well And it says they prayed unto Jonas, God, oh God, don't hold us against us. And they throw him off their ship. It says, and the sea was peaceful. Whoa! Jaw-dropping, huh? Everybody answered that quickly? I think when David walked and was dropped in the lion's den, and it said the angel came and shut their jaws. I think Daniel must have gone He saw the angel, he saw him closing their jaws. At least I would have been jaw dropping About the three men that went in the fiery furnace, they go in the fiery furnace, and they're walking around, their ropes burned off, their clothes aren't singed, they don't even smell like smoke when they come out, and Nebuchadnezzar looks in How many we put in there? Three. I see four in there. And he says, and the fourth one looks like the Son of God. Whoa. The Lord Jesus. Christ. They're in a fiery furnace and they're not burned. I don't think they're even sweating I don't think they're even hot. I if it would have been mean, I'd walk in that fiery furnace and and I'm not on fire, I'm not burning, the ropes burned up, and my my arms aren't singed, and I looked around and there's a son of God I'd have got in the middle of the fiery furnace he did seven times, I'd have got douce bumps. I'd have got chills at prayer answered like that. You have ever prayer answered like that? Boy. God does it. So verse 35 and 37, Hushai came into the city. It's really important the way that reads in verse 37, and Absalom came into came. Zadak, Abiathar, and Hushai went back to Jerusalem before Absalon arrived. That was important. Otherwise Absalom might wonder, where'd you guys come from? Where'd you guys go? How can I trust you? But by the time he arrives in Jerusalem Hushai is already there. And Absalon never knew they left. The timing is of the Lord, Pilgrim The timing is of the Lord. Who shall I just beat Absalom into the city of Jerusalem? The timing is the Lord. And that too ought to encourage your faith. That God is in control of the timing of everything that happens in your life. And it's because it seems good to him the timing of things that happen in your life. Let's pray for more examples. and more opportunities and a vision to see some of the things that God has done in life that we ought to be encouraged by and not discouraged by. Let's pray this thing. Oh Lord, we just praise you this morning. And we pray to you that you'd open our eyes to see the encouraging things around us. We have people getting saved, not in big numbers, but unique individuals, elderly people getting saved, young people coming out of uh out of a culture, atheism or agnosticism evolution, oh Lord, may we be encouraged by the things we're hearing out there. It doesn't take a large army, it just takes a Hushite or a Zadak or Nabiatha. Oh Lord, may we just open our eyes and our ears to see and hear these things and be encouraged. Encourage our faith, Father, this day that it isn't numbers. It isn't numbers. Numbers, but it's your presence that makes all the difference. And it's in Christ's name, our great God and Shep, our great God and Savior and the shepherd of the flock. In his name, we pray. Amen.