11th chapter of Hebrew, Hebrews, and I'm going to read the section we're in first. It's verses 35 to 38, and then we'll get to our discussion question Hebrews 11, 35 through 38. Very, very end of this section of the Hall of Faith, and it reads like this Women received their dead, raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, can you imagine being sawn in half They were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. This is the concluding portion of Hebrews 11. Well, we have a discussion question which I hope got you to scratching your head a little bit. And I even had a bonus question in it. And the question was this You know, when an immature Christian, and the key word here is immature, begins to face some difficulties, and God appears to be slow in answering their prayers What discouraging thoughts might come into their minds? Is God real? Is this thing real? Very good, yeah. Is God real? Is this whole Christianity thing real? Is there anything to this faith business? Yeah, I think that's a very legitimate a legitimate point. Now imagine a mature Christian who is facing the biggest trial of his life. I'm thinking maybe Daniel or something. Yet heaven is brass to his prayers. It's like you're trying to pray, but it just seems to be, you know, bouncing off the proverbial ceiling. What might this Christian's thoughts be? The difference here is a m mature versus immature Christian. How long, O Lord? How long, O Lord? How long? How long? Yeah. Is there a difference between those two answers? Absolutely. I think so. Yeah, absolutely. I had a uh some good feedback from one of our brothers from Arizona. He said the discouraging thought is that God is hanging me out to dry You feel like that maybe? He's just you know just playing with you here. Uh I know I've had some thoughts, you know, wow Lord, I th I thought thought I was on your team. You know, why is this happening? Now here's the bonus question. What's it like to drive a heavy car on a road covered by a half inch of ice? I know about that. Okay, well tell me that experience. Many times. A hilly road. It's a hilly road with a bunch of ice. Okay. Mountain Road. What was that like Not it it's um you you pray to God a lot. All right, anybody else had an experience thankful for a heavy car Yeah. Because a a light car you're you're done. That's right. But a a car with some meat to it, you know, take your time and you steer with your brake, not your wheel. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Anybody else? A heavy car on a hilly road with a half inch of ice. You know half inch of ice is a lot of ice. It doesn't matter whether it's a half inch or what a half inch. I just remember my grandma believed the top of the hill. And I remember many winners. We had to go to the turf and it was straight up the hill and it was ice and it was snow. And I remember my dad piling for that block in the back and then we would stop at the bottom of the hill and make sure the change worked. That we had made sure there was rat chains reading pocket. Okay. And going down was worse than going up. Like you said, you pray a lot. Going down's easy, that's fun. No, it's stopping that's the problem. I like to be in charge. Well that I can see. Driving a heavy car on a hilly road, the brother writes, I tried that with extreme caution as a physics tech experiment with my Toyota Forerunner Adventure. Excuse me, Toyota Forerunner Venture at the start of the Devil's Backbone in Utah a few Aprils ago. What happens is you slide around, and if you persist in that foolishness, you will slide off the road Funny, all the best four-wheel drive vehicles have snow setting, but they never have an ice setting. Yeah. Does anybody see the connection between the two questions yet? Well, if you don't, you will by the end of the the lesson. Well, this portion of Hebrews, and we're we're obviously taking larger chunks now. Let's consider how we've come through Hebrews 11 so far. We've looked at a laundry list of characters, a grocery list of a great many characters that have all done incredible things by faith. They succeeded. They they they got what They got out of their their dilemma. They got out of their troubles. God delivered them wonderfully. But now we have this dark setting here where It doesn't sound like many of these were in fact delivered. They actually faced a lot of horrible things. Let's start with this first one here because there's an interesting contrast given that I think kind of walks us into this section. It says in verse 35 that women receive their dead to life again. That certainly brings to mind a couple of prophets, right? We had thought about the prophet Elijah, and he had raised a um uh a uh widow's son and Elisha did the same thing as well. Uh they they were both notable as Old Testament prophets because Through their work, through their deeds, through their prayers, a young boy was resurrected. You have two in the New Testament, of course, Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead Speaking, he he came forth. He also raised the widow of Nain, uh, who had an only son. It's interesting that the resurrections uh uh are all of dead men and they're all for on the behalf of women. All four that we have noted there. I I I'm not sure what to do with that, but that's that's kind of interesting. And the only point from this is that in fact God does have the power to raise from the dead. He did it through his prophets, he did it through his son. Questi question there. Um, was it the faith of the women or the faith of the person who raised the the faith of the prophet? Because this is this is talking about all the ones that through faith they subsume kingdoms, women receive their They're dead. Um and it was was it the the women's faith or the prophet's faith? It appears to be the faith of the prophet, certainly in the case of Elijah, you know, the woman Wasn't even sure he was a real prophet. The same thing with Elisha. They were both in great doubt. Martha came to Jesus. If you had been here, he wouldn't have died. You know, you see The record is of a lot of doubt and unbelief on the part of the other ones. There might have been a measure of faith in them, certainly they were coming to the right individual. It's a good question And then it continues on. There's a contrast in the next phrase. It says that others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. There's a contrast here because others were tortured not accepting deliverance. The implication is they could have been delivered, but they didn't avail themselves of that option. The word deliverance is interesting. It's the only time in the New Testament that particular Greek word is rendered deliverance. It's normally translated redemption, which I find to be very interesting. That gives a good commentary on what redemption really is. It's a deliverance. It's a deliverance from your situation. When you buy something back, you're delivering it from whatever horrible situation it was in, whether imprisonment, bonds, etc. But some didn't accept that. And it said that they might, quote, obtain a better resurrection. So You know, this business of being tortured and not accepting deliverance that brings to mind a introductory phrase at the head of the Belgic Confession. We're going through that confession as part of our worship services. In 1561, it was a fellow named Guido de Bray who wrote single-handedly the Dutch Reformed Confession of Faith known as the Belgic Confession. And he opened it with an introductory paragraph that said this, we offer our backs to stripes, our tongues to knives. Wow, can you imagine having your tongue cut out our mouths to gags, and our whole bodies to the fire, rather than deny the truth expressed in this confession. Now, curiously enough, he meant it Because it was a scant six years later that he died as a martyr, cementing his words in that shows he really meant everything in that confession that he wrote So there are a great many people who wouldn't accept deliverance. He wouldn't deny these truths to be spared, but rather he doubled down on them And even made it plain, I'll suffer this rather than deny that. And of course the devil took him up on it. And I would say Guido won. The Belgian Confession won. We're still speaking about it some 400 plus years later today. You know, to what might a better resurrection refer? It says they they went for a better resurrection. Is there Is there like a resurrection to life and then there's a resurrection to life, you know, go biggie when you get extra? What might a better resurrection refer to? Any thoughts? I puzzled about this for a while. I'm I'm open to all kinds of interesting ideas. I think I have a solution, but Great is your reward in heaven Sure. Great issue. Passing of crowns. Okay. So expand on that some. I mean, are you saying is that uh is that true for every believer or is that true for those who don't accept a deliverance? Um Though those that are faithful unto death shall receive a crown of life. Okay. And so um you know there will be rewards in heaven for faithfulness And there will be tears that are wiped away, which, you know, could be for Lord, I wish I'd have done more. Hmm. Okay. As it were like degrees of reward. Yeah, yeah, okay. That's a thought I'd had. Uh other other thoughts about what this better resurrection might be. It it it seems that instead of having uh relief in this world something better is is a wedding belt which is the resurrection can happen. Yeah. Yeah, right yeah, uh that's better than the alternative Any any regardless of what people throw at me, I know that I'm gonna have a resurrection to come. Yeah, yeah So I had b bantered around in my mind different ways of that, and I agree with what you're saying. And I had thought that path for a while. But contextually, I I think the context here is contrasting the women receiving their dead to life again, meaning uh their son got raised from the dead, but it was the resurrection to this world. And they wouldn't live forever in this world. They themselves would continue to go through life. you know, and all of its travails and eventually die. We we still don't have the widow son of Naim in our midst or Lazarus. What kind of a big deal of a resurrection is that. It's significant. It spared him for a season. So the better resurrection is that great resurrection at the end, I believe, in the context, showing that there will be a time that would be better than Lazarus and the widow's son. And I direct your attention to a couple of passages of scripture. I'll just read this one from John 5, but then we'll go to Luke 20. John 5, I'm just getting a refresher on this promise of the resurrection that you're talking about. Jesus said, Marvel not at this, for the hour is coming. There's one big hour. Boy, we're waiting for that hour. in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice and shall come forth all in the graves. That's a pretty broad all. You can't limit that by any stretch. They that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation. So the better resurrection is the one you and I want to be on, which is the resurrection unto life. Luke 20 is where I'd like you to look at for the moment. Luke 20, verse 35. We read this. Jesus is. refuting some people who don't believe in the resurrection and they don't believe uh that um there's any uh That there's marriage in heaven and if somebody has multiple wives down here because the spouse dies and they have another spouse dies and another and so forth, that uh uh what's it gonna look like in heaven? Jesus is rebutting that. And he gets to this point about the resurrection, and he says this, they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world And the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. So, number one, there's no marriage in heaven. All the wives are going, woo-woo! And um that's a dumb joke. Uh anyway, uh neither can they die anymore, for they are equal unto the angels and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. So there you find that there's a greater resurrection in view. You're equal to angels. The widowed son of Nahan didn't come back Angelic with wings. He wasn't one that could die again. So I think in the context, that's what the better resurrection is, not one until I hear. to a to get a form of deliverance that way on this side of eternity, but rather the better resurrection, no matter what men may do here, I'm going to glory. I'll be with Jesus. I will see him So that's I think a uh I'm I'm comfortable with with that that that that approach to it. I think the context does it well. Well, then we look at the devil's dozen. How many of you have heard of a baker's dozen? You know what a baker's dozen is? It's thirteen, right? It's not twelve biscuits, it's thirteen. It's not twelve donuts, it's thirteen. Well today there is no baker's dozen. You get you get Biden's dozen, which is six, right? You don't get the full amount. I buy a bag of potatoes, it's ridiculous. I can lift it up with my pinky, it's so bright. Used to get a ten-pound sack of potatoes, you had something. But I'm digressing. The devil's got his dozen. He's got fifteen torture methods. Fifteen ones. And you read about them in verses 36 through 38. And they're horrible. Just look at that list. Cruel mockings, scourgings, bonds, thrown in prison It it's just horrible. Stoned, sawn asunder, tempted, slain with the sword. Yeah, I think about imprisonment. Uh some of you I'm sure remember that old classic movie Ben Hur And one of the scenes in Ben Hur is when Judah Ben Hur's um dear sister. um is falsely accused of trying to scare the Roman legionnaire that's going down the street and scaring his horses and so she's thrown into prison and she's pretty much forgotten about along with her mother. And then many, many, many, many, many years later, when he goes to rescue her, they've been sitting there rotting in that cell for so long that they'd become leprous And then they he did rescue them from the prison, but then they spent some time in the leper colony. I won't give you the spoiler alert for the rest of the movie. You may want to go back and see it. It was a really good movie. I just appreciate it so much Sawn Asunder, that's a, there's an oral tradition that says, or a religious tradition, I shouldn't call it an oral tradition, that this is referring to the prophet Isaiah, who was sawn asunder. Uh I I I can't validate that, but there are some there there is some tradition that indicates that's how he met his demise. Um And that was during a time when Israel and Judah would have been scattered to the four winds. And so Isaiah had his scribe writing things down and but just didn't make it in there, perhaps. Um, we know God didn't want it in there, so it's not there. Tempted, uh, slain with the sword. They're wandering in a sheepskin and a goatskin. You know, that's not exactly the most comfortable piece of garment on. You and I were able to pick out our clothing If you're always in that same raggedy outfit, you know it it does it does get old, it's not as warm in the wintertime, not as cool in the summer. Yeah, offers the bare minimum of shelter uh your your skin starts to get into a very pathetic state, uh wandering in a desert. Notice these different settings, deserts I know a little bit about deserts. I lived in Southern California. It's a coastal desert. If you're up against the coast, it's nice, kind of like Lebanon and Israel. But if you move inland some, then the the ugliness of the deserts come to pass. It's very, very hot during the day, everybody knows this, but what may not be known well is that it gets extremely cold at night. There's no clouds or trees or branches to keep the heat in. It all just radiates off very, very quickly And it becomes frigidly cold, frigidly cold at night. You have great, great, great temperature strains in the deserts. Wandering in mountains. Mountains are slippery, they tend to be wet, lots of rocks, underbrush, uh nothing's smooth. Uh you know, water's not at the top of a mountain unless you happen to be near where a spring is. And dens and caves, you know, dens and caves are not nicely carved out with even floors. They're damp, probably lots of bats. And on and on and on. So let me ask you this. Consider what it would be like to endure one of these trials You're thrust into these things. You know, there's nothing new under the sun, right? The devil's done this in the past I'm kind of thinking he's not going to change his playbook. These options are still available to him. Which among these to you would be the worst to endure? Which would you absolutely not want to have happen to you? about it. Being sawn in half sounds really nasty. Yeah. Especially if they take their time at it. Yeah I think the most fearful thing is facing it and failing and not being willing to say there's a better rest of it. Yeah, not it not accepting what is the um my word. Not accepting deliverance I'm c I'm trying to find. That being put in that position and Failing. Yeah, whichever trial it is that might really push me over the edge where you deny. And you see about these forced confessions some of these Muslims who take over jungles and cities and villages in Africa and in parts of Egypt and they force the Christians there to confess Allah because the poor young people there it it's just too much torment. They can't I can't handle it. One one other thing. Um I don't see the difference between being beheaded by a Muslim and being so misunder. It's the same same activity. Well it would take longer to go through a body. Well yeah, it would be a good neck. But but but still it to Vince's point. Mm-hmm. Satan's still using the same bag of tools. I'm kind of dipping our toes in this ugly cauldron, this seething pot that none of us like to even look at, and we frankly just like to shut the door on it. Jeffrey, which would you choose? From this devil's dozen lists of torments, which would you choose to have done to you? The one that'll get it over with the fastest uh Hopefully they hit the storm Yeah, it it's a hard hard choice. Lisa, you're shaking it. Oh yeah. The sword, slain with the sword, just get it over and done with. I don't know, I'm kind of mocking, mock me, mock me all day long. Make fun of me. Cruel mockings. But you know Am I serious? I'm talking to myself a bit here. Am I ashamed to hand out a track because somebody may mock me? I mean mockings really can stop mouths pretty quick. Mockings in our culture is like, oh well don't do that, you'll get scoffed at, you know, you'll be made looking you'll be made into a fool. Devil knows what can shut our mouths. We can sound bold here in our midst, you know. Which one? Canceled is the mocking of today. Canceled? Cancel culture. Yeah being canceled today is the form of mocking. Just shut yeah, just just you just be quiet over there. Let's just shut you down. easy for me at least to look at this list as something historical and forget how many of the early teachers in the world are are going through all of these things and much more varied and harsh things. Have losing their homes, losing their families, having to escape, nearly their lives, having nowhere to go, no way to live, living in the desert. I was reading an article just a couple of days ago of a couple of villages in Africa that were targeted by the Muslims and they were specifically targeting the Christian husbands. So they went through and they basically wiped out all the adult men and then came back to burn the village and all the women The children had to leave deserts. They had to go to the most isolated desert spots they could, and they were just living in little straw huts and had absolutely nothing for the families. And that's that's just the end from the last two Yeah, prayers are needed for these saints. You know, these things are very real. Now I don't want to leave you there You know, this section ends on a dark note, and it's kind of discouraging. It's it's neat to hear these tremendous stories of of of Moses leading a whole people out and and thrashing and Tearing down Egypt in the process and Joshua going in and conquering just by walking around and blowing a trumpet and Daniel, you know, all of his great deliverances We rejoice in those, and we learn from it that our God is able to deliver. There is no question that He is able to deliver. But we're in a section here that ends on a dark note where we don't find God delivering at that point in time and at that juncture in their life. And so I begin to question this a bit. You know, why would God, who is so sovereign, do this? Is he, as our brother wrote through email, hanging us out to dry? Any ideas? Why would God, as it were, allow heaven to be brass at the prayers, as I'm sure these Christian women in this Nigerian village were praying, it was Nigeria Penny or someplace. That's a very common area where there's a lot of persecution. If not there it's uh some Muslim-racked country in Africa, why would God not hear their prayers to strengthen them, to deliver them? I think he lets us to decide to o to get uh he lets us get out of the way first. He lets us take care of the problem. Okay, so God helps him who helps himself. Okay. So he didn't for these women. They prayed and it didn't work. So why would God do that? It didn't work. Their husbands got killed I agree we ought to try all means that we have available to ourselves first, but sometimes even those fail. Human means fail and praying to God fails. Sometimes that in fact really does happen. A brother or sister gets struck with a terminal illness. And we pray. It's a big source of prayers in our Wednesday prayer lists. And sometimes God just doesn't answer that right away. It's not his way. It wasn't yeah, it wasn't his way, it wasn't his will for that moment. But there's a different kind of uh prosperity that occurs, there's a different kind of treasure that can be set that has nothing to do with this world here, which even those that suffer through these things can can rejoice in and still partake in and even bring more glory to the Lord in their sufferings um with being able to give up the things of this world. You're heading down the path that I'm starting to transition to, and that's a good good segue into it, and that is at some point there's got to be a click in the mind of the believer that says, you know what? I've had it with this place anyway. This world is not my home. It is no friend to grace. It is not here to help me in the Christian sojourn. Jesus says, if they do these things in the green, what will they do in the dry? This is As it were, par for the courts. You know, God's so sovereign. Why doesn't He rescue these women? It's horrible to hear that a whole village loses all the husbands, all the men in there. That's just a horrible thing. Why would God do such a thing Well why does why does God allow some women to get into a horrible marriage? It was a deceitful uh uh uh start The whole thing was deception. Some women are forced into it. You know, thirteen-year-olds forced to marry Muslim men. Why are they forced into these things? Why does God allow that? Well, I can tell you that only God ultimately knows why But he is no novice at being a father to his children, and he is no novice at governing the universe. We must remember God in fact has the power to heal. Ask Hezekiah He prayed to the Lord in a later stage of life. God dialed the clock back 15 degrees, gave him 15 more years of his life. That's wonderful. God has that power. We know he has the power to deliver We can ask Daniel. Daniel saw God's miraculous deliverance. He slept with lions. He slept with the putty tats. Their mouths were shut. It's amazing. They were hungry too. They got angels that shut it. Don't shoot tarot in that mouth. God can deliver. Our God can deliver, and He has delivered. We know He has the power to resurrect. Ask Lazarus. Ask the widow at Nain. She saw her son. There's a a casket going down the street. He has the power to deliver. Well, for some reason he's not. And that reason might be that these torturous trials have to be moving to some divine purpose unique to each of us. Maybe, just maybe, he's making you a little less satisfied with the things of this world. Maybe just maybe he's slowing you down from getting too comfortable and settling down in Sodom. I reckon that the suffering of this seventh time are not revealed. It's a very good cross-reference in Romans 818. And I believe as we sojourn through this life That the trials come a little bit. God steps back a little bit. And then we start to panic and sweat and do what we can and realize, no, this is not working. You've got to trust in him. And boom, there's a deliverance He gives sustainment. And you go a little further. And then there's a little bigger trial. A little bigger trial. Oh, we suffer again Oh, we're struggling and we're asking and we're praying and we're beseeching, and it takes longer, and we're now we're digging in the scriptures more, and we're looking, and we're we're availing ourselves of our brothers and sisters, and God delivers But at some point, there's going to be a trial that hits you unto death, and the answer will be no, you're going to die. My question is, are you going to be ready at that time? The immature Christian might say, this is not real. I'm going to throw in the towel. I'm going to give up the faith. That's not the time you need to throw in the towel. This is at the very end. So God is exercising you He's exercising you. Because before you make that ultimate crossing of the Jordan River, God will prepare you. How does anybody get prepared for anything in life? Trial runs. Engineers make what? Prototypes Fail fast. Figure out ways that it fails and strengthen it again so it can face the next bigger challenge so it can fail and strengthen it so it can keep going Because someday you will die. That's the ultimate trial you'll face. And how it occurs is painful and ugly. And we would all like to just simply go to sleep and pass away But that's frankly rare for the Christian, I think. I could be wrong. But I want to get to this next phrase. And it's in verse 38. It's a parenthetical phrase, and it really is a telling comment. And you'll look at it. It says in this devil's. dozen these fifteen horrible things. I count fifteen, depends on how you count it, but I'll put it somewhere above twelve for sure. It says, of whom the world was not worthy The world was not worthy. Though it's in parentheses, I think it's the most encouraging part of this entire dark portion. It's like a brilliant jewel just lit by the sun in a little black Carbon stone setting is this black backdrop, but there's this bright shining jewel that stands out, of whom the world itself was not worthy. Not worthy. The world's not worthy to have you around. Oh, that's a condemnation to them. God's elect are purchased at an extremely high cost, the very blood of the Son of God Himself. Folks, this world is so sick. Their minds are so twisted. Their understanding is so darkened Their lusts are so uncontrolled. Their madness is unstoppable, except for the grace of God and his gracious hand of restraint. without any ability to learn on the part of the world, even from a godly example right in front of them They are the seed of the evil one. They are the seed of the devil. And we indeed do not wrestle against flesh and blood. They are just useful idiots in the hands of the devil. These individuals of whom I just described are not worthy to have such trophies of grace in their midst. They're not worthy to have it. Turn now with me to 1 John 3 and verse 2. And in my remaining few minutes here, I want to take us through some verses to really footstop this point. Where it says, Of whom the world is not worthy. 1 John 3. 2 says this, beloved. Oh, I like that introductory phrase, beloved. You are beloved of the Lord. You are his beloved. Now, not tomorrow, not yesterday, but right now, are we the sons of God? Oh, glory be to God. Bless my soul. Can I really say that? Son and a daughter of God. And it does not yet appear what we shall be. were undercover, were captured in a veil of flesh But we know, you've got to know this, you've got to embrace this, you can't let go of this, that when he shall appear, we shall be like Him. Didn't we read earlier that would be like unto angels and can't die? Has anybody read of the death of an angel? Has anybody read where a man wrestled with an angel and hurt him? Jacob tried The angel just touched his hip and threw it out of joint. No, men can't kill angels. Not happening. For we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath his hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure. You know, turn to Isaiah 57. Again, there's there's nothing new under the sun And if Isaiah in fact did die, in the means that some have ascribed, that he was sawn asunder. Isaiah 57, listen to what the prophet, under inspiration, God speaking through him, writes in the first five verses of Isaiah 57. He says, the righteous perisheth. And no man lays it to heart. A Christian died, doesn't make the news, doesn't make the headlines I'm sick and tired of reading headlines of famous Hollywood who and so-and-so's that make the front page of the news. This famous person died. This maker of wonderful purses and shoes died A Christian died. Why don't you report that? The light of truth that gave us hope and a standard of righteousness and declared unto us the teachings of God Oh my, woe unto us, we've lost a witness, another faithful witness in this world. The false prophet dies, they talk about that. Corrupt people die. Oh well heaven's having a good time laughing now. Oh no it's not. It may be laughing, but it's not with him, it's against him. The righteous perisheth, and no man lays it to heart, and merciful men, merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come. Maybe, just maybe, God is answering your prayers of deliverance because he's taking you away from a far greater evil to come. Just as God allowed Methuselah to die just before the doors were shut in the ark. He shall enter into peace, referring to the righteous man. They shall rest in their bed, the righteous plural, each one walking in his uprightness. But here's the contrast Draw near hither, ye sons of the sorcerer, sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the whore, against whom do you sport yourself Against whom make you a wide mouth and draw out the tongue? How dare you even lift up your tongue against the righteous, of whom the world is not worthy. Are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood, inflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slaying the children in the valleys under the cliffs of the rock? That happened to the Waldensians. They would go up to those mountain villages and grab them and throw them off the cliffs, and down they would fall And God says that this world was not worthy to have such trophies of grace in their midst. Christian, don't you dare for a moment doubt your God is for you. He can deliver and will deliver. And it may be that your best deliverance will be the grave itself. Because then you enter into glory. Then you enter into a better resurrection, one that no man can take away. Then your time of suffering is over. You don't deal with this nonsense anymore. A brief moment of pain is over. It's gone And by condemning the saints, the world condemns themselves. Where did I get this strange analogy about the heavy car sliding around on ice? We'll turn to Psalm 73. Why would I come up with a silly analogy as a heavy car sliding around on ice? In Psalm 73. The whole psalm is What a mature Christian would think about, and there's another good psalm as well, our brother in Arizona shared with me. It was one in uh uh Psalm 13, How Long Will You Forget Me, O Lord. It was really a good reference to it. But in Psalm 73, I'm sure you're very familiar with this, where he's complaining about all that is benefited to the wicked and the ungodly. And then in verse 18 Verse 16, it says, When I thought to know this, how all the wicked are getting seemingly get away. Have you ever thought about that? Why are these people getting away with that? They're getting away with everything. Just stop that Just I'm telling you right now, don't even bother saying that anymore. They're not. They're not. They're not getting away with anything. It's even worse than you can imagine. Because we read here, until I went into the sanctuary of God, then understood I therein. Surely thou didst set them, them the wicked, them who prosper in this world, them who condemn and mock Christians, those who horribly treat the saints of God. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. They're in a big, fat, heavy car going up and down on a hilly, slick, icy road And they're just going to slide straight into hell with nothing to stop them. They're going straight down. Thou castest them down into destruction. How they're brought into desolation is in a moment they're utterly consumed with terrors. God doesn't want the slightest thought of repentance or faith to enter into their mind. You want this world? You want to treat my children in an evil way? You know, one of my channels I watch on YouTube is Active Self-Protection, former pastor. He talks about lessons of self-defense, and one of his rules is wait your turn, take your turn. If you're in a self-defense encounter situation, some guy comes into your shop, he's got a firearm, uh oh, he's taking the initiative. What am I supposed to do? Wait your turn When he turns away and he's not paying attention, he's not looking, he has no idea what's about to happen, that's when you can draw your firearm and take your shot. Because hits stop battles And this is exactly what God's doing. He's going to set them in a slippery place. But saints, the cure to a slippery place is friction And maybe God's just adding a little friction in your life to keep you from a slippery slope. What is friction? Difficulties. Trials. Hard thing. You put chains on a tire, does it go down smooth down the road? No, but you're not slipping. Because it keeps you dependent. Because human nature likes to get comfortable and forget the things of God. And so maybe God sends a little friction so that we don't slide too. So that's where I got the analogy from, and I hope you remember it that maybe God's just given you a little friction at the moment to keep you a little closer to Him, because otherwise we forget all about Him Pastor, could you close us in prayer? Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that you uh your angel does indeed camp ground belt and fear him to deliver them. And uh Father the our definition of deliverance doesn't often match yours. And uh Father we thank you Lord that uh You do keep back thy servant from presumptuous sin. You you you protect us from that which we would wander into. And uh where we we think of Balaam's donkey that could see the danger and was falling down under him and he smote the donkey. He was angry, he was angry at the providence that God provided for his protection. And uh Lord, how often we're guilty of the same where uh we see our trials as negatives rather than realizing that you are positive in them, that you are working for our good and our benefit. Lord, help us to learn these lessons, Lord, without having to face hard trials. We thank you for the teaching of the day. Lord, may we not be forgetful hearers May we not look into the perfect law of liberty and and uh forget what matter of men we are. But Lord may your light, may your word always shine light deeply into our souls And may you uh teach us that the entrance of thy word giveth light. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.