Open in your Bibles with me this morning. The book of Judges and the sixteenth chapter. And I'm going to read verses 18 through 21. If I cough some this morning, please forgive me. For some reason my allergies have Going crazy this morning. I used to only have fall I used to have no allergies and then fall allergies and now I've got them spring, fall, anytime you can think of. Judges chapter 18, or 16, pardon me, and I'll begin with verse 18 in this chapter. And I've got the wrong page in front of me. Excuse me. I'm glad I didn't start reading without looking again. Judges chapter sixteen and verse eighteen. And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart. She sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her and brought money in their hand. And she made him sleep upon her knees And she called for a man. And she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head. And she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep and said, I will go out as at other times before and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him. But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza. And bound him with fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. Let us pray. Gracious Father, as we approach thy word this morning, may you richly bless it to our hearts Father, I believe without any doubt that this is the message that you would have preached this morning. Blessed to thy people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It is often a strange path by which sermons come about. I spent Monday and Tuesday working on a totally different message. And I told Brother Vince that along about Wednesday I had to shift gears because I just knew that I wasn't working on the message the Lord would have. I had read probably two months ago in a devotional book about that phrase, sleeping on Delilah's knees. And it was presented as a as a warning to God's people, again, sleeping on Delilah's knees. And that phrase is just come back and come back. And so I, Wednesday morning, turn to Judges 13 through 16. And thought, well, maybe that's where I should be this week. And when I went into my folder of notes, I have what I call a seed file, which is a s series of sermon sketches, sermon outlines that I've scribbled down through the years, and some of them are many, many years old. I came across the outline that I'm preaching this morning. Sometime in 2021-2022, I wrote the outline that we'll come to this morning. And so God's word is alive and fresh, and it is the pastor's responsibility to preach, and yet you know that week after week I asked for your prayers That the Lord will direct and guide. And so I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the life of Samson, but just kind of hit the highlights and then consider the consequences of sleeping on Delilah's knees and how did he get there? How Did he end up sleeping on Delilah's knees? Because by way of introduction, we find that Samson was greatly blessed to the Lord. And if you turn back to chapter 13, we find that his mother was barren. His mother could not have children. I'm sure that his mother and his father Manoah had Tried to conceive for many years they desired children, but she was barren. She could not have children. Her womb was closed In chapter three and verse five, and the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, Behold now thou art barren, and bearest not but thou shalt conceive and bear a son. Now therefore, beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing. For lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son. No razor shall come on his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb And he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. Folks, this is a miracle. This is something that cannot happen without the hand of God. His barren mother became pregnant from his father, Manoah. That alone is a great blessing. Jeremiah gives us a clear example when God said, Before I formed thee the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nations. And yet, folks, the spiritual b birth of every believer is just the same. Just as Samson was elect of God before birth, and Jeremiah was elect of God before birth, God declares to the believers today. We are chosen in him before the foundation of the world, according as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ unto himself. This man Samson was born of miraculous circumstances, his barren mother. Conceived a child. But not only did he have the blessing of that miraculous birth, he was not born virgin-born, don't misunderstand me, he was born of his father Manoah, but his what mother who was barren had a child. But he had parents that were concerned to raise him right. I talked with some of you that did not grow up in Christian homes, uh that did not know what it was to have Christian children. I was blessed to grow up in a Christian home. My wife was blessed to grow up in a Christian home. We were where we were taught from a very young age, from birth, to know and love Jesus Christ and to seek him while they may be found. But here we find in verse eight of this of chapter 13. Then Manoah entreated the Lord And said, This is his father Manoah. Then Manoah entreated the Lord and said, O Lord, let the man of God which disappear uh which did you sin come again unto us And teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born. Here before he's born, his father is saying, Lord, teach us what we should do. And I I believe the next time we have a baby baptism, I'll probably preach from this passage. Lord, teach us what we should do. His father was very concerned that this child yet unborn Should be taught in the right way. And then again in verse 12, and Manoah said, Now let thy word come to pass. How shall we order this child? And how shall we do unto him? His parents were very concerned that they raise Samson in the right way. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he's old, he shall not depart from it. Let thine heart retain my words and keep my commandments and live. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. So not only was Samson born of miraculous circumstances and had parents that loved the Lord, but again by way of introduction, in his early life, he was greatly used of God. Chapter 13, verse 25, and the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zor and Eshtal. We find in chapter 14, verse 6, that he the Spirit of the Lord comes on him and he kills the lion. We find in chapter 14, verse 19, that the Spirit of the Lord comes on him and he kills 30 Philistines and takes away their spoil. We find in uh Chapter 14 verse chapter 15 verses 4 through 6. I'll go ahead and read those. And Samson Vizis 15 verse 4 And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes and took firebrands and turned tail to tail and put the firebrands in the midst between the two tails and he Uh when he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into the standing corn of the Philistines and burned up both the stocks and also the standing corn with the vineyards and olives. And the Philistines said, Who had done this? And they answered, Samson, the son of the son-in-law of the Temanite. He caught three hundred foxes. We have a trapper in our midst. Catching one fox is a big thing, but Samson caught these foxes by hand. He's not using traps. He had to be fast enough to run down a fox And he had to be smart enough to out fox, the fox. You know, a fox is a pretty wildly animal. They live all around us, and yet how often do you see a fox? And Samson didn't spend a month catching foxes. He went out one day and caught these foxes. This is quite a man. He's he's doing miraculous things. And then we find also, still by way of introduction, in chapter 15, verses 14 through 16, the Spirit of the Lord comes mightily on him again. And he kills a thousand men with the jawbone of an ass. He doesn't have a weapon, he doesn't have a sword, but here's the jawbone of a of a donkey, and he picks it up and starts hitting people over the head with it and kills a thousand men. We find also that Samson enjoyed great answer to prayer and provision. We only find two times that Samson prayed, and both times his prayers are kind of selfish. But in uh fifteen, verses eighteen and nineteen, he's so thirsty, he prays, and God clollows out a spot in the jawbone of the ass, and he drinks from it enough to refresh him. You ever ever see the jawbone of an animal? There's not much there, but he's refreshed. And we find in 1520, 15 verse 20, and he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines 20 years. So this is a pretty impressive fellow we're talking about. Born of miraculous circumstances, raised in a Christian home, and greatly used of God as a young man. But that's all introduction. How does such a man end up sleeping on Delilah's lap? Well, first of all, I would have you to see But Samson fell from the office to which God had put him. Samson failed through self-indulgence. Through failure to discipline and regulate his flesh. Look at sixteen and verse one. Then Samson, then went Samson to Gaza, and saw there and harlot and went in unto her. This is the judge of Israel. This is the one born of miraculous circumstances. This is the one raised in a Christian home. This is the one upon whom the Spirit of God has come mightily, and he's done great things through the power of God. But he was self-indulgent. And then verse 4 of chapter 16. And it came to pass afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek. whose name was Delilah. Solomon warned us in Proverbs 6, verse 26, For by means of a whorish woman a man is bought, brought to a piece of bread And the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. Can a man take fire into his bosom, and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned? David said, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. And yet David fell into the same trap. The first reason That Samson failed so miserably is he was self-indulgent. He failed to discipline the flesh, and the warning signs were there All these women that Samson involved himself with were unbelievers. In fact, his father warned him with the woman of Timnath, Are there no women among the children of Israel? And of course, we know from the context there that Samson was doing what God was instructing him to do, as other Lord, the passage tells us. But he was entangling himself with those that were not of the household of faith. Those that were not the people of God. And not only were these women that he was entangling himself with, not of the children of Israel, not of the believers, they were not women of good character. He's going to harlots. He's going to Delilah. And these women substituted ultimatums for love. Look what it says there in chapter 14, verse 16. And Samson's wife wept before him and said, Thou dost but hate me and lovest me not. Thou hast put forth a riddle under the children of my people and hast not told me. You don't love me. If you loved me, you would do this. If you love me, that's not love. That's ultimatums. True love doesn't give ultimatums And then again Delilah in chapter 16, verse 15. And she said, How canst thou say I love thee when thine heart is not with me? You don't love me, look what you're doing. If you love me, you would do this. But 1 Corinthians 13 tells us what love is. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not itself, charity vaulteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never fails Now, obviously, Samson did not have that passage of Scripture. It wasn't yet written. But Samson had been grown up, had been raised up in an environment of righteousness. But Satan Failed to regulate the flesh. Paul warned young Timothy, flee also, youthful lust. But follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace. And Paul himself said, But I keep my body under and bring it into subjection. Lest by any man's means, when I have preached to others, I myself have been a castaway. Now, the example we have here of self-indulgence is that of the flesh Now folks, there's a lot of other ways that Christians destroy their usability for God by self-indulgence. By the things they read, by the things they watch, by the things they listen to, by the things they love, by the things they use for whatever purpose. For the priorities that they put ahead of righteousness, for the things that become to them gods through self-indulgence Samson ended up sleeping on Delilah's lap. But secondly Samson ended up on Delilah's lap because he failed because of self-assurance. He failed because of self-assurance. He failed because of self-indulgence. And he failed because of self-assurance. I can handle this. I am too strong to be taken by that sin. If we look at the context there in Judges 16 and verse 6 and 7, and Delilah said unto him, Or Deli said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherein thou mightest be bound to afflict thee. Samson, you idiot! She told you what she's going to do. She told you exactly what she was about. She wasn't you didn't get tricked here, Samson. You were warned. But self-assurance. I can handle this. Oh, I can go to that place. And their sin will not affect me. I can associate with these people and maintain my testimony. I am a strong believer. These things aren't going to bother me, and yet the admonition of Scripture is let him that thinketh that he stand, take heed lest he fall. Peter thought he could warm himself at the enemy's fire, but he denied the Lord. Samson was worn by Delilah. And then Samson said in verse 7, Samson said to them, Well, if you buy me the green widths, then I shall be as weak as any other man. And then again in verse 11, if you bind me fast with new ropes that were never occupied, then I shall be as weak as any man. He's playing around. With the gift that God has given him. He's confident in his own ability to put himself in a place of temptation There was a man many years ago that my father used to use as an example that made it his ministry to go to brothels to evangelize. And he ended up in sin. You see, here Samson was so self-assured But he thought he could start to play with the Lila. And so what do you do next? Well he says, well, if you take my hair And you weave my hair into the beam with a pin, then I'll be as weak as any other man. He's getting closer and closer, and he's showing absolute disrespect For the great gift that God has given him. Until finally he says, Well, I've been a Nazarite from birth. If you shave off my head, I'll be as weak as any other man And so Samson fell because of self-indulgence. Samson fell because of self-assurance. But thirdly, Samson fell because of self-reliance. Folks, the arm of flesh will fail you. Look at verse twenty. This is chapter sixteen. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson And he awoke out of a sleep and said, I will go out as at other times and shake myself And he wished not that the Lord was departed from him. God had left him, and he didn't even know it. Folks, that should make you tremble. That should make you fear For Samson is not relying on the power of God, he's relying on the power of Satan to such an extent that when the Lord departed from him, he didn't even know it. I am strong. I will go out of the Low Times. I will shake myself. I will shake off the sleepiness and carry away the gates of the city. I will wake and break the green vines. I will rise up and break the new ropes. I can kill a thousand Philistines with the jawbone of an ass. I am mighty Samson. I don't need God. The old devotional song says, I need thee every hour. Samson Who knew better began to rely on himself rather than to rely on God. And he ended up sleeping on Delilah's lap In 2 Chronicles chapter 32, we find the battle charge that Hezekiah, Hezekiah is a great name, isn't it We find the battle charge that Hezekiah gave to Judah when the king of Assyria was coming in, and Hezekiah says, Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor display dismayed for the king of Assyria. for all the the multitude that is with him, for they are more with us than with him. The children of Israel were outnumbered But Hezekiah says, there's more on our side than there are with him. Why? Because of the army of the Lord was on his side. And verse 8 With him is the arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us And see, when Samson killed a thousand Philistines with the jawbone of an ass, they weren't weaklings They were mighty men. They were some of the best soldiers the Philistines had. But all they had was the armor flesh. All Samson had was a jawbone's ass and the arm of the Lord. to swing the jawbone for the ass. And so Samson began to trust in himself And Joshua 23, verse 10, one of you shall chase a thousand for the Lord your God. He it is that fighteth for you. That's exactly, you know, there is Joshua prophesying of exactly what Gideon did. One of you shall chase a thousand, for the Lord our God, he it is that fighteth with you But Joshua continued, Take good heed thereunto therefore unto yourselves that ye love the Lord your God. One of you shall chase a thousand, but take good heed. Stick to the Lord. Samson failed because of self-indulgence, because of self-assurance, because of self-reliance And then fourthly, Samson fell because of self-satisfaction. He became proud. He was satisfied with his own work. Look what I've done. In fact, he's he sings his little ditty, his little song, that heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of an ass, I have slain a thousand men. You know what? You never in any part of the story of Samson find him giving the Lord of God. You don't find him saying, through the power of God, I can break new ropes. You don't find him saying, Through the power of God, with the jawbone of an ass, I can slay a thousand men. He just talks about what he has done and what he has accomplished. He became self-satisfied. He became prideful. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. When pride cometh, then cometh shame. Your hair gets shaved off, Samson. Then cometh shame, for with the lowly is wisdom. But not only did Samson in his pride think he was stronger than anybody else, he thought he was smarter than anybody else. And that's the whole point of the riddle. He puts out this riddle. And if you can if you can answer my riddle, I'll give you th thirty changes of gar of clothes. And if you can't can't if I I you can't answer my riddle, then you give me thirty changes of clothes. I'm smarter than you. I'm not just stronger than you are. I am smarter than you are too. He became self-satisfied. But what is the attitude of the believer? Oh wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? When you've done all these things, say we are but unprofitable servants. We've done that which was our duty. Samson became filled with pride, and it led him to sleeping on Delilah's lap. Samson failed because of self-indulgence, self-assurance, self-reliance, self-satisfaction, or self-pride. Samson failed because of self-ishness. It was all about Samson. It was all about him. In fact, when he drinks the water out of the jawbone of the ass, he he's he's praying for himself. He's talking about himself. But look what the passage says. Go back to chapter 13 and verse 5 For lo, chapter 13, verse 5, for lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come on his head. For the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hands of the Philistines. Why had God allowed Samson to be born of miraculous circumstances? Why had God given Samson parents that loved the Lord? Why did God use Samson step by step to through his young life? Because Samson's purpose in life was to deliver Israel from the Philistines. It wasn't about Samson. It was about the work of the Lord. But Samson became selfish. He saw a woman of Timnath and he says to his father, She pleases me well. I want her. You see, it's all about what I can get and what I can do. It's all about Samson. In verse 7 of chapter 13, for this child, last phrase, for this child shall be a Nazarite to God. Not a Nazirite to his parents, not a Nazirite to Israel, not a Nazirite to Samson But a Nazarite to God. Remember Esther, when Esther was told by her uncle Mordecai that If you don't do something, we're all going to be killed. For wicked Haman has a decree with the king's stamp to destroy us. And in chapter 14, chapter 4, verse 14, the last part of the verse of Esther, Mordecaia says, For who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? Esther, you don't know, but did God put you in that exalted position just for this time? Samson, what are you doing? Why do you have this strength? Why are you there, Samson? Because your job is to begin to deliver Israel, my people whom I love, my people who I call the apple of mine eye. My people through whom I will send my son to be the Messiah. When Israel was in Egypt, God heard their cry from the taskmasters. But he became selfish. And Esther replied there in Esther 4 that it's not lawful for me to go into the king without being invited. But in verse 16, Esther says, Go gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days and nights or days. And I also and my maidens will fast likewise, and I will go into the king which is not according to the law, and if I perish, I perish Esther said, this isn't lawful for me to do. Vashtai before me was executed for not keeping the king's law. But I will do what God has put before me to do, and if I perish, I perish. It wasn't about Esther, it was about God's people. It wasn't about Samson, it was about God's people. Samson failed because of his self-indulgence. He couldn't control his own flesh. He failed because of his self-assurance. He thought he had it m mastered. He ried he couldn't fail. He failed because of his self-reliance And his pride is self-satisfaction. And he fell because of his selfishness. You see, folks, God has not put us here on the world, in the world, for ourselves. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth from moth and rust up corrupt, but lay up for yourselves treasures on the earth. It's not about me. It's about the task that God has given me to do. But folks, as we conclude, Samson is one more thing. Samson found redemption in self-abasement. Look with me at the end of chapter 16 And I'm going to read a longer passage. I deliberately did not read the longer passages at the introduction. But starting in verse 21 of chapter 16 of Judges. But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza and bound him with fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. Howbeit the hairs of his head began to grow again after he was shaven. Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer great sacrifices unto Dagon, their God, and to rejoice. For they said our God hath delivered Samson, our enemy, into our hands. Here they're worshiping Dagon and Giving Dagon credit for their victory over Samson had nothing to do with Dagon. It had everything to do with the fact that the Lord had departed from Samson. Verse 24, and the people saw him, or when the people saw him, they praised their God, for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands our enemy and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us. And it came to pass when their hearts were merry. That they said, call for Samson, that he may make sport for us. And they called for Samson out of the prison house, and he made for them sport. And they set him betwixt between the pillars. And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me, I pray thee, to feel the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them. Now the house was full of men and women, and the lords of the Philistines were there, and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women that beheld while Samson made sport And Samson called unto the Lord and said, Oh Lord, remember me. You see, when Samson saw the harlot and was tempted to go into her, he should have prayed, O Lord, remember me. When Samson saw the woman of Timnath, he should have prayed, Oh Lord, remember me. When Samson saw Delilah, He should have prayed, Oh Lord, remember me, for I'm tempted. Oh Lord, there is a danger there. There is a great harm to my soul. There is a potential to destroy it all Samson found restoration in self-abasement, but it was at the last day of his life. All the blessings that God had intended. The deliverance from the Philistines that God ordained through Samson never came to fruition. Verse 28, and Samson called unto the Lord. This is only the second prayer we find with Samson. We never find Samson preaching a sermon. We never signed Samson giving doctrine. We do not find anything in Samson really that's commendable And Samson called unto the Lord and said, O Lord, God, remember me. I pray thee and strengthen me. I pray thee only this once, O God. that I may be avenged at once or that I may be at once avenged of my the Phil sorry and uh that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. He's still not praying that you may be glorified. He's only praying, Lord, give me revenge for my eyes. And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left. And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines, and he bowed himself with all his might, and the house fell upon the Lords and upon all the people that were therein So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life. Then his brethren, and all the house of his fathers, came down, and took him, and brought him And buried him between Zorah and Estal in the burying place of Manoah his father, and he judged Israel twenty years. Folks, this is what happens when a chosen servant of God, when one with great blessings becomes self-indulgent. When one with great blessings becomes self-assured, self-reliant, when one with great blessings becomes selfish. They're doomed to fail. These things are written for our admonition that we might be warned. And so may God give us grace, as Paul said, to keep my body under and bring it into subjection. Thus when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castorite. History remembers Samson. General Motors named a truck back in the teens, the Samson. And there was also a a farm tractor back before World War I. It was called a Samson. We think of Samson for his great strength. The world thinks of Samson for his great strength. But Samson's strength was in the Lord, and when the Lord departed, he didn't even know. Let us stand for prayer. We read your word follow as the testimonies of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. Bless your word to us this morning. Father, may we take great heed. of the temptations of the flesh, how easy it is for us to stray away from thee. And Lord, for your blessings to be removed. And we have so quenched the Spirit that we don't even know when He's going. Bless your word to our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.