The book of Hebrews and we have finished off our two faith lessons from the very end of life with Jacob's death wish, his final request, as well as that of Joseph's, the premier of Egypt. Today, we're on the other end of the spectrum. We read in Hebrews 11, 23, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. So today's faith lesson is about who? Who is it about? Well Moses is boy. Is it Moses? You would think Moses, because it says by faith Moses. That's everything we've been reading, but he's an infant So that'd be some mighty impressive faith for an infant to figure out how to hide himself. No, it's actually not about Moses. It's about Moses' parents. But it's strange the way it's phrased in here by faith Moses when he was born was hid three months of his parents because they and so the action focuses on the parents You know, when I first glanced at it as well, looking ahead at what I would be teaching, I said, oh, we're going to have a big series on Moses. Nope. We're not talking about Moses today at all. But that is going to get us into our discussion, because I frankly went through this lesson And the first day I told Angela, I gotta put this down, I can't deal with it anymore, it's hurting my stomach, it's churning me up. I just can't handle this. I've never had a study hurt me And the reason it was hurting me is what was going through my mind. And I'm going to share that with you, and we're going to turn it to a discussion question. Imagine your parents. Just imagine, Jelly. I know this is a stretch, but just imagine. Maybe some of you have been parents. Or are. You have a three-year-old and a newborn. In my text, in my email, I said two-year-old. Just we'll give them an upgrade, make him three. Unfortunately, you find yourself under a hostile government. And they have mandated infanticide. They will kill all male infants. Females will leave them alone. You know, it's kind of the reverse in China, isn't it? But they encourage it for the parents to do that, not the government. So there's different ways of committing it where they can wash their hands of it. But just imagine you're in this scenario. You live in a very small house, and we'll talk about that house in a second because your bulletin has a picture in it. And here's the kicker, your slaves. Slaves don't have privacy. Slaves don't have control over their schedule. Slaves are not allowed to take family leave. You're a slave. How would you hide your newborn child for three months? Somebody tell me. How would you do that? You can't hide them in sand and there's more sand than anything else. You know, burying them in sand is not a bad idea, but unfortunately they don't uh survive. They they don't tolerate that too well. How do you hide a newborn as a slave woman in a society that Just not particularly friendly to you. How do how does that happen? Somebody tell me. Any ideas? There's no wrong ideas here, folks, because I'm struggling to figure it out myself. Mom, any ideas? What would you do? Whatever's available. Well let's talk about what's available to them. In your bulletin there's a diagram, there's a picture Because I was really trying to get into this. How could they pull this off? Archaeologically, when people dig and they come into a settlement, they can tell with pretty high reliability whether it's a Semitic, that's the term for Hebrews, whether it is a Semitic house or Canaanite. The Semitic houses were known as a four-room house. They typically had three or four room. It was also known as a pilloried courtyard. Basically it was the U-shaped house where the middle part was a wide open courtyard. That would be the largest part, and you would enter through the courtyard, along with the animals. The rooms to the left and right, as soon as you enter in, typically would serve as stables. Your animals would feed out in the fields at night, and you would bring them in for safety into your house. That little ledge there, by the way, that you walk over in houses today is called a threshold because that is the part of the house that would keep the threshing in, the threshing floor, all the matting, so as the animals did their business there, you had a place to haul it out, but you wouldn't want your threshing disappearing every time people came and goes. So you had a thresh a threshold right there that held it back. So we still carry over some of these concepts into our modern building vernacular. At the very back was a long room, which would be your dining room area, a place to entertain guests. And if you were wealthy enough you'd have a upper room which would be typically where you would sleep. Folks, that's a small house. How do you hide an infant? Back in the Pantha Tummy. You do which? Back in the tummy. Stick 'em back in. Well, uh that that's that's out of the box thinking, or maybe that's in the box thinking, I'm not sure which. Uh But that's an interesting thought. Now you ladies know what pregnancy is like. If you haven't experienced it, you've certainly seen it with others. Is there anything you could do during the months leading up to the delivery? Because you know the king's command already. Joe, you had your hand up? Well there were there were quite a few infants born in the Nazi concentration camps And they would they would try to bind the newborn to them and cover them with clothes and hide them as long as possible, rarely successful. But uh they there were a few children that were raised in concentration camps that were never Now. That's a fascinating piece of history. I hadn't thought about that. Yeah, so the mother could strap the child to them. That would make it easier for her when she goes out to the field. She's got to work in the field She she's got a job. She doesn't have a choice. Hey, I'm pregnant. I need about five months off. Not happening. And for the most part the women didn't live more than what, a year? I I remember reading or I would say So that wouldn't help anyway, then the baby's still by himself. Very difficult. What are you giving the baby cries? I mean these cry loud a lot. You know. Yeah. What do you do? I think it does say that Moses was a very nice child It says he was exceeding fair. Yeah, we'll explore that in a moment. But it was his child his crying is what attracted Pharaoh's daughter. And the crying attracted Pharaoh's daughter. Yeah, interesting. They had their babies and then as soon as they could it they burden their back. I thought you were some woman. Sure, some women in the Chinese culture they'd be working in the field, squat down, bomb, have the child, do what they gotta do to clean up, throw it in the back, and keep going. I mean I don't know how that happens. That's sturdy stuff. But unfortunately if you're a Hebrew slave With a taskmaster nearby. You know, this just hurts. I know you all want to get off of this, but I want to spend a little more time thinking about it because this is the faith lesson. By faith His parents hid him for three months. How does faith come into your solution to hide this child? Because this is kind of being held up as an example that we should all go, oh yeah, I see. It's a trans provision, I suppose uh Yeah, danger wouldn't camp it. That's right. Not understand it. No way you can hide the baby if it's impossible. Certainly you'd have to bring God into the plan because she's a mother. She's known what children do. They they cry. And how do you hide it? And it does say at one point, uh, as we will get uh to in Exodus, that when she could no longer hide him. So there came a point when she couldn't We'll explore this a little bit more as we get into it today. As I mentioned, we're talking really not today about Moses, but about his parents. The name of his parents is probably not familiar to you, but it is given in Scripture. Now it's not given in the historical account back in Exodus But we do read about it in the book of Numbers, and it's there in your bulletin. It's in Numbers 26. It talks about the families of the Levites. Moses was a Levite. And it says, Kohath begat Amram. The name of Amram's wife was Jacobed. These are the parents, Amram and Jacobed. Jacobez the woman, the daughter of Levi whom her mother bare to Levi in Egypt, and she bare unto Amran Aaron and Moses and Miriam, their sister. So let's make some observations from that, and then we get to the next head twister that I encountered. I tell you, when you go a little slow and you start asking questions, you you you you do come across some interesting factoids and things you haven't observed before Okay, Moses' parents were Levites. We covered that, number one. Number two, Moses' father was Amram and his mother was Jacobed. That seems pretty clear. Number three, we have children listed here. Who do we have first? Who's the first child? Aaron? Who's next? Moses. Who's next? Miriam. Alright, so that makes Moses the middle child, right? Or was he the middle child? So we go back to Exodus 2. We go back to Exodus chapter 2, and if you will, you can follow with me in your Bible. Because we have an interesting conundrum. In Exodus 2, we have the account that Hebrews is pointing to. It's very short. It's only a few verses. And in Exodus 2, beginning in verse 1, we find this there went a man of a house of Levi, took to wife a daughter of Levi, and the woman conceived and bare a son. So we know who this is, right? Amram, Jacobed, the son is Moses. And when she saw him that he was a goodly child, says a goodly child, we have in Hebrews it says that he was a proper child. Acts gives some more information about him as well. We'll touch on that in just a moment. When she saw that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink. And his sister stood afar off to wit, to witness, to know what would be done to him. Well, who was that sister? Yeah, it would have to be Miriam. And so that would mean that and also We know from when Aaron and Moses stood before Pharaoh, I had to get those names straight in my head. That Aaron was 83 and Moses was 80 when they stood before Pharaoh. So that's an indication we have about the age difference between the two boys. So Aaron would have been three years old And Moses would have been zero when he was laid at the river's bank. Now his sister, who stood nearby, we only have record of three children being born This sister is not a four-year-old because she has enough sense to uh to pay attention. She can Reason, she can observe. She's a big older sister, so she cares about what's going on with the family. Based on this information, it appears that Miriam was probably the firstborn Now, why would numbers not list her first? Why doesn't only list why is it listed in a different order? A girl could not be the firstborn. She was the first in order, but she was not legally the firstborn. She would not be listed as the firstborn whenever you find the counting of the patriarchs and their descendants, the males were always listed first. That was the name that would carry through. That was how you attract the lineage for Ju Jewish purposes it was extremely important to list the males first. But Miriam, as this firstborn, does matter. She's very valuable. She's a very crucial part of this whole plan right here. And I'm thinking mom probably factored that in. Seriously now, you just have a newborn, newborn grandbaby. Can you imagine What the conditions must be, and this is what tears up my stomach, that you and your husband conspire and say, you know, the best thing we can do for this child's survival So I'm going to make a basket. I'm going to put a bunch of slop in it. Hope it floats. We're going to stick it in a crocodile and hippo-infested river and hope he survives. Seriously? This is your best option? This is your best option I mean, what drives you to that kind of a decision? And yet it's held out here in Hebrews 11, they did it by faith. By faith. Faith in what? Faith that just some miracle would happen? Faith that just, I don't know, Lord, let's just give it to you. I have no clue. You'll figure it out. They had some reasoning and some planning. I mean they could have just set the baby by the side of the river. Why the ark? Why all this pl there's meticulous planning involved. They did have a plan And yet they were bringing God into the plan. So I find it interesting that Miriam, and this is your first fill in the blank, she's the big sister. Right? She is the older sister. She's got to be. There's only three children. She's not listed first because technically she's not a Hebrew firstborn. She's not going to receive the the promises. She would indirectly because she would be part of that covenant household. But it also means that Pharaoh's decree likely came after the birth of Aaron. There was no panic when it came to Aaron's birth, this business of a king arising who didn't know Joseph, who began to count the Hebrews, said, Oh, there are too many of them, let's get rid of them before they overthrow us, and began a mass killing plan of genocide to terminate many of these Hebrews, Aaron, there was no issue there. So he came in between that three-year time Now, what is the remarkable faith that our passage in Hebrews is pointing out? We've kind of cleared through some of the basics, the stress that they were under. circumstances of hiding the child, the age of the family, all the players, the time that mom's got to think about things. Yeah, how do you hide an infant? Listen to that He's in the house and he's already hollering his head off. I mean, how do you hide an infant? Right? This is a tough problem. Thank you, uh uh Hezekiah. That's perfect timing. Alright, so the evidence as remarkable faith is this, hiding an infant for three months in spite of Pharaoh's horrific decree. And we're directed to consider the faith of the parents, not the infant Moses. And so let's start with the king's command. Your next fill-in-the-blank, parental distress. What was this distress that they were under? Well, there's two components You know, um, they knew, it says, quote, the king's command, kings in Egypt were known as Pharaoh In other parts of the Canaanite world, if you read the term Abimelech, Abimelech also means king. There weren't a bunch of guys that commonly had the name Abimelech, but it's Abbi Father Melech, righteous, righteousness, father of righteousness. That would be the king's title in the ancient world, at least in the area that the Bible was writing about Well, if you're in Exodus, you can look at verses chapter 1 of Exodus, and we're going to look at 7 through 14, because we're going to see what this king's command is. We read in Exodus 1 and verse 7, it says, the children of Israel were fruitful. and increased abundantly and multiplied. You know, things were going really good. It was great in Egypt. They had a great Man in charge who was supporting them, they were the best of the land. They could really just rapidly multiply. The future was bright. And they waxed exceeding mighty, and the land was filled with them. Now there arose up a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph. He could have read the records. He didn't care to know Joseph. And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply and it come to pass. That when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies and fight against us. And so get them up out of this land. Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens, and they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pitham and Ramses. They made them forced laborers. They were building cities. Hint, wasn't with logs. It's bricks. Lots of bricks. Brick houses. A lot of heavy work. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew, and they, the Egyptians, were grieved because of the children of Israel. And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, and in mortar and in brick. In all manner of service in the field, all their service wherein they made them serve was with rigor. Well, it's bad enough to have to make your own bricks. It's bad enough. To have to labor in a hot Egyptian field. Let me ask you. I want to kind of get us into this story here. Imagine you're a Hebrew slave in Egypt. Describe each hour of your day. Give me a day in the life of an Egyptian slave. I'll start with this fresh young college graduate here with great imagination. That would pretty much summarize it. How does the work through the day go? Yes, indeed it would be hard labor. Of course on the field uh dragging sacks of peanuts or cotton or whatever the crops is But it says it made them serve with rigor. If you're a when you're a boss someday and you want to make sure your employees know that you're boss, you want to make their life miserable, how would you go about doing that? I'm not recommending you do this, but just imagine for a moment that you want to make your employees' lives miserable. Uh constant labor. No breaks, no rest, just keep going. No breaks, no labor? One of my favorite words on the job site when The folks were building the edition for my mom is rapido, rapido, no bueno, no bueno. This is not good. You're going too slow. Move it, move it, move it. Right That's serving with rigor. Get going. None of this break business. Now, this is the midst in which these parents are operating. They probably didn't get a full eight hours of sleep at night. I can't imagine that kind of distress that is on these parents. I'm amazed she brought the child a full term, number one, didn't have a miscarriage in the field from the heat. And number two, that he was a goodly child. This is a beautiful child that came out. And we will explore that more. Let's continue to see the distress that they were under. This is just their working environment And then we read in 15 and 16 the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives of the which the name of the one was Shifra, the name of the other was Puah, and he said, When you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women And see them upon the stools, birthing stool. If it be a son, then ye shall kill him. But if it be a daughter, then shall ye she live. But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive. Verse 22. When that didn't work, when he saw that the midwives were too compassionate to try to kill an infant. They said in 22, we read this. And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, every son that is born meaning Hebrew son, ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter shall ye save alive. All it took was the sight of a baby child, and any Egyptian who was a law-abiding Egyptian, I was just following the laws, could snatch that child out of their mother's arms and chuck them right into the river. Doesn't this just turn your stomach It's just hard to imagine. It's gut-wrenching. It's horrific. Huh. Imagine, ladies, you're a pregnant Hebrew woman. In your first trimester, Pharaoh makes this horrific decree. What is going through your mind? Mom, you're three months pregnant. The king has just said, anybody sees a child A Mexican baby child, a boy no less, goes right on the Trinity River. No, no. Yeah, every bit of you is recoiling. No, no. You're looking for a way out. And as a faithful Jewish woman, she's obviously turning to God. Oh Lord, give me understanding. Oh Lord. Help this frail, feeble servant. Oh Lord, help. She is desperately trying to figure out how to save this child. You know, faith will be tested And yet when your trial is the most severe in your life, no one understand that's probably when there's the most that's at stake. This very account that we have here, though very real, very gut-wrenching, very historically accurate, these things did happen. In fact Edward Roll in his book on Exodus, I mentioned it a few weeks ago, as an account where The archaeologists had found a certain layer in the Egyptian findings in their various tells. That's what they call their archaeological digs. Many, many, many infants. Many infants buried. A lot of infants. This was a real problem. This is a real thing that it occurred. And This is prototypical though. God is using this as an early warning. Because when the Lord Jesus was born, what kind of distress was Joseph and Mary under? with the destruction of all the infants that came about, weeping and wailing in Rhema, a voice of bitter lamentation. This was all under the age of two. Two's a mighty old kid. You've kind of gotten time to know him. You've already invested some time in them. There's a bright future. All were slain. And of course This was depicted again in the book of Revelation. There appeared another wonder in heaven. Behold, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his head His tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast into the earth, and the dragon, this is the part I'm thinking about, the dragon stood before the woman. which was ready to be delivered for to devour her child as soon as it was born. The devil knows what's at stake All this woman knows is, my life is hard, I've got a beautiful child, how do I protect this? She has no idea how much gospel is at stake at that moment. He has no idea that two-thirds of this book you and I have in our hands called the Bible would be penned by that child. She has no idea that this is the child past her death when he's eighty years old is going to deliver all of the nation of Israel out into the promised land. She has no idea who this is. So folks, when you find yourself in an extreme trial, that just seems astronomically large, something bigger than life, something that's just gut-wrenching, that's tearing you apart. If you're a Christian, you just better know the devil's behind this. This is not an average sized affliction. This is something demonic. God Almighty is putting you, counting you faithful to carry out this test. He's putting you into that trial on purpose. So there was a lot at stake here. She didn't know it. But I think that's a great faith lesson number one we get out of that. When the going gets the toughest, it could very well be because the best is at stake. All right We then consider the parental faith, the faith of the parents, because this is really what I was trying to get at. You know, they surely considered that if no males were preserved, then there would be an end and a ruin of all true religion. They would surely know that. If the males are destroyed from their people, then there would be no heritage. They the tribes would be cut out. The blessings that Jacob gave, the promises to the seed to come, all of that would be cut off. They knew that this was a direct threat on the covenantal promise of God. And so they were reflecting on that. Hey, God has made a promise. He's going to be a God to me and to thy seed after thee. And that He's going to give us this land of Canaan. Well, we ain't going to get to Canaan if we don't have any males. We're not going to have any tribes and different family clans if we don't have any males. They're saying no. God has promised us we're going to do something, no matter how bizarre the plan, our God is going to help. We're going to do the best we can, but there's only so much we can do. Now our text says that in Exodus, his parents hid Moses for three months because they saw. He was a proper child. Now, Acts, I mentioned earlier, gives a little more insight. There's three different passages that talk about this. Hebrews, Exodus, the original account. Fair child, goodly child. Acts says this, Stephen in his recounting of history, does a marvelous job. He says this in Acts 7. 18. He speaks about the time till another king arose. This would be the time we're reading about, the same, dealt subtly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers. It was an evil treatment. Probably why you struggle with answering that, Joey, because you just don't think of evil treatment. That's a good thing. I'm okay with that. so that they cast out their young children to the end that they might not live. In the which time Moses was born and was exceeding fair He was exceeding fair. It literally means fair to God or fair of God. Now, um there's a certain child I I I have in mind as I think and and I I Love all the the babies of the brethren and their grandchildren. I d I truly do. Um but the most unusual child I uh infant I have ever seen, you know exactly what I'm talking about, I have ever seen, is Whitaker I have never seen such an unusually he's bright, he's strong, he's goodly sized. I mean for a I'm surprised bath squeezed out a child that size is huge. He's just he's he's focuses. You can just tell there is something there early in this child. Now there's fast developers and slow developers, I get that, but as an infant As an a i if I'm gonna pick out an infant and I know I'm wrong doing this, please brother, don't don't blog me later and walk away. Or my children, Gabriel, or you know, Angela's gonna run me, read me the riot act. Gabriel was great. They're all wonderful. I absolutely love it. But uh just something that just strikes you Uh i it that that that that one infant truly comes to mind. I'm not trying to get off the uh uh a wire brushing from the sermon today either. But it says he was exceeding fair and nourished up in his father's house three months. Ah, he was in the house for three months. Well, that gives us another little insight. I like the concept that maybe the baby was wrapped. as mom's working in the field so that she could obviously feed the child while she was there. Maybe the plan went something like this. And Angela I talked about this. I'm trying to figure out how would we pull this off? Uh, you know, I thought I'd just make up a cover story to your taskmasters who saw you pregnant one day and not the next. Oh, I had a miscarriage. Well, that would be lying. I'm good with that. Yep, I don't know. Oh happened maybe. Yep, nope, just didn't that's not gonna work Um wear loose clothing, so it's evident that you're not pregnant. I mean if the king's command came, boy, we don't want to let anybody know that I'm pregnant, so wear a lot of loose clothing. We had one security guard at work. We never she all of a sudden wasn't there. And she was out for six months. We're like, whatever happened to Barbara? Oh she had a child. She had a child? She was pregnant? We had no idea Some women carry it all inside. It smashes their organs, but other women it just sticks right out. So she could wear loose clothing to hide it. Somehow Keep Miriam at home to feed the baby or let one of the midwives breastfeed the child while you're away, maybe. Um dress Moses up as a girl while working in the field since perhaps he was exceeding fair. Maybe he had Kurt cute curly goldilocks and maybe he had pretty blue eyes and he just looked very looked like a girl. Just dressing up like a girl. Train the baby to sleep during the day and get fed at night. I mean it says nourished up in the father's house. I I don't know how you explain it. If it fails once, you're you're gone But at some point, whatever the plan is, it's beginning to break down. So what does their plan have? Now remember they didn't go to Walmart and buy this basket. Some of you ladies know how to make baskets for gifts, right? She constructed it, made it of bulrushes, slimed it within and without, just like Noah built the ark to be waterproof, keeping it out of the water, out of the mosquitoes, in a basket, lining it, cloth, whatever, shading it And then she sets it in the flag of the reeds in a particular location. Why in the reeds? Why would she put it in the reeds? You know what reeds are, right? These things grow up. Why would she put it there Any thoughts? Camouflage. Camouflage? That's a good reason. Why else would you put it in the reeds? Wouldn't drift with current. Yeah, rivers tend to flow. And so if you just throw him anywhere in the river, well he could be out in the Mediterranean before you know it. Shady. Re the reeds are a little shadier. And it's near the shore. Keeps it near the shore. So it was strategically placed, but it happened to be strategically placed. Where Pharaoh's daughter also happened to come on a regular basis to take her bath. She just happened to be through there And mom's hoping that Pharaoh's daughter will likewise see what a beautiful baby that she likewise will be struck with his beauty and with his attraction, because they saw he was a goodly child. She's going to put him in his best clothes She's going to wash his hair up perfectly. She's going to go through extra effort because she wants Pharaoh's daughter to accept this baby. You people have had children in school where uh they come across a stray cat somewhere and they bring it home and what do they say? Mom, can we keep it? That's what uh Antar did. That's what Angela did. That's what my sister did with some cats and some chickens. That's I mean a snake. Hey, can we keep it? I mean they find everything. And so this That's probably what mom's thinking. Maybe she'll see it and she'll have compassion. And so she brings God in on this plan. She knows that there's got to be a seed because there's a promise of God that there will be a nation, and that nation will have males in it, and this goodly one is not to be killed. And so that is her faith. She saw the promises of God. She's going to do everything she can and think through this in her current situation and do what she can to make it succeed. Does the Lord give us those ideas in the first place? Right? As she prayed, as she Well, what am I going to do? And you know it says the Lord, that that idea ever came to her. I mean, I wouldn't have thought Sarah's thought really this is who I'm gonna get to raise my baby under these circumstances, but obviously God was needing her. Which is amazing the way he does that Absolutely. God gave her those ideas. And furthermore, her plan included Miriam. She brought the whole family into play. Hey, got an older daughter. You can go stand out there and be watching. You be watching over your brother and pray the Lord will give you wisdom as to what to do and what to say and report back to me. And so lo and behold, what a great question Shall I get uh a Hebrew wife to raise this child for you? And then my favorite verse in all the scripture for child raising, uh the uh When she says, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women that she may nurse the child for thee? Pharaoh's daughter said, Go. The maid went and called the child's mother. Here's my favorite child raising verse. Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. I'm being facetious in all this, but what a marvelous outcome. What a phenomenal outcome. And you see how God is also going to repay Pharaoh's ways back upon his head. He's going to end up raising in his own household the very one that will be used as the instrument against him later on. Nothing's too hard for our God. It's an amazing, amazing point. His parents did what they could. They trusted that God alone, who controls the hearts would make Pharaoh's daughter's heart soft and tender, if that was the intent of her plan. Because it couldn't have been just some random bank of reeds they should have they obviously would have noticed where the Pharaoh's daughter would come. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turneth it whithersoever he will. My last point is this. You know, Christian parents, in a way, do the same thing Because out of a religious concern for the good of their children, to preserve them not only from them who would destroy their lives, but also from those who would corrupt their minds. That's the battle today as well. Well, that's what we have for the faith of Amram and Jacobed. I hope that was helpful to you. It was a real head twister to me. Yeah, I never thought I would have to back away from the study for a season because it was turning my stomach too much. But wow, praise God that her plan worked. You closed us in that Gracious Father, Lord we thank you that the counsels of the counsels of the Lord stand forever. And uh though wicked men may try to thwart your plans, your plans are never thwarted. And Lord, you use the wrath of men to please you. And all the attempts that Satan has brought about to try to destroy the church, to try to destroy the Word of God. to try to thwart the plan of salvation have all been turned by God into the greatest of blessings. As Joseph said, you meant this to me to me for evil, but God meant it for good. And Lord, we thank you that today we as believers can claim those same promises. Lord, the the greatest trials of our lives Given God's perfect timing, we'll be turned to great blessings according to your will. And we may not see the blessings immediately, Lord, but they will come. And so Father, we thank you for these truths. Thank you for the teaching we're receiving. Pray the Lord, now you'll prepare our heart for the service and worship. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.