Turn to Amos chapter eight. Sometimes we do not understand how the responsive reading ties in with the message. And uh I was just happy to note that chapter eight talked about all the terrible things that were befalling Israel. And it it talked about how the end was coming upon the people in verse 2 and and how there was howlings and death in the street, tossing out bodies everywhere. So many dead bodies they didn't know what to do with them. uh something like our COVID nineteen of late. And then it talks about uh how there'd be an economic disaster, how a bushel of wheat wouldn't really be a bushel of wheat. Anybody here going to buy a gallon of bleach lately? It's not really a gallon anymore, is it? And then how the shekel would not be really be worth a shekel and our silver dollar's not really worth a silver dollar today. You know, even our paper money's not worth the paper it's printed on it So it was economic disaster going on here. And then as he went on further he said that uh the land was gonna tremble at what was going on and And uh your feasts will be turned in the morning and your songs and the lamentations. I can't help but think about the the music we hear today, the rap music and the rock music And it all sounds like they're crying and screaming and it's it's their music's been turned into lamentations. And then in verse eleven, uh as it is our text verse today The day shall come that I will send a famine in the land. Well, we've already been reading these verses about famine of food and famine of righteousness and all kinds of famine. He said, but I'm going to send one that's worse than the famine of the land. I'm the sin with a famine, not just of bread, not just of thirst for water, but a famine of the hearing of the words of the Lord. That's worse than the old the previous ten verses The worst thing that God could ever do would be to send you a famine of the hearing of the word. And it got so bad, he says in verse 12, they shall run to and fro and seek the word of the Lord and shall not find it. So we can flee to Holland today and then we won't find it there either as our founding fathers did. So it's uh this is the situation I believe we're in today. I want to look at as we talk about the Reformation And then the counter reformation and then our praying for it, as Pastor Joe mentioned, that God might for a third time send us not awoke people, but a great awakening. See how they they just changed everything. You know the the the the rainbow has been made into a some sort of gay or transvestite symbol, but that was a symbol of covenant with God. And now the the the great awakening they caught up being woke today and they just and born again. They just destroy the meaning of everything And uh so anyway, I want to look at that this morning as we begin and we're looking at that verse, uh just pre basically staying with verse eleven. A famine in the land of the hearing of the word. Today we have already brought ourselves to a point where uh we're out there worrying about a baby formula, where we're gonna get it. And it's locked up now in glass cages and the rest in the uh stores if you go in and see it and you gotta get someone who's got a key. And so we're worrying about baby formulas, a shortage of baby formula. And we also go now we find shelves empty. I walk in the vegetable and fruit areas of the co grocery stores. Empty shelves, totally empty shelves. I walked in one day, think someone in front of me grabbed the last quart of milk. We're starting to see a famine, not only a baby for me, but a food and a finances shortage of money. And the shortage of jobs, the shortage of fuel. So it's a shortage of food, baby format, finances, and fuel, diesel fuel we're here, was running out just a just a few days in this country. But there's something worse. A famine of the hearing of the word of God. And that's probably the last thing everybody no one's talking about that on the news, are they? You know, that that's the worst one and that's the only one that's not getting any attention. So we're we're gonna give it attention today. Hearing God's Word in the Land. Prior to 1455, just before the Reformation kicked in, in 1455, there was a famine of the Word in the land. There weren't any Bibles In 1455, if you had a Bible, then you wouldn't have one yourself. If you knew where to find one, and you probably didn't, but if you could find it, they were handwritten. And they were handwritten in Latin, or they were handwritten in Greek, or in Hebrew. So you couldn't read it. In fact, most people back then couldn't read anyway because there weren't any books to read. About the only thing there was to read would be the scrolls in Latin, Hebrew or Greek. So a lot of people just didn't read at all, including the Catholic priests. I don't know if you knew that, but most of the Catholic priests couldn't read. They couldn't even read the Latin or the Hebrew. That's how pathetic it was. There was really a famine in the land of the hearing of the word because it couldn't be read to you. You couldn't read it for yourself. And even the Catholic Church was filled with priests and bishops who couldn't read it to you and then couldn't break it down into German or English or whatever. So we had a fam in the land in fourteen fifty five until in the Province of God, Johannes Gutenberg, he perfected the movable type and print. And with that he was able to produce 180 Bibles in just a very short period of time, 180 Bibles. Whereas I take a whole year to write hand, write a Bible out from the Old Testament, Genesis, Revelation. A whole year. He could produce 180 Bibles, Old and New Testament, quickly, and he did Unfortunately, those Bibles were scarfed up by the monasteries and some of the precious churches that were out there, and the people still didn't see them. But at least now some of the priests did see the Bible for the first time in their life. Can you imagine that? You go to a Catholic church, you have a priest up there, a bishop might come sometime, and he had never seen a Bible And so he stands for he just tells you stories of how the priests fight and struggle against Satan and how the priests and they fight against the demons and fallen angels. And you get all these crazy stories. None of them are the Bible. Because they had never read the Bible. Now they had 180 Bibles in monasteries and churches across the land. Still a scarcity, a surings, a fam, the word in the land. But things were about to get much, much better. And the promise of God, we'd got in the printing press, and Bibles were starting to be printed, still only in Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. Well at least there was something out there. But also in the Providence of God, about that same time, in the 1483, not too long after the printable print Gutenberg Press was made, five men were born Five men were born, not in the same city, not in the same neighborhood, not in the same county, not in the same country, but five men were born who were destined to be Catholic priests And these five men were all born within about nine years of each other. So if one of them was in eleventh grade, the last one was in the second grade. I mean they were all born within a nine year period of time, right after the printing press was Starting to print out Bibles. And their names are Luther from Germany, Switney from Switzerland, Bishop Latimer and Tyndale from England. Kelvin came along shortly after that in France But they're all born at the same time. In John Knox shortly after that. In the promise of God we got Bibles being printed. In the promise of God, we got men who are gonna read them and preach them. Never happened before. So you you want to see God's head and what really uh felt how the Reformation really came about. Bibles had to be present. Men who had re know how to read them and translate them into German as as Luther did, in the English as Tyndall did, uh in the French as Calvin did, and so forth If you have the Geneva Bible, that was one of the Bibles that came out of the printing press in the early time of translating them. And so we have all of this. And it was really the birth of the Reformation Once we had Bibles and men that read them and men that began to preach them. And these first five men, they didn't live nearby. Like I said, it was Germany, it was Switzerland, it was Uh down in Italy, another man uh uh was down there the guy got a hold of his heart at about the same time. Same day. So they were all in these different countries, but in a matter of weeks As they got their own Bibles and started translating in a matter of weeks, we had something spreading all across Europe And it was spreading like wildfire. There was no telegram, there was no iPhone, there was no radio, there was no TV, there was no internet, and yet what was moving all of us, it was the Spirit of God Striking the hearts of men in different countries at the exact same time. There'll be a man up in Switzerland, there'd be a man over in in France somewhere, or there'd be a man in Italy somewhere And the Pope, because he had all his his people out there, they'd come back and reforge him all the time, and they would say, there's a Lutheran in England named named Tyndale. And they go back and they start bringing charges against Tyndale. They say, You're a Lutheran. And Tyndale said, What's a Lutheran? He had never heard of Luther. And the same thing would happen in France with Calvin. You're a Lutheran. He said, What's a Lutheran? And and then the same thing would happen up in in uh uh uh uh the other countries like Switzerland, Swinglick. You're a Luther, what's a Luther? I don't want a Luther But you know what these men did They said, man, I gotta find out what a Lutheran is. I'm not sure if it's a dirty word. I don't know if it's a swear word. I don't know if it's a bad thing or not. If it's a bad thing, I don't wanna be a Lutheran, you know. They didn't know There was no telegraphs and telephones. But yet it was all spreading throughout all these countries, all at the same time in the province of God, without a telegram or a phone or internet or anything else. Today we've got all of that. And how much of the word of God you see on your iPhone. How much of the word of God you hear over the radio or television? You see, that's because the Word of God wasn't as precious as it was then. It's not precious today. People aren't preaching it, they're not teaching it, they're not reading it. They don't recognize you know it's you say oh if I quote a verse God's gonna get so mad at me No he's not He's not gonna recognize that there's a verse in the Bible You just give them a bit of knowledge out of Proverbs or Ecclesiastics or the Psalms, Wow, that's really neat, you know? A lazy man shall not prosper. Yeah, that's true, that's true. You know, you can give all these cra these verses They don't even hear it's about it. You're not going to offend anybody. They don't know it's the Bible anymore. But these five men. who had initially never had contact with one another at all were preaching the same message from the same book. They didn't have an intimate relationship with each other, but they all five had an intimate relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And that made them intimately acquainted eventually when they would meet each other. And most of them would meet each other uh from Tinder will eventually go to Germany. They're gonna meet each other eventually because they want to know who this Luther guy is. And Luther wanted to know who Tyndale was and who Kelvin was and who Knox was. They all want to know it. They their their names start popping up And they found out that the one thing was that they had an intimate relationship with Christ. They had an on-common prayer life. And that was all in the province of God as well. And they began to reclaim the word of God, Christ's Word. And when people heard them preach it and they began to claim it from the Bible, they weren't just reading little stories about Samson and little stories about Moses. It said they preached the word as though they had an unction from the Holy One. And we read in 1 John 2 and 20, that made the difference in the disciples and in the prophets. They had an unction from the Holy One as they spoke the Word of God. And people recognized there was something different from the preaching of Knox and Tyndale and and Bishop Lattimore. By the way, these are all Catholic priests we're talking about here So when we talk about the Reformation and how the Catholic Church put these men to death and burned them at the stakes because they were Lutherans and Baptists and Presbyterians, no, no, no, no. They put to death these men because they were Catholics. They were all Catholics The Catholic Church put Catholics, they burned Catholics at the state. Whole families that were Catholic. Tinder was Catholic when they burned him at the stake. Latimer was Catholic when they burned him at the stake. Swingley was Catholic. In fact he was a chaplain for the Pape for the papacy, he was a chaplain for the Pope's armies And he gets saved and he swings over and becomes a chaplain for the Protestant armies, but he's still a Catholic when he is killed in battle By the very men he led as a cat as they in the Catholic armies as their chaplain, he's killed by the same people when his heart is changed and touched by God They had an unction from the Holy One. They didn't s preach those sloppy sermons by immoral monks and priests who lacked piety and who lacked any knowledge at all the scripture. They preached from the scripture. They prayed with power, these Reformation men. They prayed with power. We're talking about five priests now, these five Catholic priests, but they prayed with power because they had an auction of the Holy One. They were men of God. Preaching the word and still carry the title of Father, Father Luther, Father Tyndale. They still carried it. But their hearts were changed And and we read how they prayed with power and they taught with power and with tenacity and they preached the word with passion and they scolded the scoffers and they kept the hell bound spell bound. They were punctuating their senses and their meshes with Christ, his name, and what he had done for sinners. And the message was repent, not pay penance. Different message. Repent of your sins. Turn away from your sins. Not pay for your sins. as we'll find that it was being preached then. Their their preaching that it was said was so animated in the pulpit, so vigorous in the pulpit, and so animated they let the hearers expect them to split to the pulpit as they banged the point In their message, bang on a they would in fact Luther was known to have shattered his pulpit at one time and others had done the same thing. As they scolded the scalpers and kept the hellbound spellbound and their vigorous and animate preaching left the hearers expect Nepal to be splintered And they expected they thought John Knox could come flying on the pulpit because that's the way he'd be getting so excited his pulpit was lifted way up high. I've been in the church of Andrews. I mean it's up high, it's about twenty foot off the ground. He'd be back there preaching this have to climb up the stairs to get into it. He'd be up there and he'd be getting so s So carried on to his message and his robes be flowed. And he said, and furthermore, he'd say. And they thought you could fly. And the people in the front row would say, back away. They thought you come flying on the pulpit. This is the exuberance they had. They were excited about the Word of God. And they weren't even charismatics. You can be excited about the Word of God and still be solid in your doctrine. This was They were and they taught to repent and not repentance. And they not only told you they were to repent and turn from your sins, but they should repent sooner rather than later. You don't know how much time you got left. I got three pages of notes, so you got a lot of time left here, okay. So go fast. And they were declaring as the people heard these things and the people who loved us so much and they they started taking notes. They heard it heard Knox preaching and heard Tyndale preaching and heard Swinemy Freddy's one guy. And and the and they're they're splintering the pulpit and they're about flying out of the pulpit. And they would just drop repentance, just listening, you know, and couldn't take the notes. They would tremble so much as these men were preaching. And they would say they walked out of there, did not your hand, did not, did not your heart. Just stand in awe. Awe today as you heard Tyndall and Lattimore and Knox and Calvin and Luther. My heart just stood in awe as they expounded from the scripture from the scriptures. The famine. As they stood in awe, Psalm 119, verse 161. Others are reported as standing in awe at the preaching of the word. And during this Reformation, the famine of hearing the word, the famine was fading. As the people listened and read the scriptures themselves, because they're now being printed in their own language, they discovered They would they would they would go through their Bibles, people getting copied or ruined, and they said, I can't find purgatory. Where is that? Oh it's in Maccabees. Oh yeah. Oh here's Maccabees Oh yeah. I don't see it in Maccabees. Oh no, it's not there either. Well where is it? It's in the priest's head. It's in Rome's theology. It's n a number of years after going through an entire Catholic Bible. Yes I did. I have to pay a penance for that one. I read it from Genesis 1 all the way to Revelation and I found Purgatory in Maccabees. In the very bottom, print about font size seven. I'd got a magnifying glass. And it was in a footnote It's not in their Bible. They put it in the footnote of some of the Catholic Bibles. This is where we get the idea of purgatory. Some men are out fighting for uh for the Jews And for the Jewish faith, and they died, and when they were stripped from their bodies for burial, they found they were all wearing idols around the neck. They said, Oh my goodness, they were idolaters. They weren't true believers of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They they were They were worshiping false gods. Well I'll tell you what, because they died for their country, uh let's bury 'em with a good Jewish funeral anyway. And uh and they would they paid money or penance for them to be forgiven. Even though they hadn't hadn't asked for forgiveness, even though they they hadn't, you know, turned their hearts around and and repented, that's all penance and that's how purgatory was was created, started And I've talked to Catholic priests about purgatory. Do we still have to believe in purgatory? And they say, oh no, that's it's not necessary. Would you believe in it? Yeah, maybe. That's what a Catholic priest told me not that long ago. But you don't have to. That's okay if you don't want to believe in it. Are you still selling mass cards? Oh yes, yeah, we sell mass cards. No mascot, I brought two of them with me. Mascards, or what you see sometimes at Christmas, they call them mastery in the funeral home. Some of you here have ever seen a a a mass tree off in the corner of a funeral. Oh you gotta work for next time. And you buy them and here's one here. If the if this is a this is as you make a donation And we promise to pray for your dead loved one for five years. See? And if they pray, if you get enough people praying for five years Maybe ten years. It depends. I asked the priest how many years needs them to pray for you to get out of purgatory. He said it depends on who you are. I said, What if you're the Pope? How long does it take to pray to get the Pope off? Well, we're not sure. I said well the Pope that died ten years ago after thirty thirty days. He was a Pope for thirty days he died Uh how uh when did he get out of purgatory? This was ten years later. He said we don't know if he's out yet. Which which popes are out of purgatory by now, so we can stop praying for them. He said, We don't know which ones are out yet So we just keep on collecting your money because we can't ever tell you your loved one is out of purgatory yet. I got another one here. Now that was only for five years That's a cheap one. Well the expensive ones are leather. They're really nice. And they call them mascards, but these are indulgences. You know, y someone y does something to you and you say, you know, I didn't like that Oh please indulge me just this one time. Yeah, okay, we'll let you go this one time. Well indulgence is asking God to let you go. Just one time for the sin you committed. And well how how do you get an indulgence? We've got to pay for it Okay, well let's see I I stole them at the candy store yesterday and I'll give God five dollars on Sunday. I'll take care of it. Here's your mass card for that indulgence. So you here there's the mass card. This is a good one They promise to pay perpetually forever until you get out. In fact, it's perpetually. So we're going to pray for you even after you get out And it's 500 prayers, 500 masses are being done every day. So you can benefit from the good works of those who are praying for you How many people you know have got good works? No, not one. You know Romans said there's nothing to do with good, no, not one. But apparently they they they know these uh these the Christian school brothers uh from St. Laiselle. They know people who've got good works. I've never met anybody with good works, but but they know there's people like that out there. And so that's that's what they would do Well, Martin Luther was one of them and there was others too. They didn't notice that people weren't coming to confession anymore. Used to come to confession, he talked to priests You'd say, Father, I have sinned. I've I've looked at a woman with lust. Father, I've sinned. I stole a dollar from my mother's purse. And the priest would make you say so many Hail Mary's or so many our fathers. And that was your penance Uh maybe make you crawl on your knees to the end of the church on your way out. That was your penance. Well then they found that there was a way to make this really profitable. You could pay for your penance. So you come here and say, Father, I have sinned, I lie to my father, said not a problem. Where's your indulgence Uh Father, I've sinned. I looked in adultery at a woman. Okay, oh adultery, well I thought you were more. Uh Father, I have sinned. I I I'm uh I've been taking the Lord's name in vain. Oh man, that's it, Toshia. One guy came up and he said to Tetzel, Tetzel's a big indulgence order. He said Father, can I pay for a sin that I just know I'm gonna commit? I haven't done it yet. He said, depends on what the sin is. I'm gonna rob somebody. What do you got? Oh man, I'm not sure that's enough Oh, okay, yeah, that okay. You're gonna rob someone and you and you just can't help yourself. All is forgiven. And Tancell wrote him out of indulgence, all is forgiven, he paid for it That night when Tetzel's coming home with all his money, the guy jumps out and he robs Tetzel. And Tetzel recognizes him. Has them arrested, takes them to court, and the he's out of his plea, and the man says guilty. He says, Well nothing much more to say here. He says, No, no, I got an indulgence from Tetzel. He's already forgiven me for the robbery. Let him go. That's how indulgence works. And a mass card today is the same thing. So Tetsa was doing all of this, though it's not even mentioned in Scripture. In fact he would say, I guess the reason I brought this this morning is He had a little phone mate of saying, the moment the coin into the box did ring, out of purgatory, the soul does fling, and is in heaven. Wow I'd want to side a collection. Paper money. Well you want coin. I guess because it was real silver and stuff back then. God won't indulge our sins for cash That's what Tutsule was preaching and teaching, that you just have to pay cash. You can pay cash for stealing, for adultery, for murder, for Sabbath breaking. Tetzel said, even if you've assaulted the Virgin Mary, there's a there's a indulgence you can pay for that. Now she'd been dead a long time. But he said, had you done that back then and I'd been around, I would have just told you how much you needed to pay God would indulge our sin for cash, so contrary to Scripture that the people during the Reformation were now reading. None can by any means redeem his brother. Whether he's in purgatory, headed for purgatory, you can't redeem it. You cannot redeem your brother, nor give God a ransom for him. That's Psalm 49:7. You can't get a man out of purgatory How how can you get a man out of a place where he isn't there yet? How can you get a man out of a place that doesn't exist anyway? And how can you get a man out of purgatory except you bribe God? Christ saves not cash. That's pretty short and simple. But that could get you hunger, burned in the snake. To say that to Tetzel or to write that to the Pope. Cash doesn't save. Christ saves. We're not redeemed. It's a peep this is from Peter, the first Pope, right? They should listen to the first Pope if he was the first Pope. And my doubts, but say he was the first Pope. First Peter says in one eighteen and nineteen. We were not redeemed with corruptible silver and gold. But with the precious blood of Christ. That's what Peter says. So if we say the Pope, We were not redeemed with precious with silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, the Pope would say in the days of the Reformation, Where'd you ever come up with such an idea like that? Ha from Peter! What do you mean Peter? What did Peter say that? It's right here. I don't read that stuff. They didn't. They didn't By grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. Salvation is a gift of God. You don't pay for a gift. You don't pay for a gift? Salvation is a gift of God. And the Pope said, what are you talking about? If it's a gift of God, I can't collect the indulgences Do you know what that I'm trying to build a St. Peter's Basilica? I need all this money. And I also need some from my Swiss bank account as well, probably. You can't do this to us. You're asking my piggy bank. The Pope's piggy bank? And you're attacking the Pope's piggy bank? Not popular. God couldn't be bribed with gold, nor could the gift of God, eternal life, be purchased That didn't deter Tetzel. This is the stuff he ran into with Luther. This is the stuff he ran into up in Switzerland and everywhere he went preaching this. And there was others like him that were preaching as well. Well there was another uh monk named Samson. He did the same thing. But this is what Tetzel was teaching. In fact, when things were really starting to get tight, Tetzel began to preach that The indulgence you are paying for I love this. Tetzel said repentance of sin wasn't required. You just had to admit that you did the sin. You didn't have to repent of the sin. You could go and do it again tomorrow. You could do it again in an hour. You didn't have to repent of the sin. You just had to pay for the sin. But Psalms 34, 18, that Psalms keep skidding in the way of the foe. Psalm 34 and 18 says, The Lord saveth such as be of a con Contrite heart. Tesla. I'm paying for the stuff. I don't have a contrite heart. You don't have a contrite heart No, I don't have a contrite heart. Well, we can take care of that. More money. Now you don't have to have a contrite heart. And so Luther discovers that people are going to come to confession. Why? Because they're already forgiven For money. Well, that sort of slowed down after all too. You for first you get to pay for it and then you gotta pay for it uh because you don't have a contrite heart, you're not really repentant. What else can we tack on? So then Tetzel and others said, you know something? Not only we I have I got a deal for you You're gonna love this one, he said. Not only you pay for the indulgence, but for a certain amount of indulgence that will take you into certain churches and you can view the relics. Because if you view certain relics, they in themselves, like through osmosis, will give you the body of Christ who will rest within you and upon you the Holy Spirit. the Holy Spirit just by viewing these these relics of old. And they said, Well what have you got? Well he said, uh I know that that you know we're supposed to not be saved by works, but you can be saved by going and looking. That's not really a works. Yes, it is. But you can go and look. So they could they go in the church and and if they go in the church and look at these relics, and in Whittenburg Church where Luther was preaching, they had the hay from the manger. Hey. That's great, isn't it? Hey. Oh, they had the Bernie Bushley. Oh wow. They had the fellows from Gabriel when he came down to visit the Virgin Mary. No man So you know, so they've they've got uh they've got the the they've got the wood and they got the hay and they got the the leaf, but they got the hay wooden stubble, they got it all right here, you know Even though Paul says that your your works are a smelty rash, something about hay, wooden stubble. But you can go and look at the hay-wooden stubble, the thorn from Christ's crown. In fact, i in the Wittenberg Church they had the entire cross that Christ was crucified on. That upset the other Catholic churches who only had parts of the cross. Uh think about it for a second. We got parts of the cross. They got the whole cross. Oh we got parts of it. How can you have parts of it if they got the whole cross People just didn't think about that. Or if the parts of the cross were up in Germany they didn't know that or if parts of the cross were up in France or or Switzerland, maybe they didn't know that the whole cross was already down in Germany. So they they just they just pulled the stuff on the people all the time. They said there was enough wood in all the churches to build Noah's Ark. And there were enough nails from the cross to help build the ark. Or to or to shoe all the all the all the horses of Germany, I think is what they said one time. So it just it just it was just so fraudulent. But but if you saw the relics, you got extra special early release from purgatory And it cost money to see the relics. Two churches and two churches in Germany had the head of John the Baptist. Now think about that. Two churches both have claim they have the head of John the Baptist. Well which one really does? Well I guess you just gotta pay and go and see both of them then. That way you know you've seen it for sure There were 18 bodies of the apostles buried in 12 different churches. So the twelve apostles, their entire bodies were buried in eighteen different churches. How do you know if you've really seen the eighteen? Or twelve yeah, well you gotta go all eighteen of them to make sure you saw the 12, don't you? One had the manger scene One had the swaddling clothes of Christ. One had the chains of Paul. One had the silver coins that paid Judas. One had the spear that pierced Christ's eye. I'd really like to see that, wouldn't you? Do you really want to see the spear that pierced Christ's side? One had the nineteen thousand babies that Herod killed at the time that Christ was born. And that was kept in St. Peter's Basilica. Not the one we have today. St. Peter's Basilica in which the 19,000 dead babies' bodies were kept in was a church, the St. Peter's Basilica that was built and modified up until about sixteen hundred. The one we see over there in Rome today is the new St. Peter's Basilica. And it only has 900 bodies in it. Okay? But that but the early St. Peter's had 19,000 babies that Harry killed. Wouldn't you just love to go look at that? A pile of 19,000 dead babies that Harry killed It's like visiting an abortion clinic. Why would you want to do that? And look at all the dead bodies. But it was a ru they were relics and and you got time out of purgatory for all that. Wow There are oh they had the hair plucked from Jesus' face. I guess you could call that stubble, hay wooden stubble. There's some I can't tell you, because it'd be embarrassing. I don't believe them anyway. But with the St. Peter's Basilica with all these bodies in it, they became a white sepulchre full of dead man's bones. And uncleanliness, didn't they? And that's the way the reformers saw it. Tetzel selling indulgences. Money he said was more effective than the Messiah's precious blood. Is that a heresy or what? When Tetzel was dying, Luther and Tetzel did not get along at all. And when Tetzel was dying for all this blasphemous stuff he did Luther wrote him a letter and pleaded with him one more time to turn his heart towards Christ in the Bible. Wonder if we can do that sometimes with people we don't like and But he did that Viewing the relics. Viewing the relics when faith cometh by hearing, right? It's not viewing anything People say, well if I just if I could just see a miracle, it's not going to get you saved. Well if I could just see a vision of Christ or the angel, it's not going to get you saved. Well if I could just see, if I could just see, no. It's hearing. By hearing, faith cometh, right? Faith cometh by hearing, hearing the Word of God. The reformers preach from the scriptures that the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin. So this what sin is there you've got to pay for? If the blood covers all sin, what do you have to pay for? That's in 1 John 1. 7. This, these messages, the reformers were shrinking, as I said, the Pope's piggy bank. The Gutenberg presses that used to print indulgences were now too busy printing Bibles and the 95 theses that have been nailed in the wall of Wittenberg by Luther And the sermons by Knox and the sermons by Tyndale and Tyndale's New English Bible. The Gutenberg Press got so busy they didn't have time to print the indulgences Mm-hmm. That's when you know that the famine, the land of the hearing the word is fading rapidly When there isn't time to print all these all the but you go on Amazon, look at all the books they got. Can you imagine they're so busy printing Bibles they didn't have time to print these other books? That's when you know the fading of the the famine of the land is really really fading. The reformers were reprimanded for their message against the indulgences. They were commanded and demanded by the popes of their day like Leo Latent to repent from printing Bibles. And men especially repent from printing them in a common language that the people can actually read. The preaching of God's word they preached was superior to the Pope's word. That's blasphemy, they said, to say that the preaching of God's word trumps the Pope's words. That's blasphemy. And to preach that even a poor sinner could be saved. Well, Isaiah 52. 3 said, they shall be redeemed without money That means people who don't have any money. The poor people can be saved. They didn't like hearing that either. William Tyndale of England, he made the Bible more available by printing how many of you got one of these? Or one of these these. We call them pocket Bibles. You know what they used to be called? The smugglers Bible. You didn't want to get caught in England with the Bible. Because if you did, they could burn you at the stake. They could guillotine you, execute you. I've stood in St. Andrews outside of St. Andrew's church where they would cut the head and the hands off of the people caught with Bibles. The Bible carried in their hands and the tongue in her mouth. If they didn't cut the tongue off, they cut the whole head off. And they'd hang 'em on pipes at the main gates going in the city. In Sc So you had to get small Bibles and Tyndale came up with the idea of small print Bibles that you could just put in your pocket or up your sleeve or you know you could hide it under your hat. And everybody said, hey, I got a little pocket edition. Do you know the history of the pocket edition? The reformers came up with the idea so the people wouldn't die If caught with a Bible. Or if you're running away, you could you could throw it in the trash can as you ran away or or throw it in somebody else's yard and they wouldn't catch you with it That's where they came from. Tyndale. The pocket editions. The smuggle or hide them in on ships into different countries. That That pocket Bible and smuggling to the countries got Bishop Lattimore, Catholic Bishop Lattimore, burned at the stake. And also got Tyndale burned at the stake. Lattimore, they they've got him so petrified about how they're gonna torture him, what they're gonna do to him, that Lattimore signs a paper and repents. of carrying the Bibles around and giving out Bibles and preaching the Bible. He repents of it. And then he he can't live with himself and he goes back to him and I repented and he tears the people repent and so before the Catholics. He said, I can't do this. He said then you'll burn tomorrow. Then I'll burn tomorrow. And he did. They put him around the chain of the a stake, put the logs around it and set fire to it, and he began to sing hymns Wasn't in any pain. Began to sing hymns. And as the fire got closer and closer to the body, he said, with the hand We've turned against God and the scriptures went, let it burn first. And he held it over the fire and continued to sing the Psalms. Mm-hmm. Oftentimes they didn't like them singing and preaching the gospel while they were burned at the stake as though they weren't in any pain at all, so they would kill 'em. They'd garret them, strangle them, or shoot them, put a knife through them because they were testing them or cut their tongues out so they couldn't keep preaching while they were dying in the flames instead of howling and screaming and crying out in pain. They were just preaching the gospel. So he remember the Tyndale said, Oh, might my death, might these flames enlighten the eyes of King Henry VIII. Because King Henry VIII was the one that saw it to it. He he'll he said you know the Pope wanted uh Tyndale arrested and he won and burned the stake and in England he was captured and Henry VIII gladly did it And tend there he's burning at the stake and he says, call me in between a psalm he'd been saying, he says, may this fire open the eyes of King Hans. the eighth and three years later. King Henry VIII's heart wasn't opened, but his eyes were opened and he demanded he print Bibles over England. And people got saved. Henry VIII, I don't think he ever did, but he made the printing of the Bibles legal again. And that was the prayer of a dying tend at the cross. Swingley, I said, would die fighting as a chaplain against the Catholic Army. Luther will survive assassination plots and numerous ones. John Knox, a reformed Catholic priest. He wasn't a priest actually. John Knox was a Catholic lawyer who began to preach. And uh he was put on a galley slave as slog time and time again. I don't think I'm gonna go through that story probably won't you know it. But later on Mary, Queen of Scots, she had him uh arrested and threatened that that she would kill him if he preached in the pulpit again. He was not to go back into the pulpit at St. Andrews And she sent down her own personal guard with rifles. And they come marching in the church and they're standing in front of the pulpit. Here comes John Knox. She said if he climbs up in that pulpit and says one word, you shoot And so he's climbing the pulpit up and they load the rifles. He gets in the pulpit and they bring them up, aiming them at his chest and his head, and he begins to preach. And Nox's words that God had given him touched the heart of the soldiers. Well at least it touched the fingers because they couldn't pull the triggers. And he preached his entire message. And it probably had touched their hearts before the fingers, but the finger could not pull. And John Knox completed his message. The Queen was irate, she didn't know what to do. But they never sent soldiers again to kill him in his pulpit in front of his congregation. Oh, where does that leave us today? Well, we know where we are today, as I mentioned. If you read Amos, those first few verses and eight, we see some of the same things happening here Before the purpose-driven church was written, some of you know about that book. Before that book was written, it did teach the book how you could attract a crowd without being spiritual. Tetsu hadn't really learned that. He just coming beating the drums and promising him entertainment and and good music and and uh indulging them with some f ideas and and have some relics or Christian Christeless stories. They would call them Christ stories, but they didn't come out of the Bible. Christeless stories and you would downplay the doctrine And that sounds so much like today. Today we become so tolerant that sin now thrives in our churches. You can be in the pulpits, you can be a transvestite gender, whatever, and be preached in the pulpits, ordained. Today we have in our pulpits, we're so tolerant of sin. The music and the musicians are selected just as carelessly as the ministers. The music and the musicians just as carelessly. And I knew one minister, he He always wanted to be in a rock band, so he's in his church he brought in rock music. They used to sing the psalms. And now he's got a rock band. He plays the drums of the rock band during the service. And they're just the rock band is just rocking the sheep to sleep. Hirelings have stripped the doctrine from the message, but they're in our pulpits. They diminished biblical content. They never would preach sinners in the hands of an angry god or even refer to it by Jonathan Edwards. And today we're so much like what was going on prior to the Reformation here in America and all over the world, that's the sad part. It was said of the Israelites, and we become so much like them, you have set at not all my counsel, Proverbs 125. It was noted in better days in Israel, 1 Samuel 17, 3, the Philistines stood on one mountainside, and the Israelites stood on the other mountainside. Remember from the Battle of Goliath? And there was a valley, a great valley was between them. But there's not much between the saints and the ants today, is there? There's no distinctives. There's nothing really that we can tell. We're following old Israel. Psalm 106 verse 24, it says, who who they they believe not the word. That was thrown at Israel. They believe not the word. And Psalm 78, 56, they've kept not my testimonies. That sounds like us, but that was thrown at Israel. And God says, and yet I have prospered them. That sounds like us in America. We have prospered for decades and centuries, though we've not kept his word, we've not kept his testimonies And Psalm 10615, God said, You don't believe the word, you haven't kept the testimonies, and yet you prospered. Great. God says, Here's your next line. He gave them their request. But he sent leanness into their soul That's where we are this morning. America's had their request. They've had their days, their parties, they've had their prosperity. And now we see things starting to fold and go wonder. And it's because he he gave us a request for he said, lean this into our souls Although the distribution of the scriptures is prevalent today, the media dilutes the importance of the scriptures, diminishes it, denigrates it, its authority, and its power at every opportunity. Oh, we don't have relics today, but the news media and all those people out there, what do they do? They say that the Word of God, the Bible, is a relic. Not much difference. It gets the same result, whether you got relics in a church or the Bible that we preach from, if it's declared a relic. Something old that shouldn't be paid any attention to. Damage is done. You get the same result. A famine in the land of the hearing of the word. Why should people want to hear what's in a relic? And they don't. They don't preach it. The people don't hear it if it is. Bibles today are read as if the scriptures an open game for jesting The butt of jokes, whose demise they pursue. They want this Bible never to be heard from again. Our Protestant identity and our pedigree is vanishing. this land. There's no longer a sanctuary. Like we have no Holland to flee to. There's no spiritual country to flee to. No matter what country you're in this morning, you're in the same situation America's in. And there's no you used to flee to America. They can't anymore. There's no place to flee to. So this morning I want to leave you with some marching orders and a battle cry. Our marching orders pray that the ears of our people become attentive unto this book one more time. Nehemiah 8 and 3. The ears of all my people were attentive onto the book. That's what we need. We don't need a a red tsunami on Tuesday. I would like to see that as well But I would like to see people paying attention to the Word of God again. That would be far better. That would get rid of the famine in the land. Not of food, not of drink, but of the Word of God. So that's our marching orders. Open our ears and get others to open our ears. What is our hope? Christ who made the heavens and the earth out of nothing. Christ who hung the earth out on on nothing, I still believe that he can because he hasn't run out of nothing yet. He can still change this nation. So our battle cry. This is our battle cry And I think we're here. I think we're really here. It comes out of Psalm 119-26. Here's our battle cry. Alright? We've we've already got our orders to pray that we'll become a tentative of God's word again. And here's the battle cry. It's time For thee, O Lord. It's time for thee, O Lord, to work, for they have made void thy law. And that should be our cry and our prayers and our knees before Tuesday. Lord, it's time for you to work in the hearts of people. They have made void the law. Not made void the Constitution, yeah, but they may void the law. They may avoid the local election laws, yeah, but they made void God's law Get it back to God and we'll get ourselves another reformation, another great awakening. If not, all we'll get at the best will be a a tsunami, a red tsunami for what For what, a couple of days? Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this time to reflect on the Reformation. What a dire time it was for them. There was no Bibles available, no one preaching them, no one that could read them. And then you raise up men. And oh God, would you raise them up again from this congregation? From some of the most unexpected places. Raise them up. in Congress and the Senate. Raise them up from the Democrat side. Raise them up from the independent side. Raise them up from the Republican. Raise them up from somewhere, Lord. Save we say God saved the Queen. Well God saved Nancy Pelosi. God saved McConnell. God saved our nation. They've made void our law, Lord. It's time that you would work. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.