Turn with me to Second Samuel chapter three. We continue our our pilgrimage through Second Samuel, chapter by chapter. And uh Verse by verse. Verses one through nineteen this morning. Now there was long war between the house of Saul and the house of David, but David waxed stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker. And unto David were sons born in Hebron. And his firstborn was Amnon of Ahinoam, the Jezreelitis. And the second, Caleb of Abigail, the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. And the third, Absalon, the son of Maichah, the daughter of Thelmai, king of Gisher And the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggath. And the fifth, Shaphatia, the son of Abital And the sixth Ithriam by Eglag, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron. And it came to pass while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David. That Abner made himself strong for the house of Saul. And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rispha, the daughter of Ahiah. And Isbasheth said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine And then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ishbasheth and said, Am I a dog's head which against Judah do show kindness this day Unto the house of Saul, thy father, and to his brethren and to his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of David, that thou now chargest me today with a fault concerning this woman And so do God to Abner, and more also, except, as the Lord has sworn to David, even so I do to him. to translate the kingdom of the house of Saul and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah from Dan even to Beersheba. And he that is Iphbisheth, that was King Ibisheth of Israel, could not answer Abnah a word again, because he feared him. And Abber sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, Whose is the land? saying also, Make thy league with me, and behold, my hand shall be with thee to bring about all Israel unto thee, David. And he said, Well, I will make a lead with thee, Abner, but one thing I require of thee, that is, that thou shalt not see my face Except thou first bring Michael, Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face. And David sent messengers to Isbasheth, Saul's son. saying, Deliver me my wife Makal, which I espoused to me for a hundred four skins of the Philistines. And Itheshef sent, and took her from her husband, even from Fatial, the son of Laish. And her husband went her along with her, weeping behind her to Bahurum. And then said to Abnerim, Go, return. And he returned. And Ab made communication with the elders of Israel, saying, You sought for David in times past to be king over you. Now then do it. For the Lord has spoken of David, saying, By the hand of my servant David, I will save my people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines and out of the hand of all their enemies. And Abner also spake in the ears of Benjamin. That's the tribe of Benjamin. And Abner went also to speak in the ears of David and Hebron, all that seemed good to Israel, and that seemed good to the whole house of Benjamin. Titled the message this morning, Family Affairs. And those first five verses are In embarrassment to many a Christian, we love David. He's a man after God's own heart. But in these five verses here, we discover that David is a polygamist. Now this does not mean that we can be polygamous also. The Bible is not a prescription of what you can do, but the Bible is a description of what people have done or what they should do And here we have a a description of what David had done. Now on to David were born sons, born Amnon of Ahina and Tileab of Abigail, and Absalon of Mekah, and the daughter of Talmai, king of Gisher, and Adonijah of Haggath, and Shephatiah of Abatol, and Ephraim of Elblah And then it follows, and there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David. Every time David takes upon himself an additional wife or a concubine, it almost follows a meeting. And there was war. with the Philistines, then there was war with the house of Saul. There is always a payment. There is always a wage of sin that we pay when we sin. And it follows with David as well Marriage has been defined as a one man and one woman from the very, very beginning. Singular wife One man and one woman. Christ says in Mark 10 and verse 6 and 7, Christ said, from the beginning of creation, that goes back about 6,000 years. From the beginning of creation, a man singular shall cleave to his wife singular. Any deviation from that Any deviation, the biblical definition of marriage, has always resulted in horrendous consequences to the individuals or the nations that violate God's word. every time, not just through scripture, but all throughout history. And if you believe that not, think about Abraham and Sarah. And he took upon himself a concubine Hagar and the child was born named Ishmael. And you can read all the scripture, all the problems that Ishmael and his lineage lineage and all his family has created on down through the ages In fact, we just heard from them in Paris this week. The children of Ishmael attacking and killing women and children The hatred towards the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. There are always consequences, horrendous consequences. And there were for Abraham when he stepped outside of his marriage as well and took upon him a concubine named Hagar. David's polygamy is very disturbing. Deuteronomy seventeen, verses fifteen and seventeen says that not even a king, though he may call himself the Alpha Dog, or be reported as such. Not even a king was to multiply to himself wise. There is no excuse for what David has done. It is sin. The man after God's own heart, yes, he does sin to only Christ Jesus. never sinned. It's hard to explain how David could carry the title of polygamist and also the man after God's own heart. Unless you read thoroughly the Old Testament and you see how horribly pained and how tried and the tribulations that David brought upon himself for having done this. David had not only the Word of God leading him in Deuteronomy 17, but he also had the examples of Abraham and Sarah that ought to have told him not to step outside of the marriage. and take upon himself a concubine. David also had the family of Jacob who had taken two wives, Leah and Rachel. That ought to have told him something there. And all the problems and all the jealousies that were fomented between Ishmael and Isaac and between Jacob and his twelve sons, and what they did with Joseph. I mean they're just the the scriptures are full of examples that David should have adhered to. Some say that he had an excuse for the third marriage when he married the daughter of the king of Gishur. Because Gisher was kind of a buffer for him between him and Ishbashev, the king of Israel. He could bring this man uh the king of Ptolemy the king of Gisher, he married his daughter, and there'd be an alliance there, and in some way or another this this might prove uh beneficial for David As he was an ally to confront the king of Israel, Ishbish. And so some make an excuse for David. They say, well, they were These weren't trophy wives. They wasn't just polygamy. They were just treaty wives. They didn't mean anything. He had children with these treaty wives It was wrong. If this is why David married the third wife, then the strategy Didn't how it worked at least the strategy to take strategy over a sanctified living he paid dearly. And so you may think there's a strategy in marrying uh multiple wives, having multiple wives at the same time polygamy. We're not talking about if your wife dies you can't marry again. We're not seeing divorce doesn't destroy the marriage tie and there is a second of marriage that can follow but we're talking about polygamy multiplying to your wives. It is wrong, it is wrong, it is wrong Sharia law says it's okay. People are saying, oh, I see nothing wrong with Sharia law. We can bring Sharia law into this country. Do they understand what Sharia law says? You can have concubines You can multiply to yourself wives. You can actually, with the blessing of the Imam, you can have a wife for one hour, and then she's no longer your wife. That is Sharia law. A Sharia law, your daughters cannot drive a car, your daughters cannot get an education. And I can tell you a lot more horrible things than all of that. The people killing, killing all those folks in Paris this week. They love Sharia law. They love the idea of polygamy and the multiplying of wives, but it is wrong, and there will be consequences for the nation and the people and the individuals that would do that. The consequences, I can outline them just briefly for you here as we look at this, how David paid dearly. His third marriage produced Absalom. For those who are familiar, you realize right away that that was not a blessing to have Absalom as one of your sons. Produced Absalom. The third wife produced Absalom, and Absalom would kill the son of David's first wife And then later on, Absalom would try to overthrow David's throne, would drive David out of Jerusalem, he would go up to the top of the palace, and he would lie with all of David's concubines to embarrass David and to show that Absalom was now the king. And Absalom would die at the hands of Joab in battle. And then there was Adonijah. Adonijah was a son of David's fourth wife. Do you think he paid dearly for that one? Oh yes, he did Adonijah tried to take over the kingdom as well. And the son of David's seventh wife, Bathsheba, Solomon, Solomon kills the son of the fourth wife. Adonaijah. So when you have marrying the multiple of wives with polygamy, you've got jealousy among sons, children killing children, children trying to kill their parents. It is a mess So don't let anybody tell you Sharia law is okay. It'll bring a curse upon this nation. Is it any wonder with David's six wives here mentioned? Is it any wonder? And Bathsheba's not mentioned in this group. That's seven wives. And now he's bringing back Macal. That was the first wife. She's not many. That's eight wives. Is there any wonder we read in 1 Kings 11? I'm sorry. We read in 1 Kings 2. Let me back up. We read in 2 Samuel 18, 14. 2 Samuel 5. 13, that David had other wives that aren't even mentioned here. Other wives in 2 Samuel 5 and 13. And concubines it says as well. Is it any wonder that David's son, Solomon, would also, when he became king, begin to multiply wives to him? And we read of Solomon in 1 Kings 11, 2 and 3, that he had 700 wives. Do you think he knew all their birthdays? Do you think he knew all the wedding anniversaries? Do you think he knew all the names of the children? What kind of a relationship do you have when you multiply wives? The wives all want equal time, and they're not going to get it, are they? He had 700 wives and 300 concubines. Where does Solomon get such an idea as that? He got it from King David, his father. The sins of a father are visited upon the children. Time and time. and time again. Wow. When you have additional wives and additional children, you know what happens? The family, all of a sudden they're out there competing for your attention. Now I realize that we're in America here and we don't run around with numerous wives. Some of the Mormons do And they'll tell you the same thing that David discovered. It doesn't work out really well. But for most of us sitting here, for all those that we know, where's the application for us? I don't have but one wife. Really? I hear some of the women talk, not so much in this church, but in my lifetime I hear women talk about their marriages. You know what they tell me? Their husbands marry to their job. Whoa. You're supposed to be married here. Oh, he's married to his job. And I've had another woman say, my husband, he's married to his hobby. His mistress is sports on Saturday night He's got a mistress. He's got a concubine. He's got another wife. That's not really another wife. Well, she feels that way. And your time is divided between her and your hobby or your job or the sports channel. No wife. No wife wants to compete. Against a mistress or another wife. Scripture tells us in Proverbs 18 and 22: Whoso findeth a wife, Notice that word singular. Wife is singular. Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing. And obtaineth favor of the Lord. You want to have favor of the Lord? You take that one wife that God has given you, and you treat her right. You treat her like the if she's a believer, she is of the royal household of faith, she is a princess, she has royal blood, she ought to be treated like a princess. And if you do, you have found a good thing. And you will obtain favor of the Lord. Now, in America today, two guys can now get married. And the Supreme Court calls it a marriage Not by any biblical definition, not by any archaic definition, not by any other country or ancient Any Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim, whatever faith you want. Nobody else thinks that's a marriage. But in America, the Supreme Court, who by the way is not supreme, God is the Supreme Judge. God is the Supreme Court. But but they have declared Then a man can marry a man. Say this according to Proverbs 18 and 22. If a man marries a man in America Who he didn't find a good wife. There's no wife in that marriage. It's two guys. Probably says if you find a good wife, it's a good thing. When two men get married, if they do not find a wife They do not have a good thing, and they do not obtain favor of the Lord. They violate three things in Proverbs eighteen twenty-two If your family has to compete for your attention, husbands, if your family has to compete for your attention, be it sports or a hobby or a job, if they have to compete to have some time with you. That's not just the wife, but that's a children as well. Don't expect favor from the Lord Now it doesn't end there. That's just David's affair. Family affair is mentioned here, and we find in verses 6 through 10 another affair. Saul had a concubine. Never knew that before. Never even knew Saul had a wife, but we find here in 2 Samuel chapter 3 that Saul had a concubine. Probably had more than one, probably had several. This one must have been his favorite concubine. Saul had a concubine, Rispal was her name, and Ishbashet, that's the king of Israel right now. He said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone unto my father's concubine? You see, in those days, if you if you wanted to move up in the world, you move you would marry someone to move yourself up. In Hollywood You know, some actor or actress, she's always marrying somebody very famous, so maybe she'll get a part in some movie. Or some guy's marrying some girl very famous, so he'll get a part They they try to marry up. They they they arrange these and the same thing over in in the the mid uh in the in the middle ages. People would that uh the king of Spain would marry off his daughter to the to the prince of of France and they try to tie countries. There was all these marriages going on all the time to to increase their wealth, to increase their power, to increase their influence. And so here we find that it appears that that the Rishva, the concubine of King Saul, Abner is spending time with her, and he knows that this will raise up his importance in the community of the court. And we find that this RISP admiral was wroth. He said, How dare you charge me with such a fault? He didn't say it wasn't true, it was just how dare you charge me with such a fault. And we I've had people tell me that I'm not doing anything wrong. We just had a coffee. We just spent some time together. You know, my wife doesn't like operas, and she likes operas, so I go I take her to the opera instead of my wife. Nothing's going on. Avoid the appearance of evil, scripture tells us for one thing. And secondly, I just don't believe it. I can't tell you how many people have told me nothing's going on. In my 30 years in this church, and then a divorce and another marriage took place with the person that nothing was going on I didn't come down with yesterday's rain, and neither did King Ishpasheth here. He saw and he confronted, and Admar was wroth that he was confronted. Though charge of me with a fault? As the Lord hath sworn to David. He said, Now, even so, I will swear to David. I too will translate the kingdom from the house of Saul into David. And Samuel's saying, that's not true. Where did you hear that? That's not what he says. He gets off on his high horse How dare you charge me, not I'm innocent. Perhaps Abner should have done what Job had done. Job said, I made a covenant with mine eyes. I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I look upon a maid? Job 31 and 1. Gentlemen, I would advise you to make that covenant. Covenant. I think it's a great covenant. Make a covenant with you. Say, oh Lord, I want to make a covenant with you, God, to keep my eyes on my wife alone and not be looking at somebody else's maid or daughter or somebody else's wife. What a covenant to make We have difficult times. You're just driving down the road and the stuff's splattered on the billboards I wonder how many car accidents have been caused by some of the billboards. I've seen out on 95 go into the Harbor Tunnel. Oh, you're on your internet. And you get on the internet and you're you're heading for the news of the day and some something pops up on the side We need to make a covenant with the Lord, gentlemen. A covenant with the Lord that our eyes not stray to some maid. I don't think Abner had done that. Christ said, Whosoever looketh on a woman with lust, he hath committed adultery in his heart all Ready. I'm not an adulteress. Yes, you are. If you're looking at another woman, my wife doesn't care See okay ladies, I'm not even gonna ask you to raise your hands. I'm gonna say it for you. They do care. No woman likes you oggling and salivating and googling at somebody else. They do care. To say they don't care, well, okay, maybe you've got one of those really understanding wives, and she really doesn't care. The Lord Jesus Christ cares. The God in heaven cares. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He cares. And he wants you to make a covenant with your eyes, not to look upon another woman. And if you make that covenant that Job made Job would approve. The Lord Jesus Christ would approve. And your family would approve too. Why is it beating on the women? Women aren't physically drawn into affairs. They're not looking for the best looking guy in the block. They're usually looking for someone who will listen to them, look them in the eyes when they're talking, will give them time. But men are drawn physically and they need to make a covenant with their eyes. Ishbasheth, the king of Israel, probably think that Abner seek him the throne by having this affair with the king Saul's Mistress. Now yeah, you say, well wait, you're calling her mistress. It says concubine. Maybe she's the handmaiden. Maybe she just does the dishes. Maybe she just washes uh the clothes in the house. You're calling her mistress when it says you're concubine Second Samuel twenty-one eight says of King Saul's mistress Rispha that she bare him two children. Oh. Okay, then the concubine Yes, exactly The concubines were not just the chief cook and bottle washers in the house. They were mistresses. And this Rispa we read in 2 Samuel 21. She was a bearer of two children to King Saul. She was a woman without morals. And now Abner's hanging with her. And he said, How dare you charge me that I'm doing something immoral with this immoral woman with two illegitimate children over here. Well It seems obvious to Ishbushet and seems obvious to Abner that his influence With the king of Israel, Ishbazeth, is waning. And so fading away as he sees it, he attaches himself immediately to David, the king of the Jews. And we know why he does that. He wants to have some influence in some court somewhere. And I would ask you this morning, Pilgrim, why do you cling to Christ, the King of the Jews? Why have you made a profession of faith? The reason ought to be that you love the Lord Jesus Christ, but many profess to be Christians. Or they confess to be Buddhists or they confess to be Islamists. Because it's a logical choice considering the country they're living in, or considering the circumstances under which they're living. If you're in Japan, the obvious choice, I'm going to follow Buddha You know, if you're over there in uh Somalia or if you're over there in Saudi Arabia, the obvious choice is if you want to get along and and play along with the community, you know, you become an Islamis. In America for a long, long time, if you just wanted to make a good impression, you you said, well, I'm a Christian So, why have you made a profession of Christ this morning? Is it like Abner? It's convenient. I'll get some influence by it. Under the circumstances, it seemed like a good thing to do. And so Abner sends messages to David saying, Whose is that land? Who is this land? David, it's your land. Samuel said you're going to be king. Even King Saul said you're going to be king. We know, we've known for a long time that Israel, the land of Israel, is yours. And he said, so he says, David, whose is the land? Of course it's yours. And Abner says in verse eleven and twelve, make thy league with me to bring about all Israel unto you. So he is sworn to the king of the Jews, David, because what? I want to make my league with you. I want to be important. As important as I used to be with Ishbazh. As important as I used to be with King Saul, I still want to be important. And so we have Abner here. Note, Abner is agreeing with the prophecy of Samuel. He is agreeing with God's word. Wow, this guy must really be saved. No, it's to impress David. Have you ever known someone to use Scripture to impress the girl they're dating? You know, you start dating some girl from Bob Jones University or a Christian girl and what do you do? Oh boy, this girl she's she's real religious. I I think she's a Christian. I think one time she said born again or something like that and she goes to the Baptist church and And I really like her, and she's really pretty, and she says she'll go off me. What do I got to do? Well, quote a couple of Bible verses. Impress her. That's what Abner's doing. He's quoting scripture. He wants to impress David And people do it other in other ways. I come through that door If I just drop a little verse, you know, here or there, I can impress her, I can impress her parents, or maybe I should impress my Christian employer by letting him know I'm a Christian and I go to church regularly too. That's what Abner's doing here. But the Lord Jesus Christ is not so easy. Easily impress friend. You can impress me. You can impress the people of this church. You can impress your date. You can impress your the family of your date, your employer. You can impress a lot of people that you appear to be a Christian But you cannot impress the Lord Jesus Christ because he can read your heart's intent. Mark 7 and verse 6, Christ says, People honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Oh, these Pharisees and Sadducees. They can quote the Old Testament. They can quote you chapter and verse. They got verses rolling off their tongues. They draw near unto me with their lips. Christ says but their hearts are far from me. You cannot impress Christ that you're saved. He already knows whether you are or not. He knows your heart. He knows your heart's intent. And when you make the impression that you're a Christian and you make a profession that you're a Christian and you are not You are violating one of the Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord in vain. I am a Christian. If you are not, you're taking his name in vain, and the Lord will not hold you guiltless. You profess something that you are not. You are a liar, and you are profane the Word of God. Now David couldn't read Admiral's heart, could he? He had to take them at face value. He's quoting the prophecy of Samuel. He wants to reunite Israel. He's going to bring everybody in. And so David says in verses 13 and 15, all right now we had two affairs. We've got David and the six wives And we didn't mention Bathsheba 7th, we didn't mention Makhael. And then the second part here, we've got Admer, his affair with a concubine of Saul. And now in verses 13 to 15 we find another affair. David says to Admer, one thing I require. Admiral, if you're going to come on board, you're going to bring in Israel with me. One thing I require. I don't mind having all of Israel. I don't mind having the other eleven tribes with me. But there's one thing I really, really want I want my wife back. The wife of my youth, Michael, I want her back. You bring her and we got a deal. David said, One thing I require, bring Michael, Saul's daughter. And David sent messages also to King Iphesheth, saying, Deliver my wife Michael. And Iphasheth sent her David desires his first wife return. Oh, we're up to eight wives now. But he wanted a wife of his youth There's a lot going on here in this verse. First off, we're going to try to bring all of Israel together. We're going to have all 12 tribes together. What's the tribe that's going to be the hardest to sell? The tribe of Benjamin. I mean, it's the tribe of Benjamin. King Saul was of the tribe of Benjamin. You might get Ephraim, and you might get the tribe of Dan, and you might get the tribe of Gad to come in, but boy, the tribe of Benjamin, that's going to be a tough sell But if David says, bring me back Michael, my first love, the love of the wife of my youth, I want my first wife back. Who's King Saul's daughter, by the way? Whoa, the tribe of Benjamin says, Hey, I like that. We're not losing all of our influence here. I mean the kingship is going to the tribe of Judah for a time, but I mean if Michael and David are back together and she bears him a child That child will be the king, and Benjamin back in the driver's seat. We like that. There's a lot going on. Now, was David plotting it for all those reasons? I don't know. I tend to believe that David loved the wife of his youth and he missed her and he wanted her. And yes, it would help in the reconciliation with the tribe of Benjamin. And if the tribe of Benjamin comes in, the others who are holding back will fold. like a deck of cards. They'll be encouraged to align with David if Saul's daughter came back into his house. It'd been ten years, at least, ten years plus since he'd been separated from her. And yet David's love for her is still apparent. Boy. I haven't been in construction now in a while, but when I used to be in construction work, you'd be out to the construction workers and They walk in and they say, ah man, last night the old lady, and I look at the guy, and he's like 26 years old. The old lady? How old is your wife? She's 23. Why do you call her the old lady? Ah, we've been married for five years. This is the old lady. The old lady? That's my bride sitting over there. She's still my bride The attitude that we see. Here, David, his love, it's been 10 years plus, and he still loves her. The love for her seems apparent. Do you love your wives? Wives, do you love your husbands? Oh, she knows I love her. Really? How is that? I bring home the paycheck every week. No, no, no. Is your love apparent? She knows I love her. You know what It's not apparent to me that some people love their wives. It's not apparent to me that some wives love their husbands. David made it apparent to Ithesheth. David made it apparent to Abner David made appearance to the tribe of Benjamin. David made the apparent to the tribe of Judah that he still loved his wife, the wife of his youth. Gentlemen, do you make it apparent That you love your spouse. I sit in the back row in Sunday school class. Sometimes I can see how the husbands and wives react to one another. This morning I my heart just warmed to see a wife hugging her husband Make it apparent. If you really love them, make it apparent. Make it apparent to the whole world. Make it apparent to the whole congregation. Opening doors, closing doors. I mean, there's so much you can do You think of a dozen flowers? Throw as your wife, you bring them home a dozen flowers at night because you had a little fight and you put them on the kitchen table and that's gonna make it Oh, she'd love that. She would more like it if someone catches you in the mall somewhere opening the door to J. C. Petty's and let you And some of the church sees you do that. Wow. That's making it apparent. David's love for Michael, after ten years of separation, it's still apparent. And It's been 2,000 years since Christ left this earth, and still his love for his bride is apparent. Many a Christian can testify that they know that Jesus loves me. This I know for the Bible It tells me so. The love of Christ for his bride after 2,000 years is still apparent. So, pilgrim, is your love still apparent for your spouse? After 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 40 years of marriage? Is it apparent? If not, why isn't it? That's not being Christ-like. You're sinning if you don't love the woman or the man that God gave you. So there's the David's affair with Michael starting back up And then in verses 16 and 19, Admir had communication with the elders of Israel, and he said, We sought David in times past to be king. Now then do it, make him your king. And Adrah also spake in the ears of David and the whole house of Benjamin. Adner speaks from the house of Benjamin who loses the most if David becomes the king of Israel. And so with Michael coming in, maybe they don't lose anything. Maybe the Benjamites maintain a family interest in the kingdom if Michael bears David a son. David, King of the Jews. Well you have him as your king. So somebody here who hasn't accepted the king of the Jews as their king. It's important. Maybe you had a loss of a loved one and and uh you started thinking about God and eternity and And it brought you a little closer, and then maybe some trial or some emotional circumstance, and you started reading your Bible, praying on your knees, uh attending church more frequently, searching your heart, and you're just about the tipping point, but you never. quite told the Lord you loved him and reached out to him and said, Save me. Feel like King Agrippa. If you've never dropped down on your knees in the closet or your prayer room or somewhere where there's where no one's watching, you're not making you're not trying to influence other people and make people think something special about you, but in the privacy of your own home somewhere or in the privacy of your own heart, you've turned your life over to Christ and said, I want you to be the king of my life, the rule of my heart. But at this point, you've just stepped away from that tipping point for making that decision. You're like King Agrippa before the Apostle Paul. Almost thou persuadest me, almost, Paul, thou persuadest me to be a Christian. And so we have people sitting around in churches all across, and they're almost Almost saved. The definition of almost saved is lost The definition of almost saved is damnation for all eternity. The definition of almost saved, is that what you want? What a pity. If I'm speaking to somebody here today, what a pity that God has given you enough light to know you are a sinner. What a pity if God has given you enough light that you know you are lost. What a pity to have that much light, but not enough light to cry out to the Savior. Jesus Christ. To not bow before the enough light to know you're a sinner, but not enough light to bow before the Savior of the Scriptures. How sad If Christ doesn't rule your heart, if Christ doesn't rule your heart, Christ is not your king. And if Christ is not your king, you have no part in the heavenly kingdom. Does that make sense? If Christ doesn't rule your heart, he's not your king. If he's not your king, you have no part in his heavenly kingdom. Call on him now. Save me. Save me. Two words will make a difference in all eternity for you Save me, save me. I was here to tell you this morning, there isn't a kinder King or a stronger Savior than Jesus the Christ, the King of the Jews. Jews. Two words are keeping you out of his kingdom. Save me. Save me. Can you say that? Let's pray. Father, we thank you this morning. Although we are embarrassed by the sins of David. How much more embarrassed we'd be if you wrote our sins in a book and published it for thousands of years for everyone to read. We're so grateful, Lord, that you have forgiven us of our sins and you've cleansed us of our sins and you've Put them as far as the east as from the west. You made them white as snow and and the world doesn't know the stuff we've thought and done or tried to do. Oh Lord, we just so grateful for our salvation. May that be the May that be the testimony of everyone present here today that you have saved them. May that be their testimony before they leave this building, before it's too late. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior and Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Save us. Save us, Lord. Save our president. We ask Ask this in Christ's name. Amen.