First Kings chapter one, this is verses one through eleven, all right, of First Kings. Now King David was old and stricken in years, and they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat. Wherefore his servant said unto him, Let there be sought for my lord the king, a young virgin, and let her stand before the king, and let her cherish him. And let her lie in thy bosom, that the Lord thy king may get heat. We'll cover this. So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the coast of Israel, and they found Abishag, a Shunamite, and brought her to the king. And the damsel was very fair, and cherished the king, and ministered to him. But the king knew her not. Then Adonijah, the son of Haggath, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man, and his mother bare him after Absalom. And he confirmed with Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar, the priest, and they followed Adonijah, helped him. But Zadek the priest, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet And Shimei and Rai and the mighty men which belonged to David were not with Adonijah. And Adonai slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the stone of Zeheleth, which is by Enrugal. And he called all his brethren the king's sons. And all the men of Judah, the king's servants, but Nathan the prophet, and Beniah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother He called not. Wherefore Nathan spake unto Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggath doth reign, and David our Lord knoweth it not. David's he's cold, but he's not dead yet, and Adonai already wants to take over And so it begins with David, poor health, being old and being cold, and and the suggestion that they get a young woman to lie in his bosom in his bed to warm him up. This week, Vice President Pence caught a lot of flack. Because he said that he would not spend any private time alone in a room or anywhere with any woman but his wife, that gentleman is good, godly biblical advice. Nobody walks in my office. I had a woman one time, she was almost 70. I was probably 55 at the time, and she wanted to close the door and talk with me, and I said no And she said, why not? I'm 70. I mean I said, it's to protect your reputation, not mine. She said, oh, okay So Vice President Pence makes the statement he will not spend any time alone with another woman and the media just has a heyday with him. They call him a woman hater. This media, they don't like someone to put up moral guardrails. You know, they just don't like that They prefer just to put the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff and pick up the pieces when it's all said and done. And apparently the servants here of King David are are much like that. They're not looking to put up any moral guardrails around the king. They want to bring in this young woman, Abishag, toss her in his bed to keep him warm, and to cherish him, and to lay in his bosom. And that's what we see here in these first verses. Is that we didn't already have enough problems with some of David's past, and now he's on his deathbed, so to speak. He's 70 years old according to 2 Samuel 5 and verse 4. He's old, not just by age, but his body's been through a lot of battles. He's fought in a lot of battles. He's probably scarred, beat up He's an old 70-year-old. And he's cold. And so in verse 1, now King David was old and stricken in years. And they covered him with his clothes, but he got no heat. He just couldn't get warm. And wherefore the servant said unto him, Let there be sought from my lord the king a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and let her cherish him, and let her lie in thy bosom that the Lord thy king may get heat. Have you ever suggested an odd biblical solution that just made matters worse? And maybe started a family feud We're going to see further on this chapter when Bathsheba goes in to tell David the king that Adonai's taking over. He's declaring himself king when she walks in there. There's Abishag with David. Boy, I bet she loved that. We give unbiblical solutions to problems and we can start some family feuds. In this particular case, this on biblical solution in just about 50 verses will end in the death of his son Adonijah. Unbiblical solutions don't have good endings. Some of you have had to make some decisions and solutions and they weren't all that good. The mother and the father will they'll be feuding over who the daughter is dating And the father will say, he's not saved. He's not a Christian. And the mother will say, but he's such a nice boy. Ladies, your husband knows how nice he is better than you do. And so the feud begins, right? With the non-biblical solution being, well, that's who she loves, and that's who she wants to be. And it creates problems. Or your college choice to your kids. which college to send them to and and the child will come to you and say, I want to study seventeenth century pottery. And that's at Madison, Wisconsin, Berkeley West, you know, or something like that Or I want us to study underwater basket weaving. Or third century earring making. I mean that okay. If I were to read some of the college courses are out there, and they're they're so specific as you've got a only one college teaches it, and it's certainly a real liberal college. And so you're sitting there saying What do we do? If they really want to have this degree. First off, parents, let me tell you this. The average college kid, as he enters freshman class, by the time he hits senior class, he's changed his major at least three times So don't let them tell you I want to go to this college for this course, and they're the best that's offered out there. But the second thing is this that we discovered, and I hope others of you will too, that this is a simple plan. This is the biblical solution You tell your daughter, you give her a list of a couple of good Christian colleges, and they're out there, and you say, We'll pay for those. You go anywhere else, you pay for them. That's a biblical solution. So we can have these solutions that are not so biblical as these servants of David And the solution is finally the death of Adonijah. We read about it in 1 Kings chapter 2 and 22. It doesn't take long to see that a biblical solution is going to cause the death of one of David's children. There have been other unbiblical solutions. Sarah comes to Abraham. Oh, we've been told we're going to have a child, but I mean I'm so old and you're so old. I've got a great idea, Sarah says How about if I bring in my concubine, my handmaiden, Hagar, and and and she will lie with you, Abraham, and she was probably a nice young-looking girl, and Abraham was sold on it pretty quickly And what came out of that on biblical solution? Ishmael. And what came out of that? Ishmael and the feuding with their son Isaac, and that feud goes on today, and there have been countless feuds hundreds and thousands of people who've died in war over Sarah's on biblical solution that she convinced her husband to be involved with. Family feuds. Family feuds that go on forever, as they are even today, Isaac and Ishmael. A lot longer than the Hatfield and McCoys The solution to every family feud or to avoid the family feud is Christ, the Prince of Peace, Isaiah 9. 6. He and His Word Enter into the heart of those who are involved in a feud that's about to start. If you can get the Word of God to guide both sides, you'll shut down the family feud. If a solution is not Christ-centered, the solution will not flourish in the end. And yet, nevertheless, here's this on biblical solution. And they saw it, it says in verse 3, for a fair darum damsel, or damsel, throughout all the coast of Israel. And they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and brought her to the king. You know, the Apostle Paul addresses this too. Paul said that we ought not to be, as it is slanderously reported, let us do evil that good may come of it. And that's what they were doing here. I know it it's not right to bring in this young virgin woman and and he's got Bathsheba and several other wives and concubines and and all the problems that that has created and now we're gonna just multiply it and and make it worse by bringing in another one from the outside at his late age and introduce another woman into the pack or another wife or another concubine. I know that doesn't seem like that's a very good solution, but he's sick And he's cold, and what else can we do? And and she will cherish him and administer him, and so on and so forth. Do you know they had bedwarmers back then? You've seen them maybe if you've been down to uh where wash George Washington led, they'll be hanging on the wall, these big pans with a s with a stick on them, and they would they would heat up bricks or or charcoal and put them inside and they would warm the bed before he got in the bed. And all the way back in the days of David they had the same thing. They would heat up bricks. Roll them in cloth and put them in the beds. I mean they they had bedwarmers. It might not be a virgin brick. It might not be a fair-looking brick. It might not be a brick that can cherish you and hug you But there were solutions that were more biblical and godly. It wouldn't create a family feud as it were But David must have been very sick to listen to this kind of a solution and and say, oh go ahead. In fact he must have really been sick. To his credit, perhaps he was so sick, or to his credit, he wasn't charmed by the on-biblical solution, because it says here that the king knew her not I can almost breathe a sigh of relief that David finally passed on these temptations Do you ever weigh your solutions, pilgrim, with the thought that tomorrow is not promised to you and it might be really important what you do tomorrow? today. David is sick. He is 70 years old. He is cold. The body heat is leaving him. He is dying. And so he knows that the things he does today, he's going to be held accountable for tomorrow. And sometimes we don't know that tomorrow's not going to come for us. We think we can get by with something and we can always repent and ask God to forgive us later on. But David, he's on his deathbed. He knows he hasn't got much time. And so they're bringing this young woman Abishak, he goes, Oh boy I mean I may not make it through the night or by tomorrow morning and I may explain this to God. We have to think about that We have to think sometimes that as we weigh our choices, the thought that tomorrow is not promised to us And there's the wiles of the devil out there constantly trying to get us to make poor choices, bad choices, ungodly choices, unholy choices Eve did it. She offers Adam a bite of the fruit. And Adam with no thought for demo says, okay, well, you know, you took a bite, Eve, and and you're looking great, and nothing's happened to you, so I guess I guess the serpent's right and God wasn't up front with us. And he doesn't think about, what about tomorrow, Adam? If the Word of God is true. We have to think about that. What about tomorrow if the Word of God is true when we make decisions and choices in life? Judas Iscariot, we read about him in John 12, verses 4 through 6. He had the money bag, all the money that we collect for the disciples and for the Lord, and we were going around evangelizing in Galilee and so forth. He carried the money back, can't trust it and fassy the tax collector, right? I mean the old tax collector, we're not trusting him. So He's got it. You can't give it to Peter. Peter might out and buy a bunch of swords and start hacking away at the Romans. You can't trust him. We'll give it to Judas and Scariot. But you learn in John 12, verses 4. Uh uh John 12 verses 4, I've lost the spot here. Uh 4 through 6 that he had the money bag and he was stealing out of it. I don't know what he was buying with it, but he was stealing money out of the money bag. Not thinking anything about tomorrow Who's going to miss a couple of pennies here? A little bit of silver there? And he wasn't thinking about tomorrow. He was making me poor. He was stealing, he was not just stealing from the money back of the disciples, he was stealing from the treasure of the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean it's winning to steal from somebody, but do you want to steal from the chief of police? Do you want to steal from the Supreme Court judge or the guy that's going to hear your case? Do you want to steal from the Lord Jesus Christ? What are you thinking of? The guy that can do miracles can walk on water, can raise the dead, or drop everybody flat on her back in the garden when they come to rest. You're going to steal from somebody like that? Judas does, because he's not thinking about tomorrow We need to think about tomorrow and being held accountable for what we do today. We need to think about what we do today and being held accountable because we may not even reach tomorrow We've had some some pretty bizarre things happen in the church this week. And we've had a couple of our ladies in the hospital in an emergency. We could have lost both of them. We didn't, but I mean we we just we're talking about the young ladies of the church. Matt's wife Daniel Pike's Daniel Pike's wife. I mean there's been some we don't know what tomorrow will bring. So let's pay attention to our choices that we made today. There are some of us here that have little interest in the things of Christ. That already is a bad decision. If you have little interest in the things of the Lord Jesus Christ, if you have little interest in the Bible, you've already made a Pathetically bad choice. You say, Well, I've always got time to read it. Really? You talk about them and they get shot down in Iraq and Afghanistan and they're taken prisoners, the men in Vietnam taken prisoners, World War II taken prisoners They didn't sometimes see a Bible for four and five and seven years. They thought, well, I don't got time to read the Bible. You don't know what tomorrow will bring. And here we have Adonijah. He too is just living in the moment. I mean his father is dying. He is so cold, he's shaking, and he's shivering, they brought this Abishag in to try to get. . He is dying. And where should Adonijah be? At his father's deathbed. Holding his father's hand, maybe bringing in some of the bricks they've warmed outside to keep his father warm. Tell his father he loves them. Tell him his father, what can I do for you? Get your favorite food. What do you need, Dad? What what I I only have moments left with you. I don't know if I you'll see tomorrow. That's where Adonijah should be, but oh no, not Adoniah. He's not exalting himself in verse five. He's saying, I will be king as soon as he's dead. I will be king. Why wait till he's dead? I want to be king now. He doesn't want to wait. And he prepares himself chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him while his father's up there dying and shivering in the arms of Abishag. Well that's going on. He's out running up and down the streets with the chariots and the men playing, and they're all shouting out, God save the king, and Ajanijah's king, and and his father, you wonder if he hears any of this through the windows Or at least he hears of it. Agenia is smart enough to leave Jerusalem and go somewhere else to start the celebration. But his father's declining health. He can't wait till the funeral. He can't wait till his body of his father is totally cold, dead. He's already grasping the crown. seeking the throne. With these chariots and horsemen, by the way, 2 Samuel 15, that's exactly what Absalom did. His older brother. Remember, they're brothers. They got the same mother and the same father, Absalom and Adonijah. And he's he saw Absalom. Get the chariots and the men, fifty men running before him, doing the same thing. He said, Wow, he said, I like that. Why didn't instead of that, why doesn't Adonai say, Wow, how did that turn out? Not too good, as I recall Why is it we see people make the same mistakes as somebody else? They say, oh you know, he just couldn't hold his liquor, and that's why he smacked through that tree and killed himself And that innocent family coming down the road. I can hold my liquor. I can drink several beers and drive down the road and keep that baby right steady between the white lines. People make these same mistakes And here he's about to make the same one his brother did. And he's going to cause a family feud like his brother did. And and the sad thing here is Adonijah, if you were to go ahead And you can do this when you get home. In 1 Kings chapter 2, we're in chapter 1 right now. In 1 Kings chapter 2 and verse 15, Ageniah admits He admits the kingdom. He says, it's my brother's. It was his from the Lord. Adonijah knows he's not supposed to be king. There are Bible verses out there. I'll mention a few others before we finish. Several of the he knew he was not supposed to be king. He knew that the younger brother Solomon was supposed to be king. He knew that. And still he goes against the scriptures. The scriptures have no impact on Adonijah. Does somebody hear like that? The scriptures have no impact on you Well, some of them do. God loves you. God will abundantly bless you. We like those, right? But the ones that that really apply to us in the moment, they have no effect on Adonijah. That one there, Adonijah, the kingdom, it's your brothers, it was given to him by the Lord. That one should have an effect on him. That should That's just if that verse doesn't speak to me, that verse doesn't speak to me. But Adonijah, yeah, that verse speaks to me, but I don't I'm not gonna let it affect what I want to do. Hmm. There's Peter, disciple of Christ, he taught that there are the unlearned out there, or the unstable, who love the rest or the word rest. is a word we don't use too much today, but it means to twist and distort the scriptures and pervert them and manipulate them and turn them around And malign them as outdated and impractical and not really helpful. That's what Agenida's had. And he says when these unlearned people want to wrestle, twist, distort, pervert, and manipulate the scripture, they do it onto their own destruction. Adonijah is going to die. Absalom died. And if you don't, if you're not affected much by what the scriptures have to say I want to remind you that you're going to die. Now, how do I know you're going to die? Well, I'm almost I'm almost as old as King David. And you know everybody I've known in my life? Well, pretty much people are here and the rest all died. I go back to my relatives, I've got about four relatives left. The others are all dead. You're all gonna die. Some of you before the year is off, maybe. But you know what? In A dozen years from now, this congregation will look so different. Some of us will move away, some of us will marry and find another church, but a lot of us could be dead And we ought to consider the decisions that we're making today. Because tomorrow is coming. But Elijah, he had no fears of tomorrow. Elijah had no fears of consequences or punishments because his father had never punished him. See, we have a heavenly father. The Bible says the heavenly father is going to judge us. He will punish us unless we repent. If we repent, and we can repent of anything. Tim was talking today about sodomy. You can repent of sodomy. Paul says in Corinthians, he talks about the sodomites, he talks about the ephemeris, and Paul says of the church of Corinthians Of such were some of you, but now you delight in the things of God. I mean, you can repent of anything If and if you have a father who who takes you out the witship once in a while and punishes you when you do things wrong, you'll believe when the Bible says there's a heavenly holy father who doesn't just love, but he also judges and he also chastens each and every one of those whom he loveth. And so here he's got a he he doesn't fear God because he doesn't fear his father. We need a healthy fear of our mother and our father, or we'll never have a healthy fear of our heavenly, holy father. And so in verse six it says he's not he's not afraid of what might happen because he says his father had not displeased him at any time. Whoa. Anybody else have a father like that I can't imagine a father that doesn't and hasn't displeased each and every one of us at least once. You know, you want that new Red Rider BB gun or you want that new uh uh that new dress Or you or you wanted something that uh maybe you wanted him to buy you a car, I don't know. You'll uh we've all haven't we all been just like but David, oh, he was so easygoing Man, he was hard of the Philistines, he was hard of Goliath, he was hard of the enemies of God, but as a father, oh If I displease him, Haggath's son, then I better not displease Bathsheba's son, and then I better not displease Abigail's son. And how do you balance it? Well, I just won't displease any of them I'll play neutral to all of them. He had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? He was so easy-going, he never denied Adonijah a thing He never restrained him, he never reproved him, he never exhorted him, he never rebuked him for sin at all. He never did that. Those are decisions that David made that were unbiblical. Proverbs 23, 13 says, Withhold not correction King David did to his own children Proverbs 1918 says, Chasten thy son, let not thy soul spare for his crying Some of you know you the child knows he's about to get a whacking and you take them upstairs or downstairs to the bedroom and they start crying. Are you little ones here? It breaks our heart. Well, we're gonna do it because the word of God says to do it. And Proverbs 13, 24 it says He that spareth the rod hateth his son. Okay, I know that's that's a tough verse. He there's another verse that talks about he will not die for the bruising. You know, you'll save the soul from hell. What does it mean by he that spareth his rod hateth his son I'm going to give you a real deep theological Hebrew breakdown of that verse. He that spareth his rod hateth his son. What that really means is this. He that spareth his rod hateth his son. That's the real meaning. Okay. I've had people tell me, oh rod doesn't mean rod Hmm. Well. There's there's tougher verses than that. When the child is honored above the words of Christ, when the child is honored above the scripture, You'll have a child someday that will dishonor you. They are so filled with pride that there's nothing that they aren't above. Why, they're above the Heavenly Father. They're above the Holy Word. You can't tell them anything. That's why you end up with I've been reading papers long enough to hear about these drug praised daughters and and sons that during the family feud One will knife the other one, arguing over who gets the car of the turkey. I mean, at the Thanksgiving turkey, they're arguing over who gets the car of the turkey, so they finally start carving up each other Now that's a family where the dad did not rule and chasten and use the rod. He didn't want to affect their little sightkeys And so now they become psychos. And that apple of your eye, if you don't if If you spare the rod and spoil a child, the apple of your eye will become the thorn in your flesh and your side to the day you die. Maybe. Here Adonijah, he just presumes that he's the favorite, because Daddy has never displeased me at any time. He's never said, why have you done this or why have you gone there or why'd you do this? Or what are you doing tomorrow? He's the apple of his father's eye. He just assumes he is the apparent heir of the throne, heir apparent. My daddy loves me In fact, the court probably thought the same. And the rest of the family probably thought he's a favorite. And worse than all that, he also it says in this verse six was a goodly man, and his mother bare him from Absalom. And that term goodly man means he was good looking. In fact, he looked like Absalom. Remember Absalom? He was a spitting image of Absalom. He had that presidential look. He belonged in the court. He was a Mitt Romney of 1000 BC He just belonged there and everybody knew it and he knew it too. And so he confers in verse 7 with Joab and with Ad the Aether, the priest, and they help him because he's got the looks to be king. Remember how Samuel thought that all David's brothers had the look to be king? And he was wrong with all of them? He thought Saul had the look to be king, he was wrong about that. And he compiled this good support team. He had Abia the priest. He had Joab who ruled over the host of Israel, the captain of the host of Israel. He's compiled a pretty good team here But he doesn't have in verse 8 Zadok the priest also, and Beniah, he's the one of the mighty men who slew a lion in the pit in the time of snow. That's a guy you want for your bodyguard you can take on a lion in a pit in the middle of the snow, 2 Samuel 23. He's also got Nathan, the prophet, on his side, and it says the mighty men which belonged to David. They were not with Adonijah. So it looks pretty bad at first. He's got Joab, he's got the high priest, but But we find that there were a lot of them he didn't have. But he had grabbed some heavy hitters, Joab for sure and Aby Aether. You know, when you have a good Christ-like reputation, you aren't generally approached to join the gang, you know. Why didn't uh Adonijah go and talk to Nathan? He had a godly reputation. Why didn't he go to Beniah? He had a godly reputation. He understood. He sensed who was reachable, who was corruptible. You know, he understood this. And it's the same thing here. If we have a Christ-like reputation We're generally not going to be approached. Having a Christ-like reputation will keep us from a lot of temptations, I should say. So are you looking for friends as good as you or better? That's what we should be doing. Looking for friends who are as good as us or better. Or the gang will be looking for us. You know, a judge knows it When someone comes in and pleads before the court, lock, my son here, he just fell in with the bad group, you know, he's a good boy. He didn't just fall with a bad group. The bad group saw that your son had a fondness for evil, and they drew you in with them. So the fondness for evil. Joseph's brothers conspired against Joseph. They knew who they could trust. They didn't bring Benjamin in on that one. They had a fondness for evil. Pilate, what does it say about Pilate in the day that Christ was going to be crucified? That he had Christ before him asking him questions and Herod had Christ. before him and it said they sent him back and forth each other and on that day who had never been friends before Pilate and Herod became friends Why? Because they had this wickedness and this fondness for evil that they both enjoyed and they became friends. Along with the chief priests and the elders who also agreed to the crucifixion of Christ. Rotten apples just attract rotten apples God sent Nathan. We find in 2 Samuel, a reason why Nathan wasn't chosen by Adonijah. God has sent Nathan to give Solomon a different name at birth. Do you remember that? Second Samuel twelve and twenty-five. Bathsheba and David started. He said, Oh, here's a new baby, Solomon. Knock, knock, knock. Here comes Nathan, the prophet of God. He said, I'm here to name your baby. Oh, Solomon, we already got a name. No, God has sent me. His name is Jedediah. It doesn't mean anything to you or me, but to a Hebrew, Zededai is Hebrew. It means Bathsheba and David for all the two of you have done. The death of your husband, Bathsheba. The adultery with the king here or all you're taking her first baby, your first baby died? I want you to know about Solomon. He has a new name, sent from God. What's his name? Jedediah. Oh Loved of God. Boy, would that make you feel good? He's not going to kill the second baby too. And God said he is loved of God. Do you know what happens if you're loved of God? He'd go to heaven someday. And I know Sodom did a lot of horrible things, but I believe that God loved him and that he repented before tomorrow, before his last day. Loved of God, declared by God, declared by Nathan. And we find in 1 Chronicles 22, In verses 5 through 10, that David goes to Solomon when he's quite young, but when he can understand, he says, Solomon, I will establish the throne of the kingdom in you over Israel. And you got a so you got two or three verses here. And Adonijah knew this, because Adonijah was older when King David declared to Solomon that God would establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel, that Solomon would have the kingdom. Adonijah knows all of this. And yet, verse 9, he slays the sheep, he slays the oxen, he slays the fat cattle, he calls in all his brethren. Adonijah's brethren are also Solomon's brethren. Adonijah's brethren are all the children of King David. He brings in all the children, the king's sons Except Solomon, of course. And he brings in all the king's servants who serve in the court and all. He brings them all in, has a large feast to entice the relatives. And to entice the servants of King David in the court, to entice them with all this food and partering to overlook scripture and join him In hoping to avoid another family feud. Some of you here, can you be won by whining and dining? Some people can be won over by a little bit of whining and dining. Politicians can be won over to one side or another if they're whined and dined enough by the right lobbyists. Hey, how about we get together for dinner? Dinner? Yeah, in Hong Kong. Bring your wife. You'll stop off in Paris on the way for lunch. Yeah, sounds good to me. Boy, he's a nice guy, this lobbyist. Whining and dining. I don't I was well aware of how that worked. He brings them all in, he's whining and dining them And Satan has captured many a politician that way and many an unsuspecting soul, maybe someone here. Maybe he doesn't wine you and dine you, but he gives you a large portion of the world that you like. You simply look at some part of the world, oh, I would love to be, and Satan will give it to you You maybe don't really believe in Satan, but you might decide to strike a deal with him in case it works. Long before the Lord called me into ministry, I struck a deal like that. And the scariest part of it was, it worked. And the scarier part of that was I didn't care. I won't tell you what the deal was. But it was neat. I, like the Apostle Paul, loved my sins and then God got a hold of my heart and I shuddered to think of a covenant that I had made with the devil. Lighthearted way. If you exist, if you're out there, devil, this is what I want. And I shuddered to think that he did exist. And would God uh would God break that bond? And he did. Well, I talk about being grateful to God. And some people want to be wind and dying and they'll let the devil do it and give them any portion of the world they want. And if you're sitting there thinking, I haven't got what I want and I will sell my soul, that's what it is, you sell your soul to the devil Praise God the blood of Christ can buy back a soul sold of the devil. If you've made that deal, you can break it. And so here we look at what profit does a prop what is a prophet man to gain the whole world and lose of his soul. Admonijah thought there was great profit in it. And he was wrong. In verse 10, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah and the mighty men, who were not called of Adonijah. They go before Bathsheba. Nathan's the one that walks in in verse 11. He speaks to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Athenijah doth reign? He's the new king? And David Your husband David knoweth it not. It's astounding that an Adonijah would feud with his father's words, Solomon, you will be king. It's astounding that Adonijah would feud with the words of Nathan. His name should be Jedediah, loved of God. He will be king. It's astounding that Adonijah, he was viewed with the little known verses in the Bible to most of us, but known to him. He would deal with the inspired, declared words and purposes of God, as some here have done and as I have done, disputing with the words of God, the inspired, declared words of God, that Solomon was to be king. That's what Adonijah does. All right. You're sitting here this morning saying, make all this irrelevant. I'm not shooting to be king. I'm not shooting for Abishag. I'm not shooting for lots of money or power. Make it relevant to me. Okay. These verses that Adonijah was aware of, they're little minuscule verses that are off in the corner that apply to him really alone. There it's not a big verse and not a well known verse, but you want me to make it relevancy this morning? I will. Isn't it far worse If we go against very well-known verses, he goes against these minuscule little hidden. But how about if we go against well-known verses? How about if we go against well-known verses that the Lord Jesus Christ quotes? How about if we go against well-known verses that the Lord Jesus Christ quotes not once but twice, Matthew 19 and Luke 18, where he says, Love thy neighbor as thyself. And somebody here doesn't. And they even wrote it down in the Trinity Hymnal. Wow. This book contains songs like holy, holy, holy. This book contains songs like amazing grace. This book contains numerous psalms. And somebody writes in this of somebody else sitting here, you are a dumb. I won't repeat the word. They write it twice and they name the person. Is that showing brotherly love? Love thy neighbor as thyself, and you'll write it in a book of holy hymns Does that make it relevant this morning? Or how about moving on? Because somebody here wants me to move on and not check and not check their their their scribbling to see if I recognize it. So let's move on. Christ also says in Matthew 19, Luke 18, this is a little verse, not an unknown verse. It's mentioned by Christ. It's mentioned by Christ twice. I think it's more important with Adonai is Adonai just ignoring. He says, Thou shalt not steal. From the Cake Fund. Better move on, huh? We'll move on. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we pray this morning for everyone present. For those that are saved, they continue to grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord. Oh, bless them, bless them abundantly, because some of our safe people are struggling through not sin, but through the attacks of Satan's crowd, the attacks of diseases and making their life miserable and difficult to be a good testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, bless our saved people here. And then Lord, we ask you to also put in the hearts of our unsaved people to know tomorrow is coming. They've got today in which to repent, they've got today in which to lean upon the Lord and to know that the blood of Jesus Christ his son will cleanse them from all sins, all deals they've made with the devil, all things they've ever done or thought to do. Oh Lord Touch the unsuspecting heart right now who has no interest in your holy word and change him for all eternity. That we might spend it at the banquet feast with that unsuspecting heart. Do it, O Lord, even now. In Christ's name we beg. Amen.