John chapter four, where we've been studying. Uh this will be, I guess, our third Sunday or second Sunday in a row in 1 John. Next week, Lord willing, we're going to take another break out of 1 John. But this week we're looking primarily at verses 17 through 19. And I did give you a bulletin insert this week. There have actually been some requests that I do bulletin inserts and I will try to do that from time to time. I was going to give you just the section that's referred to as application, and then I realized I had a lot of extra paper if I did that, so I went ahead and and and gave you a full set of Full set of notes with a lot of extra scriptures. I know some of you take your own notes. Don't let me discourage you from taking your own notes by giving you a sheet of notes initially. But I hope that'll kind of help you follow along and and see the various passages for considering. Let me mention also before we begin That we really do appreciate our Sunday school teachers. We do take a break for the summer from their teaching. If you sit in Tim's class or the children in in Penny's class or the teens in Mike's class. It's obvious that they don't just get up and talk. There's a lot of preparation that goes into these Sunday school lessons and it is very much appreciated. First John chapter four, verses seventeen, eighteen, and nineteen. Herein is our love made perfect. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him, because he first loved us. Let us pray. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the encouragement, the blessing, the correction we find in your word. Father, today we pray that the Holy Spirit would be the preacher here today. Lord, I will attempt in stumbling frail human means to expound your word. But Father, the exposition of man is never sufficient to the hearts of your people. And so, Father, we pray today that your Holy Spirit As he was promised that the Comforter would guide us into all truth, may your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your word And open your word to our hearts that we might receive edification, that we might receive instruction, that we might receive blessing. Father, we pray for any here today that live in fear that have doubts about their soul, that have doubts about their status before the throne and righteousness of God. Father, today we pray that the love of God might cast out all fear. I've already prayed this in Jesus' name. Amen. Herein is our love made perfect. That word herein is a word that which essentially means by means of this is how our love is made perfect And first of all, we find if you look back to verses 14 through 16 that our love is made perfect through our faith, through our belief in Jesus Christ. Reading those verses, verse 14 of our chapter And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God. God dwelleth in him. God indwells that person, and he dwells in God, and he in God And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in God, he who dwells in that love of God, who dwells in Christ Dwelleth in God, and God in him, hereby we know, hereby is our love perfected. And so the first way in which our love is perfected is by that confession of Christ, as it's mentioned there, and the confession of Christ cannot be separated From the indwelling of Christ. I, as a believer, dwell in Christ. And as a believer, Christ dwells in me. And so, for my love for God to be perfected, first of all, God's love for me has to be perfected. And my love of the brethren. And not to speak of, but further, our love of our enemies is never perfected until the love of God is perfected in us. And so, I probably should have put another point there in your notes that it is that indwelling love of Christ which perfects us. But further, we find if you look at verse 12. Of uh chapter four. No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. And so Herein, by the love of Christ, by the indwelling of Christ, by our faith in Christ, which results in indwelling in us, our love is perfected. But that brings up a big question, doesn't it? What does it mean for love to be perfected? What is it talking about here? Well, that word perfected means to be completed or to be finished It means to be carried to completion. And the best way, the only way, to understand any word in Scripture is to see how it is used in Scripture. To compare scripture with scripture. When we find something in the Word of God that we don't understand, don't run to what man says, but run to what God has said about it. And so In the Gospel of John, chapter 4, and verse 34, we find this same word perfected. But in our English Bible, it doesn't say perfected In John 4, verse 34, Jesus said unto them, My meat, or that is my work, what God has sent me to do, my meat is to do the will of him that sent me And to finish his work. And that word finish that John uses there in John chapter 4 is the exact same word that John uses here in 1 John chapter 4. Perfect. And so to take the two words and use them interchangeably, because the original it's the same word, Christ says, What God sent me to do is to do his will and to perfect his work, or to finish his work. And so going back to 1 John, herein is our love perfected or is finished. It's completed. It has all its components. It is brought to that ultimate of what it's supposed to be. Now, there in the Gospel of John, John said that his work, that the Christ said in John, my work is to Do the will of the Father that sent me and to finish his work. For what is the work that God the Father is finishing in Christ? It's the work of perfecting the saints. It's the work of making us what we ought to be. You see, I was born in sin. I was born a sinner. I was born as far from God as anyone could possibly be. Paul called himself the chief of sinners. But God sent his own son And why did God send his son? God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son for me. That I might be perfected. And so, Christ's commission from God the Father was to perfect or to finish his work. And then again in John 17, or the Gospel of John in chapter 17 and verse 4, Christ says, I have glorified thee. I have glori Finished the work that thou gavest me to do. And that word again in John 17 is the same word, perfected, that we find in 1 John 4. Christ says, I've finished the work that thou gavest me to do. And then in John 17, verse 23, Jesus says, I in them and thou in me. What did we just see in 1 John? You see how it all fits together. It's all one message. In 1 John, we saw that it was by the abiding of Christ within the believer that this love is perfected. And in John 17, 23, I in them and thou in me That they may be made perfect, that they may be made complete in one. And so it is that indwelling. And then one more verse we need to look at that is very important to this. In John 19, we find Christ on the cross. We find him suffering the agony of our sins upon him. And in John 19, 28, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. And so we saw there in John 4 that the meat of Christ, the work that God the Father gave to Christ, was to finish the work of the Father. And so on the cross, Christ, knowing that the scriptures now have been finished, they've been completed, that which was prophesied of Messiah has been fulfilled. He said, I thirst. I thirst. Isn't that glorious? Doesn't that throw your soul? That on the cross Christ is declaring. Now when Christ declared it is finished, it's not the same word from the original. It's a different word for completed But here, when he said, I thirst, he knew that all things were completed. It is finished. And in this book of 1 John Chapter 2, verse 5, chapter 2, verse 4, verse 12, and then three times in our text this morning, we find this same word finish. And so God, through Christ indwelling within us, finishes Completes, gives to it all of its components, and all of its parts this love that we've been talking about Now, why is this love that God gives to the believer so important? Well, look at the next phrase. Herein is our love made perfect. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment. Do you fear the judgment, my friend? Do you fall asleep at night thinking, you know, what will happen to me if I don't wake up? Do you do something that you know is contrary to God's will and am I really saved? Am I really a child of God? I know what I did was wrong. I know that I've rebelled against God. And when I did it, I knew it was wrong. Why is this love important? Well, herein is our love made perfect that we may have boldness. In the day of judgment. Turn back with me a page in your Bible to chapter 2 of 1 John and look at verse 28. Chapter two of First John and verse twenty-eight. And now little children Abide in him. You see how that theme keeps coming back again. Abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence. and not be ashamed at his coming. Boldness and confidence are very similar terms, aren't they? Very similar concepts. We may be assured. And then turn over to chapter 3 of 1 John, verse 19 through 21. And hereby we know that we are the truth. And shall assure our hearts before him. That sounds like boldness, doesn't it? That sounds like confidence. Assure our hearts before him. For if our heart condemn us, what is the heart? Well, he's not talking about the beating organ in our chest. He's talking about the inner man, the seat of our emotions, from which love comes and by which we perceive love. If our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence. toward God. And so herein is our love made perfect that we might have boldness. That we might not fear the judgment, that we might not fear the wrath of God. We sing that soul song, It is Well, it is well with my soul. Is it well with your soul, my friend? Do you have confidence before God? Or do you stand in fear of the judgment of God? And I've given you some references there also that we won't read all of them, but uh let me mention 2 Peter 2 verse 9, the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust for the day of judgment to be punished. Here is our love made perfect again in verse seventeen. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. We may have boldness because as he is, so are we in this world. Well, that brings up another question, doesn't it? How is Christ? Or in other words, what is the nature of our Redeemer? What is the nature of Christ? How is he In what nature, what state does he exist? And in that same state, we exist in the world, because as he is, so are we in this world. Jesus Christ is absolutely and impeccably righteous. And he dwells in righteousness. Jesus Christ is righteous And we dwelling in Christ are made righteous. Jesus Christ is approved and accepted of God the Father, and we dwelling in Christ. Are approved and accepted of God the Father. Jesus Christ is without sin. And we, dwelling in Christ, are made to be without sin as well, because our sin is placed on him, and we are clothed in his righteousness. Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father. And we seated dwelling in Christ have that same access. To God the Father. We are quickened together with Christ. We are raised up together with Christ. And we're made to sit in heavenly places with Christ. Ephesians 2, verses 5 and 6. And so we have this boldness in judgment because we dwell in Christ and He dwells in us. Our love for him, remember Peter, do you love me? Do you love me? Our love for him is perfected, it's made complete because he dwells within us And what was it that Christ said to Peter when thou art converted? Thou shalt feed my brethren And so let me read to you from 2 Corinthians 5, verses 17 through 21. Therefore, If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. And it's given to us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself. not imputing or not not putting their account their trespasses unto them and committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then are we ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you By us, we pray you in Christ's head, be ye reconciled to God, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in Now I know that was a little bit longer passage, but you see what it's teaching us there. That we in Christ, but in this world, live in the righteousness of Christ. Brethren, we don't have cause to fear the judgment. We don't have cause to fear the throne of God. We're bidden to come boldly. And it's only because the love of Christ is made complete within our hearts. By that indwelling. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet, not I, but Christ liveth in me. Now, that does not mean that we have a license to sin. There is no purchasing of indulgences. We in Christ Are viewed by the righteousness of God as having the same righteousness of Christ. Now, if any man say he had no sin, he's a liar, and the truth is not in him. We know that living in this world we stumble. We fall And we do not have permission to do so. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. But we, seated in Christ, are viewed by the Father as dwelling in the righteousness of God. And so for that reason, verse 18, there is no fear in love. But perfect love, completed love. It's the same word. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Let's break the verse apart. First of all, there is no fear in love. Fear and love are antithetical one to the other. They don't go together. They don't fit together. Love is not an emotion that produces fear. If someone truly loves you You will not fear what they will do to you, you will not fear what they will say to you, you will not fear what they will say about you, and you will not wonder if they will still love you. Keep that in mind, young ladies. Keep that in mind, young men. Just because someone says they love you, Doesn't mean that they love you. And you will not find an unbeliever in whom the love of God is perfected. It can't happen And so, young ladies, young men, an unsaved man or woman cannot truly love you. I know you've heard that from this pulpit before, and not just from me. Pastor Keith said it for years. But it's a truth that needs to be nailed down in your heart and kept close. True love was described by Solomon in Proverbs 31 verse 10. I think I gave you that this verse in your notes, so I'm not sure. Maybe I didn't. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. Doesn't that sound like The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that she that he shall not have need of spoil. She shall do him good and not evil all the days of her life. In other words, in that love there is a safety and there is a security that It doesn't fear, will she love me tomorrow? Will she say evil about me? There's no fear in love, but perfect, or because perfect love casts out fear. Now, let's take this back to us dwelling in Christ and not fearing the judgment. Why is it that I don't fear judgment? Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. Little ones like me to him belong. I am weak, but he is strong. Ah, you see, I have this confidence for God because God's love has been perfected in my heart not because of anything in me, but because of my dwelling in him through faith in Christ. Perfect love casts out fear. Love that is perfected and completed in Christ will cast fear away. We fear God in reverence and worship. We fear God and tremble to grieve and disobey Him, but we do not fear His wrath, because His wrath has been removed from our backs by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Think about this. What happens when your child wakes up in the middle of the night in a nightmare screaming? And the parent rushes into the room and takes the child in their arms, and the child is trembling and sobbing in fear. And the parent calms down that fear and the child falls asleep in your arms. Why does that happen? Because the child has been wrapped in love. Perfect love of the parent has cast out fear. I can't think about this without recalling something that happened many, many years ago. Some of the children came to the gate of the mission compound there in Jamaica and started yelling, Pastor Joe, Pastor Joe, Miss Penny, Miss Penny. As we heard many times a day and hundreds of times a month, the kids calling. And we went out to see what was going on. And they said, Nick's him in jail. Nixon's in jail. Well, Nick's was a little boy of eleven years old who had a horrible home life and And had started out by throwing rocks at the church during Bible club meetings. And occasionally he would throw one right in the middle doors and it would bounce down the aisle and hit the front. of the rostrum during service. But then Nick's came to Bible Club one night and got saved. And uh he was a new boy, different child. Pastor Joe Nix is in jail, so I went down to the police station and In the holding area was a frail little boy sitting there trembling, fighting his best not to cry. And I asked the officer in charge what happened. They said he's he's a rude boy, he's in trouble, his mother doesn't want him anymore. She said to lock him up. And we're going to send him to COPS. Well, COPS was a reform school that kids went out and criminals kids went in and criminals came out. And so I talked to the officer and said, look, I said, I know of a good boy's home. Can I take him there? And the officer said, as long as you will take custody of him, we'll let you sign him out and take him And so, long story short, we were able able to get him into a good boy's home. He's a fine young man today, has uh has his own business there in Jamaica today, married, has a little girl. We keep close contact with him. But Nick said to me, Pastor Joe, I didn't think anybody would come. I didn't think anybody would come for me. Now, perfect love cast out fear. His mother didn't love him. Christ loved him. And my wife and I loved him because Christ's love is in us. Do you fear that no one will come for you? Do you find your soul in the holding room ready for the prison of hell? Do you sit in the corner and tremble and want to cry? Because you fear death. You fear judgment. You fear that no one will come for your soul. Perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath tormented We read about Jonathan Edwards preaching that sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. Oh, fear hath torment. My friend, today, if you sit in that tormenting fear, rejoice. If you today sit in fear of hell and death, rejoice! For there are multitudes that don't have that fear. There are multitudes that don't care. And the very fact that you tremble in your soul and say, I need God, is an indication that God is working in your heart. And my friend, I would never tell you that you were saved because only the Holy Spirit can tell you that. But I can tell you that if you know the conviction of the Holy Spirit, rejoice because God hasn't given up on you. Rejoice, because that conviction is a mercy, and that torment that fear brings is a grace upon your heart. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, for he will have mercy. And he will abundantly pardon. Ah, he that feareth is not made perfect in love. The work is yet to be done. The work is yet being done by the Spirit. He that feareth is not made perfect in love, but rejoice that you fear. The day will come when God will perfect that work. Now I think I put this in the sheet of notes you have there, an illustration. When Christ healed a leper. And in Luke chapter 5, verses 12 and 13, we read, and it came to pass when he was in a certain city. Behold a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus fell on his face and besought him, saying, Lord If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. Lord, I believe that if you will save me, I will be saved. If you will cleanse me of this iniquity that makes me fear, I will be cleansed. And he that is Jesus put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. My friend, today, if you fear, if you are not yet made perfect in love, Christ can immediately remain. Remove the fear. He can immediately heal your soul. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Now the balance of the sheet I gave you is the application, and as I said initially, I was just going to give you this part, and I thought, well, let's go ahead and print it all out for you. How do we take this passage and make it practical? What can we learn from this passage that we can take with us and remember day by day? First of all, perfect love Is fearless of the judgment. That's obvious. That's what we've been talking about. That's verse 17. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is in the world, or as he is, so are we in this world. 2 Corinthians 5, verses 10 and 9, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That everyone may receive the things done in his body. That sounds pretty gruesome, doesn't it? I don't want to receive the things done in my body. Accordingly he had done, whether they be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord that sounds like incompleted love that fears, doesn't it? Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we proceed we persuade men. But we are made manifest unto God. And I trust are all and I trust also are made manifest in your conscience. And then Matthew 5, verse 32, and before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another as a shepherd Divideth his sheep, and I love that word his in there, his sheep from the goats. Divides his sheep from the goats. That is the position of the child of God. And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Are you a sheep? Are you a goat? Perfect love casts out fear of judgment. Secondly, following right on to not fearing judgment, perfect love is fearless of death. Are you afraid of dying? Oh, we want to live. It is human nature to want to live, and we will try to preserve our lives But the child of God doesn't fear death. The child of God welcomes death. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Christ has defeated death on my behalf. And so precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. And let me point out one verse you have there, Revelation 12, verse 10 and 11. And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, Now is salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ For the accuser of the brethren is cast down, which accused him before God day and night. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony And they loved not their lives unto death. They had a perfect love, didn't they? They didn't love their lives to death. They loved Christ to death, as they say. Thirdly, perfect love is fearless of Satan. Look again at those verses there in Revelation twelve. Verse 10, for the accuser of our brethren is cast down. I don't fear Satan. Now let's be careful here. Let's be very cautious here. Satan is not a silly-looking creature with horns and a tail. He's an angel of light. Satan is a very dangerous adversary and is to be taken seriously. You don't go to the zoo and climb in with the lion. Satan's a roaring lion. You don't go to the snake pit and get in with venomous snakes. Satan is a serpent. So we have to be very careful that we are not making light of Satan. And I've given you the other verses about those that speak ain't pe speak evil of dignitaries that they don't know anything about. When the Archangel Michael was arguing with Satan over the body of Moses, he didn't bring railing accusation, but he said, you know, the Lord judge you. However, the child of God does not need to live in fear of Satan. Why? Simon, Simon. Satan hath desired to have thee, that he may sift thee as wheat. But I have prayed for thee. Christ ever lives to make intercession for us. I do not fear Satan because greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world, because Christ continually protects me from Satan I've met people that are always in fear of evil spirits. Evil spirits are very real. They're not something, don't you dare play with on a Ouija board or anything of that nature. But the child of God doesn't need to live in fear of demons because they can't touch me through the protection of Jesus Christ. I'm in his hand, and no man can pluck me out. And there's many other illustrations we can go to there, but time doesn't permit. Perfect love is fearless of man. If the love of God is perfected in the heart of the child of God, we don't need to fear men. We don't fear Man, because in Proverbs 29, verse 25, we read: the fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth in his trust, or put it his trust in the Lord, shall be safe. Why do we see so many churches today compromising? The fear of man Oh, if we don't marry homosexuals, we're gonna get hauled into court. We might even lose our tax exemption. Who needs our tax exemption? If we don't go along with what the world says, we're going to be called haters. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But the perfect love of God in our heart says, I love Christ more than I love man. I don't care what the world might do to me. I'm going to do what's right. And that's what Peter and John did. They were threatened not to preach anymore in the name of Christ. And they said, whether it's good to obey you or obey God, you judge We are obeying God. And so the fear of God, the perfect fear of God, makes us fearless of man. Daniel didn't begin in the lion's den Daniel began purposing that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego didn't begin in the fari furnace. They began with the small trials. And then finally, perfect love is fearless of circumstances. And we know That all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called upon by His purpose, or according to His purpose. Gil played during the offering his eyes on the sparrow, and that was so appropriate. I didn't talk to him about that. I didn't know he was going to do that. But how well that fits what we're talking about. The love of Christ surrounds me. All things work together for good for me. I don't need to fear circumstances. I don't need to fear what happens because I dwell in Christ. He dwells in me. His love is perfect for me. And he will work all things according to that perfect will. Joseph was kidnapped by his brothers. Joseph was sold into slavery. Joseph was lied about and thrown into prison. His brothers rightly feared, but Joseph truly loved his brothers and spoke words of peace. And these are the words that Joseph spoke. Genesis fifty, verse nineteen twenty. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for I am I in the place of God, but as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good To bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. Brethren, friends, seekers Is the love of God perfected in your heart? Has God's work been done in you? God's work will never be fully completed in any believer until we're made like unto him in heaven. But do you fear? Do you know torment? Seek ye the Lord, for he is ready. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this word today. Lord, I pray that you would bless it to our hearts and strengthen us, edify us. Lord, I pray for any here today that might dwell in fear of the state of their soul. Lord, may they find that peace which only you can give. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.