To the gospel of Luke and the twelfth chapter. And I'm sure you've seen in your Bulletin that the text for this morning is that 32nd verse. Fear not, little flock. It is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. How many of you had a rough week this week? Am I the only one? I had one of those I gotta quit weeks. May God give us blessing from his word this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you that you speak peace to the hearts of your people We thank you that though the storms rage around us in so many ways, yet our God speaks peace to our hearts. Father, this morning, may this congregation not be troubled and plagued with words after man's wisdom. But Father, may your Holy Spirit be the preacher this morning. May your Spirit speak peace to the hearts of your people. May your Spirit illumine the hearts of your people, as we've just said. Saying, Father, today, may your people be edified. You have told your followers to feed your sheep. And yet, Lord, no man has that with which to feed the sheep, except that the Holy Spirit take the word of God, and break it just as surely as Christ divided the loaves and distributed them to them. And so, Lord, this day, as we your people approach your word, may your spirit break the word to our hearts, and may we be strengthened. And edified. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We find Christ thronged by multitudes. We find the Pharisees and the lawyers opposing the Word of God and the message from Christ in both chapter 11 and chapter 12. And I would love to simply read these two chapters and sit down because they are a sermon without any man making comments on them. And yet, God has chosen the foolishness of preaching. And so may God give us grace today to delve deeper into this passage. Fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Christ knew that his people were fearful. And actually, 60 sometimes in the Word of God, we find this phrase, fear not. And three times in this twelfth chapter we find the word fear. And Christ is addressing the little flock. A flock is made up of sheep, and sheep are by their very nature fearful. They tend to startle at any little thing. And oftentimes the sheep are very fearful about that which there is no real cause for fear. And yet just as we rush to the side of a crying child at night who is afraid of the dark and we know there is nothing in that dark that is dangerous to the child, yet still we rush to their aid, and we cannot tolerate to hear them weeping in the night Fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Why were they fearful? Well, we find starting in verse 12 and verses or chapter 12 and verses 4 and 5 that they were fearful for their very lives. Verse 4, I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I forewarn you, whom ye shall fear. Fear him that hath fear him that after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. They were fearful for their very lives. And the scribes and Pharisees and the lawyers we find in chapter 11 were plotting and listening to Christ's words, trying to find something to accuse him. They were fearful. And we find further they were fearful for their daily provision. And he says, consider the ravens, the ravens Don't gather food, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither they spin. Yet I say unto you that Solomon, in all of his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. These believers, these few sheep among the multitudes, were fearful for their daily provision. And we too bear those same fears. We look at the economy and look at things going on, and people losing their job, and there's so many things that, Lord, how are you going to provide? They were fearful. Fear not, little flock, it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. We find also that they were fearful because of religious perversion and misrepresentation. If we look back to, well actually look there first of all at verse 11 and 12 of chapter 12 And when they bring you into their synagogues and under the magistrates and powers, and take ye no thought what ye shall answer or what ye shall say, for the Holy Ghost shall teach you in that same hour what ye ought to say. And if you flip back to chapter 11, the previous chapter, there in verses 37 through 44, we find the disciples complaining against Christ because they were he wasn't washing his hands before he ate. And then if you look down to verse 45 and 53, you find the the lawyers saying, Well, are you reproaching us as well? And Christ says to both of them, Woe unto you, your white sepulchres, woe unto you, you you build tombs for the these Murdered saints for the martyrs, and yet your fathers are the ones that martyred them, and you're like those that walk across a grave and don't even know what's going on There was all kinds of religious confusion going on in their day and people making accusations against the truth. Sounds like the day, doesn't it? We are criticized because we take a stand on biblical principles that have stood forever. such as marriage, such as morality, such as creation. And yet even today in their World, those things are spoken against. But even more than that, why do we exist? Why are we Bible Presbyterians? Well, because of the mainline Presbyterian denomination denied the truth of God. Why are there independent Baptists today? Because the mainline Baptist churches have have gone the same way. And we we live in a day when the truth is evil spoken of, and we we hold to the truths that the apostles held, and that which Christ taught, and we hold to the truths of the reformers, and yet We live in a day when our good is evil spoken of. These disciples lived in very similar times. It's nothing new. Fear not, but it'll fly It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And then we find also that they were fearful because of political persecution. If you go back to chapter 12 and verse eleven, and when they bring you into their synagogues and under the magistrates in power. So it doesn't say if. It says when. It's going to happen. And in our own nation, where we've enjoyed such freedom and such liberty to proclaim the truth, we find people being dragged into the courts because they take a stand for truth. and for righteousness. Indeed, these disciples were fearful, and Christ knew that they were fearful. We find also that they were fearful because they were small Because they were insignificant in the eyes of the world. And that's the second area I'd like us to focus on. First of all, he says, fear not. But then Christ says, Fear not, little flock. And the the Greek scholars, and I am not one, but the Greek scholars tell us that this is what's called a double diminutive. In other words, it could rightly be translated, fear not little, little flock It is not that it's just a little flock, but it's a minuscule flock. And if you you look at the passage in 11, verse 29, and when the people gathered together, thick together, And began to say, he began to say this is an evil generation. And in the first verse of chapter twelve, in the meantime, when they were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people So we see a contrast here. They're troding upon each other, it says, because there were so many of them. They were packed in so thick. And yet Christ is not addressing the whole big crowd and the cacophony around him. He says, Fear not little little flock, you few that know my truth You f few that are of my father. Christ had said to the the Pharisees, ye are of your father the devil. But here he addresses the double diminutive He addresses the little, little flock. They were fearful because they were few. We're few, folks. Those that take a stand for truth and righteousness, we're not the multitude, we're the remnant. We're not the big crowds. Oh, we can we hear of big evangelists. You've probably seen the thing on TV recently that you can send in free for your miracle holy water that w does whatever. That's not us, folks. Folks, we're the little, little flock. Isaiah 1, verse 9. Except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant. We should have been in Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah. Or the feeding of the 5,000. I reference that in prayer, and I often do. A little boy's lunch. Lord, but what are they among so many? What can this little boy's lunch do? But when the little boy's lunch was touched by the master There were twelve baskets left over. Lord, what are we among so many? How can we Show the light of Christ. How can we be as a candle on a candlestick? How can we be as a city set upon a hill where so few were a little, little flock? Fear not. Little, little flock. It's your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And then we think about Elijah running from Jezebel And Elijah's one of my favorites, and if you ask me about to study Bible character, I'll say he's one of my favorites. But Elijah's one of my favorites Oh, what great victory on Mount Carmel. And the next thing he does is he runs for his life and ends up saying, Lord, take my life. I'm not better than my father's. Ah, I think a lot of us can associate with that. We see great triumph of the Lord, and then we fall flat on our face For Elijah says they've killed the prophets, they've torn down their altars, and I alone am the only one left, Lord. There's nobody else that's taking a stand for truth. There's nobody else that's taking a stand for righteousness. And God says, first of all, go back where you came from. I still have me 7,000 that have not bowed the knee. To Baal. Ah, the disciples who are called a little, little flock, and yet little is much when God is In it. He is the great God. Remember, O Gideon? Thirty-two thousand I'm a big Civil War buff and been reading a lot recently About Lee's army at Gettysburg and the the horrific losses and men at that battle. But here is Gideon with 32,000 men. That's a fairly good standing army Only 300 of them were what God left him. You see, our God does not depend on the numbers on which we are so dependent. Our God is not impressed with the big. He speaks in the still small voice, not in the thunder, not in the lightning, not in the earthquake. in all those things. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. It is not because we're lards that we're not consumed. It's not because we're mighty that we're not consumed. It's not because we have some great power. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Lamentations 3, verse Verse 21. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. and base things to the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are, so that no flesh may glory in his presence Fear not. Teeny, tiny, little, little, insignificant flop It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom But then consider further. Christ says it is your father's good pleasure to give. Give you the kingdom. Who is the giver here? It is the Father. It is the one who so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. He gave us His Son. What in comparison? It's the kingdom. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. If you look at verse 2 of chapter 11, we find Christ instructing his disciples in what we call the Lord's Prayer. And then we find in 11, 2 of Luke. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. Did you ever notice that? The first request that is made in the Lord's Prayer is for the kingdom of God. Thy kingdom come. It's before give us this day our daily bread. It's before forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. It's for lead us not to temptation, etc. The first request. Is for the kingdom of God. It's your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. These fearful little sheep These flock are the children of God. The Pharisees that were causing the trouble, they were not the children of God. The lawyers that were making question, even the great multitudes that were troding on themselves, stepping all over themselves, they're not addressed as the children of God. But it is your father's good pleasure. Look at chapter eleven, verse nine. I say unto you, asking ye shall receive, seeking ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. If a son asks bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children. How much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit unto them that ask him? Who is the one that Christ is declaring will give them the kingdom? It is the greatest It is the Father. You see, Christ had told them there in chapter eleven that they Ask of God the Father and He will give them. And then He proceeds in chapter 12 into the illustration of the ravens, the illustration of the lilies of the field. And there among that we had the parable of the man who had for himself all manner of wealth and great riches there in the first part of chapter 12. And he said, I have so much, I'm going to tear down my barns and I'm going to build myself a bigger warehouse. Where I can store all my wealth. What shall profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? So the giver in our text is God the Father. He is the one who will not give us a scorpion when we ask For an egg. He's the one that will not give us a serpent when we ask for a fish. And it's his good pleasure. To give us the kingdom. James 1. 17, every good and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights with me. whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame. He remembers that we are dust. But looking back to our text, and I love taking these verses and dissecting them phrase by phrase. It is your father's good pleasure. It is his good pleasure to give us the kingdom. It is not a begrudging gift It is not something that is given out of obligation. I won't ask you to raise your hands, but how many have ever gone to a birthday party with a gift you didn't really want to give? Well, we know what it is to give out an obligation. Well, you know, this is the event, and so we have to bring a gift, and that is the origin of re-gifting. Because there is an obligation to give a gift and the heart isn't really there, but you know, we can't show up without a gift. That is the hundred and eighty degree opposite of what we are told here. It is his good pleasure to give us The kingdom. It is with great joy that God the Father gives to this little flock the kingdom. Consider with me the good pleasure of God. In Ephesians 1, verse 5, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ unto himself. According to the good pleasure of his will. Ah, what great depths there are in the good pleasure of God The Father. And then again in Ephesians one and verse nine, having predestinated or having made known unto us the mystery of his will according to the good pleasure which he hath purposed. in himself. And then in Philippians 2 verse 13, For it is God which worketh in you both the will and the do according to his good pleasure. And then 2 Thessalonians 1 verse 10 and following, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints and to be admired in all them that believe, because our testimony among you is believed in that day. Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all his good pleasure. and work of faith with power, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and ye in him according to the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ It's his good pleasure. But there's even a touch more that we can should consider when we figure that it is God's good pleasure to give us the kingdom Remember in Proverbs eight and verse thirty where we have that glorious testimony of the Son of God preincarnate of the Of Jesus Christ before he was known by that name. And there he says, I was with him at creation, and I was daily his delight. You see, Jesus Christ, the incarnate Christ, incarnate, the pre-incarnate Christ The second person of the Trinity, who is God and was God and was with God, declares that he was ever the delight of the Father. And I would submit to you that that same delight which God the Father takes in his Son is the same good pleasure with which he gives good gifts. gifts to his children. It is his good pleasure to give us the kingdom. But then finally, we find in the passage that it is the kingdom that's been spoken of. And we note it already there in uh the beginning of chapter eleven, that the first request in the Lord's Prayer was, Thy kingdom come. It was the kingdom that was being spoken of. And if you look down to verse 19 of chapter 11, we find the kingdom reference again in 1119, and if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore shall they be your judges. But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you. When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. But when st a stronger But when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he taketh away from him all his armor, wherein he trusteth and divideth his spoils. Here the Pharisees were accusing Christ of casting out devils by the devil, casting them out by Beelzebub. And Christ says, you know, if I cast out devils by the power of God with the finger of God, the kingdom of God has come among you. For when one who is strong is encountered by one who is stronger, the stronger will win. My friend, we face we face a very strong foe. And we're told not to speak evil of principalities and powers and our our adversary the devil is indeed a roaring lion and he has sharp teeth and he has long claws but greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And a stronger has come. And by his coming we have evidence that his kingdom is coming. And I don't mean to get into all the theological understanding of what the kingdom of God is. That's a widely disputed and vast topic. But I would briefly just summarize what the kingdom of God is that Christ has promised to the little, little flock. In just two elements. First of all, the kingdom of God, as spoken here, is the rule of God and the affairs of men. Satan's the God of this world. And he is very active in this world. There is no out about it. And we see his works all around us. And yet at the same time we can sing with full of confidence, confidence, this is my Father's world. And though Satan does his work among men, yet he is a defeated foe. On the cross, Christ declared it is finished. And what he declared was finished was the salvation of man's souls and the reign of Satan over the souls of his own election. Fear not little flock. Though the scribes and Pharisees rage, though religion seems to turn against us, and political environment seems to turn us And though we wonder where our future is, and uh is our secure our retirement secure, and all these things that crowd in among us Fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. He rules in the affairs of man. But then further, the kingdom of God is the future rule of God over all things. And Christ there spoke of the strong man who, when a stronger comes in, he takes away his armor. The lion will be declawed. The teeth of the roaring lion are broken, and our God rules over all. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe it. In God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also Also, I love the words of the old hymn, and with this I'll close the hymn by Isaac Watts. My shepherd will supply my need. Jehovah is his name. In pastures fresh he makes me feed beside the living streams. He brings my wandering spirit back when I forsake his way, And leads me for his mercy's sake. And paths of truth and grace. When I walk through the shades of death, thy presence is my stay. One word from thy supporting breath. drives all my fears away. Thy hand in sight of all my foes, Doth still my table spread, My cup with blessing overflows. Thine oil anoints my head. The sure provisions of our God attend me all my days. Oh, may thy house be my abode, and all my work be praise. There would I find a settled rest, while others come and go, no more a stranger or a guest. But like a child at home. Fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Let us pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father. Lord, we thank you that you are the great God, the sovereign ruler over all things. And Lord, though the heathen rage and the people imagine the vain things, our God sitting in the heavens shall laugh and have them in the earth. in derision. Father, bless your word to our hearts this day we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen