Bible, I've listed two different texts for our message this morning. I'd like us to turn first of all to Deuteronomy chapter six. And I'll read through that passage, and then after prayer, we'll look at the Mark passage, which will actually be our text for this morning. So turn with me, please, to Deuteronomy chapter 6. And I will read the first nine verses of the chapter. Deuteronomy the sixth chapter, beginning with the first verse. Now, these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go in to possess it. that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I command thee, and thy son, and thy son's son. All the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. Hear therefore, O Israel And observe to do it, that it may be well with thee, that ye may and that ye may increase gr mightily as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee in the land that floweth with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thy house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house. and on thy gates. Spell for prayer as we approach God's word this morning. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Father, we thank you that there is nothing needful for our salvation that is left undone by thee. Father, we thank you that you have saved us not by the works of the law, but by grace. And Father, we thank you that the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. And Lord, we pray that though we are not saved by the keeping of the law, yet you may cause our hearts deeply to understand. That we are still bound by the law of God, for it is righteous, for it is true, and our lives are to be conformed to it daily. And Christ has made it very clear to us that the greatest commandment, the first table of the law. is that we must love the Lord our God with all of our heart, all of our soul, all of our mind, and all of our strength. Lord God, we are weak to fulfill your commands. And we cannot approach them at all unless thy Spirit helps us and works within us and creates within us that new man that alone can seek after God. Father, this morning we pray that your blessed Holy Spirit, the Comforter, the Instructor, would open your word to our understanding. Grant us hearing from thy truth. Lord, improve us in grace. Continue your work day by day of purifying yourself a glorious church without spot, without wrinkle. Lord, we come before you individually and corporately today And we confess that we still have many spots and many wrinkles. Lord, there is still much which the Spirit of God needs to do within our hearts and in our lives. And Father, we pray today that as we in obedience to your word and your will gather for corporate worship, Gather for the preaching of the Word of God, through which faith comes, not in the voice of man, but in the voice of the Spirit speaking through the Word. Father, we pray today that you might make us more like Christ, that you may remove from us more of that old man, and increase within us more of the new man. That we may cry with Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? And then immediately rejoice, for the next words are, I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. We thank you, Father, that Paul immediately answers that question for us. And so now this morning we look on the Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, to continue your purifying work within us. Refine us. Pass us through the lens of your word. Point out to us in our hearts corporately and in our hearts individually. That which is in rebellion against thee, and bring us into conformity to the precious law of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now turn with me to our second text, which is the Mark twelve passage And in Mark 12, we find, first of all, the Sadducees trying to trip up Jesus and to catch him in his words. We find throughout the Gospels that many tried and none were able. They were astonished at his doctrine, even as a twelve-year-old child sitting in the temple. But a certain scribe, having heard Jesus answer the Pharisees, answer the Sadducees, well, he proposes to question Christ also. And we pick up our reading in chapter 12 of Mark and verse number 28. And there we read. And one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together, that is Christ and the Sadducees, having heard them reason together. And perceiving that he had answered them well, asked, Which is the first commandment of all? Jesus answered and said unto him, The first commandment of all is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment, and the second is light, namely this: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth, for there is one God, and there is none other but he. And to love him with all the heart and with the understand all the understanding and with all the soul and with all the strength. and to love his neighbor as himself is more than whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any questions. We have a commandment here. And some people say, well, there are two commandments and Christ only mentions, or sorry, there are ten commandments, and Christ only mentions two. Christ is referring to the two tables of the law. If you look at the commandments, they begin with our relationship to God. Thou shalt have no gods before me. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. And then what we refer to as the second table of the law deals with our relations with mankind. Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not murder, thou shalt not steal, etc. So Christ here is summing up the law for this scribe. Now a scribe would know the law very well, because his entire occupation was to copy it, hence the name, a scribe. He was one who was very well versed in the law, even to the jot and the tittle. That was his daily occupation. Which is the greatest commandment? What is that which is most incumbent upon us? As mankind in general, and as the children of God in particular. Well, the commandment we find here is that thou shalt love the Lord thy God. With all thy soul, mind, and strength. Why is this commandment the first? Well I found a beautiful summary to answer that question, and I don't know where I found it. Because I came across this well over 20 years ago, and it's in stacks of notes that I've kept. So I wish I could credit another man. These are not my own thoughts. Not to credit man. I'm sorry, I misspoke the way I said that. But you understand what I'm saying. I don't claim that this is original to me. But the thought is this: it's the first and greatest commandment in its origin. Because everything else that we know and believe about God must originate in our love for Him. If we do not love him, we've never been saved. If we do not love him, we have no part in his redemption. If we do not love him, we have no concept of our own guilt. Because if we have a concept of our own guilt, we realize that he He's the only one who can forgive our guilt, and therefore I must love him. I must adore him. And so in its origin, this command to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, it's the foundation of everything. It is the greatest in its antiquity, and first in its antiquity. In the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve knew what it was to truly love the Lord their God with all their heart, with all their soul, with all their mind, and with all their strength. And I would tell you today that there's not a human on earth who truly loves God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength. We all have divided loyalties of some degree or another. But not Adam. Adam dwelt in perfect fulfillment of this commandment. And Adam walked with God in the garden. It's greatest in its dignity, for no other command points out the life that life is all about God. No other commandment points out that life is all about God. What is life about? It's about God. It came from Him. It's not about my job. It's not about my problems. It's not about my Plans and ambitions. It's not about my family. It's not about anything. It's about God. Before anything else, this life is about God. How quickly all these little things come in and start to nibble at the edges. But thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, with all thy soul, with all thy strength. It's the greatest in its dignity. This is the greatest commandment in its excellent It is the commandment of the new covenant. Oh, but Pastor, wait a minute, we're talking about the law. How can that be the new covenant? This is the commandment of the new covenant. Because it is a commandment for the believer. The unbeliever cannot love God. The unbeliever hates him. The unbeliever is his enemy. The unbeliever despises him Ah, but this is the commandment of the new covenant. Because those that are brought into the glorious covenant of grace, they alone can love God. This is the greatest commandment in its sufficiency. It satisfies all. If you look there to our text in Mark 12, verses 33 and 34. Here the scribe is replying to Christ, and there's a few words here in this verse that just jumped out at me this week as I was studying this passage, starting again in verse 33. The scribe is repeating the words of Christ, and he says, to love him with all his heart, and with all his understanding, and with all his soul, with all the strength. And to love his neighbor as himself is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifice. You see, this scribe has been brought to understand that fulfilling the perfect law of God is not burnt offerings. It's not sacrifices that make a man just with God. But rather, it is this love of God, which the unbeliever cannot have. Rather, it is fulfilling this commandment, not in the old man, but in the new man. And what does Christ say to him when he answers that way? You are not far from the kingdom of God. The Spirit of God is working in your heart. Flesh and blood hath not revealed this. Oh, do you see the glorious efficiency that is expressed in this commandment? Oh, it is not that I am saved because I love him. It is that I love him because he is saved. Because I am saved. He has embraced me in his glorious salvation. He has cleansed my heart. He has washed away the leprosy of my sin. And oh, oh, how I love him. And oh, that my love for him might truly be an undivided love. Oh, that my love for him might truly be a love that comes from every cell within my body. This is the greatest commandment in its faithfulness. It is the root out of which all commandments grow. It is the first table of the law. It is the first and greatest commandment in its virtue and its efficiency. By this commandment alone, God reigns in the heart of man. It is the greatest in its extent. It leaves nothing unchanged in the creature. And it is the greatest and first in its necessity. We must have it above all. Now, we are in the month of February, and February is the month in which our pagan world celebrates Valentine's Day. And I've expressed to you before that I am not impressed with Valentine's Day. It comes in its origins from pagan practices. But men, if you forget to buy a card and buy flowers, don't blame me. Don't say, well, Pastor Joe said that it was a pagan holiday anyway, so I'm off the hook. No It is fitting that in the month of February we express our love for those that we love. And so don't blame me. But in this month of February, I want to focus on this matter of love. And this morning we're beginning the first Sunday of the month by considering love to God. And later in the month, we're going to be considering the characteristics of love. How does love behave itself? And then also considering the love of the brethren. How are we as the body of Christ to behave with and engage with one another? And so that's kind of the Roadmap for our consideration for the month of February. What is love? What is it that this commandment Is requiring of us as the children of God. Well, the word we use in English for love has several different words in the Greek and the Hebrew and the Aramaic. But essentially, this word here in Mark chapter twelve means, you ready for it? Love. To love. It means to embrace with all the emotion, energy, and vigor of the soul. Now, how does a child know how to love? Well, the child learns by example. A child learns to love as a loving mother or father, embraces that child, and demonstrates that child, teaches that child firsthand what love is. And how do we know what love is? Because God has demonstrated His love toward us again and again. This word love, in this context where it says, thou shalt love, is linked with another word, which is a word of intensity. In other words, it's not the idea that you just love a little bit, but when it has the shout in front of it. That word focuses in the intensity and the scope of what is saying. It's not just thou shalt love. It is thou shalt love. It's a command. And it's a command which carries with it the idea that this is an entire intensity of love. This is an active love. This is a love that is a demonstrated love. It's not just, oh yeah, I love God. Because that's the way most of the world looks at it, isn't it? And that's the way a lot of the church looks at it. Oh yeah, we love God. We go to church every Sunday But that is not the love of God at all. That is the soothing of a conscience. That is the form of godliness that denies the power thereof. But this word is a word of vehemenance. I can't say it, but you know what I mean what I'm trying to say. Love the Lord thy God. Oh, sweetheart, yeah, I love you so much. I think if you tell your wife you love her that way, she's not going to believe you She's not going to think you really mean it. But that's the way we treat the love of God, isn't it? Oh, may we love him actively. May we love him with intensity. May we love him with the fullest of adoration. Oh, how I love him. But on the one hand, we say it is an active word But then without contradiction, we say it's also a resting word. You see, there are things that we are active in, but we always have to be chasing them down. There are things that we may always have to pursue, but then there are other things that we just rest in because they surround us. Because it's not something we have to work at. We rest in this love And yes, we nurture it and we exercise it. And yet, if you are truly a child of God, it's there. Oh, it needs refinement, certainly. We always need to love him more. But if you love him, that love abides in your heart. It rests within you. And I think the best way to illustrate that is just read to you. From Proverbs chapter 31, verses ten and eleven, who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies, the heart of her husband doth safely rest. In her. Now, what does that verse mean? The husband doesn't suspect anything about her. The husband doesn't think, does she really love me? The husband doesn't think, is she going to love me today and not tomorrow? No, the heart of the husband safely rests in her. Oh, what a glorious description of the love that God has for us and the love that God puts in our hearts for Him within the true believer. Rested God. Forsake God? It is the furthest thing from the nature of the believer that there could be. He will never leave me nor forsake me. How could I ever leave him or forsake him? And we must be careful. That's not a boast that we make. But him that thinketh that he stands, take heed lest he fall. It's not that we're saying, oh, well never I'll never deny the because Peter made that mistake But oh, within the heart of the true believer is such a love for him that to depart from him is just so unthinkable. Whither shall we go? To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ. The heart of the believer safely rests in God But it also indicates, this love indicates that the person who loves eagerly embraces and vigorously holds fast to the word. one who is loved. When you walk through a crowd with a small child, why do you hold on to their hand tightly? Because you want to squeeze their hand? No. Because you love them. When your infant child is sick Nigh in the death, and I know some of us have faced that. Why is it your heart cries out, Lord, take me and not him? Because we love that child. For me to live is Christ And the dais came. You see, the this love is a love that embraces and holds on and gives up anything, sacrifices anything, anything in the world for the one whom I love. It's the intensity of love. And then finally, this love is an unchangeable love It's a love that never changes. Most of us have at one time or another loved someone on this earth And if we're honest with ourselves today, we don't love them anymore. Most of us have had someone who was very dear to us at one time. And that emotional relationship is now broken. It is gone. It is passed on. But this love that we're to have for God is an unchangeable love. In Psalm 31, verse 16, the psalmist says, Make thy face to shine upon thy servant, and save me for thy mercy's sake. And it's a good translation. It's a good translation. But a lot of times I like to look at the subordinate translations of different passages. And the subordinate translation, in other words, the minor translation, many times in scripture there'll be a way that a passage is translated the majority of the time. But then there'll be a few other times that that same phraseology is translated another way. And I like to look at that because I think it gives more meaning to every verse. But the alternate translation to save me for thy mercy's sake is save me for thy unfailing love. And you can see how those two phrases are very closely related. That mercy's sake there in Psalm 31 indicates a permanence. It's mercies that never fail, is another way to express it. God's love for me is an unfailing love. It is an eternal love. It's an unchanging love. If I truly love God, I won't love Him today and not love Him tomorrow. You see, the reason that many of those relationships that we have had with others That we now won't no longer would say that we love them is because they did something cruel to us. That individual somehow harmed us or hurt us. And our love for them changed and their love for me changed. God's love for me will never change in spite of what I do. And if you are truly a child of God, your love for Him will never change in spite of what you go through. Have you ever heard people say, you know, God forsook me in my problems? I loved God until I lost my job. I loved God until this Sickness came into my body. I loved God until this tragedy came along. I love God until some preacher disappointed me. I loved etc, etc. You see, if your love for God is a change of changeable love, you've never known the love of God You've never been immersed in that true love. And so that is the love that we are commanded to have. What are the conditions that are laid out in this commandment? What are the specifics? What's the nitty-gritty? Well, first of all, we're to love God with all of our heart. And I know some of this sounds repetitious because it's it all is very closely interwoven. But to love God with all the heart His to love nothing in comparison with him. If any man forsake not his father and his mother, his wife, and children, Not fit for the kingdom of God. And Scripture in another place says, if we hate not, does that mean we're supposed to hate our parents? Honor thy father and thy mother. We have a contradiction, don't we? No, it's a comparative phrase. I love my family. And I love my pet snake. So, Pastor, what are you are you putting those two on the same sentence? What lunacy! No, I don't love my pet snake. It's a snake. Who could love a snake? You see, it's a comparative thing here. If we truly love God, the love of everything else is just, it's it's hardly even called love. We're to love God with all of our heart. Lay now for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt And where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. And the most important part is the last phrase: for where your treasure is. There will your heart be also. You see, if we love the things of this world, our treasure is here, and our heart is here. As well. But we're to love him with all of our heart. And if we do, when the house burns down, we haven't lost everything. You ever hear that expression? The house burned and they lost everything. When our loved one dies When our health is gone, when our position in society is destroyed, when our reputation is taken away When our means of income is gone, all we have lost are the things of this world. But if we love God with all of our heart and all of our soul and all of our mind and all of our strength, we've lost trinkets. compared to treasure. Because where the heart is, there is the treasure, or where the treasure is. There is the heart also. We're supposed to love God with all of our heart. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto sc salvation. To love God with all the heart, soul, mind, and strength is to have everything in our lives regulated by that love. It's not a wonderful at a football game today. A lot of people in this world love football They love it so much that the Sabbath day means nothing to them. It was mentioned in the prayer room this morning that most of the world calls this Super Bowl Sunday. We call it the Sabbath of the Lord. You see, what do you love? And half the world will cry tonight, and the other half will rejoice. And who knows which half it'll be and what difference does it make. You see To love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength is to love Him with an undivided love. To love Him with a love that regulates everything in our lives. My life is regulated by my love for my family. There are a lot of things I'd love to go do. But I have an obligation to them, don't I? I love them. And I will lay down my life for them. I will change my plans for the future to meet their needs. That's why we say in the marriage vows, in sickness, and in health. I will regulate my life according to the needs of my family because I love them. Do we view our love of God that way? Do we regulate our lives according to the love of God or according to the love of ourselves? Do we regulate our lives according to the love of God or according to the love of pleasure? Do we regulate our lives according to the love of God or according to Lord According to the love of the filthy lucre of this world, how much can I gain? What reputation can I have? What prominence can I attain? All the neighbors got a new car. Why'd they do that? Now I've got to get one too. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. And with all my strength. The first condition is to love God with all the heart. And this is the love of God, and I've told you before that three to four pages of notes is usually about the sermon time we have, and I have eight this morning. So I won't go into every detail, but consider Daniel. I was going to turn and read the passage, but you know the passage. Daniel, stop praying. Don't pray to any God but the king. And when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house another time, the open of his windows, and knelt three times a day and prayed. The lions are waiting for you, Daniel. My God, shut the mouth. See, Daniel knew the love of God in adversity. Adversity. He loved God with all his heart. So it didn't matter what the king said. Didn't matter what the lions were if the lions were hungry or not. He was going to serve the Lord as God and nothing else. Peter and John don't preach in the name of Jesus anymore. Whether it be good to you or not, we will preach Christ and Him. Crucified. Lord, behold their threatenings. Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak thy word. It doesn't matter what trial may come. First, we're required to love God with all of our heart. But also we are commanded to love him with all of our soul. And literally it means to love God with All of our way of life, everything that is within us, all of our emotions, all of our thoughts, the soul, the inner man, the controlling feature, the steering wheel of our lives. To love him with that too. To love him from the inner man. For me to live is Christ and to die. That's a testimony of a man that loved God with all of his soul. I have a desire to depart But for you it's needful to remain. Paul said, I don't want to in essence I don't want to put up with you anymore. I'm gonna go be with the Lord. But it's needful for you that that I dwell here. God still has Has a work for me to do. He loved God with all of his soul. The blood of the martyrs Testifies in Revelation 12 and verse 11, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of his testimony, for they loved not their lives unto death. And we could safely stay from that. They loved him with all their soul. They loved him with the inner man, and it didn't matter what happened to the body. We're to love God with all the mind, and I went past soul a little bit quickly because I want to spend a little time here. To love God with all the mind. It is to apply yourself to know God and His holy will. It is to submit yourself with gratitude and pleasure to the sacred truth which God has revealed to man. What do you think about, folks? What occupies your mind? Oh, so many things. I don't know if you any of you have a penchant for numbers, but for some odd and sickening reason, numbers tend to stick in my head. I can recite for you the part numbers of all kinds of Lionel trains. What a nonsense piece of knowledge Why can't I remember scripture references the same way? And I said it to my shame. I can quote the verse, but don't ask me where it is, because I can't tell you the reference. Folks, it shouldn't be that way. You see, the things that our mind are truly interested in stick The things that our mind are truly engaged in, we can recall those pretty easily. We're called upon, not called upon, that's the wrong phrase. We're commanded to love the Lord our God with all of our mind. And so what are we putting into our mind? What are we doing with our mind? What are we doing with the intellect that God has given us? If you look back to the text again, in Mark 12, I'll read 32 and 33. And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth, for there is one God, and there is none other but He, and to love him with all thy heart, and with all the understanding. Isn't it interesting that the scribe here interpreted that for us? To love him with the understanding. In other words, to have our intellect educated by God. To be educated in this truth. Study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman that needeth not to be ashamed. Rightly. dividing the word of truth. We've all done a five-minute study and then failed a test and wondered why that happened. I thought I knew that. I thought I had it all nailed down. I studied. But then I think most of us have had a test at some time or another where we really applied ourselves. Boy, we dug in deep. And we reviewed it, and we reviewed it, and we read it, and we studied it, and we studied it. And the result of the test didn't surprise us a bit Because we we'd prepared. We had put in what we needed to put in. We truly love the Lord our God with all of our mind. Proverbs 4, verse 23: Keep thy heart with all diligent, for out of it are the issues of life. Psalm 139, 23, and 24: Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my thoughts. and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Flip back with me. I know our time is getting away, but flip back with me to the responsive reading this morning. And you may notice we don't always take a responsive reading from the book of Psalms. I like to try to have the responsive reading often in some way complement the message. Look with Proverbs chapter 2, and we're not going to read it responsibly again, but I want to read to you the first five verses of Proverbs 2 and put some emphasis on specific words. Proverbs two verse one. My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandment with thee, so that thou incline thine heart unto wisdom, and apply thy heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Love the Lord with all your mind. There's an intensity there. Remember we said this word love is a word of intensity. There's an intensity there. There's an application of all the intellect that God has given us to spiritual things, to memorizing his word. Don't raise your hands, but how many of you were in a memory program this year? How many of you have laid out before you verses that I need to memorize that verse this year? I need to study it. Folks get a three by five card or something and read it every day. If you drive to work, you know Play scripture verses. There's all kinds of CDs and things. You can use your iPad, whatever, to have scripture. If you listen to it over and over and over and over again, and your mind thinks on it, before long you'll be able to recite it. Why do we sing the Psalms? We sing the Psalms because they are the inspired Word of God. And yes, we had them in a paraphrased form in our Psalter. But I guarantee you, sometime in deep distress, sometime in discouragement, sometime in trial, the words of one of these psalms we learn from our Psalter will come to your heart and it'll bless your soul. And you'll find yourself driving down the road all burdened with everything that's happening, and suddenly you'll find yourself singing a psalm. And if you look at the Psalms, you find David in deep distress. And by the end of most of those Psalms, he's rejoicing in the goodness of God. We need to love God with all our mind. He needs to capture our thoughts. To love God with all the mind is to think on Him all the time. To love God all the mind with all the mind is to meditate on Him continually. To love God with all the mind is to be continually engaged in prayer. To love God with all the mind is to fill the mind with the understanding of His Word. To love God with all the mind is to guard the mind against the things of this world. And oh, we really ought to spend a full message there. Because there's so many things that should not be in our minds There are so many things that fill our minds with junk and garbage and filth But the man who truly loves God with all this mind protects that mind just the way the husband protects his heart for his wife. Guards it. Paul said of those that hated Christ that they mind earthly things. But then in 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 16, he said, We have the mind of Christ. Love the Lord with all your mind. So we're to love you with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind. And we're to love God with all of our strength. And isn't it interesting that the scribe asks Christ only about the first and greatest commandment? Which is the first and greatest commandment. And Christ told him to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, mind, soul, and strength. But then Christ continued, and the second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. And you see, if we truly love God with all of our strength, we'll love our neighbor as well. Because to love God with all of our strength is to pour the energy of our lives into the service of our God. How many days are you going to live? Well, none of us knows. We all have an expiration date. God knows when it is But how many days do you have? How many days will you be around the throne of God? How long is eternity? Folks, this is our chance. This is the time. It is now To love God with all of our strength is to pour every ounce of our strength into his service. To serve him every day and to serve him in every way. We're commanded to love the Lord our God with all of our strength. Now, I still have two and a half pages and another point to go. What is the cause to obey this commandment? Why should we obey this commandment Turn back with me to Deuteronomy chapter 6. And I promise we won't. We won't tarry long. But why is it that we are to love the Lord our God with all of our heart? with all of our soul, with all of our mind, and with all of our strength. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4 Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. And these words which I have commanded thee shall be in thine heart. Why do we love him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength? Because the Lord our Lord is one Lord. The Lord our God is one God. Literally, it is Jehovah, our Elohim is one Jehovah. And in the New Testament, it's Curios and Adonai that are used there. And I would love to go off on a 20-minute tangent on this, but let me just simply say that all of those terms, curios Adonai, Lord, God, Elohim, they are all masculine nouns. They're not neuter nouns. They're not feminine nouns. They are masculine nouns. And so we don't talk about our mother God, and it's blasphemous even to use those words. It is our Father God. And we call a He a He and a She a She. And there are no She-Men. God made man in his own image. God created them male, masculine, and female, feminine. And God told them to be fruitful and multiply. And it all goes back to the very name of God. These are masculine nouns that we find In Scripture. Why are we to love him? What is the cause to obey this? Because Jehovah Our Elohim is one Jehovah. If you don't worship him, you're If you worship any other God but him, you're not worshiping a God capital G, you're worshiping a God small G. And there's no small g in Jehovah. There's one God. There is not a pluricity of gods. You see, the children of Israel, when they were given this commandment, were dwelling in a land with multiplicities of gods. And when Paul got to Mars Hill, he found all these different gods And he told him there's one God. There's one God, and there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And if you don't love him, you love Satan. This text could be developed into two or three or four or a hundred messages. The Lord our God is one. He is one masculine God. We love him alone because he is the one Lord. We love him because he is love. We love him because he has shed his love abroad in our hearts. We love him because he first loved us. Why does the child love the parent? Think about that. Why does the child love the parent? Well, because the parent has loved the child and the child has learned love from the parent. Your child may meet a total stranger in the grocery store and they may talk to that stranger and may have very cute and interesting re interaction between your your toddler and someone they've never met before in a in a grocery store. I had one of those. I just talked to everybody. But he didn't love them. He was just acquainted with them. Are you just acquainted with God? Or do you love him? We see we love him because he first loved us. The cause to obey this commandment is because he is God and He is one. The calls to obey this commandment is because he has loved us first, and we love him in response. And then finally we'll conclude with this. The calls to love him is because we are forgiven much. And here I had intended to go another half an hour into the woman in Luke chapter 7, the sinful woman who anointed the feet of Christ. And she wept and washed his hair with her tears, washed his feet with her tears, and dried them with her hairs And the disciples rebuked her, she's a sinful woman. But Christ's response was: her sins, which were many, are all forgiven. She's forgiven much. She loves much. Why do we obey this command? Because he alone is God. Because he first loved us. And because we. are forgiven so much. Ah, friend, brethren, do you love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength If you say yes, I don't believe you. Because none of us love God as we should. But oh, may He teach us to love Him more. Oh, may we apply ourselves to keep this glorious first and greatest O Lord, the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge if one died for all, then all needed his redemption. We thank you for the great love of God. We thank you that we are embraced by that love. Father, help us to love you more. Father, may this text ring in our ears throughout this week. Lord, as temptation comes, may we love you with our mind. As opportunity comes, may we love you with our strength. As we meditate on you day by day, may we love you with our soul. And Lord, when all the things of this world are piled in a rotting heap. May we love you with all of our hearts. Continue your work of making us like Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.