Uh one of those romantic novels out there. Uh the Holy Spirit knows how to express things in such a manner that we don't find it a carnal rendition of a very carnal And I think that you'll note that. This is a this is a horrible passage to read, and yet God knows how to write it in such a way that It remains a holy passage. Second Samuel chapter thirteen verses one through twenty. And it came to pass after this that Absalon, the son of of David had a fair sister or a beautiful sister. Today the word fair doesn't denote the same thing. Someone arranged a date for you and say, what's she looked like? She's fair. That's not quite the thing thing is connoted here. She was a beautiful lady, beautiful young lady, whose name was Tamar, and Amnon, the son of David, loved her. And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick or lovesick for his sister, Tamar. For she was a virgin, and Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything to her. But Ammon had a friend whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shemiah, David's brother. So they were cousins. And Jonathan's cousin was a very subtle or crafty man. And he said unto Ammon, Why art thou being the king's son, lean or losing weight from day to day? Wilt thou not tell me? And Ammon said unto him, I love Tamar. My brother Absalom's sister. I'm just in love with her. He's lusting her is what he means by lust. And Jonathan said unto him, Lay thee down on thy bed, and make thyself sick. And when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto him, I pray thee, let my sister tamar come Come and give me meat and dress me the meat in my sight that I may see it and eat it at her hand. That'll make me Better. So Ammon lay down and made himself sick, and when the king, that is David, was come to see him, Ammon said unto the king, I pray thee, let Tamar, my sister, come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight that I may eat of her hand. And David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to thy brother Amoth's house and dress in meat. And so Tamar went to her brother Amoth's house and He was laid down. And she took flour and kneaded it, and she made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes, and she took a pan and poured them out before him, but he refused to eat And Ammon said, have all men from me. And all the men went out, every man from him. And then Ammon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, that is his bedchamber, the inner chamber, that I may eat of thine hand. And Tamar took the cakes which he had made and brought them into the chamber to Ammon her brother. And when she brought them on to him to eat, he took hold of her and said unto her, Come and lie with me, my sister. And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me, for no such thing ought to be done in Israel. Do not thou this folly, and that word folly there means wickedness or evil. And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go? And as for thee, thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel Now therefore I pray thee, speak unto the king, that is David, our father, for he will not withhold me from me Howbeit he would not hearken unto her voice, but being stronger than she forced her and lay with her. And then Ammon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. And Ammon said unto her, Arise, be gone. And she said unto him, There's no cause. This evil in sending me away is greater than the other that thou hast done unto me. But he would not harm. And then he called his servant that ministered on him and said, Put now this woman out from me and bolt the door after her And she had a garment of diverse colors upon her, for with such robes were the king's daughters that were virgins appareled And then the servant brought her out and bolted the door after her. And Tamar put ashes on her head and rent her garment of diverse colors that was on her, and laid her hand on her head and went on crying. And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Ammon thy brother been with thee? But hold now thy peace, my sister, he is thy brother. Regard not this thing. Easy for him to say. And so Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. Absalon, the son of David, had a fair or a beautiful sister, Tamar. I've lived long enough to know that beauty is sometimes a very difficult thing to handle. If God has blessed you with attractiveness, whether you're a man or a woman, it can be a difficult thing to handle. I I remember years and years ago when I was in the Marine Corps, I I was seated on an airplane next to a blonde and that's in the days when the the commercial on TV for some of you might remember it, uh with the Clarol commercial to dye your hair because blondes have more fun. And so striking up a conversation with her, I said, Is it true the blondes have more fun? And she said, Yes And as a young Marina I began to salivate at that thought and then she rolled up her sleeve and she showed me where she'd tried to commit suicide and her wrists were slashed. She said says we also have more problems. And the conversation got lean and quiet. And the Lord taught me me something that day. People who have lots of fun, play the life of a fool or folly, have far more problems. Beauty is hard to handle. It requires a double caution lest you fall into a multiple of temptations that others may not. And also we read here of Tamar in verse 2 that not only was she a fair sister, but she was a virgin. And unless someone can find something, I'm willing to be taught this morning. As near as I can tell from the scriptures I've been reading over, Tamar is David's only daughter. He is his little girl Just like Uriah the Hittite only had one wife, whom David, using the authority of his crown, took. David's daughter Daughter, his only daughter, is about to be forced as well. Tamar, the only daughter of David, was a virgin. It says in verse 2, she had been diligently protected by her father. The job of every father. She dressed in a fashion. We read there in those verses that we just read that she wore the diverse color of the robe, the apparel of a virgin. of royalty of the king. She she dressed in such a fashion that we would say she is was abstaining all appearance of evil, as we read in First Thessalonians 5 and 22. And she dressed that way lest she would encourage the improper advances of an ungodly man, and that's what happens if we don't dress in a in a means to abstain from the appearance of evil, we will encourage the ungodly. They look at you as bait. And the one way you dress, if you're a fisherman, well, if you put a if you put a if you dress the hook with a worm, you'll attract perch If you dress the hook with the minnow, you will attract walleye or northern pike. It's the way you dress the hook that determines what you will catch. And so if we dress in an appearance that does not abstain from evil or appearance of evil, we will attract the evil. Will attract the ungodly. And Tamar here, she dressed in the fashion of a royal virgin in a diverse colored robe, it says here in these verses. And she did not want to encourage the improper, and her father did not want to encourage the improper advance of the ungodly, nor did she want to be one who caused a brother in Christ to stumble, to stumble. Romans 14 And twenty-two. Yet Ammon, the son of David, was loves For his sister. Now, don't get me wrong, brothers. You should love your sister. You shouldn't be beating on your sister. You shouldn't be mean to your sister. But this was a carnal love that he had for her And he had a friend, a cousin, who found out about it, what was going on. His name was Jonadab. And he said unto him, Why art thou lean? And he says, I love Tamar. And I want you to note something here, young ladies. The word love. I love Tamar. Ladies By the time you reach fourteen or fifteen or eighteen or twenty, you're gonna have had a half a dozen guys tell you, I love you. What's wrong if I love you? If we love each other, isn't it okay? The word love used by young men is used to excess your virtue ladies they think it's a magic word and it often is when a young fellow tells you he loves you talk to mom and and dad about his use of that word. And mom and dad will probably tell you, you know, I thought I loved your father when I married him. And it wasn't until we've been married for seven or eight years I found out what love Means. Now when I say to my husband or you say to your wife, I love you, they know it's a deep, agape, spiritual love When a young man or a young lady tells professes her love for someone, they don't know what love is. They only know that it is the key, the act Access to a virtuous heart. That's the one thing they do know. It can't be wrong if we're in love If you're really in love, you would want to sacrifice and lay down your life for the one you're professing your love to. And it will take decades Decades before many are willing to really lay down their life and sacrifice. Some breaking of the house you read often times how the uh the wife is abandoned. I if I didn't do this or didn't do that, I would do whatever he wanted. Well I he said But we know what they do, they tie the husband up and then what? They rape the wife. We have to be willing to die for our wives, suspecting that they're up to no good. And that's love. Willing to lay down a life for a friend. Greater love at no man than this, Christ said. But that you're willing to lay down your life for a friend. That's love. The fellow that tells you he loves you, and then in five minutes later you're arguing about whether you're gonna go to McDonald's or Chick-fil-A. He doesn't love you. He won't lay down his life for you. So this friend Jonadab, hmm, some friend. Had he been a good friend and a good cousin, he would have proclaimed to I'm then immediately. That's an offensive thing you just told me. That you have a lust for your sister? That's disgusting. That would have been a friend That would have been a friend. Or perhaps if he goes on further and said, Do you realize that King David will find that repugnant? Do you realize that King David will find that disgusting? What you want to do With his little girl as her brother, that would have been a friend. Or how offensive it is to the Word of God, and how offensive will be to your souls, eternal shame. And do you know what this will do to your soul for all eternity? And before the people of Israel, what they will think of you? That would have been a friend. Jonadab was not a friend. Well, he was his friend, all right, but he wasn't a good friend. You have a good friend this morning. The c the cutting, I wish I could remember the exact words in Proverbs, but it talks about the the cutting marks of a friend are more precious than the kisses of an enemy. Do you have a good friend that tells you when you are disgusting, when you are wrong? When you are flagrantly violating the word of God or the words of your parents, do you have someone like that? If you don't, you're without a friend that sticketh closer than a brother The Lord Jesus Christ, you know what he'd have said to this man? He'd have said, Go and sin no more. How often do we tell that to someone who tells us something they've just done? Or they're contemplating doing. Christ is a friend that sticketh closer to the brother. He would tell us you're a sinner. Yeah, he sat down with sinners and he instructed them Not to do it again. Note here is that godly parents, the followers of Christ, are often afflicted with a wicked child. Jacob had twelve kids, and boy, they certainly were some imperfect children among Jacob's household wasn't there. Adam and Eve had several children. Seth Cain and Abel. You're often a godly family, can often be afflicted with a wicked child. Grace does not run in the bloodline we've heard that before. Grace does not run in the bloodline, but corruption does. Depravity does run in our bloodlines. What we call original sin. Every child we give birth to is going to have that corrupt, depraved nature at birth Ammon certainly had it. Ammon, you'll find here, did not imitate David in his devotions. Rather, he imitated David in his transgressions. And your children are watching you, and they're observing you, whether you're a mother, or father, or uncle, or aunt, they are watching you, and grandparents, they are watching you, and they're going to imitate you, they will walk like you sometimes about isn't that cute? Little Johnny Walps just like his grandfather. You know they imitate us unconsciously and they're more than likely not to inter imitate our devotional life as much as they'll entertain the transgressions of our life. Much more attractive to the sin nature. So pilgrim, are your examples that you are setting what are they like that you're setting before those Coming behind you, or those behind you, or those who are watching, or those who are following you, those who are looking up to you. What kind of examples are we setting for them Ammon had seen his father. He was the eldest. He was the firstborn. He was the oldest. He knew about Bathsheba. And the power of a king to bring any woman into his house and have his way. He was probably looking forward to being the king. He's the firstborn. He is the natural heir of the throne and the crown. And yet Ammon here he makes himself sick. He pretends to be sick. And when the king was come, Ammon says in verses 6 through 10, send my catch this now. Oh father, send my sister. He didn't just call her Tamar. He let his father know it's my sister. Probably his only sister. I can find in the list of names of all the sons only Tamar is mentioned or maybe other daughters. Or I may have missed it, but as far as I can tell, she's the only one. Oh father, send my sister Hmm. That she might make a couple of cakes. And Tamer was sent, and she brought them into the chamber to Amon her brother. brother, into the inner chamber, into the bedroom chamber, bed chamber. The virtuous Tamar. And she was a virgin and she was a virtuous Girl had no idea of what festers in the heart and the thoughts of young men. Because I believe David felt guilty for some of the things he had done. He had done enough that he probably didn't look like like the most angelic individual in the kingdom. And he probably didn't want Tamar to know if if he told her what festered in the hearts of men, young men, she might have thought, and in the thoughts of young men, he says, You mean like you, Dad? He didn't want her to think that he was a dirty old man, so he didn't tell her what is in the hearts and thoughts of young men. And fathers, that is our responsibility, and it doesn't matter. Maybe the wife and the daughter will think you're a dirty old man. So what? You protect her, you put a hedge about her, you forewarn her, you see to it that something like this does not happen. Tamar is not only a virtuous girl, she is naive. Because it seems that she has not been properly taught. Christ you you say, well I think that's going overboard to tell him how wicked the the the hearts and the imaginations, the thoughts of young men are. And I will say this that oftentimes the hearts and the imaginations of young women are also bad and we need to warn our sons. Proverbs talks about the eyes of the woman. Let them not draw you into hell. The pits of hell. We need to warn our children. And if that sounds harsh, then let me tell you what Christ said. I mean, He's the one so loving, He loves everybody So what did Christ say? Christ said this. You dwell among a generation of vipers, Matthew 12, 34. You dwell among a wicked and adulterous generation, Matthew sixteen and four. Paul said there's the people out there, the men out there, the the women out there, they are inventors of evil things, Romans 130, and men of corrupt minds, first Timothy sixteen 5. These are warning the people of what is out there in the world that our children not be naive. and enter into alone some man's house after a date to his apartment and be somehow drawn in to see the etchings on his wall or paint collection in the bedroom. She was naive. She had not been taught. And as well dressed as she was, dressed in the royal robes of diverse colors. Does that remind you of Joseph? How he wore the robe of diverse colors? She wasn't dressed in a seductive manner at all. And so I might say this morning, ladies, does your presence bring out the best in men or the worst? Tamar's presence should have caused and would have caused an Natural person. Their minds when they saw Tamar, their minds were adrift to things that were pure and lovely and of good report and of virtue and praise. Philippians 4 8. Does the way we dress, does that is that what it does when men when men look at us? Do they are their minds drawn to the things that are pure and lovely and of good report and virtue and praise? Or do they hope for a wardrobe malfunction? When they see you. Do they see you and are they reminded of Ruth or Delilah? I know that she was dressed appropriately that day in Ammon's house because in verse two, if you look at the first time, Back at that again. He said, Ammon thought, verse two, it's hard to do anything to her. She's like A nice girl. I mean she's like Ruth. She's like Esther. She's a godly woman. I just can't I can't it's hard to do anything against her. And that you ladies, you ought to make it hard for a guy to even attempt to do, even an ammon to attempt to do anything But Tamar agreed to be alone. He dismissed all the men, and she agreed to bring the meal into his bedchamber. And Ammon began to to think she's interested in me. I knew it. I dismissed the men and she didn't get awkward. I think I gotta leave too. We're all by ourselves. Ask her to bring in the bed into my inner chamber, into the bed chamber. Yeah, she's into me. I can tell. She wasn't And young ladies, sometimes you're not into anybody either, but they like to think you are. And so he thought she was up for a little folly as well. He calls it folly. Her father, King David, apparently had not gotten through to her about the hearts and the thoughts of men. And so Amon it says in verse 11 through 14: He took her and he said, Lie with me, my sister. You know, as he said that, as he said that, lie with me, my how did he even get the word out, sister? He did. He got the that should have restrained him, that should have stopped him And then he's groping and grabbing at her. sickbed. The one who came to nurse him on his deathbed and he's groping and grabbing at her. That's a good indication, by the way, of the reigning power of sin over a Christeless soul when they're groping and grabbing at those who are nursing them under six bed or the deathbed. And I've been in enough hospitals and I've talked to enough nurses and out there in the hallways I've seen the nurses come out disgusted and And you know, telling me that that dirty old man just grabbed me. He's dying of cancer. He's got days left and he's groping me anyway. I said, does that happen often? It happens all the time. I'm sick of it That's a priceless soul. On their sickbed, their deathbed, you know, maybe with hours left, and in the presence of their wife they will do that. That's a glimpse or life of a pastor you maybe haven't seen before. Now, somebody, oh, it must be nice to be a pastor. You can know all the secrets, you get to see and hear all the stuff. It's disgusting what I get to see and hear Ask a nurse sometime. You get friendly with one if you if you have a loved one in the hospital. Ask a nurse sometime. You ever have any problem with the patients? Grabbing you and making an advantage with you. He took hold of her. And she answered, Nay or no, my brother, do not force me. And she used the term brother to remind him, I'm Tell your sister, brother, do not this thing, do not this folly. That should have restrained him as well, and it didn't For no such thing ought to be done in all Israel. Do not this folly, she says, or this it means wickedness as well. Speak unto the king, speak unto our father, for he will not withhold me from thee. And I don't believe she wanted that to happen. Or wanted King David to say, yes, it's okay. I think she was buying time. And he might say, uh, okay, well, if you're up for that, then I'll talk to him and we'll both agree. And she was buying time with that remark She wasn't trying to encourage it anymore. She wanted to find a moment to escape. For surely King David, with all his authority, would not Allow incest in his household. Surely King David would not be like the authorities in the days of Christ when you looked at Pharaoh. Christ said to them, they make the word of God of none effect. Mark seven and verse thirteen. But David would not do that. David would not toss aside the words of Moses. He would not make the words of God of none effect. I believe here she was just trying to buy some time. Leviticus 18, verse 9. Leviticus 18 and verse 29. describes that the act of incest and it says that it is a wicked thing. And again in Leviticus 20 and 17, cursed be he. And in Deuteronomy 27 and 22 The same thing. Cursed is the individual, the brother who would touch his sister, that would approach her with folly in mind. Nevertheless, verse 14, Ammon would not hearken unto her, but forced her Ammon didn't listen to Tamar, nor did Ammon listen to the words of Moses from Leviticus 18, and he knew those words. Leviticus 18 29 says that he that performs such a thing, he shall be cut off from his people. That doesn't mean necessarily be put to death, but he will be cut off from his from his people. That is, he'll be cut off from the land of Israel. He'll be ostracized. He has to leave the nation of Israel. He'll be cut off from his people, his family, his nation, the land of Israel, and from the tabernacle where he might find refugees. repentance and pardon and forgiveness. He is finished. He will not ever wear the crown. He will never sit upon the throne and have But gentlemen, as you well know, and ladies, as you may not know, that carnal drawing of sin And this form of horrible intimacy, it is so strong that men have often given up the crown and the throne of England for a woman. And he's about to do the same thing. And does it. Is there anybody here this morning contemplating some wickedness, some evil, some folly? Maybe not incest, but something else. There will be consequences. And maybe eternal consequences And when the dirty deed was done, verses fifteen and seventeen, Ammon professed again his love for her. No. Ammon hated her and said, Be gone. And he called her servant and said, Put this woman out. And in the original Hebrew, it just says, put this out. Doesn't even call her a woman or a daughter or a sister or David's child. He says, put this out. Just put this out and lock the door after her. He set her outside on the curb like she was a piece of trash. Or garbage. Just put it out. As if she'd initiated this whole episode and now he trashes her. This is a large enough room to figure that someone here has been trashed before by someone that they were dating. Thought nothing of them after abusing them. or using them. Well, let me break it down to where the rubber meets the road for all of us. He trashed her A virgin, godly girl of royalty, who loved the Lord, he trashed her. Do you, people, ever trash other Christians. Anyone here ever treat Christians like they're garbage? Mocking and ridiculing Eternal consequences for that. Think about that. Because he was mocking. And trashing her for being Christlike, for being the Virgin. Is it any wonder in verses eighteen Tamar put ashes on her head. She rent her garment of diverse colors. It mentions that garment for the second time. Laid her hand on her head and went on crying When it says she put her hand on her head and went on crying, she really she put her hand over her face. She was ashamed for anyone to see her. He had so humiliated her. She was she felt so she had done nothing wrong. She'd made she'd missteps, she'd done some things that her father should have warned her to avoid, but she was so ashamed, she covered her face in shame, and she went throwing ashes upon her face. face and on her head and covering her face and she walks out crying and renting her garment for her virtue had been rented She had been her father's favorite. Did I mention that? Tamar She was David's little girl. How do you get that back? Young lady is assaulted, you don't get that back. She lives with those memories and those nightmares and she dreams them and she wakes up dreaming them again and again and again She had been dressed in what we call royal garb or appearance. She wasn't dressed like some fashion plate diva when she went to visit him. But she's mortified and she's crushed. She covers her face. She couldn't show it. She comes to her brother Absalom. You see, Ammon was a half-brother to her. Absalom was a full brother to her, same mother and father. Absalom, her brother, said, Hath Ammon, thy brother, been with thee? What? Does Ammon Absalom know something about Ammon that he never warned his sister about? She comes in crying and weeping, and she's rent her garment. And the first thing Absalom says, you know, we got a lot of brothers here. And he says, Has Ammon been with thee? Again, the way the Holy Spirit. writes things as is not in a carnal manner. His suspicion of Ammon was probably due to the fact that Amnon's Coarse character and carval cranings were renowned and they were much like the sons of Eli. Why didn't Absalom warn his sister Brothers, you've all got a job if you got a sister. You warn your sister. You take care of her. You put a hedge on your bar. If mom and dad don't know who the guy is she's dating You find out. And when you find out, you warn your sister. And young ladies, you listen to your brother. He knows what that guy is saying Absalom disgusted with him that he didn't warn his sister and suspected immediately what had happened and by who So do you warn the ladies in your life, gentlemen, fathers, brothers, all Uncles, do you warn the ladies in your life about the people, places, and predicaments that they must avoid like the plague? It's our job, gentlemen We know what the man with the mind of a young teenager is like. We've been there Someone said that that young men till they eight reach the age of thirty, I think it's more like sixty-eight, but they say until they reach the age of thirty, then ninety percent of the time they think about young girls, and the other ten percent of the time they think about middle aged girls It's undermined. How can it not be undermined? We have the computers and TV and magazines. It's always there. I worked construction for 30 years. Let me tell you what goes on in construction. It's not just the Playboy pinups on the walls. There are people putting up on the walls pinups of the Kmart advertisements and the Walmart advertisements of the Yellow and the JC Penny's magazine pickup It's you can be dressed like royalty and they'll still covet and lust and have plans for you, young ladies. And Absalon he instructs her to hold her peace, regard not this thing. you have to write. Don't tell anybody. The advice is horrendous. That absolutely The advice is contrary to Scripture. It says if your brother trespassed against thee and will not hear thee, and he would not hear Tamar, then take witnesses, and if he neglects to hear them, tell it to the church. Matthew 18. That's what Christ Christ says in verse 15 through 16, it's to be told of the church and he's to be taken care of. Too often we we listen to things that are contrary to Scripture. God wants you to be happy. I've never found that in here. I've heard that he would like you to be content in the state thou art found, and I've heard that he wants you to be holy, but where's the thing? God wants you to be happy all the time That's contrary to scripture. If it feels good, do it. Have you heard that one? Contrary to scripture. Grab all the gusto and life you can get. That includes Tamar. That's contrary to Scripture. His advice is horrendous for not to say anything, to disregard what has happened. He was telling her to disallow her or not to follow the advice of Moses or Christ Jesus. Our Savior. And by following advice contrary to Scripture, verse 20 says it all, Tamar was desolate in her brother Absalom. House. And we never hear of her again in Scripture. Did she just shrivel up and die? Desolate in his house. That's the last thing we hear about Tamar. Perhaps someone told Tamar of one who could make her whole again You read about that in Job 5 and 18, how the Lord can make us whole again no matter what has happened to us. The Lord, even back in Job 5 and verse 18, he was the great physician. who could make us whole again whatever we've been through in life. And this I know that we're whatever any here is struggling with this morning, there is a physician who has a cure For what ails you. Christ can make you whole again. There's no need to be desolate like Tamar was here. There's no reason to go into solitude. And you'll curl up in a ball somewhere and never come out of your shell again. Christ the Lord, who has made the whole, He can make us whole. He's He can make the sick whole, Mark six. He can make the sightless whole, Mark ten. He can make the sinful whole, Mark II. He promises believers that he can make us whole if we go to him this morning. If we go to Christ this morning, he can make us whole whatever the problem is, and we will never need to be desolate like Tamar because he says He will never leave us or forsake us. Go to the Lord Jesus Christ this morning. Whatever ails you. Whatever folly you've been involved with, and he can make you whole. Pray. Father, we thank thee today, not for what happened to Tamar, but that we might learn from it, that we might warn our young daughters and our wives and even our young men to avoid places and people. And predicaments. Oh Lord, may Tamar's experience with folly not go without some positives. May it teach us. May it protect us. May it cause us to love you more and more than you You thought to begin this warning thousands of years before we were even born. We thank you, Lord, that you care that much that you'd use a horrible instance like Tamar to protect our daughters and our wives today. As in Christ Jesus, our Redeemer, our Savior, and great physician, we pray. Amen.