Our Father, we thank you for who you are. We thank you for who we are made in Christ. Father, we thank you that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Father, we do pray today that you would steal our hearts and our minds before you. That you would remove from us all the chaos and concerns of this world, that we might focus our hearts and our minds upon thy word that we might seek Christ and His favor, that we might be improved by Thy grace, that we might be made more like Christ and less like the old man that we fight against. Father, we pray today that your word might have free course and be glorified, and that your Son, Jesus Christ, might be exalted in our midst and estimation. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship Reading from the fourth chapter of the book of Acts in the 13th verse. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. Amen. Please grab your blue song book today. We're going to sing our opening tune. Number sixteen. Praise the Lord, ye heavens adore him. Number sixteen. And our blue songbook. Somebody's ready to praise already. That's right. Number sixteen is our Opening song, all three stanzas today. Praise the Lord we have for him. Praise him angels in the height. Son and Loon. Rejoice before him. Praise him all ye stars of light, praise the Lord, for he has broken words his white voice so bad. All the shepherds shall be promised for their kind. Praise the Lord, for he is glorious. Death is fair. God made his face victorious. Sin and death shall not revail. Praise the God of our salvation, O son white, is our proclaim and another creation. Lord, we all are unto thee, young and more. I praise expressing in my morning. All using we would For thy bone and thy name shall serve me for thee, so honor thy will be done. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Please be seated this time. We have our instruction from our confession today. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning, as we read from the Belgian Confession. We look at the last portion of Article 26 regarding Christ's intercession. It's a good summary of this article that we've been reading. Christian, in what do you believe? What more can be required since Christ Himself saith I am the way and the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me To what purpose should we then seek another advocate, since it hath pleased God to give us his own son as our advocate Let us not forsake him to take another, or rather to speak after another without ever being able to find him. For God well knew when he gave him to us that we were sinners. Therefore, according to the command of Christ We call upon the Heavenly Father through Jesus Christ, our only mediator, as we are taught in the Lord's Prayer. Being assured that whatever we ask of the Father in his name will be granted us When Christ taught his disciples how to pray, it was in a way to address our Father, address the Lord as Father, our Father who art in heaven. And we also read in the scriptures that Christ is the only mediator that's given among men by which we should be saved. And that whatsoever we ask in his name will be granted to us. And therefore, that's always our approach in looking to the Lord. We always look to the one true God that has created heaven and earth, the God of the Bible. We look to him. We don't look to any other God, nor do we seek him or try to get his attention by looking to him through any saint, through any other individual, through any other intercessor. But it's always in Christ's name, in faith of uh what Christ has done in faith of what Christ has proclaimed. The Lord Jesus Christ said He is the way, the truth, and the life He said he's the way, not one of many ways. He said he's the only way. And that's confirmed with the statement that says, No man comes to the Father but by me. So there's really no other option. There's no other choice that we're given. There's no other place to go than to the Lord through the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, I've run into many individuals in my life, sadly, who have said they grew up Christian and yet they're interested in looking into other religions. They want to find out maybe what others have to offer. But this is a sad thing. This is exploring false way, and it's a rejection of the one and only mediator that's given to us, by which we have access unto the Father, unto God. It's as it says in Proverbs 14, 12, There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. That's the sad thing. When somebody turns against it, they had the truth, or perhaps they even grew up in a family that taught it and yet they turned against it. They forsook the right way, the one that the only way that's given to have access to God. And really your whole life here on earth is a test. Uh whether you'll cleave to this Christ that's provided by God, or will you choose one of the other million ways to fall into hell, to be condemned to hell? To not have any cleansing of your sins. Christ is the only way. And remember King Saul in the Old Testament He uh had a form of godliness throughout his entire life. But especially the trial at the end of his life showed uh that sadly he turned away. He was never really in Christ. He was never really kept by God. He had never truly repented and turned to the Lord. For when he sought the Lord in his intense trial When God didn't answer him immediately or at that time, what he did instead was go and seek another way. He want he wanted to get help. His greater concern was Let me find something that will please me and help me, rather than let me stand faithfully for my God until the end. And so he sought out a woman that had a familiar spirit, even to his own condemnation. But brethren and sisters in the Lord, I pray that you stay encouraged to endure believing in the true way, because indeed all around you The world and the devil uh will seek to oppose you, will seek to oppose this one mediator that's given They'll seek to uh get you even in a friendly way to think that you can find some other alternative that will be okay, that will be delightful, that will be pleasant even among the entirety of the world, and yet they'll As Christ said, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end shall be saved. Thank you. Let us go to prayer together. Gracious Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you that you do and hear prayer. Lord, we thank you that your ear is open to the cry of your people. Father, help us this morning. Lord, we begin by praying that you would bring great conviction to the hearts of your people. Lord, that you would do a work within us, for it is time that repentance begin at the house of the Lord. Today there is much talk of worldwide revival. and news reports of gatherings in London and in different parts of the world that are labeled as people in revival. And yet, Father, as we look at them, we see very clearly that it is a cultural revival that they're engaged in and not a spiritual one. And so, Father, we we pray for our culture that our culture would be changed, but Father, our culture will never be changed without the grace of God. And so, Father, we pray that you would do more than a social work in our country. But Lord, that you would do a great spiritual work which must begin at the house of the Lord. And so, Father, if we are ever to see the lost saved, it will begin when your people become truly a people of prayer. If we were ever to see the lost evangelized, it will begin when your people become people of the book, people of the Word of God. And so, Father, before you can do a great work around us, you must first do a great work within us. And so, Lord, increase our faith. Father, help us to truly live in a state of righteous repentance before Thee. And Father, may you amend the ways of your true church within this land. And then there will be hope for revival in the land as well. Father, we do pray this morning for the ongoing request for the congregation. And Lord, in the men's prayer meeting, we've already mentioned them by name. Father, they are known to you. Lord, we lift up these that have suffered long physically and continue to suffer greatly. And Father, you are the great physician. You are the healer of the sick. You are able with but a word to heal. You are able to heal even without audibly speaking a word. Father, your word, the scriptures give us examples of those who were returning and they were healed as they went. And so, Father, may you bring great healing. Father, we pray for Mission Bible Church. Lord, we have just celebrated our sixth anniversary. And Lord, that is a marvelous and joyous thing. We wonder at what you've done. And yet, Lord, we see seats empty this morning that were once filled by those that are in increasing infirmity. And Father, we pray that you would lengthen the cords of our tent. Lord, as our brother has prayed frequently in the last few weeks, that you would bring in such as should be saved. And Father, that you may enable us, Lord, to reach out into this community here in Durwood in Oni, Father. Lord, we believe that there are Your lost sheep in this area that must be returned to the shepherd. And Lord, we believe that there are others in this area local to us, Lord, that Are your own elect that know the saving grace of Jesus Christ, and yet they are not in a place where the authentic scriptures are read They are not in a place where your word is faithfully proclaimed. And so, Father, we pray that you would bring them into our midst And Lord, that by various God-ordained circumstances, you would bring us into contact with them and them into contact with us. Father, we thank you, Lord, that the Ministry of Mission Bible Church is far more than those that are able to gather with us in person. And Lord, we know that there are those here in the Maryland region that would be here today if they could, but physically they can't. And we thank you that they're able to be with us online at this time. But Father, we thank you that there are those in Virginia that worship with us week after week. And Lord, we pray your blessing upon them. And Lord, our Sister who was in North Carolina and now I believe is relocated to Florida. Father, bless and encourage and strengthen her. Lord, our dear ones there in Texas, be with them Lord, we thank you for good news on behalf of their grandson, and pray, Lord, that you would continue your healing hand there. Lord, we thank you for our dear friends up in Wisconsin, and again we thank you for miraculous healing there And pray your blessing upon them. Father, we pray for those in Alabama. We pray for those in uh uh Arizona that you would bless and keep them, Father, that you would be with our brother there And Lord, in Alaska as well. Father, be with those families. And I'm sure I've left some out, O Father. But Lord, we thank you for these that are very, very much a part of this congregation. And Lord, they are out in the wilderness. They are in places where they cannot find a faithful preaching church. And Father, we thank you that they are able to be with us online. And pray, Lord, especially for them, that they may know the fellowship of the saints, even though they are separated from us, and that your word may be rich to them. Father, we pray for our president. We pray for our vice president and his cabinet. Lord, they are a lot of vile men and women. But Lord, they have been placed in positions of authority by thee. And so, Father, we are told in your word to pray for all in authority. And so we pray for them, Father. Lord, we pray, first of all, that you would save their eternal souls. Lord, that you would turn them to Christ. Father, we pray for their safety, that you would watch over them. And Lord, we pray that you would give this nation a true third awakening. That you would breathe upon us as you have breathed in times past with your spirit. Lord, we read in history of times when in entire towns, all the saloons were closed. The houses of iniquity were closed because there was no one that would patronize them. For so many were turned from their sin to the Savior. Father, you're able to do those things again. But Lord, as I've already prayed, repentance begins at the house of the Lord. And so, we are your people. We are called by your name. And so may we repent of our sins and turn back to thee, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm one hundred and thirty-nine for our responsive reading. We'll be responsibly reading all twenty four verses. To the chief musician, a psalm of David, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my down sitting and mine uprising. Thou understandsty. Thou compass my fault so far off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down. And art acquainted with all my ways. But there is not a word in my tongue. But lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset me behind and before. And laid thy hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea. Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to thee, for thou hast possessed my reign Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! If I should tell them they are more in number than the stand When I awake, I am still with thee. Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God. Depart from me, therefore, ye bloody men. For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain. Do not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee. And am not I aggrieved with those that rise up against thee. I hate him with a perfect hatred. I count him in my eyes. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and altogether, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. I would encourage you to spend some more time this evening rereading Psalm 139. It's a very intense psalm and it has a lot of exceptional points to it and I trust will be a good encouragement to you. We turn to our sermon psalm from the very first tune in our songbook, song number one. You'll skip past the glory of potteries and the like. This is Psalm 1, the old 100. Psalm 100. All people that on earth do dwell. Classic tune. We will sing the Amen at the end, and we sing all four stances. Sing to the Lord with cheerful voice. Answer with clear head praise. Lord Comedy for him and rejoice the Lord he knows God. And for his sheep so entertain his case. With praise God with joy is for Praise God and bless his name. Always all it is seems to for why the Lord our God. His mercy is for sure It's good we're all twice to I shall draw it to his Thank you, thank you, please be seated. Opening your Bibles with you, please, to the book of 1 Corinthians and the first chapter. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And I'm going to read the chapter in its entirety. First Corinthians chapter one If you have your place now in that first chapter of the book of First Corinthians I begin with verse 1. And as I read, notice how often the word call or called appears in the text. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother. Unto the Church of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all them that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I am thankful, I thank my God always on your behalf. For the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in everything ye are enriched by Him. In all utterance and in all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you So that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called under the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you. but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Cleo of Cry out Chloe, I'll get it right, that there are contentions among you. Now this I say that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, and I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you but Crispus and Gaius, lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name. And I baptized also the house of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to then that perish foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek out their wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And base things of the world. And things which are despised hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not to bring to naught the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus Who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Let us pray. Father, now as we approach your word, Lord, I pray that your blessed Holy Spirit would guide and direct in our hearts Father, faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. But it is not the Word of God as proclaimed by man, but as proclaimed by Spirit. You've chosen the foolishness of preaching. This is your ordained method and tool. And so, Father, may you use the preaching of your word for the blessing of your people and the glory of your Son. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I asked you before the reading to take special note of the word called in the passage. It's about seven times that Paul mentions the idea of being called, and that does not include chosen, which the word called and chosen are very similar in the context. God has called us to himself, God has chosen us to himself. We find in a brief introduction to the passage that there are three basic calls that are mentioned. In verse 2, we're called to be saints. In verse 9, we're called to the fellowship of Jesus Christ. And in verse 26, we're called to the service of Jesus Christ. The key verse we're going to consider this morning is the 26th verse, where we read these words, for ye see your calling, brethren. How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many noble, not many mighty are called We need to pause on that word saints there because we see there that in verse 2 that we are called to be saints under the Church of God, which is at Corinth. To them that are sanctified in Jesus Christ, called to be saints. That word sanctified means to set apart Brother Vince mentioned it in Sunday school. Something that is set apart to a certain person, to a certain purpose. It is sanctified. It also means to make holy. But he also says we're called to be saints. And if you've listened to the news, you probably have heard that a guy that claims to be the vicar of Christ and rather is an emissary of Satan uh who has the title of the Pope, by the way, has declared some young boy that died somewhere in Central America to be a saint. Well, folks, he ain't a saint. Here, Paul talks about the the church at Corinth And said they were called to be saints. What is a saint? A saint is one who has been called from eternal death into eternal life by Jesus Christ. If you've been called from death to life, you're a saint. A saint is one who believes that Jesus Christ is the Son of God who died on the cross to pay the redemptive price for his sin. If you believe that Jesus Christ died on the cross for your sins, you are a saint. A saint is one. Who, having received the free gift of saving grace, has repented of all his iniquity and placed all his hope of redemption in the finished work of Jesus Christ. A saint is not someone who is declared to be so by a pope. Here Paul addresses those that are called to be saints. You see, we are called to be saints by God rather than men. And we are declared to be saints by God rather than men. That's not the message. That's just an appetizer. That's just a little bit before we begin, but we you know that that has been on my heart. But here Paul speaks of his own calling in verse one. And then in verse 9, we're called into the fellowship. Look down at verse 9 with me again. God is faithful. by whom ye were called into the fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Folks, we didn't just decide to join a church. We did not simply decide that maybe we should be religious people. And it was not the same, it was the same with the church at Corinth. Folks, we're called into this fellowship The world today, most of Baltimore today, is concerned about a stupid football game. And on our way way here this morning we saw people who, by the way they had their vehicles decorated, they were obviously on their way to the greatest event of the year, the first day of football. Folks, why are we here? Because we're called into this fellowship. But then coming down to that 26th verse, which I said is going to be our key verse this morning, we are called to serve the great King of Heaven. Look with me at verse 26 again For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. Confound is not a passive word. God's called us to do something. God has called us to the confounding of the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the mighty things that are mighty And base things of the world, and things that are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are Folks, that's our calling. And so I want to consider this morning, first of all, that God had chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. Folks, we are fools for Christ's sake. And the world looks at the believer and says, What a bunch of nuts. What silly people. But folks, we've been called into a fellowship. We did not pick this for ourselves. No man cometh to the Father but by me. Folks, we've been called into this business. We've been called into this fellowship. And we do not claim to be the wise people of the world, and we don't want to be the wise people of the world. But Christ has chosen those that the world looks at as foolish to confound the wise. Look back to verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. Go to the middle of Baltimore yesterday. And tell people, I have a ticket to the Ravens game or an invitation to church. You can have whichever you want. I I hear some laughter, right? Why? Because the preaching of the cross is foolishness to them They don't want it. What a waste of time. For the preaching of the cross, verse 18, is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us that are saved, it is the power of God. Folks, they have a Ravens game and we have the power of God. They have a cheer and we have God's word. You see, folks, God has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. Well that says a couple things First of all, it says you may think I cannot do anything for the Lord. I j I just I don't have it. I'm just not the right. No, God has chosen you. God has chosen you to confound the wise. But I don't know what to say. I don't know all you say right here, folks. God's given it to us. You see, God chooses the tools that He will use for His work And so in verse 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. You know, we we saw the assassination of a man today who was able to destroy the wisdom of the wise. But so often what he was saying, whether or not he was quoting scripture was scripture, it was biblical principles And see the world's wisdom cannot stand before the wisdom of God. And we have the word of God which destroys every argument. God has chosen the foolish things to confound the wise and has chosen the weak things to confound the mighty in the wrong verse. Verse 19. For I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? Think about this. What was it? That Satan used in the garden to tempt Eve. Was it fruit? Well, the fruit was the symbol of it. But the tree was good to make man wise. You see, that's what Satan dangled before Eve. You be wise! You have knowledge! You'll know everything. But folks, worldly wisdom is nothing but iniquity. What Satan offered to Eve was not what Eve expected to receive. See, God has made foolishness, the wisdom of the world. It was a tree to be desired to make one wise, but folks, the fear of the Lord. is the beginning of wisdom. And so, in verse 21, God has chosen the foolishness of the preaching. In verse 23, but we preach Christ to the Jews the stumbling block and to the Greeks' foolishness. But which are called Christ, the w called both Jew and Greek Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Remember Far uh Moses? When God sent Moses to Pharaoh. Pharaoh had all kinds of excuses. Moses had all kinds of excuses, didn't he? Moses said in Exodus 4, verse 10, I'm not eloquent. In the same verse, I am slow of speech. But in verse 12 of Exodus 4, God said, Therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth. You see, if God sends you out as a witness to his truth, he'll be with your mouth. That's right. He will direct your lips. We're not talking about inspiration here. Don't don't misunderstand me. But God will give you the words to say. In Exodus six and verse thirty And Moses said before the Lord, behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me? I'm not a sanctified lips. I'm not a set of set-apart lips. But folks, I submit to you that as we read Scripture, Moses was one of the most eloquent preachers there was. He said, I'm slow of speech. He said I had uncircumcised lips. He said I'm not eloquent. But he also said, Who is on the Lord's side? Wow, what a sermon. Who is on the Lord's side? Folks, there you go. There's your message. You meet somebody on the street. Are you on the Lord's side or Satan's side? What do you mean? Well, you're one or the other. Either you are a servant of Jesus Christ or you're a servant of Satan because no man can serve you, Masters. Folks, it's the simple sermon that any man can preach. Moses said, Thus saith the Lord The God of the Hebrews, how long will thou refuse to humble thyself before me? Let my people go that they may serve. That's a pretty eloquent sermon for a man of uncircumcised lips. Moses said, Remember this day in which ye came out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, by the strength of the hand of the Lord had he brought you out of this place. Moses said, Fear not, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. And folks, there's no telling what you may say. That may be exactly what God wants the sinner to hear. You see, God's chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the mighty. And folks, Moses was eloquent in prayer as well. This is very important. He said, I'm not an eloquent man. But folks, God directs our prayer. In Numbers 10, verse 35, Moses prayed, Rise up, Lord, and let thine enemies be scattered. Let them that hate thee flee before thee. Folks, that's mighty praying. But it came from a man of uncircumcised lips, a foolish man, who had yielded himself to the power of God. You may say I'm foolish. I just don't have it. No, God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. But look with me. When the wise men speak wisdom, the wise men are glorified. When the foolish men confound and put to shame the wise, God is glorified. Verse 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. And so don't say I can't serve the Lord. I'm foolish. I don't have the words. No, God will give you the words. But secondly God has chosen the weak to confound the mighty. Again in verse 27. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. God used a stone and a sling to kill a giant. Weak things. God used a rod to part the Red Sea. I would have been building a boat, folks. God used a rod to part the Red Sea God used a march around a city in a shout to bring down the walls of Jericho. Not a sword. They all had swords. God used the jawbone of an ass to kill a thousand Philistines. God used a starving woman, widow, to sustain the prophet with a handful of meal and a little pot of oil. God used 300 men to defeat 100,000 Midianites. God used five loaves and two fish to feed 5,000. God used unlearned men to confound the wise. We remember the disciples. In Acts 4, verse 13. Now, this is the verse I read for our call to worship. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. They marveled and took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Folks, these were fishermen. These were not college-educated folks. These were not the wise men of the world. But they spoke with power because they had been with Jesus. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the mighty. My father used to love the little poem, Satan trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees. Folks, we are weak. We are weak by God's design. God is chosen to use weak things. And remember the Apostle Paul? Paul had an infirmity. He prayed three times that God would take it away, and God said, My grace is sufficient for you. And Paul goes on to say, When I am weak Then I am strong. God has chosen the weak things to confound the mighty. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with sword and with spear and with shield. But I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. Yeah, folks, we're weak. We're small. We're insignificant. But God has chosen the weak things to confound the mighty. When the mighty do mighty deeds, the mighty are glorified. When the weak confound the mighty, God is glorified That no flesh should glory in his presence. Verse 31, that according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. God has chosen the base things. God's chosen the base things. You see your calling, brethren, how that not many mighty, not many noble are called God's chosen the base things of the world. That word base is only found this one time in the New Testament. This is the only verse where we find this particular Greek word base. It literally means ignomonious Low born or of no family. Yeah. Who in the world's this nut Who who is that guy that I see on the street corner with a sign there beside him that says, Except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish? And he's he's got a little bullhorn, and he's got some papers and he's got a Bible. Who is that nut? What what's that guy doing? What what kind of of foolishness is this? I don't have anything to do with him. I'm gonna stay away from him. Folks, God's chosen the base things of the world, the ignominious, the lowborn of no family. We're not Rockefellers. But God has chosen us. These are the people that the world thinks are worthless. These are the people that the world does not care about. The Apostle Paul says of his own apostleship in chapter 4 of this same book of 1 Corinthians, we are fools for Christ's sake. We are fools for Christ's sake. Turn over to Luke chapter 7 with me. Luke chapter 7 And here we find a sinful woman that was chosen by God. Luke chapter 7 and verse 36 Luke 7. 36. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went to the house, the Pharisees' house, and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster box of ointment And stood at his feet behind him, weeping, weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head. and kissed his feet and anointed them with ointment. Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it He spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would not would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner Go down to verse 44. And Jesus, and he turned to the woman and said to Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house, thou gavest me no water for my feet, but she hath washed my feet with tears and wiped them with the hairs of her head Thou gavest me no kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint, but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Wherefore I say, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is given, the same loveth little. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. Who was rewarded and who was confounded? The weak woman was rewarded. The Pharisee was confounded. He was put to shame. Which one would you rather be? The Pharisee with the big house and the big dining room, and people come to you Ah, the Pharisee, the greetings in the marketplace, or this sinful woman who came to Christ weeping in repentance for sin. Now see folks, God has chosen the base things of the world. He made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant. You see, when the base things of the are sorry, when the w when the things that the world esteems are exalted, the mighty claim glory. When the basis child of God is used to do the will of God, only God can be credited with glory. When God uses someone without a fancy title, without a great career, without all the accolades of the world. But someone who's mighty in prayer, when God uses that man, God is glorified, and no flesh shall glory in his presence. God has chosen the despise, the despise things of the world. The world hate you, be of good cheer. The world hate me. John 15, uh that's verse that's quoted if John 15, verse 18, If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you Remember the words that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me And they will also persecute you. If they have kept my sayings, they will keep also your sayings. But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake because they know not him that sent me. He was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Folks, should we expect anything other? The servant is not greater than his master. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Psalm 119, verse 144. I never How many times have I read Psalm 119, but never noticed this verse in this context till this week? Psalm 119, 141 I am small and despised, yet do not I forget thy precepts. What a great verse. I am small and despised. Here in this workplace, I'm small and despised, but I don't forget your precepts. In my neighborhood, I'm small and despised, but I don't forget your precepts. On the highway, I'm small and despised. But I do not forget thy precepts. Matthew 5. Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets, which were before you. When the world makes heroes out of ungodly men, ungodly men claim glory. When God chooses men that are despised to be his chosen servants, all glory to God. And so God has chosen the despised. Don't fret that you're despised for your faith. God's chosen you to be despised for your faith. God hath chosen the things that are not to bring to naught the things that are. Things that are nothing Things that mean nothing, things that the world views as nothing. In our own eyes, we are to be nothing. But God had chosen nothing people to bring glory to his name. It's been said that Moses spent 40 years learning to be somebody. And then Moses spent forty years in the wilderness learning to be nobody. And then Moses spent forty years learning what God could do with a nobody that had become a somebody for him. God's chosen the things that are not. But folks, think about this. God made the world out of nothing. And the world views his people, God's people, as nothing, but God has chosen them. I don't often use sermon illustrations, but I'd like to this morning. Look at this. This is a bent wrench. It was made this way. And for most of the jobs you would do, this ridge is unacceptable. It's kind of foolish looking, isn't it? But there are certain jobs that you cannot do without it. It was made for a certain purpose. This wrench Seriously cut. This wrench was not made this way. This was made straight. But if you look at it closely, it's been heated right here in the middle. It has gone through the fire. And then while it was heated, it was put in a vise and bent over. And then this end used to be curved. But it has been put in the fire and somewhat straightened, but not exactly straightened. And if you look at it closely, it's not only turned, it's off-angle. There was one boat that you could not get out any other way. And so this tool went through the fire and was twisted and bent. So a master mechanic could do some work with it. Folks, God may have to take you, put you through the fire And twist you around and bend you. But he knows what he's doing. He knows the end purpose because God has chosen the foolish things And God has chosen the weak things, and God has chosen to despise things, and God has chosen things to base things, and even things that aren't. God has chosen. Because this used to just be a flat piece of steel. It was nothing. Okay? It was not a tool. It was nothing. But there was one bolt that you could not get any other way. And so a flat piece of steel was taken and it was ground on, a torch cut this, and ground it down to do one simple single job Because the job needed to be done. Now folks, that is the way it is with God's servants. God has chosen the foolish. Don't say, oh, I can't preach because I'm a foolish. No, you can tell. You can tell. God has chosen the week. I'm just too weak, I'm too afraid to talk to somebody. But God's chosen you because you are afraid. The world thinks I'm just I'm just a nobody. I'm just base. God's chosen you. So folks, God has worked for his servants. He has called us to be faithful to him. And so whether you're a bent wrench or a straight wrench, be used for the glory of God. For he read there in verse thirty But of him, that's of God the Father, are ye in Christ Jesus. Remember, we began by saying we're called into this fellowship? Of God. We're in this fellowship. Of him are you in Christ Jesus? Who of God has made to us wisdom? I'm a fool, but Christ is wisdom. And made to us righteousness. The sinful woman was indeed a sinner of the city, but Christ was made into her righteousness. And sanctification, that setting apart. Remember, we saw we're called to sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth Let him glory in the Lord. Folks, there's not a one of us that God has not chosen for a certain purpose God may have to bend us and heed us and twist us. God may have to cut us with a torch. But God has chosen us to be servants of the Most High. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that you did not choose us because we were wise. You chose us because you could use us. You form us and mold us to the servant you would have us to be. Lord, you are able to take what we see as our greatest defects and use them for the greatest glory of God. That no flesh should glory in your presence. Father, use this for your glory, mold us to your image in Jesus' name. Thank you, brother. Appreciate that. We turn to our closing hymn number 580 in your songbook, 580. 580 and it's a familiar tune when peace like a river. Number 580 is our closing song. In our blue songbook 580, we sing all four stanzas. When he slides never my place, when so goes thy speech. Thou hold me to say in his well. Is well with my soul. It is well with my soul with my It is five We call it my first thing and fashion. Is hold for my soul. It is well is well with my soul. With my soul if it is quote, it is well, is my soul my sin all the time. Heal to the course and I fail no more Praise the Lord, praise the Lord for my soul. It is well, it is well with my soul, with my soul, it is well, it is It is well with my soul. The clouds be rolled back as us, the trunk shall raise up, and the loyal shall He said she and so it is well with my soul it is well With my soul It is well, it is well with my soul. Amen. Amen. Please be seated.