Open your Bibles. Open in the precious Word of God. The book of Zechariah. And uh I think most of you probably can find Zachariah fairly easily now. We've been turning there quite a bit in recent weeks, but if you have trouble finding it, open to Matthew and go backwards, just a few pages. and you will find yourself in Zechariah. Last week we considered the candlestick here in chapter four And this week we're going to focus on just four verses, verses six through ten. But I'm going to read from the beginning of the chapter and down through the tenth verse. So we have the context and understand what has taken place in the earlier portion of the chapter before we begin. So if you have your place, Zechariah chapter 4. The most important thing that we will do this morning is what we're going to do right now. We're going to read the very inspired word of God. I have some comments that I prepared and some Exposition of the word, but I have nothing to say that is inspired. But that which we're about to read was spoken by God. It came from his very lips. It is God-breathed message to his people. And so may we pay close heed unto it. Verse 1 of Zechariah 4. And the angel that talked with me came again and waked me as a man is wakened out of his sleep. And said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and behold, a candlestick all of gold, with a bowl upon the top of it. And his seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps, which are upon the top thereof And two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof. So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, What are these, my lord? And the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord. Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might Nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts, Who art thou, O great mountain? Before Zerubable. Thou shalt become a plane, and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof, with shoutings, crying, Grace, Grace unto it. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me saying, The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house. His hand shall also finish it. And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto thee. For unto you, for who it despised the day of small things, for they shall rejoice and shall see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbal with those seven. They are the seven eyes of the Lord, which run to and fro throughout the whole. Earth. Let's bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach this precious book This glorious word of God given to us by inspiration, preserved to us As a precious treasure, as a gold mind of blessing. O Father, today open thy word to our hearts. Open our hearts to receive thy word. Point us to Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Last week we considered the vision of the golden candlesticks. And we compared the account of the golden candlesticks of the tabernacle in Exodus 25 With the account of the golden candlesticks in Revelation chapter 1. And we saw the glory that is there. For in both accounts the candlesticks are to give light. In both accounts, the candlesticks are of pure gold. In both the candl both accounts, the candlesticks have been worked upon. The Exodus passage refers to it as a beaten work. It is not in its natural state. It has been created. In the tabernacle in Exodus, the candlestick's primary purpose was to give light. It was the only source of light that there was in all of the tabernacle. When the priests went in there to sprinkle the blood upon the mercy seat, they were behind Multiple layers of animal skins that blocked out every bit of light. There was no peak holes for people to look in. But the candlestick gave light. And the candlestick there in the tabernacle was a representation of Christ, all of gold, pure. And in the candlestick we see the unity of God with his people, for Revelation tells us that the candlesticks are the seven churches, and in Revelation we find who? Our glorious Christ, and what is he doing? He is walking among the candlesticks. He is with his people. And so a glorious illustration of Christ that we saw there. And then lastly, last week, we considered the two witnesses. But now we come to this sixth verse of Zechariah 4. Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. Let's consider the context. They have returned from captivity. Zerubabul, who is the governor, is the Primary mover and shaker here in the building of the second temple. Zerubabul, your hands are at work. But you cannot build a temple like the one of Solomon. You cannot build a place of worship as glorious as the previous one. But remember The glory of this second temple will not be in the splendor that Solomon provided, but rather Christ will come. It will be glorious because I will dwell there. In God's marvelous providence, this morning in our Sunday school class, we considered a type of Christ. a pre pre-shadowing of Christ. And we find them throughout Scripture. Adam is directly identified as a type of Christ. And we mentioned during Sunday school that Joseph is also a type of Christ, and in God's providence all things working together for the instruction of his people, we're going to see this morning that it's a rubbable as well is a type of Christ. If you think back to our first encounter with the rubble bull, which would be, I guess, about eight weeks ago now. We considered him in Hegai chapter 2. And there we saw that the very name of Zerubbabel means sown in Babylon. He was a in the line of the kings. He was a descendant from David, but he was sown in Babylon. And what do we find of Christ? In the beginning was the word. The word was with God, and the word was God, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And so Jesus Christ, the King of Gory. He was sown in the earth, just as Zerubabel was sown in Babylon. He was born here. He was sown in the earth. And so we come to this glorious passage. And we remember that the true glory of the temple to come is not its gold and silver. You see, when Zerubbabel built this second temple, He was missing some elements from the tabernacle in the first temple. He realized that the Ark of the Covenant was not in the second temple. When Christ came to the temple, there was no ark. The ark had disappeared from history. It was taken when Solomon's temple was destroyed. And what was the ark? Well, it was the place of the mercy seat. It was the place where the blood was sprinkled. It was the place where the Shekinah glory came down and God met with his people where Upon, above the mercy seat. But Surabbable, how can you build a temple? You have no ark And we saw in Ezra chapter 3 that when the foundation of the temple was laid, the old men, the ancient men that had seen the first, they wept. Because it's not what I knew as a young man. It can never be as glorious. And the younger generation, they rejoice because we have a temple. And we read there in Ezra 3 that they couldn't discern the difference. between those that were weeping because it didn't match up to Solomon's temple and those that were rejoicing because we have a temple again. But surroundable, you'll never have the ark. It's gone. Surabbable. You have no candlestick. For the candlestick was also lost. It was gone. It had been destroyed. It was taken away when Solomon's temple was destroyed. And there was no candlestick for the second tabernacle. nor a table of showbread which represented God's people before God Sir Rumable, you're building a tabernacle, and it will be more glorious than the first one. Not by might. Not by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. For you see, you do not have an ark with the mercy seat. But what is Christ? He is our mercy seat. You do not have the candlesticks But what is Christ? He is the light of the world. You do not have a table of showbread with the twelve loaves representing the people of God. But come and present yourselves. And so we have this glorious vision and the message is rubbable. And what is the vision that we have? Well in chapter two it was of the priesthood be restored He saw Joshua, the high priest, standing before the Lord, and Satan standing beside him to oppose him, to resist him. But Zerubbabel Zechariah, take heart. I will always have my priesthood, and we have a glorious high priest who is Christ. Poor people, refugees from bondage, you who weep because this temple is not as glorious as the first. Come and present yourselves here. And again, it's a glorious picture of Christ. Because Christ is not presented in Scripture as being glorious to human eyes. He was despised and rejected, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid our faces from him. He was despised, and we resteemed him not. And the ancient men that had seen the first temple, they wept because it doesn't match up. It's not what we expected But to the child of God we indeed sing, come thou long expected Jesus, as the Christmas hymn says. Come, Surabble, come, Zechariah, come, Ezra Come, Joshua the high priest, because it's not about this temple. For Christ will walk around the walls of the temple that used to that you are building today, and he will say, destroy this temple. And in three days I will raise it up. And when they heard, all they could think about was the temple that Zerubabul had built, which could not match up to the temple. That Solomon had built. But it's not about brick and mortar. Right. It's all about Jesus Christ. It's all about him. And so We find in verse 7, Who art thou, O great mountain, before Zerubbable? Let's consider the context. They were not unopposed. The Samaritans and others were opposing the building of the temple. And they're running back to the Persian kings and saying, look what they're doing. They're building walls. If a fox rubs rush up on their wall, it's gonna fall over. But they're building walls. They're trying to have an insurrection here. They're trying to build the temple again. Oh, how the wicked throw arrows and rocks, the darts of the wicked one, at the people of God who venture out in faith. Zerubbabel. Don't be discouraged. What is a mountain before Zerubbabel? You see, it wasn't Zerubbabel's idea to build a temple. And it wasn't Zachariah's idea to build the temple. And it wasn't Ezra's idea to build the temple. But we find in the context that God had moved in the hearts of Persian kings. Wicked, unbelieving men. The building of this second temple was the work of God Because he had prophesied that Christ would come there. And so it had to be built. 500 years in advance. But it had to be built. Surabbable, what is a mountain before you? It'll become a plane. That is the context. That is what was happening when this prophecy came immediately to Zechariah for Zerubbabel. But we see that there's far more than that. Because as we talked earlier today about foreshadowing, Zerubbabel here is building a temple of stone. But Christ is building a temple, a flesh. Christ is building his church. He is building his body. We read for our call to for our our responsive reading this morning from Isaiah 40. That is not typical because we typically read from the Psalms, but I wanted to implant Isaiah 40 in your mind. For in verses 3 and following we read the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. And you'll notice in your Bible it's all capitals. Prepare ye the way of Jehovah. Make straight in the desert a pathway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. And every mountain shall be made low, and the crooked places shall be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all earth shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. Zerubbabel, there is no obstacle which can stand in the way of building this second temple. Because it is ordained by God, it is planned by God, and it must exist. Because Christ will be brought there as a seven-day old baby Because Christ will throw the money changers out of it. Because Christ will come, and though he is not recognized when he comes for who he is, he is the glory of it. That's right. And this house that you're building, which the old men weep over, the ancient men weep over because it doesn't match Solomon's, it will have more glory because it won't have an ark of gold. It'll have the Son of God. It won't have a candlestick of gold. It'll have Jesus Christ Himself. You or the table of showbread. A point of yourselves before your God. Turn over with me to Matthew chapter twenty one and uh I need to make some more Bible markers for you but Keep your place in Zechariah chapter 5, but we're also going to be considering Matthew chapter 21 extensively this morning. Matthew chapter twenty-one, and I'll begin reading there in verse twenty-one. Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, if ye have faith and doubt not Ye shall not only do this which is done the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this, read it with me, what's the worst next word? Mountain. Mountain Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea, it shall be done. And all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer believing ye shall receive. What was the problem with the Jewish nation to whom Christ came? They didn't believe. That's right. They didn't have faith. The mountains are removed by faith The prophecy is of the removal of every obstacle. What is it that stands between me and God? Well, it's my lack of faith. What is the one sin for which men go to hell on belief? Unbelief. That's right. Unbelief. Unbelief. What is it that we find in Scripture that moves mountains? It is belief. Surebable! Surrebbable, only believe in me. And every mountain shall be a plain. Because I have ordained the establishment of this house. Old Testament saints Every one of you, as we saw in our confessional reading this morning, looking unto Jesus. He's coming. The Messiah is coming. He's coming. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And is your faith is a believing faith. There is no mountain. That will not be made a plane before Jesus Christ. Why am I saved? Because I was a wise man and I made the right choice. Foolishness. Because I was a righteous man, and I was good enough. Filthy rags. I am saved Because Jesus Christ, by faith, has m removed every mountain that stood between me and God. Every mountain was made a plane by grace. Yeah, thank you. And so continuing there in verse seven Who art thou, O great mountain before Zerubabel? We're back in Zechariah 4. I'm sorry. Again, keep your place in Matthew 21, because we're going to come back to it again. Zechariah 4, verse 7. Who art thou, O great mountain before Zerubbabel? Thou shalt become a plain. And he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, Grace, unto it. Zerubable is laying the headstone. We've all probably at some time or another been to a cornerstone laying for a church or a building or maybe seeing the picture of of um uh the laying of the cornerstone of the Capitol or some great building in Washington And here we have the image of Zerubbabel bringing out the headstone for the new temple. And he is laying it with great ceremony. And the people are crying, Grace, Grace unto it. And that is the contemporary context. Who is the headstone, folks? Who is the stone? The stone which the builders refused has become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. This is Psalm 118, 22 and following. This is the Lord's doing it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech Thee, O Lord, O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed thee out of the house of the Lord. And so in Psalm 118, we find the reference to the headstone. And we also find, in reference to the headstone, the shouting of joy. And here in Zechariah 4, we find the laying of the headstone and the shouting of joy under the headstone. Grace, grace unto it. And yet what is the context of Psalm 118? The context there of those verses is the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem. Save now, I beseech thee. That is Hosanna. Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Save the eye beseech. You see the connection there Okay, we're tying a lot of strings together. Zechariah 4, Psalm 118, the triumphal entry. Go back to Matthew 21 And if you look in the first three verses of Matthew chapter 21, you'll find Christ giving some instructions to his disciples. And what is the instruction that Christ gives to the disciples in Matthew 21? Go into the city, find a colt, and loose that colt. And bring that coat unto me. And we pick up in verse 4, all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, saying Tell ye the daughters of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass's colt, and the foe of an ass And so in Matthew twenty-one, we find the triumphal entry happening. But folks, this is blessed. This is glorious. If you're a child of God, this will make you shout for glory. Look down to verse 19 of Matthew 21. And when he saw the fig tree, uh and saw the fig tree the way, he came unto it and found nothing thereon. But leaves only and he said unto it, Let no fruit grow upon thee, henceforth forever, and presently the fig tree wheeled away And when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away? Jesus answered and said to them, Verily, verily I say unto you, if ye have faith and doubt not, ye shall say also He shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this, say it with me, Mountain Shall be removed, and thou shalt be cast into the sea. It shall be done. Do you see the glorious connection there? You see how all these threads Maybe threads isn't the right word. Arrows, but not arrows to pierce, arrows to shine a light. arrows to point out, and to whom do they point? To the same one that John the Baptist raised his finger and said, Behold the Lamb of God. And where is it that we find this Fulfillment of Christ saying the mountain shall be removed, it is in the same context of the triumphal entry. And how do we find connection? It all goes back to Zechariah. Zechariah tells Arubbable that he's laying a headstone for a temple that can never match up to the first one. But the headstone is greater than you could ever imagine. For Christ is the headstone. And he is laying a temple. Which temple we are. The Church of Jesus Christ. But friends, it doesn't end there. For go down to verse forty two of Matthew twenty one Matthew 21, verse 42, Jesus said unto them, did ye never read the scriptures? That was their problem. Did ye never read the scriptures? The stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doings. And it Is marvelous in our eyes. Ancient men of Ezra III, you weep! For the temple is not what you expected. Church of God, rejoice, for it is marvelous in our eyes. For all that you see in the Old Testament are but shadows. All that you see in the Old Testament are smoking images. Remember we saw this prophecy. It began at night. When things are obscure, they're not quite clear. But now the true candlestick, Christ, the light of the world, shines his light upon the Word of God, and it becomes clear to his people, Christ is the headstone. Zerubbable, you're laying a piece of rock. But Christ says on this rock will I build my church. And the rock upon which Christ built his church is the truth that he is indeed the Son of God who giveth his life for the world. It's glorious. How glorious. In the context of Zechariah is the triumphal entry and the cornerstone. Zechariah and Zerubbabel and Ezra, they had faith in Christ. They didn't know him. They had never seen him. But they believed, and the mountains were removed, and the valleys were exalted before him. And though they searched diligently, as we find in the New Testament, that the Old Testament prophets searched diligently and they didn't understand these things, God has made them plain to us. For they looked forward to Christ with partial knowledge. We look backward to Christ with the revelation of Christ. But there's more yet. For reading there again in verse 7, Who art thou, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a plain. And shall bring forth, and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, Grace unto it. You're building a temple that can never match up to the old one. But this temple will be greater because Christ will come. And when he comes, he will be full of grace and truth. Grace, grace unto it. The Old Testament cries Law, Law, Law. The Pharisees cried, Law, Law, Law! He's breaking the Sabbath! His disciples are eating with unwashed hands. They're polluting the Sabbath. And even into the church age, older bringing in the Gentiles. And the Pharisees come to Christ with a woman taking an adultery, and they point at the woman and they say, Law, law, law. And Christ points at her and he says, Grace, Grace, Grace. And Satan looks at my soul and he says, Law, law, law. And Christ steps in between me and my adversary. He says, Grace, Grace, Grace. Cry into the headstone, not law, law, law. Cry grace. Grace Grace. Saved by grace alone. This is all my plea. Jesus died my soul to save. Jesus died for me. And to the cry, to the headstone, it's grace, grace, grace. And I quoted earlier from 1 John, but let me read there for for you from 1 John 1 The Word is made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld as glorious of the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bear witness of him and cried, saying, This is he of whom I spake, that he should come after me as he that should come after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have we all received, and grace. for grace. So they asked John, Are you the Christ? And John said, No, I'm not the Christ. Rather I am come, verse 23 of John 1. He said unto them, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. And what did John say? Make straight the way of the Lord. As saith the prophet Isaiah Isaiah chapter 40. You see, how this is not a book written by a bunch of men But this is a book in which the author knew the end from the beginning, for he is the Alpha and the Omega. is a book that in the Old Testament was filled with mystery and similes, and the Old Testament saints longed to understand And that is not to say today that we understand everything, but the things that are revealed are to us and our children. And now we have the glorious Privileges, the saints of God today, looking back to the cross to say, I see, yes, I believe And yet it's not really that I see. For we are few. We're packed today. It's glorious. But we are few. The world is on the broad way to hell because they don't see. They don't get it. In fact, what we are doing here today is to them foolishness. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish. But the cry is grace, grace. Moving along, verses eight and nine. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me saying, The hands of the rubbable have laid the foundation of this house, his hands shall also finish it. Okay, again, consider our context. There is opposition to what they're doing. San Ballot and Tobia are trying to stop the work. There's opposition. But there's a promise. Zerubbabel take heart. You'll finish it. You've laid this headstone with the cry of grace and grace. Zerubabul, the man Of the day of Zechariah, the man whose name means stone in Babylon, Zerubbabel, you started it, you'll finish it Is that the end of the story? No. He which hath begun a good work in you shall finish it. And on the cross Christ cried, it is finished. And God the Father, accepting the sacrifice of Christ as sufficient for the sins of the elect raised him from the dead on the first day of the week, and we meet here on the first day of the week in celebration that the work is finished. Brother Vince did some work here on his home this week. He added some lights. to make it brighter in this room for us and we greatly appreciate it. And all of us who are homeowners know that your home is never finished. The ladies have to decorate And it's not long before they're tired of those decorations and we're always working on our house. Christ finished it. Glory. It's finished. I can't add a thing to it. That's right. I can't drive a nail in the wall of his temple. Because if you saw him prayer meeting, he has given us a nail in the holy place. Remember that? So we saw him prayer meeting on Wednesday? He's given us a tent peg. He's been gracious to give us a name on the holy place. We can't add a thing to his temple. We are the temple. The sins of every lost sheep have been atoned for. Now it is absolutely true that except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. But those that are God's people, they will be brought to repentance. Because he has finished the work. It is done. Satan We we boldly proclaim that Satan cannot pluck us out of his hand. And so how could one for whom Christ died be plucked out of his hand? He will bring them to repentance. My people shall be willing in the day of my power. Zerobu, you've laid a headstone. You'll finish the foundation. Other foundation can no man lay. And that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. He is the foundation. The hands of the rebel who laid the foundation. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2 I hope you're not watching the clock because I'm not. Ephesians chapter two Verse 17, and he that's uh the the he is is assumed. Christ came, he came, and preached peace unto you that were afar off. And to them that were nigh. He preached peace to my soul. I was far off. For through him we both, that is Jew, Gentile, that is the people of God throughout all ages, through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Now, therefore, we are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens. You were bondage slaves in the land of Babylon. Now you returned to Zion. You're no longer strangers But your fellow citizens and of the household of faith, we were not even included in Israel. We were not of the blood of Abraham, and yet We were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. We who were strangers and foreigners are fellow citizens with the saints, and we are of the household of God, and built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth up into an holy temple of the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together. You see what it is there in verse 21 and doom, ye also are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Jesus Christ laid the foundation. And what is the building where he is glorious? Is it the first temple? Is it the second temple? Well, they're both gone today. Where is he glorious today? Remember the candlestick of Revelation. He is glorious in his church. He is glorious among his people. He is glorious in my heart. He is glorious in our midst. And where is it that the light of the candlestick shines from today? From the church. He is the light of the world. And remember the candlestick which we saw last week, with its constant supply of oil. It never runs out Though the world may douse it with every opposition they can. The light cannot be extinguished. The hands of the rubble will have laid the foundation And they shall finish it. Thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto you. And that was a confirmation of the message of Zechariah. Zerubbable, when you see these things, you'll know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto you. It was also a confirmation of the message of the angel. Okay, you see there's multiple layers here. The angel's giving the message to Zachariah. Zechariah is giving the message to Zerubbabel. Zechariah, they'll know that the message was from me. Angel, they'll know it is a true message of Jehovah. Christian today, we know our message is true because it has all come to pass. They shall know the Lord of hosts has sent me unto you And I think we can see Christ there as well, sent onto his people. Verse ten. For who hath despised the day of small things? Again, we've got to keep keep the context in mind. The ancient men who weep over a small thing. The foundation is not what it used to be. The foundation is not as glorious as we thought it would be. For they shall rejoice and see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel. Okay, they see that Zerubbabel the man is working, but again, who is Zerubbabel a type of? The plumin is in the hand of Christ. Isn't it beautiful? Isn't it glorious? Doesn't it make our stayed reformed hearts want to shout? Hallelujah. Glory to God. It's glorious. For thou shalt rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbable with those seven They are the eyes of the Lord which run to and fro throughout the whole earth. And we talked about those seven before, the messages of Christ, the glorious eyes of Christ, the Spirit of God that are in every place. Who would despise the day of small things? We've talked a lot about the removal of the mountain, haven't we? I want to close by going to Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter four Mark 4 in verse 30 through 32. I hear the pages turning. I'll give you a moment to find there, find your place there. And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? What is the kingdom of God? Well it is Christ said the kingdom of God is with you and it shall be in you. We are the kingdom of God. It's not a building. It's not a temple in Jerusalem. We are the people of God. We are his kingdom, which he's building. What are we going to make like it to? Assimile. What are we going to say the kingdom of God is like? It is like unto a grain of mustard seed. If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you'll say to the mountain. The kingdom of God is like unto a grain of mustard seed, which when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds of the earth. What is the church of God? Foolishness. Less than who are these foolish Christians? What do they think they're doing? Nothing will come undo it. If a fox runs up on it, it's gonna fall over. The world scots. The kingdom of God is among us, but the world scots. The mustard seed by which the mountains were moved is less than all the seeds of the earth. Verse 32, but when it is sown, it groweth up and becometh greater than all the herbs, and shooteth out great branches, so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it. It spreads, and it spreads, and it spreads Brethren, we look at the state of the church today. And we say, Oh my. Oh Lord help us. We consider the great giants of the faith, the great preachers of the past, and we say, Where are the great evangelists today? Where are the mighty preachers that thunder for forth the Word of God today? We look at the major denominations of the day and find that they are as apostate and unbiblical and ungodly. God is not there. That's right. I can guarantee that every one of us drove past at least five or ten or twenty churches to gather here today for worship. And we didn't drive by them randomly, we drove by them because the truth is not there We drove by them because they do not pla proclaim Christ crucified. We drove by them because they're not upon the rock Jesus Christ, they're on the sands of this world. And though they are beautiful buildings, they are nothing. But take heart, dear friends, who meet in the living room. We have a building of God. That's right. Take heart, dear friends, who say this is a small thing. Despise not the day of small things. Because Christ's in our midst. He is walking through the true candlestick. We are an occupying army. We are to let our light so shine before men. Zerubbable. It doesn't matter that there is no ark in your temple. I am there. So rubbable, it doesn't matter that there is no candlestick in your temple. I am there. That's why I gave the vision the candlestick to remind them. Now may the show bread The people of God be presented before their Lord. Let us stand for prayer.