I hope you uh are ready to have some ample time of discussion. We are going to touch upon a doctrine that I suspect every one of you have some idea as to what the Bible teaches about it. In fact, you're probably adamant about it. But I'm going to be so bold this morning as to say I suspect a great many of you are actually incorrect about it That's a tough start, isn't it? That's men's fighting words, right? That's challenge. The doctrine we're talking about today is the doctrine of forgiveness. The doctrine of forgiveness So we're going to walk our way through that because this is one I think that is very practical. It's very close to us. It's certainly something all of us will have to face at some point in life. whether we're on the receiving or the giving end of it, and what is the biblical view of it. And unfortunately there's too many things I think that are cast about uh kind of in the terms of conventional wisdom that are not exactly correct. So I want to give you first of all two key passages on the subject, one from the Old and one from the New Testament. You know the first two passages in your handout in blue. And the first one is this from the book of Leviticus. So we'll look at Leviticus chapter 19 and verse 17 and 18. This is a very insightful one for many reasons, but it's the early genesis of this teaching. In Leviticus 19, beginning in verse 17, we read this Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart. Notice the commandment is concerned about a heart response. You'll not hate him in your heart. You can hate the deed, not the person. Not hate him in your heart You can hate him in your heart, sit in your tent. You haven't beat on him, you haven't burned his tent down, you haven't stolen his lamb, but God says you'll not hate him in your heart. We read on. Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor and not suffer sin upon him. And that word not suffer means not bear his sin because of him. And the implication is there's a reason why you're hating your neighbor in your heart. And the reason is he's done something to you. He's done something grievous to you. And so you're not supposed to bear that. You just keep going over it again and again and thinking about it again and again. God says, no. It's what I used to term transferring the pain. You have to rebuke thy neighbor, in other words, confront him or her. Thou shalt not avenge. In other words, you're not supposed to burn his tent down, you're not supposed to kill his flocks. Right? That's an avenging. But you're to confront him. Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge. How would you bear a grudge? You're not confronting them. You're just, oh, I'm just going to leave it alone. Grumble, grumble, grumble, grumble. You're hating your neighbor in your heart when you do that. But thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. There's the authority for the position. Very instructive, very colorful, very clear. And then you get some very specific language in the New Testament, and we turn now to Matthew chapter 18. This is a classic passage. Many people know it. Few follow it. Matthew 18, 15, moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If ye shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if ye will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more than in the mouth of two or three witnesses. Every word may be established. Now, those two or three witnesses does not mean that they are witnesses to the ill or to the deed that's occurred. I used to think that. What if you sinned against you or she sinned against you in private? Well there's no one there to witness it. Lord, I can't do this. I can't bring a witness. That's not the kind of witness it's talking about. It's talking about two people that in all likelihood did not see the event, but they're going to witness your confrontation with the individual. They're going to serve as a witness as you bring testimony to the individual. This occurs after you've gone. Privately discussed. Didn't go well. You're going to take one or two with you. That's what's in view here. And that's what happens in our court system. You bring the issue before a jury of your peers. They are witness and testimony, and their observation of the dialogue gives some insight It says, But if they will not hear thee, take with thee one or two more, then in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established, and if he shall neglect to hear them Tell it unto the church. Now that doesn't mean the entire congregation. In this context, it's referring to church leadership But if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Verily I say unto you, whatsoever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatsoever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now I've got my questions. You followed along very well in those two verses, right? Did everybody catch that? You didn't. How are Christians to forgive? How are we to forgive? Holy and completely. Okay. Uh wholly and completely. All right. Are there any conditions Is it conditional forgiveness? Is it unconditional? How are we to forgive? Any thoughts? Conditional. Conditional. Oh, you get a gold star. Is there ever a time that Christians are not to forgive? Questions are getting tougher. Why conditionally? Why conditionally? That's an excellent question, all right? Hold I'm gonna hold that question for a bit. I'm I'm digging here. I'm digging. Yes, Victoria. you tell it to the church and if he doesn't even hear the church then it doesn't say forgive him now and bring him back into your circles, it says let him be like a heathen and a publican. Okay. Excellent answer because you've explained the condition and you've supported your reasoning with Matthew eighteen. I saw someone over here shake their said when I when I asked the question about Conditional or unconditional, or is there ever a time a Christian is not to forgive? What are your thoughts on that? I think it's not. Were you You should always forgive. To always forgive? Okay. With a condition or without a condition? Without a condition. Without a condition, alright. Unconditional forgiveness. Alright? Okay. So uh well it it doesn't say not to forgive, it says to break fellowship. If they're they're a heathen, they're a public and they're no longer considered a brother. Okay. But it doesn't mean I can sit around and hate them in my heart. They're just they are they're removed from my circle, they're removed from my fellowship. Um and as you mentioned, it was a matter before the elders of the church and so it's a matter of church discipline. where the the church is considering them because you are unrepentant you are no longer in slave. Okay, so you're looking at so over here we're looking at the perspective that says, yeah we forgive anyway, but we're just not gonna have them in the fellowship. Okay. But they're not in fellowship. All right, Penny. How do we define forgiveness? How do we define forgiveness? Well that's an interesting question. Carol, you that was my question. And that's also your question. How do we for define forgiveness? That's an excellent question. Why would you ask that question? Because I have a feeling there are different perceptions Oh very much so. Yes. Yes. And some people say, Well, I'll forgive, but I won't forget. Ah, that's another good one. But for not forgetting is also not forgetting. Correct. Right? That's right. Yeah. We've heard the phrase forgive and forget. Right? To forgive means to forget. And um That's very interesting. All right. Yeah, this is yeah, but uh they say if you if they don't care to forgive, if they don't want us to forgive them, how are we going to forgive them Yeah, if they don't care to um uh to ask for forgiveness. Right, they're not asking for forgiveness. And and that follows I was saying with the church is actually removing them You know, they they are now to the body under the authority of the church leadership there as a publican or as a heathen. Okay. They're removed from the church. This is perfect. You all have hit absolutely every every button I wanted to hit. It's not about done with the forgiveness. It's about you. That's right. Yeah. Yeah, they don't know what she says. So that's my other kind of question on the other side of it. Not only what is forgiveness, but if we look at this conditionally And say, I don't have to forget. What does it mean not to forget? Isn't that the same as holding animosity as holding bearing a grudge. Yeah, where does the grudge go? Right. But if I don't forgive, then am I not holding harboring these feelings in my heart Which makes me now the center. Yeah, right. Yeah. Excellent. Yeah, we're we're we're we're hitting on the issues. We're hitting on the issues. Yep, and everybody's yep, this is a good topic. I'm glad we're ironing it out Go ahead. We turn the other one. Yep. What if they kill Joey? Well, when it's my family, that's that's uh that's a bit different. Um there is there is vengeance that is prescribed in the law. That's my family. Well no, there's vengeance that prescribed the law and that's why there was the cities of refuge. So that the Avenger of Blood couldn't get to it. Um so just I'm pulling your I'm exploring. Yes. Alright, Penny? And isn't there a difference between Justice and forgiveness, I think of Corey Tamboo. Oh, that's a really good question. Corey Tamboo she actually met one of the prison members who was responsible at least by censure for the death of her sister and of her father and yet she forgave That man and I mean and it was a struggle because she knew she had bitterness and her love before this. And the forgiveness and the absence of bitterness that came through Together. Uh-huh. Yeah, all right. Well, that's partial a re that's a partial recollection of that story. There's actually more to it. But you're kidding Yeah. And that's a very important part. He's a very good model of her heart. Right. But but it's that first part, the soldier came to her. But she was so bitter against him. In fact, held that bitterness again. Oh, but the soldier came to her was very crucial. So you're absolutely all hitting on the right things and God is actually uh actually addressing every one of these You had a very good point to weave in the idea of forgiveness and justice. Does forgiveness run roughshod over justice? He says yes. I thought you were blaming his father. All right, so just keep in mind all of your answers, right? Because they're perfect. They're just absolutely they're even beyond what I was hoping to hear. We've asked questions about how Christians are to forgive. This is all about Christians are to forgive. I want to change the optics for just a moment. What is Jesus Christ's approach to forgiveness? How does he forgive? Unconditionally He forgives unconditionally. There's no conditions whatsoever. So everybody's going to heaven because he's forgiven everybody. No, not everybody is asked. So is that a condition? Depends. I like it. You still you can't get around the conditional part, Carol. Yes. Ah. What about who repents? Jesus? No, the sinner. The sinner? What about repentance? You you said rep meaning was how What is Jesus' approach to forgiveness? Um and your answer you said repent, meaning Phil give me some more nouns and subjects and pronouns and verbs and a full sentence. Um he obviously he forgives us you know, there's a l a lot that goes with that. But like you have to repent. You have to repent. Right. That's it. You have to repent. Yes. Yes. Alright, keep going. I've got a lot of questions. If if if if if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. Oh, but Pastor, you don't have to confess your sins, he just forgives you anyway. Except you repent Oh, but it's unconditional. It's unconditional. No, it's it's not unconditional. Oh he's free. He gives it to everybody. You see where I'm going? Yep. You see where I'm going, Pastor Maggie? You're leaning forward. I stirred something up in you. You listening? Are there any conditions to Jesus Christ's approach to forgiveness? I think we're kind of touching on that. Somebody mentioned repentance. Would you agree with that? Does does Jesus forgive unrepentant people People who haven't asked for forgiveness, they don't repent, and they have no interest in turning. They have no interest in glorifying him. Does he forgive them anyway? Unconditionally. You have to ask. You have to ask. Is there ever a time Jesus does not forgive? Is there ever a time Jesus does not forgive? If you haven't asked. And you're not truly repentant, probably. Yeah, you got it. Are there contradictions in the Bible? What is gossip? It's a very different Sunday school, isn't it? What is gossip? And I know I've got some open questions I haven't answered yet. What is forgiveness, the definition for that. But what is gossip? To say something bad about someone else, I guess. Yes, that's a good answer. To say something bad about somebody else. Well, Mrs. Ross, what would drive me to do that? It's in your heart. You're Okay. Something's in my heart. But how did it get there? Did I just wake up and go, hmm, I don't want to think how I'm gonna make somebody's life miserable today. What hatred would be in my heart what would cause hatred in my heart towards an individual that I would want to then gossip about them? Something bad that they did. Right. They've done something bad. And so I'm just kind of exploring here. Someone's done something bad to you We're going to gossip. So here's how Christianity, from my experience in 25, 30 years, here's how Christianity, practically speaking, implements Matthew 18. I really don't know what Bible they're reading, because this is how they read Matthew 18. You can look at it in blue, that second verse in there, but here's how they read it. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell his fault to everyone except him. If he shall hear about it and complain to others, twist the story in your favor. Before word gets out to everybody, tell it unto the church Hear their advice and nod in agreement. If you take on too much heat for the whole mess, then say ye, oh just forget about it, I've already forgiven him anyway I'm dead serious. This is exactly how Christianity implements Matthew 18. I've seen it again and again and again and I'm talking about it today. Let's look at these words forgiveness because Penny asked, what does the word forgive mean? And there's actually two words in the Greek from which we get our word translated forgive. It's two words. I only have enough time today to cover one of the words, and Lord willing next week if this study doesn't offend you too much, we'll talk about it next time In Luke 17 and verse 3, we see an instance of this word athiamai, which means to leave off. To leave off or to allow. That's the word. That's literally the translation of it. But let's look at how the scriptures brings that in Now, you'll notice that I've got some different coloring in the verse. The letters in red indicate something that you do. Alright, that's an action that's required. Yeah, that either you or someone. So Luke 17, 3 and 4. And the word that's in the Greek is underlined. Alright, so that's the only underline I have is for that Greek word Athiamai. Luke 17, 3 says, take heed to yourselves. Jesus is saying, take heed. I want you to stand there with the mirror, look at yourself, and take heed. This is what you've got to do. If thy brother trespassed against thee, Jesus isn't just daydreaming some wild hypothetical situation. This will occur in space-time history in your life. Doesn't say an enemy is thy brother. Rebuke him. That's the tough part. That's the tough part. It's called confrontation. You confront them lovingly, gently, point it out I used the star method, specific time, action, result, specific event, time that occurred, action that resulted, or actions that were done, and the result of it If you're a manager, by the way, that's the approved approach. Rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. Did you notice the two actions involved there? Confrontation. It doesn't say go to everybody else. That's gossip. Confront him, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. There's a condition. If he repents, forgive And if you trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, turn again to thee, saying, I repent That condition has been met. Thou shalt forgive him. You know, some people are just thick-headed, oh you dear wives. You dear wives. You're stuck with husbands? They have such thick heads. They really just don't get it. P-ding! P-ding! Not going in here. P-ding! You can tell them they get it. And then they don't connect the dots to the next part. And oh yeah, you're right. I'm sorry. Seven times in a day, if he repent, forgive him. Now we haven't addressed what happens if he doesn't repent and how that's handled, and we'll get to that, but we're just taking this a step at a time. Pastor Joe mentioned 1 John 1 9 and that's an excellent passage. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now there's a reason why I put those two passages together. Number one, New Testament. Number two, from my vantage point, Luke covers what is to be done. If he repent, forgive. If he repent, forgive. You've confronted, he's now aware of it, opportunity comes forth to acknowledge, he's acknowledged it. You're pacified, you're satisfied, you forgive. And lo and behold, it's exactly the way the Lord our God does it. So the reason God tells us to forgive in this conditional fashion is because that's exactly how He forgives us. You see, we are told throughout the New Testament that we are being conformed to the image of Christ. We are to walk as he walked. We are to do and live as he lived. Love and forgive as he did. And unfortunately, the devil has slipped in. Because the devil hates the gospel. Because he knows the gospel is the power of God into salvation. And the beginning of the gospel, according to Mark 1, is Let's look at that. Mark chapter 1. This is called the beginning, the very first step of the gospel. Mark 1, 14 and 15. The devil hates the gospel, and so he will do everything he can to short circuit it. to cut it off, to ru rob it of its effectiveness. And Mark 1, 14 and 15 says this. Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God and saying, the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent ye and believe the gospel. The doctrine of repentance has been dismissed by the Roman Catholic Church. They don't call it repentance. They call it penance. In fact, when Martin Luther translated the Bible out of Latin into German. His edition of the German Bible was taking great heat because he changed the word penance to repentance. How dare he change that. Penance is a procedure. You rub a few beads, you utter and mumbo mumbo-jumbo a few things, and everything is good. The Bible doesn't say penance. It says repentance of the individual. You personally are responsible to have a metanoia, a change of mind. That's what repentance is, that root concept. Your chair has been upside down facing the ground, you're to put the chair in the right position and face the right direction. You can't keep going the wrong way. So the doctrine of of repentance is whacked. So I asked the question again. It's the same question I asked at the beginning. What conditions are there before or what are the conditions before a Christian can forgive? Repent. The individual has to repent. And they have to ask. Now they d they may not know they've done anything, but how would they know that they've done something? You rebuke them. You go and speak to them. Rebuke doesn't mean you come flying off the handle, swinging at them with a broom. It does mean, you know, I need to talk to you about a matter that I'd really rather not discuss, but this is something that we do need to iron out because, you know, I I I want to love you in my heart. You can go that way. God says don't hate them in your heart What are the conditions before God forgives? Repent. There has to be repentance. I would submit to you that repentance is the critical condition For forgiveness even before the throne of God. In fact, uh faith, believing in God, is the first act of repentance. You quit being unbelieving and you start believing Even that can be seen as an act of repentance. It's a huge deal throughout scriptures. The whole New Testament, letters, Colossians, the bulk of Colossians is about stop going backwards and start going the right way. It's all about ongoing repentance. And the Bible preaches that because if there's ongoing repentance, there will be less and less and less opportunity for offense in the body of Christ And God is knitting together a people unto himself. He's building a body that can dwell together. In peace, in harmony, in joy. Isn't it wonderful when brethren have no contentions and they can get together and worship together? It's a wonderful environment. And that's what God is pressing for. Alright. The next passage is in Matthew chapter 6 and verse 12. Again, this is the word athiamine. To leave off, to allow. That's the word to forgive. Matthew 6. 12. This is part of the Lord's Prayer. You know this. and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Continues in verse 14. For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. So let me ask a question. Are there contradictions in the Bible? Are there No. There may be paradoxes. A paradox is something that seems to contradict, but upon closer inspection, it really isn't. Is there a contradiction between Luke, who talks about repentance, and Matthew, who doesn't mention it? You say no, Pastor Maggie. There's no contradiction? No. No. But Matthew doesn't talk about repentance. Is that a problem? No, it's not. Because Jesus chose to focus on your aspect. If they come, in other words, the conditions have been met, and as Penny was pointing out, the conditions had been met. The soldier did seek to go Two what was the lady's name again that was Cory Tenboom. Corey Tenboom. Cory Tenboom He was grieved at what he had done. He did want to seek her forgiveness. But now these words come to her. The conditions have been met But oh how tough it is for us when those conditions have been met. He acknowledges his sin, and now you must forgive. And that itself can be tough. That itself can be difficult. But if they haven't asked for forgiveness, if they haven't repented, You can't just unilaterally brush it off because my God doesn't do that. The God of the Bible doesn't do that. He doesn't operate that way. Why would he have his child operate any differently? And there's a grief of mine. And I know there's more to explore here, and that's why this is part one, but I'm dropping into questions to get you to think about this and to kind of look at the scriptural data and to think it through. So for instance, I'm going to read this next passage in Matthew 18, and as I read it, I want you to ask yourself. What differs between the two people? Victoria, you had a question or comment? Yes, please. There is a proverb that just came to mind. Proverbs 20 to 13. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. That's an excellent verse. Shows both sides of it. It does show both sides. He that covers his sins shall not prosper. He covers them. Oh boy, there's a lot of ways that our offenders can cover their sin. They like to forget about it. They hope the statute of limitations passes. It's been seven years, why are you bringing this thing up now? It's been so long ago, just forget about it, just forget about it. No, still on offense. Sorry, Hillary Clinton, what you did is still an offense. I I have not forgotten. I have served 30-some odd years in an industry where I have had strict requirements on how to handle classified information for the United States of America. You have dis disregarded that. You are not a constitutionally protected office And what you have done is wrong, and there ought to be no statute of limitations for what you've done. I will not forget. And I'm turning it over to God. I commit you into his hands. When he brings you up for the judgment, I will volunteer readily as a speedy witness. Lord, I absolutely know all about this woman, or at least enough. I'm sure you know more, Lord. But I'm a speedy witness. Avenge not yourself, he says. Give place unto forgiveness? No, give place unto wrath. In other words, wrath belongs unto our God. Vengeance belongs unto Him. When we get to a place where we do not find that there is forgiveness, we say, Lord, I've confronted, we've not forsaken. I've rebuked, we've not changed. I've brought one or two witnesses. There's been no change. I've told it to the church. They prayed, they've confronted, there's been no change. Lord, he is as a heathen and a publican, I hand him to you. I now treat him as an outsider in the camp If he does me evil, I do him good. Feed him, clothe him, for in so doing you'll heap coals of fire in his head. I've turned it over to the Lord. Lord, you take all this wrath, this anger, this bitterness. I leave it to you And you take care of it. That's the place for wrath. You give it back to the Lord. I'm going to get to Matthew 18, we have no handle. Yes. Because the Lord's the only one that can bring about repentance. Yes. And we're to love our enemies. And that's the most loving thing we could do is desire that God would deal with them such that they could be saved. That's what we have to do. Let me read Matthew eighteen now as I wrap up here in the time. I want you to ask yourself, what is it that's differing between these two people? This is an account of two people And it's a matter of of forgiveness. A lot of times forgiveness is depicted in the Bible as a debt. Somebody has incurred a debt to you. They've stolen something from you. That's kind of the way that An offense is depicted in the Bible. It's a debt. And the Bible depicts it that way. So let's read here. Matthew 18, 21. Then Peter then came Peter to him, to the Lord Jesus, and said, Lord, how oft How oft shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. Is there contradictions in the Bible? No. Because Jesus doesn't mention repentance, does that mean it's not required here? No. The focus is on you in response, how you're to respond to that condition that has been occurred. If he's come, he's confessed. As he said earlier, if he confessed seven times and changed, you'll forgive him. Then he gives this interesting story. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. A king. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. Now, a talent is a unit of money in the Old Testament. It doesn't mean your gift or skill or ability And that talent would basically be a uh a typical year's wages. A deneri would be one day's wages But a talent would be one year's worth of wages. This man had a huge debt. But forasmuch as he had not ought to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him. Wow, that's a big deal. He worshipped him. He paid him honor. And said, Lord, he called this king his Lord. He says, basically, yeah, you own me. Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. What's he doing when he says that? Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Beseeching. He's beseeching, he's begging. How does he view his obligation? What's his view of his obligation? He's serious about it? He's owning it. Yep, I owe this debt. I really do owe this debt. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him. And forgave him the debt. Glory be to God. He owned it. Yes, I own this. I acknowledge that you were right to do this. Please be patient with me. I'll make it right. I'll serve my life, whatever it is. I'll spend all my life to serve thee. Moved with compassion, forgave him the debt. But The same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants which owed him a hundred pence. This isn't even a day's wages. It's hardly a day's wages. In light of the grand scheme of things, he had fifty cents stolen from it And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat. Oh my, well, we're getting serious here. Saying, pay me that thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, notice the same words, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. He said the very same thing, should resonate in his ears, and this sounds familiar. I've used these words before. And he would not. He did not accept that condition. But Somebody else did. What has we here? But went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry. and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after that he had called them and said unto him, O thou wicked servant I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Came. You asked. You begged. You besought. You called me Lord. Said have patience. Shouldest not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? This is how you came to me. I was moved. I was satisfied by those conditions. Why aren't you walking as I walk? He has come. He has asked. He has requested the same thing you have. Why ought not you respond the same? And his Lord was wroth. and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise Shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one, his brother, their trespasses. Does this passage talk about repentance or not? Does it talk about repentance? Gabriel shaking his head. I see a yes and a no. Alright? You're saying gone. Not explicitly. Not explicitly. It doesn't use the word, but is it talking about is repentance a concept that you find in here? Do you find the concept in here? You do? Yeah. He owned his debt. He came up and said, oh, you're right. I did wrong. I have patiently. I will make it right. He had a change of mind. The debt was brought to his attention when he owned it. He says, Oh, you're right, this is the problem. I'm liable to all this horrible punishment. Yes, please. I'll make it right. He was of a mindset that said, yes. Is there any way that Corey Tendones Um jail warden could go back and change it all. It's impossible. He can't go take the bullet back into the gun. He can't take the gas back out of the gas chamber that killed his is her siblings. He can't undo the past. This man can't pay the ten thousand. He can't go back and make it right. But he has a change of heart. He has a change of mind. I beg thee, please forgive me. What I did was wrong. He owned it. He owned it. And because of that, there has to be forgiveness from your heart. That's what Jesus is getting at. Jesus is not preaching unconditional forgiveness. He's not preaching unilateral forgiveness even if they don't ask That's an alien concept to the Bible, because our God doesn't forgive us that way. If he does, why bother preaching? Because preaching confronts people with the Word of God. You've got to repent. There's a God in heaven. He takes records. He takes account of sins. There's hell and judgment coming. There's Eternal life or eternal damnation. You've got to repent and believe the gospel. Because if you do, there's forgiveness and mercy with our God. But if you don't, well, He'll forgive you anyway Is that our message? It's not. It's not. So my point, brethren, and we'll look at this again next week. Is that forgiveness and repentance, in fact, go hand in hand. You cannot have forgiveness without repentance. If there is repentance, there must be forgiveness, and that is hard That is hard. There are some offenses that are deep. Now we will address what happens if they don't. We're going to talk about that. I just want to walk my way through this some. So you're going to have to come back next week to get the tail end of it There must be forgiveness, not just verbally, and this is where it's tough, but from the heart. How do I do that? We'll talk about that next week. We will get into this. You have to be ready to forgive the offender when they realize their need for forgiveness and ask. Just as we want the Lord to forgive us when we confess our sins, so must we likewise forgive others, even those hard to overcome repeated sins, because this is how God deals with us. And that's all I'm pointing you to. How does God deal with offenses? Because that's how we need to deal with offenses. And there's a lot of wrong teaching and ideas about that, because it's just commonly thrown about And we don't want to be speaking something that undermines the gospel. We don't want to undermine the very gospel that we preach, because that's exactly what the devil wants to do. He wants to undermine it. All right, I'm out of time. Uh next week, Lord willing, we'll come back and hopefully provide some more answers to your questions. So thank you so very much. Uh I ought to do this more often. I have a lot more questions. It's good to Poke and proled and get you to think about things.