We are covering a uh unpopular doctrine, the doctrine of forgiveness, and yet it's widely uh n known in Christendom, uh at least allegedly known, that of course you just forgive automatically. And we were challenging that idea last week uh and looking at uh some questions related to that. I want to follow up with answering some of those questions today. Penny asked the great questions. It's a shame she's not here because she asked the question. So exactly how do we define forgiveness? And I find this to be important, so I want to answer that first, and then we're going to continue on into laying some more groundwork about the connection between the doctrine of forgiveness, how we practice it to the the gospel itself and the gospel message, how those two actually connect. And uh Lord willing if we have time we'll look at some examples of forgiveness or lack thereof in the scriptures. So we'll take a look at that. So first of all, how would you define forgiveness? If someone asks you, what do you Christians mean by forgiving someone? What does that mean? Carol? Forgetting what they did? Forgetting what they did. Yeah, you've heard that term to forgive is to forget. And that's a reasonable um a reasonable explanation. It goes in the general direction, and I'm not going to flame anybody for coming up with that answer because that's a useful one. But it comes it comes a little short, and I and I and I hope you bear with me and to so I can explain why that is. For instance, um in Webster, if you look at Webster's dictionary, it defines forgiveness as this. It says to grant pardon for a remission of something. To cease to demand the penalty for to cease to blame or to feel resentment against. So that's, I mean, whoever was at Webster did their job on that definition. I think they rounded it out nicely. Some have said to forgive is to forget, and that's uh uh what we were just talking about. I want you to turn for the moment to Isaiah 43, 25, because this one verse of Scripture is very helpful. It helps us to understand how God forgives. And I'll show you why this is so important. Isaiah chapter 43 and verse 25 says this I, even I am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake. Now watch this, and will not remember thy sins He says he will not remember thy sins. Let me ask a question. Can God forget? No. All right, Mrs. Ross says no. Any other thoughts? Not saying that's wrong, I'm just exploring. Forgive, but I don't think it's the way we define forgetting. Interesting. Alright. So yeah, you're already seeing a little bit of a disconnect between our definition of forgive, which is forget versus gods because we struggle with the idea that God can be forgetful. Do it? He's removed from it. He's removed From it. That's interesting. Expand on that a little bit. Removed in what sense? Removed is that he's separated himself from it. So if he's still it's still there, but he is not connected to it in any way. Trying to figure out the best way to put it. Yeah. Well that that's pretty good actually. I hadn't thought of that. Joe, did you have your hand up? Yeah, I had never actually thought about the etymology of forgive Um but um it basically comes from the idea to to to for and to give, you know, join together, you forgive. And um it is to give up desire or power to punish in the old Mm-hmm. Okay. And so you give up the desire to punish. You you forgive an individual, you no longer want to take vengeance against them. Yeah. And when God forgives up the desire to punish. Okay, right Those are all very good, and I like your expansion on that. So Mrs. Ross is correct, God cannot forget. He's omniscient, he knows all things. And yet, Isaiah says, I blot out thy transgressions for mine own sake. And you know other passages of scripture that says he's cast our sins in the depth of the ocean? There's another one that says, as far as the east is from the west, so far has he separated our transgressions from us. Many Baptist preachers will uh jump on a stump, and it's a good stump to jump on. that our sins are gone, they're forgotten, gone, gone, gone, totally gone, never to be found again. And while in principle, I agree with what they're saying, I do want to wet the edge a little bit here. Look closely. What is God saying in Isaiah 43. 25? It's that last phrase. Will not remember. He will not remember. Alright. In other words, what God is saying is he is promising to not do something. He is promising, I will not call this to mind. The record's there. He's omniscient. He knows about it. But I'm not going to call it up. Now, this promise is found again in the book of Hebrews. And so turn there if you will. It's in your handout, you can look. But Hebrews 10, 15 through 17, we read this. Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us, for after that he said before, this is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord. This is, of course, a reference to the new covenant We've covered that previously. I'm not going to get into that now. I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them, and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. You see, we are saved by faith. We have a hope. And we hope and trust in the promises of God. And this forgiveness of God is a promise on his part to not call up your sins before you. He will not remember them. Let me, I want to keep going down this because there is a crazy practical application from this that has been very helpful to me. in my relationships with people, especially people I'm very close to. But notice, uh, we continue, notice what God says about those whom He has not forgiven. Alright, so God talks about people that he is not forgiven in the Old Testament. Jeremiah 14, 10, we see this. Thus saith the Lord unto this people. Thus have they loved to wander. They have not refrained their feet. Therefore the Lord doth not accept them. He will now remember their iniquity and visit their sins. He's he's here, God, and threatening them with judgment, saying, I'm gonna remember what you did. You know parents do that sometimes. They're at a restaurant, it's not appropriate to pull out a swatti sticker to SWAT the kid And you kind of pinch him by the little earlobe, the little fatty part of the flesh, and pull him near and says, You get home, son, I'm going to remember what you just did. And you're going to pay for it It's a reminder. God says the same thing. Hosea eight thirteen is our next passage to illustrate what God says. They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings and eat it. But the Lord accepteth them not. Now will he remember their iniquity and visit their sins. They shall return to Egypt. That was Hosea 8. 13. I don't think I called that out in advance Hosea 8. 13. Here he says, he will remember their iniquity. Alright? Then you have the same book in the ninth chapter, Hosea 9, verse 9. They've deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of Gibeah. Therefore, he will remember their iniquity. He will visit their sins. Now So this is how God forgives. This is the mode, if you will. This is the mechanism by which he grants forgiveness. It is a promise that says. Though I remember it, though it's over here, I will not bring it up. You know, if you go to court and there's no record of the accusation in the eyes of the court Is there any charge? No, of course not. The charge has to be brought forward. And so God is saying, I will not remember, I will not bring it up. Now, how can you and I apply this? Now that we know that To forgive isn't so much to forget, but it means I promise not to bring it up again. How could we apply that? How would we use that? If he doesn't repeat the offense. Oh if he keeps repeating the offense, you'll remember the other ones Okay, that's uh something we tend to do. If somebody repeats the offense, we remember all the previous ones and here the whole closet comes forward. No way they did. But we choose to go past it. We choose to confirm you. Okay. All right. Can you repeat the question? So the question is, you know, how does this apply to us? And maybe it's a little vague. I had some good questions last week. I'm really straight up struggling for good questions this week, so you'll forgive me. Let's say between two people there is an offense and the one party confesses to a sufficient degree that the other person says, I forgive you. Let's say you're that person. That tells the offending party, I forgive you. And you say that to them. Now that you know how God does this, what are you going to do? Because you know we never forget. Right. We don't forget So then what are you gonna do in light of how God forgives? Well, I like the way Joey put it. Okay. It's really very good. You do separate yourself from it and I'm still willing to do things for the other person, but I never completely trust them again with another life Hmm. Okay. So there's still a bit of resentment there. All right. No, it's just a memory. It's not resentment. It's a memory, but you don't trust. I do not trust. All right, okay. So there's still an impact here. Alright, Victoria, hand up and then Joe. So how would this affect how would we forgive? How does that put feet on it? I think getting back to passion is next to definition with not holding the resentment. Like you you don't continue in in bitterness or or anger or any kind of You don't hold that grudge against them. It's that has been you you lay all that away when you when you forgive. Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah, I think the memory It's true. The end result is there is no grudge, but I'm kind of back at at step one. How do we get to the no grudge part? You had your hand up? Well I I was just gonna say that that um you know we're told to turn yellow cheek and so the person may do the same thing again at some point and we're to forgive seventy times seven. You know, we just keep on forgiving Uh but at the same time there is that element of fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. Right. You know. You still have a memory. Whereas yeah, whereas, you know You know, if you know this person is going to to poke you in the eye, you keep your eyes out of range of his fingers. You know. And so sometimes you have to separate yourself from somebody because you don't disunderstand it. You know. Okay, so let me uh bring it closer for those of you who uh have been married, are married, or will be married. I don't think I've left anybody out from that This is a, this was very helpful to me in marriage to understand how God forgives. He promises not to bring it up again. There's a debate. There is some point of conflict in the marriage that shows up because you have two sinners under one roof. And there is a discussion that occurs at some point, hopefully sooner rather than later. A confrontation is made. Hopefully, confession is made. The one who receives the confession, if they are satisfied by that, when they say I forgive you, and they have to use those words, then they are promising that this event shall not repeat, shall not Repeat shall not be brought up again in any future conflicts. So, why is this helpful Well, it's the poke me in the eye once, and then you know I uh shame on on me, poke me in the eye twice, shame on you Well, there are certain annoying habits that spouses can have. They are just habits. They always do these things This is just simply the way they are. It may take 15 to 20 years before this habit is finally curtailed. Pity the marriage that has any kind of memory. You've offended me. I forgave you. I'm sticking it in the closet. You forgive me again, I'm opening the closet up and I'm gonna let all the skeletons fall out and pile upon you. And then I'm gonna go stick them all back up in the closet again. I forgive you And then another offensive comes, and will you just crack that clause and open and oh that is not how God forgives you When you say those words, I forgive you, you are making a promise. That's how God does it. He makes a promise And he is promising, I will not bring this up again. You know, our court system operates the same way. I think it's called double Jeopardy. Double jeopardy? You can't be tried twice for the same crime. But in marriages, some people get tried two, three, twenty, fifty times. You always you can't ever say that in a marriage. You always do so. You can never say that in marriage, because no, they don't. That is you reaching into the closet and throwing out all the And if you do that, if you do open the closet and all the garbage falls out, you're a liar You are a follow-faced liar because you said you forgave them, which is a promise to not bring it up, and you just brought it up again. You're the liar. And they could rightly call you out and say, boah, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on, time. Didn't you forgive me for those things? Don't you know that's a promise to not bring it up? I guess you haven't forgiven me for these other things. Let's talk about those. What can we do to make those go away? Right? Because they gotta go away Do you see how helpful that could be in marriage? Do you see how having a little discussion with the spouse says, hey, you know what? Look, why don't we try something different? Let's make a promise among ourselves that when we tell the other one, I forgive you, that what we're doing is we're doing what God does. We're making a promise to not bring this up again. So I'm going to take this closet and I'm going to lock it so that I can't put anything in there. Because if I say I'm not going to bring it up again, I can't bring it up again. You distance yourself from it, right? So this is the second part of what what Joey was saying. You distance, you're getting far away from it. I found this principle to be very, very helpful in relationships. Very, very helpful. It makes future conflicts all the so much easier to deal with because when they come up I've forgiven. I am not my mind's going to jump to them. The mind is going to want to remember, but you made a promise to not bring it up again because you said, I forgive you. And so it's a promise, and you have to keep your promise. So I trust you find that that's helpful. Proverbs 17:9 says this: He that covereth the transgression seeketh love. But he that repeateth a matter, meaning a matter that's already been settled, separateth very friends, if you go off and repeat it. Oh, I forgive you. Quick run over the phone and call up my good friend. You won't believe what he just did. You won't believe. He is such a I just I don't know. Oh pity me, I just can't believe You separate very friends. That'll tank a relationship. And if you have someone interfering with that sort of thing, being your little echo chamber, oh my goodness, that's horrible when you have in the family and interfering in-law who likes to repeat things, that is horrific. Victoria. Sorry, this is probably a little sidetrack and maybe discuss this later, but what about with If you if the offended party does not truly sense a full absolvement of their issue Then they're not forgiven. If you're not satisfied, they haven't paid their debt. It has to be. How do they reach that point? How does the other person reach that point? How does the the offended person reach the point the place where they can they can truly forgive and not bring all those skeletons? That's a really good question. I don't think at this stage in my outline I could answer that. But let me try to give a little bit of a thumbnail. As we go through some Bible examples, we're going to see some examples of where people who have done an offense were not forgiven. And then we are going to see some examples where somebody has done an offense, and yeah, it's pretty obvious they should be forgiven. The Bible presents two pretty clear cases. If there's that muddy, murky ground in the middle You gotta wonder, is this person just trying to brush it off? Dismiss it? Oh, it's no big deal. I don't know why you think it's such a big deal. It's a small deal with me. Well of course. The offender always thinks it's a small deal They always do. It's no big deal to them. Why? Because they're not offended. Of course it's small to them. So they're not taking it seriously. And Matthew 18 kicks in and so forth. There has to be There has to be some credible evidence of repentance. How does God know somebody's a genuine Christian? Well I walked the aisle, I did my, you know, I felt moved. I I I I I did what I need to do. No, God expects there to be a radical change of heart. Repentance is metanoia. It's more than anything a change of mind. You need to see that there is, in fact, a mindset change, and it ought to be pretty convincing Yeah. Okay, we're going to continue on. You know, the gospel is the church's primary uh Currency. It's that with which we do business in. We share it, we define it. We control it, as it were, in the sense of administering it to people and spreading it out, and what we say is intimately connected and ought to be connected with what we do. There is a very tight connection in the gospel between repentance and forgiveness. There's a very tight connection. One does not come without the other. For instance, I want you to look at the verses starting in Luke 24, and notice this tight connection to repentance, and I put that in red. to forgiveness and I've tried to underline all the words that relate to or are the Greek word for forgiveness. For instance, Luke 24, Jesus speaking at the end of that chapter, Luke 24, 46 Jesus and said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Notice that's part of the message Repent, then comes forgiveness. Acts 2. 38, Peter, echoing what his master just said, Peter said unto them, Repent. And be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. Again, part of the message Acts 8. 22, Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee. Again, that connection, you can't get around it. 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So there is a tight connection there. You can't dismiss it. So to Practice a form of forgiveness that is alien to the Bible is to say one thing in your gospel message, you must repent, you must believe, but your life preaches a different message. If there is just a unilateral forgiveness for any old cause, for no cause, that is not the gospel message. You're not living The message of the gospel. Your life is not reflective of what your message is. You're a walking contradiction. And so that's why this is, I believe, an important topic. You might say, well, Brother Vince, there's just so many passages where God says he just freely forgave, and you know, there was no issues. And indeed you can find those verses, but They're not in isolation. The Bible doesn't have contradictions. We've already looked at several last week in Luke 17, if thy brother trespass, Luke 17, 3 and 4, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If you trespass against thee seven days seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, turn again to thee, saying, Repent, thou shalt forgive him. Offense 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, nothing went in the closet. That's a pretty high standard. And you can certainly see how that's contrary to human nature, right? We're not going to want to trust that individual. Jesus says, no, you better do that. And you think about it. Is that how God forgives us? How many times in a day do we sin against Him? How many times in a week, in a month, in a year, he's eternal? How many times do we keep repeating the same offense to him? Well, I certainly hope he carries out his promise of forgiven. Huh? Repent. You repent, and then that's put aside. You do it again. Repent. So does I. Repentance is a lifelong process. It's not I have repented, we're repenting. It's the the the the posture, if you will, of the child of God. He's got to be sensitive to his walk with the Lord Well, I want to have some reading assignments here because this is what we're going to find now are some examples, and I'm going to read through about half a dozen. where there has been no forgiveness if the offender does not repent. The Bible records these. They're in there. They're not highlighted. We'll kind of pass over them. They don't get applied. There's some favorite New Testament verses we'd rather camp on that just says, oh, just make it easy. I just forgive them, but I'll keep a grudge. I'll go to the closet. I'll stick the skeleton in the closet. That's easier. I like that. Well, that's not the biblical approach Uh let's see, Ivon, could you read the first one, Job 42, 7 through 10? And it was so that after the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temenite, My wrath is kindled against thee and against thy two friends, for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job had. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourself a burnt offering, and my servant Job shall pray for you For him will I accept, lest I deal with you after your folly, and that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. So Elipaz the Temenite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Namathite, went and did according as the Lord commanded them. The Lord also accepted Job, and the Lord turned the the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. Okay. So what we have here is you know of Job's three miserable friends after the tremendous catastrophe that came upon him They all gathered around and somewhat eventually snuck into their conversation with him the idea that, you know, somehow, Joe, you screwed up big time. You surely did something wrong. And they had a lot of doctrinally correct statements in there. Don't try to divide Job into series of doctrinal truth and doctrinal error. Job is chock full of doctrinal truth. It's got a lot of correct things in there. Yet false God faults them for not speaking of him aright That is, they had the truth, they misapplied it to Job. It didn't apply in Job's case. And so they were not making a correct statement in that Notice the repentance. They went and they had to offer sacrifices. God told them to do this. He says, lest I deal with you after your folly. That's the part in orange. And notice how Job demonstrated his forgiveness. It says in the green part, he prayed for his friends. So, it's helpful that when you have An episode and forgiveness is required, meaning you have made a promise to not bring it up again that you go and pray for this individual Lord, this incident has occurred. He has given me a worthy confession. I accept it. I pray for them that they would not repeat this and that Things would be well with them. That is a healing way, that is a helpful way. Because it's very hard to hold a grudge against someone for whom you're praying. Now if you can't pray for them, if you find it very difficult to do that Well maybe they haven't repented. Maybe either they haven't repented or if they have, maybe you haven't really forgiven them yet. Maybe you're still irate. You know, there was that one account of the fellow who had been forgiven. 10,000 talents, but he had a fellow servant that owed a hundred pence, he grabbed him by the throat after he gave the same confession to the king for the remission of the ten thousand talents He had the same act of confession and repentance to him, and yet he said, Nope, I I won't I won't forgive you. create them after they did something to make it right. It's not just verbal I'm sorry, I won't do it again. I forgive you, you know, their the actions follow. So they say I'm sorry and whatever. And then they did something to make it right, like offered sacrifices And then Joke also followed his words, I forgive you, with actions. He prayed for them. So it's never just verbal. And I think that's where a lot of verbal intention comes is but sometimes it just stays at the verbal level and no actions follow through to show and demonstrate I really meant what I said. Absolutely. Yep actions go a long ways towards helping that and that's a very good point that there has to be some kind of follow-up action because just a uh yep you're you're fine, go away, you know, I forgive you And then never talk to them again, never see them again, never trust them again. That yeah, that's not a biblical model of repentance. Or God still interacts with us. He still intercedes on our behalf. He still cares for us. He still provides for us. And so that's how he does it. Let's look at some examples. So this is a good example of, as Gloria points out, some actions during the course of forgiveness. Job would not pray for his friends until they had repented. God would not forgive them until they had repented, and that they did. Now look at Jeremiah 18. Jeremiah 18, 13, and we're going to look at some verses through that chapter that scatter around a bit. Therefore, thus saith the Lord in Jeremiah 18, 13. Skip ahead. The virgin of Israel hath done a very horrible thing. What is this horrible thing? Verse 15, because my people hath forgotten me. Verse 18. Then said they, come and let us devise devices against Jeremiah. Come, let us smite him with the tongue. Verse 23, Jeremiah cries out, Yet Lord, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me. So here they're really irate against the prophet. They don't like his message and now they're making it personal. We really, in fact, don't like you. We think we'd rather have you dead. Job prays, You know their counsel, forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight. Let them be overthrown before thee. Deal thus with them in the time of thine anger. So this is how Jeremiah is dealing with people to whom neither he nor the Lord have forgiven. He says, Lord. You take care of them. This reminds us of passages in the New Testament, uh, which uh I should well I'll mention it uh um Avenge not yourselves, but give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. There's a reason for that. There's a reason to give place to wrath, because if you've been offended and there is no repentance and you're not forgiving and you're thinking about it and it's causing you to boil in anger. You have to do something with that anger. I don't want to have it. Well, you can take that anger, stick it in a stainless steel box in the edge of the Lord and say, Lord You deal with this. You hand it to him, and he will certainly deal with it in his due time. He's offended the apple of his eye He's touched one of his children, and the Lord can take care of it. And you can say, I've given that to the Lord. He will handle it. He will deal with you. Lamentations 3. Listen to the weeping prophet here in Lamentations 3 in verse 64 through 66. Jeremiah says, render unto them a recompense, O Lord. In other words, pay them back according to the work of their hands. Give them sorrow of heart, thy curse unto them, persecute and destroy them in anger from under the heavens of the Lord You know, you might think, wow, that's a pretty intense prayer. Aren't we always supposed to uh to pray positively? Well, here's an example of someone who says, no, this offense is great, Lord, I pray that you would smite them. That just doesn't sound Very Christian-like, but this is a prophet. This is Jeremiah. This is how he gives place to wrath. This is how he handles this. Well, it's Old Testament. Well, look at the New Testament. Look at 3 John 9. You know, the Apostle John says in 3 John and verses 9 and 10, I wrote unto the church. But Diatrophes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. Here's some fellow. He's got to be the top dog in the pile. He's apparently some person of renown in the congregation, probably a Presbyterian elder. He's just got to be on top of the pile, and he doesn't like anybody else, and he's rejecting all the faithful Wherefore, if I come, John says, I will remember his deeds which he doeth. I will remember his deeds. Well, that's the opposite of forgiveness. Forgiveness is I will not remember your iniquities. Here he says I will remember his deeds, which he doeth, treating against us with malicious words, and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren and forbids them that would and casts them out of the church. Here he's saying, I'm going to remember what this guy did because he's impacting the church. I'm not going to let this slide. This has got to be dealt with. Pretty impressive. This is from John, the apostle of love. This is what his love for the church demands that he do. We see in 2 Timothy 4, look at the Apostle Paul. He says, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. Now, you remember when he was in Corinth. And he healed some woman and she was um somehow it impacted the silversmiths of the land. I forget the account in Acts. But the silversmiths were in an uproar because now he was putting their trade at risk. They might not sell as many trinkets. And so they brought Paul in. before the city at the uh a large council and they began to hurl accusation accusations against him. So I could certainly see how this would continue to to to plague him. He says in 2 Timothy 4. 14, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works, of whom thou beware also For he hath greatly withstood our words. He's warning the church, hey, this fellow is an enemy of the people of God. I'm not forgetting what he's done, because he is affecting me and he's going to affect others in the church Confrontation has obviously been made. Change of heart has not occurred. He has not just said, well, I forgive him anyway. I'm just going to love him and forgive him. No, he's a hurt to the church. He's going to send a warning out And that's what he's doing here. In 2 Corinthians 11, 29 he says, Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is offended and I burn not? In other words, Paul is burning with an offense towards some unnamed offender because they offended somebody. in the Church of God. There was somebody in the house of God that was affected. And because we are a spiritual family, we're together It is a mutual offense. It is an offense against the whole body of Christ, and therefore the whole body of Christ has to give them the Heisman. That's what the tail end of Matthew eighteen is. If he will not listen to thee, let him be into thee as a heathen and a publican, meaning they're they're outside. They have to be collectively shunned. You can't say, well, that's just a personal issue between you two. It's affecting the whole body of Christ. That's what John is talking about with diatrophies. That's what Paul's talking about with Alexander the coppersmith. And notice the Lord Jesus here in John 20 and 21. And I don't hear this spoken of much. Jesus said to them again, Peace be unto you. As my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. When he said this, he breathed on them and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Now notice this. Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them. And whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. Why would he add that last part? That's very interesting. I think he's adding it because the church of God is the one is the body of Christ on the ground. They're the ones that are the the the pincushion for all of the offense and the darts of the wicked and the enemy. And here he says, if they are not confessing to you, because he's given all authority Honor he has all authority and power on the earth and he has given to the church the keys. The church can evaluate. If offense gets to the point where it comes up to church leadership and they say This person needs to be excommunicated. He says you're retaining those sins. They're retained. In other words, we're keeping them on the books. That's harsh stuff. But it's Right, it's appropriate. There's got to be a sense of justice and fairness among the saints. There's got to be that sense of right. Because again, it's tied to that gospel message. Repentance and forgiveness go hand in hand. And then it extends oh yes. I was gonna say that and that flows right into the command to separate from disobedient brethren. Yes. Yeah, they are brethren, but they have violated God's law, they're unrepentant, and therefore uh we cannot pollute ourselves with that. That's correct. Yeah, there is a biblical doctrine of separation because a point may come when they have proven that they're acting they sure are doing their their dead level best to act like a wolf And if they want to continue to act like a wolf, we can't have wolf and wolves in the mix. Then you have Revelation 6, and I find this interesting because it appears from what we read in the book that until that final day of judgment comes Even the saints in heaven, even the martyrs know about the offenses that they've incurred and they haven't let go of. I find this amazing. Listen to Revelation 6, 9-11. When he'd opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar, this is a vision in heaven, the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God. So obviously this isn't here on earth, right? You don't see souls on earth And you're not looking at a graveyard. He's looking at an altar in heaven. And these are souls. They're disembodied souls, but they're martyrs. It says, they were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. Now I'm in Revelation 6. 10. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true! Dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Hear that cry? These are the martyrs, saying, O Lord, avenge our blood, avenge our blood. Avenge us. They're giving place to wrath. They're beseeching the Lord. Lord, you take care of this. This is a gross injustice. White robes were given unto every one of them and it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled. Heaven has a set number of martyrs, apparently. There are a set number who will pay that ultimate price in their testimony for Christ. And they weren't given grey robes They weren't given gray rose. They were guiltless in their They were guiltless. Yep, absolutely. They were guiltless. So I I hope this uh we're gonna do one more study on this uh doctrine of forgiveness And uh I hope this kind of rounds it out a little bit for you