Turn in your Bible with me, please, to the one hundred and third Psalm, Psalm one hundred o three, probably a favorite psalm with many of you. I have 150 favorite psalms. Every one of them is a great blessing and a great encouragement. But the one hundred and third Psalm is just filled with diamonds. It is filled with precious truths. I'm going to read all 22 verses of the Psalm as we begin our consideration this morning. The 103rd Psalm, and I'll begin reading with the very first verse. I'll give you a moment to find it, because it is good to have the words in front of you and be able to read along Psalm one hundred and three, one hundred and third of the Psalms Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who covereth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteous judgment for all that are oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth So great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far hath He removed our transgressions from us. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are just. As for man, his days are as grass. As the flower of the field, so he flourisheth, for the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him and his righteousness unto children's children. To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them. The Lord has prepared his throne in the heavens. And his kingdom ruleth over all. Bless the Lord, ye angels that excel in strength, that do his commandment. Hearkening unto the voice of his word. Bless the Lord, all ye his hosts, ye ministers of his that do his pleasure. Bless the Lord, all works in all places of his dominion Bless the Lord, oh my soul. Let's pray. Gracious Father, how can we possibly add to the truth that is here? We are not called upon to add to it, and yet we are, in fact, we are warned not to add to it. But, O Lord, how can we begin to expound it and to understand it, except that thy Holy Spirit be our teacher and our guide in the Word And so, Father, we pray today that man would be set aside, that thy Spirit would bless thy word. That your Spirit would bless my word even as I proclaim it today, as it has blessed me in this week and in this morning. And that your word may bless the hearts of your people through that same Spirit. We pray. In Jesus' name, amen. And yoke fellow and co-laborer, our administrator and Sunday school teacher, you know who I'm talking about. Often reminds me that I gently remind me, uh in the best possible way, that I I tend to take too big a bite of scripture. that I tend to look at a passage and try to preach too broad when there's so much detail that we need. And I need that encouragement. And I had endeavored to preach this chapter this morning. And my wife walked in the office this morning with my breakfast after I'd been in the office close to two hours. And I showed her that I was two-thirds the way down page one of my sermon notes. And so I don't know where we will go through the month of January But we very likely may be in this hundred and third Psalm the whole month. Because verse after verse after verse just needs a full exposition The psalmist begins this glorious psalm of praise with these words: Bless the Lord, O my soul. And all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all of his benefits. And one of the old commentators described these first two verses as a skillful musician who is able to play beautifully and gloriously on their instrument. And yet before they can begin to play, they have to tune up the instrument. They want the sound that comes forth to be beautiful and for the audience to be thrilled with it and enjoy it. And yet if the violin's out of tune, it's horrible. If the instrument is not well tuned, the song that comes forth is not beautiful. And so before the psalmist can even begin, he has to tune up his own instrument. Bless the Lord. My soul. Because if this instrument, this human being is not tuned to sing his praise, as the old hymn says Tune my heart to sing thy grace. Then the song that goes forth will not be beautiful and blessed. And folks, we are not singing to be heard, we are not reading to be heard of each other. For God is the audience. And so the psalmist begins here, smitten by the reality that I must be tuned. To sing the praise of the Most High God. I must be an instrument that is not out of key. I must be an instrument that is not squeaking when it should be roaring forth his truth. And so the psalmist begins with a self-rebuke. Bless the Lord! Oh my soul. But folks, we can't get past that first word. Bless the Lord, O my soul. We know what it is to be blessed. When we are blessed, we receive the glorious benefits of God. When we are blessed, our soul is enriched with his truth. When we are blessed, we have our daily bread. When we are blessed, the clouds of our darkness are driven away. When we are blessed, we know what that is. It is a glorious thing to be blessed of God. But what could it possibly mean to bless the Lord? We are the recipients of blessing, not the source of blessing. He is the source of all blessing. And so we can't get going in this psalm. Without taking that first word apart, what does it mean to bless the Lord who blesses us? And How can a pauper give anything to the one who owns the cat on the thousand hills? What how how can we bless him? Now this word bless, let me ask you a question. How many times do you think the word bless is found in our English Bible? Somebody throw out a number. Thousand. Thousand? Twenty-five hundred. Twenty-five hundred? One hundred and seventeen. We find the word blessing, but this word bless is found a hundred and seventeen times. How many of those you think are in the New Testament versus Old Testament? Half and a half? What do you think? Testament. Only nine are found in the New Testament. The rest are Old Testament. Folks, the root of this word bless is the word to kneel. It's the word to kneel. We we read in uh Psalm one fifty uh ninety-five verse six Oh, come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. And it's that same word, bless. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. And then when Solomon was dedicating the temple in 2 Chronicles 6. 13, for Solomon kneeled down upon his knees before all the congregation of Israel. It's that word bless. But folks, it's even more glorious when we consider that you have Hebrew and then you have Greek. The Greek word, which is only found nine times in our New Testament, is a compound word in and lagos. Now, in at the beginning means well, and Lagos means speak. The New Testament word that we're not looking at today, but the New Testament word for blessed is to speak well. We bless the Lord. We speak well of him. We extol his glories. We extole his beauties. This word means to kneel or to salute. We bless the Lord. When we bless the Lord, we are bringing attention to who He is. We're exalting his holiness. We're exalting his great salvation. We're exalting his generosity to his people. We're exalting that he alone is holy and righteous and good. But folks, this word bless that we're looking at today is also the same word blaspheme. The same word that is translated bless here in other contexts is translated to blaspheme. Blasphemy. Mm-hmm. And folks, there's a lot of people who claim to bless the Lord, and in fact, they're blaspheming. There's a big debate going on in a in a sister denomination to us. We're not a denomination, but a denomination that we would find a lot of affinity with. where a lot of their churches are starting to adopt contemporary so-called Christian music. the world's sewage with Christian words mixed in and consider something to offer to the Lord. There are some quote-unquote blessings that are nothing more than blasphemy. My family heritage on my mother's side is from North Carolina Actually my mother and father both sides. My family came from North Carolina to Maryland during the Depression because there was work on the dairy farms. And my grandmother had a lot of North Carolina sayings. And they used to say somebody got blessed out. And it meant they were cursed. And I didn't understand it until I started studying this week and I realized that those old North Carolina believers knew their Bibles. They understood theology. A blessing can be a curse and a curse can be a blessing. Remember uh Naaman. He was called upon to curse Israel and he couldn't do anything but but bless. Bless the Lord, O my soul. The psalmist begins, as I've already said here, with self-examination. He doesn't say, bless the Lord, O my mouth. Think about that. He doesn't say, bless the Lord, O my tongue. No, bless the Lord, O my soul. Because it begins with that introspection. It doesn't matter what everyone else around you is doing. It doesn't matter what enthusiasm the world has for itself. My soul is committed to blessing the Lord. My soul must be narrowly focused upon blessing the Lord because you can't have gr sweet water and bitter out of the same fountain. You can't have a soul that blesses the Lord and also blesses iniquity. You can't have a soul that blesses the Lord and loves the world, because if any man loved the world, the love of the Father is not in him. It doesn't say bless the Lord on my hands. It doesn't say bless the Lord on my feet. It's not about all kinds of actions because there are many people that are busy, busy, busy about what they call the work of the Lord. But the soul has not been tuned. The instrument is out of tune, and so the music will always be horrible. It will always be off-key. And you know the worst thing about singing off-key? The longer you do it, the more you get used to it. There is what's called a musical ear. I know some folks here that have it. Uh there are people that have perfect pitch. I get younger. My my ears have deteriorated with ears, but you just always can find the pitch. Doesn't matter what you're singing, doesn't matter where it is, you can find it. That was a blessing But if you listen to an instrument that's out of tune, you get used to the instrument being out of tune. And then when you hear an instrument that is in tune, it doesn't sound right. Because you you you've learned wrong. This is David. This is the man after the Lord's own heart. To realize this you've got to begin with the heart. Bless the Lord, not on the externals, but on the internal Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Bless the Lord, O my soul. This theme of blessing is repeated over and over again in Scripture. David recalls the dedication of the temple when he prayed, gave praise for the materials that had been gathered. And um I I said David recalled, recall when David was praising the Lord. Turn with me, if you will, to 1 Chronicles 29, where David is rejoicing in the preparation for the temple, the temple that he would not build, that his son would build But all the materials had been gathered together for the building of the temple. And in 1 Chronicles 29, I'll start reading in verse number 10. And you will I'll emphasize our word bless as we come through it, but you'll find it several times. 1 Chronicles 29, verse 10, wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty for all that is in heaven. And in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Isn't that a good example of blessing the Lord? Verse twelve, both riches and honor come from thee of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thy hand is power and might, and in thy hand is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee Folks, for the believer to truly bless the Lord is only for the believer to act as a mirror. Because we have nothing with which to bless the Lord. But when we bless the Lord, we are polished as glass. In order to bless the Lord, you've got to get out the rag and clean the mirror. In order to bless the Lord, you've got to polish the mirror. You've got to tune the instrument For here we find that all things come of thee, and this was the example of the man who said, Bless the Lord, O my soul. The example of him, blessing the Lord, O his soul. He is reflecting back the glory of God. In me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. But in him is all righteousness. In him is all glory. And so Bless the Lord, O my soul. I can give nothing to Him, but I reflect back to Him his glory. For all things come of thee, and thine own have we received. Who are we? That we should be able to give after this sort. Bless the Lord. O my soul. We will look in a future week, Lord willing, at the passage, he who healeth all thy diseases. What do we know about the soul? The soul is the only eternal part of us, isn't it? The body is perishing. The body ultimately will perish. It is the soul that is eternal And that is why it's more important to bless the Lord with the soul than to bless the Lord with the lips. If the soul is blessed with the Lord, the lips will follow, the hands will follow. But it is addressed to the eternal, immortal part of man. But folks, there's so much more here. For it says, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. We're going to see later in this psalm that he made known his way acts unto Moses, his ways unto the children of Israel. Moses was the one who through whom we got the law. Moses was the one who through whom we know about creation. It is his holy name that is to be blessed here. But then he repeats the same phrase again in verse 2: Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget. Not all his benefits. Folks, we could spend a whole message on the dangers of forgetting his benefits. Have you ever given something to someone and they forgot you gave it to them? You gave them a a nice gift and you saw them the next day and they didn't say a word about it. They did they didn't remember. Or you you gave them something and they forgot who gave it to you and they started telling you everything that was wrong with it. Or they told you how they regifted it. Or they told you how they already had three and now they got four. Folks, isn't that what we do to God? Bless the Lord, all my soul. And forget not all his benefits. Folks, David would not say that if he did not understand that mankind is in danger of forgetting God's benefits. And David, in the tuning of his soul for the praise of God, would not say that if he was not guilty of forgetting God's benefits. And had to remind his soul again. Forget not all of his benefits. For folks, it is so easy for us to become so overwhelmed with our problems, with our problems. That we forget the benefits of God. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Return to him glory, my soul. Bless his holy name, and forget not all his benefits. I don't often read from my notes. Some of the old preachers used to read their sermons entirely. But I just want to read to you directly from my notes here. I know it's not a good speaking form, but I don't want to miss something. David spends the balance of this psalm reminding his soul of the benefits that flow as the blessings of his God. The word translated benefits literally means acts, works, or doings. Forget not all his benefits. His acts, his works. His doings. The benefits of God are the acts that He has performed on behalf of His people. The list that David puts before us is brief indeed in light of the enormity of God's blessings. No attempt is made to set forth a comprehensive catalog of God's blessings, but rather to highlight a few. The benefits that we receive from God can indeed be easily forgotten. We can become so accustomed to them that we are unmindful of the reality that we are surrounded by them. They become as common to us as the air we breathe. First of all, to forget God's benefits is a sin. That's a sin to forget his benefits Secondly, to forget God's benefits is the first step in backsliding. You see, if we're remembering his blessings, which include his blood Which include redemption, which include daily bread, which include the air we bring. If we're remembering those things, we have a great defense from backsliding. If we're remembering his word. Forgetting his benefits is the first step in bapty. Forgetting his benefits leads to depression and discouragement. So often when we find ourselves depressed or discouraged, the problem is we're not counting our blessings. The problem is we've forgotten the benefits of God. What more do we need that he does not supply? What wrong has God done to me? How has God ever been unkind in his dealing with me? How has God ever abused my trust in him? You see, forgetting his benefits is sin. It is the first step in backsliding. It leads to depression and discouragement It is an indication that we've lost our first love. That first devotion we had to the Lord has been allowed to slip away. Forgetting his benefits is rebellion. I say it again. Forgetting his benefits is a rebellion against God. We're to be ever mindful of his benefits. We're to be ever mindful of his grace. And forgetting his benefits will lead us to falling. We cannot lose our salvation. But folks, we can fall so low, fall so far from God's blessings. But his blessings are withdrawn, just as the illustration I've used before of a parent who has a child who loves to wander And so the child, the parent will step around the corner in the store and let the child go off and cry for a minute for mommy. That the child may learn to stay close at hand. And so we can, by forgetting his benefits, get to the point where his benefits are hidden. They are not known. And we do not receive the blessing of them. That's where that was the introduction for this morning. Very briefly, I want you to just glance through the psalm with me. And Lord willing, we're going to pick up some of these verses because there's two and three verse groups here, which are are messages in themselves. But he says, forget not all its benefits. And then look in verse three. I'm going to use the word he, uh word who, even when it's not who in the verse, but you'll you'll follow along with me. Verse 3, who forgiveth all thy iniquities? Who healeth all thy diseases? Verse 4, who redeemeth thy life from destruction? Who crowneth thee with tender mercies Who satisfies thy mouth with good things? The Lord, who executes right judgments? Have you ever had bad judgment against you? I think every one of us have been miss misjudged. He executes right judgment. Verse 7 Um who has made known his ways to Moses? Verse 8, who is merciful and who is slow to anger? Verse 9, who will not always chive? Verse 10, who hath not dealt with us after our sins? Verse 13, who like a father pities his children? You see the theme through there David begins by saying, Bless the Lord, O my soul. And all that was within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and my soul don't forget his benefits, because when I forget his benefits, I stop blessing him. When I forget his benefits, I turn inward and sort of outward. When I forget his benefits, my instrument is out of tune, my mirror is spotted. And I no longer can bless the Lord, oh my soul. Folks, we're going to end there today. And I promise we won't do a massive review of the first two verses next week. But next week I would like us to pick up and begin to take apart these two and three verse segments one at a time For they're packed full of food, of manna for the people of God. Stand with me as we pray, please. Father, I I just rejoice and and worship before your throne at the blessing that this passage has been to my own heart. Father, I pray that it has been a blessing to your people, Lord, that that we might carry it home and meditate on it throughout the week. Father, we thank you that your word is yea and amen. That it is a deep mine of treasure and blessing for your people. Father, we thank you that you have not called the mighty and the wise, but you've called chosen the foolish things to confound the mighty and the wise. And Lord, we are a small little weak congregation, and yet greatly blessed by thy Spirit. And so, Father, I pray that you would Tune our hearts to sing thy praise. Lord, that our violins may be tuned well, that our mirrors may be cleaned and spotless, that we might reflect the glory of the great God and King. Father, bless these things to us we pray in Jesus' name.