Good morning. A nation forged in faith. The Bulletin I think just says forged in faith, but we're talking about a nation This nation, America, forged in faith, or formed actually in the faith of the scriptures, if we want a longer title. I believe that with all my heart, and I think by the end of the service uh you should see See as much evidence uh that would confirm uh also in your hearts that this was a nation that was formed in the faith of the scriptures I know we don't get that much in school anymore. Uh some of you are here who are old enough, maybe you're on Medicare, you have to be almost that old remember when in the schools they they taught about our founding Fathers and they taught it in in a reverent manner. Uh today we hear that we not we are not a Christian nation. I as I look around I'm starting to believe that. But it really irks me when we're also told we never were a Christian nation, and that's just not true. Anyone that says That is a liar. They're either very ignorant of the history of our nation or they're trying to undermine our nation by helping us to forget the past and lead us into a nation that will have no Future. Israel learned that lesson a hard way, and I hope that it's not going to happen to us. But starting from the very beginning, we're going to work our way up from the founding of our fathers all the way up to the American Revolution in 1776 and I want to share some things with you. There are early the early colonists who came to uh Plymouth Plantation. We, as we read the history, realize that they really lacked the preparation for what they were about to face And they lacked the provisions when they got here for what they're about to face. But their governor, William Bradford, said they lacked everything but virtue. And with virtue, they helped the good With holiness, with the sanctified spirit, they built the most powerful nation that this world had ever seen Governor William Bradford of the Plymouth Rock or the Plymouth Plantation, Plymouth Colony has a couple different names. He said, out of small beginnings, greater things had been produced by the Lord's hand. He that made all things out of nothing can surely do something he said with Plymouth Colony. And the Lord did. The people of Plymouth Colony, if you want to know why they came here, forget about what the textbook Are you telling you today? Forget about the college professors or NBC or CBS is telling you. If you want to know why they came here, read the Mayflower Compact The Mayflower Compact says they came to promote and propagate the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know if you're in college today or somewhere else they say we came for gold. We didn't come for God. That's not true Read the Mayflower Compact. That's a document. What they say on TV is not documented. They came to proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. Leviticus 25 We even put it on the liberty belt to proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants. The Indian tribes are here. I know they're often called the great and distinguished and uh and the wonderful Indian tribes and and just uh how we should go they should be allowed to go back to their heritage and and we just interfered with that and forced Christianity down their throat. But the truth is the Indian tribes here, when they came to Plymouth Rock and up and down the coast, they found them practicing body piercings, tattooing their faces and their bodies. They were a horrible sight to see And they practice cannibalism, fighting the other tribes and eating the other tribes. And and we shouldn't have interfered with this. We came to proclaim liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants, and include the Indians. Leviticus 25 and 10. And if you think I'm prejudiced against the Indians, my last name is Bird. Keith Bird of the Hunkapapas, the Sioux Indian tribe, that was my grandfather When we look at the founding colonies, not just Plymouth Rock, and some of you have heard some of this before, but we all need to hear it again, and some of us have never heard it before. But you can go right down the line through every colony and every state, all fifty states actually, we won't do that this morning morning. But just to the original colonies, the orders or the uh charter of the Connecticut Colony, it read this way, that you have come to the Connecticut to establish a colony to maintain and preserve the liberty and the purity of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. That sounds pretty good to me. It doesn't sound like they came for gold. They were sent here to promote the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Maryland Charter, hang on to your seats The Maryland Charter says the same thing that was read for extending the Christian religion. And although people talk about Maryland being a Catholic colony The fact is there were two or three people on the boat who represented the charter and they were Catholic, but the rest of the boat were Protestants. And Maryland has never been a Catholic colony. It has always been in the hands of the majority of Protestants, reformers. And so they came to promote the propagation of the Christian religion. North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Georgia, their charters read almost verbatim the same for the propagation of the Christian faith. New Hampshire to establish a government in the name of Christ Jesus. Wow. How far have we gone in the last couple of years, or the last decade or two Massachusetts, couldn't five a more liberal state, right? Massachusetts, the charter read to spread the knowledge and the obedience of the only true God and Savior and the Christian faith from Massachusetts. And we could go on, we could work away all 50 states if you wanted, and you'll find the references to Christ, the Savior, the Redeemer, the Gospel. The founders wanted to spread the knowledge of the only true God. The founding fathers considered a lack of education sinful for it blocked access to the scriptures. They even passed the law that in all the schools and all the classes they that they ever would be taught from the scriptures. And they called it the satanic deluder bill. Satan wanted to keep everyone in the colonies ignorant. They didn't want them educated and the colleagues from the very beginning and on up into the eighteen hundreds and even into the nineteen hundreds, often the teacher was a pastor From a local congregation. And he taught the scriptures from the Bible. They taught every course was taught from the Bible. They taught science using Using the six-day creation. They taught math. That wasn't too difficult. Jacob had twelve sons. They sold one in the slavery. How many do we have left? Eleven. You can use the scriptures all the time There were twelve disciples. One wasn't faithful. Jews was scary. How many were faithful? Eleven. They just they used the scriptures to teach everything kids. When they told them the alphabet, A stands for Adam, B stands for Bible, C stands for Christ the Redeemer, D stands for the devil. I mean that's how the scriptures were taught and they taught every subject. They taught grammar. They taught English. They knew how important it was to teach from the scriptures the knowledge that they needed. Knowing that, they decided we needed an educational system of higher learning. And so the first educational system of higher learning was called Harvard. We've all heard of Harvard Harvard was started. It was the highest and the first higher education and it stated on the admission requirement. You wanted you wanted to go to Harvard? You had to sign the admission statement and it was said you must maintain and end It it would mean an in an end of life and studies to know God and Jesus Christ which is eternal life. John 17 3. If you're coming here, here's the mission statement you have to sign. That you've come here And the main goal was in the life in your studies was to know God and to know Jesus Christ, which is eternal life. That's Harvard University. Wow And he said that only eternal life through Jesus Christ was the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning. That was Harvard. Of course, that's in the 1640s when Harvard was first established. Here's a quote that I read recently. When one reads America's faith is faltering, that prosperity has dulled our Christianity, that the people are lukewarm in their faith and are drifting away from the founding fathers' faith They become careless at heart, indifferent to the concerns of eternity. Social conditions are changing them. There's little difference now between the church and the world. That was written in 1730. That was written in 1730. The pilgrims had come about a hundred years earlier, and within a hundred years, this nation was falling apart. It was becoming filled with sin. It was not attending the church services anymore. It was mocking the scriptures. And we don't remember that. But the nineteen fifties, the nineteen nineteen sixty, but how can it be that bad? It sounds more like two thousand sixteen, not seventeen thirty. How can it be that bad? And I don't remember it ever being that it should have gotten worse, wouldn't it? Along came the Great Awakening The end of the 1730s and 1740s, along came the Great Awakening. So I say to you this morning, if this What I just read you about how Christianity had dulled and the people were lukewarm of the faith. They were drifting away from the founding fathers' faith. They were careless at heart, indifferent to the concerns of eternity Little dish in the church and the world, if that's 1730, there must be hope for us as well, for another great awakening, because that's what we need. Maybe I ought to just stand in this pulpit every Sunday and all the faithful preachers across the land and just say, Wake up! Wake up And maybe the Lord will do that. 2 Chronicles 7:14. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn From their wicked ways, then I will hear, I will hear, hear that? I will hear from heaven and I will heal their land. And maybe God will send us another great awakening. He did in 1730 when things were about as bad as they are today. Just prior to the first great awakening In the 1740s, Reverend Whitfield, George Whitfield, a Methodist preacher, he preached that the problem in the colonies was that the ministers needed to be born again. That's the problem today. I can tell you that right now. I can't tell you how many times I get I I'll meet another minister on a plane or I'll meet someone at a restaurant, a minister, and and they just let down their hair and they think I'm one of them and they tell me they don't believe this stuff But it's got a great pension, it's a great job, they get lots of respect. They don't believe this. They don't believe the virgin birth. They don't believe the Old Testament. They don't believe the miracles in the New Testament And we've got the same problem as it was in George Whitfield's day. Whitfield said the problem in the colonies is the fact that the ministers and the pulpits are not born again. They're not bloodwashed, they're not saved, and they're not sanctified. They're living ungodly and unholy lives. It made George Whitfield real popular. He'd come into a city to preach, and the preachers would meet him in the outscreen of the city and say, you're not welcome here. We're really sorry to see you here. And Whitfield said, you know something? The devil's sorry to see me here too. And he just parked them and walked right through like the red They wouldn't let him in the churches, they wouldn't let him at pulpits, he'd stand out in their cemeteries and stand on the cemetery stones, he said There's a bunch of dead people. He said the people in the cemetery stones on the ground are more alive than that preacher is in this pulpit, or those people. He would stand outside the churches and preach from their cemetery stones We got a lot of dead, unsaved preachers in this land. And I can read off a list of you know some of 'em. We've done that before. The first Great Awakening established new colleges. Mentioned Harvard. They also established in the Great Awakening. You know, you you think the world's changing or maybe there's revival breaking out somewhere. different than anything we t that people talk about. When they tell us a revival breaking out in California or revival breaking out down in uh Tallahassee or or down in uh uh Clearwater, Florida, let me tell you what Not like a Great Awakening that we really need and what really happened. The Great Awakening established new colleges. Princeton, Columbia, Rutgers, Dartmouth, University of Pennsylvania was a Christian college. When it started. In fact, I don't know very many universities or colleges of the old Ivy League that weren't Christian. There were none started by Muslims None started by the Hindus or the Buddhists, nor were there hospitals started by any of those groups either. It's always been the Christians who started the hospitals. Why do you think it's called Good Samaritan or Mercy Hospital? GBMC used to be Presbyterian Hospital. Christians are responsible for the Christian Education, they're responsible for the orphanages, they're responsible for the hospitals. And yet today you think that we are the scourge of America. The born beginners. They're the problem. They're the cause of all our problems Deuteronomy eleven, verses eighteen through twenty-five, and our responsive reading, my words you shall teach them to your children. And that's what they did at Plymouth. You shall teach them with your children. When thou sittest, when thou walkest, when thou liest down, riseth up. You shall there shall no man be able to stand before you, for the Lord your God will lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all. Who is afraid of America today? Why should they be? We're not teaching the Word of God to our children. They're not afraid of us because we're not teaching the Word, they're not reading the Word, they're not memorizing the Word, and they're not praying over the Word. Nobody's afraid of America today. But there was a time with just cause they feared this nation. And it wasn't because we were the biggest bully on the block is because they knew we had a God that would take care of them if the colonists didn't, if our armies didn't. I'll tell you what a great away Look like. Sunday mornings, nobody was home. They were in the churches Sunday evening, same thing. They call for a national day of prayer as George Washington did during the American Revolution. All business is shut down You walk down the streets and the bakery was closed and the bookship was closed and and that the you know, everything was closed. Where were they? It's a national day of prayer. They're all home praying or all the churches praying. What today we call for national day of prayer and the traffic out on the highways is just as thick as it was the day before. But during a great awakening you find a real difference in the people. They would ride four hours on horseback in heat, rain, and cold to attend. the weekly church service. Some had a buckboard, it wasn't quite as bad. None had air conditioning. None had heat in the wintertime. During the rain you can't carry an umbrella much on a horse They thought nothing of four hours to the church for about a three-hour service where he preached about two hours long and prayed for about an hour, and then another three or four hours back home. That's what a revival looks like. You walk down to the streets in the evening, any night of the week in Boston during the revival, and you hear people singing the Psalms. Out there windows. You know when you hear all that and you tell people that something I don't know if I want a revival. That sounds pretty weird to me. Well then you're going to get what we got right now and it's going to get worse During the Great Awakening, more sermons were published than all the articles on science and history and the law put together. Sermons were published in newspapers and magazines, tracts and pamphlets. The popular American slogan during the Great Awakening And even for many, many decades afterward it was talking about the Sabbath day he says, Keep this and keep all. Lose it and lose all. This nation voted some time ago, didn't they? Everything can be open on the Lord's Day. We'd lost the Sabbath day The Great Awakening unleashed thunder and lightning from the pulpits that left the people of America united in a newfound. Faith, united in their appreciation for their God, united for a desire to resist abusive, tyrannical government, and united in a national conscience based on the Christian scripture. The Great Awakening, it not only brought a conscience to America and a morality to America and a sanctity to the lives of the people, but prepared them and united them to go against the United Kingdom. Great Britain. There's nothing else that could have united a nation so much as the Word of God and the Scriptures, as the Great Awakening did in preparing the people to fight the most powerful nation in the world. Consciousness. A national conscience Today what do we have? We not only have lack of a national conscience, but we we just expect our congressmen to be a little carnal, don't we? That's that's you know that's that's the way they are. You know, they get caught once We expect we just kind of expect that. We expect some of those in the Senate to be just a little sinful. You know, it's that's the way they are, you know This is we didn't expect that. We also expect that among the ministry in the pulpit's day, ministries are money-centered You send in that hundred dollars in an envelope, it's a seed faith, and God will bless you with even more. I know it works because I've been blessed as you keep sending in your seed money to me, and God will bless you. Do the same. Money-centered. We just expect that. People say, What do you do for a living? I said, I'm a pastor. Oh wow. And they grabbed a wallet and they watched me and they walk away The fruits of the Great Awakening shone forth in a young man in seventeen sixty two He's just been newly elected to the Virginia Assembly. His name was Pat Henry, or Patrick Henry, you would know. Patrick and he's just been elected to the General Assembly. He'd cut his teeth as a little boy in the Presbyterian preaching of a man named Samuel Davies And he'd come home at night, and not only would his mother ask him, What did you learn from Pastor Samuel Davies today? He would recite, he almost had the whole sermon memorized. He'd stand on a tree stump and he'd recite the whole sermon with vivid vigor In seventeen sixty-three, he's elected the Virginia Assembly. I wish we could have been there to see it. The description of him is He came walking in his backs, woods, leather. He'd been out hunting somewhere, you know, and wiped the blood off his pants and come in and he sit down and they all looked at him like, where did this hick come from? I mean what who is he elected? Somebody really elected this guy. But he loved the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he saw things were wrong and unrighteous and appropriate, like the Stamp Act from King George, he came there and he was going to speak against us. Now you've got to remember, he not only looks like a backwoodsman hick, but if he has been elected and he had his credentials, Junior men elected assembly, they don't talk here. You're you're directed. When you come into this place, you need to sit back for a year or two and watch how things work, and then eventually you can stand up and say something too. Patrick Kennedy didn't know where that was in the Bible. I've been elected to represent my people. I'm here to talk about the Stamp Act. And so he stood up, this rustic backwoodsman in appearance, and everybody looked at him, their jaws dropped. What's going to come out of this guy's mouth? Probably stutterings and mush. But out of his mouth flowed eloquence, logic, and language that overwhelmed all with his oratory skills. As his words exploded against the King and King George and the Stamp Act. It became so, so bombastic that even the the men of the assembly thought he'd gone too far attacking the king. After all the king is royalty and what are we Well Patrick Henry could have answered that. We're of a royal blood. We're the so we're the children of Jesus Christ, the King of Kings. We're royalty. He's no more royal than we are, he would tell them. And they started shouting out, Treason, treason. He said, if it be treason. and make the most of it. But the Stamp Act must be opposed. That speech carried the day. The Stamp Act was rescinded. For the next twelve years he would stagger them, Patrick Kenny, with his insight in his presentations until 1775 when he uttered the words that most of us still know today. And those words were what? Give me liberty or give me death. I'm glad we're still taught that But that's not his best quotes. Let me give you his best quotes. His best quote was in the 70s: the Bible's a book worth more than all the other books that were ever printed. I like that quote even better Or how about this quote? The Lord Jesus Christ, I prize him above all that the world has to offer. I like that quote, and there's dozens of them like that Moses esteemed the reproach of Christ's greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, Hebrews 11, 26, and so did Patrick. Henry. And that's the kind of men that filled our assemblies. Our founding fathers. They clung to the scriptures and the scriptures clung to them, and it really, really made a difference in who led this country. Now King George, he heard about Patrick Henry, and he was willing to accommodate him and give him death, if that's what he wanted. He was not happy with Patrick Henry. He was not happy with his revolutionary group that hung out with him. They all had this idea of reformed theology that taught that the soul of a prince was no better than the soul of a pauper. That we're all equal in the sight of God. Our souls are all equal. King George, your soul's not any more important than anyone else than anybody else's soul In addition, the likes of Patrick, Henney, and the preacher of their day, they compared King George to Rehaboam. Remember Rahboam? Rahboam and he took over as a king of Israel. He said, You think the previous king was tough on you? He just pushed down on you with his thumb. I'll bring my entire world weight upon the body of Israel and you'll see what will happen. Well it split Israel in half. King Roalboam, he split the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom. I mean he he just basically destroyed Israel in his day And Patrick Henry in his life they said to King George, you're nothing but a King Ray of Boom. You're going to destroy the United Kingdom. It's not going to be United anymore. You're going to split us if you keep pushing like this The Parliament had said the colonists have no vote in the Parliament in England. Consequently, we cannot tax them. And King George said, you know what's up? We've got to stop tax. We need to start taxing them. And some of the parliaments said, we can't tax them. They have no vote. You can't have taxation without representation. He said, Well, they're going to have taxation without representation. Stamp Act. That failed. But there were others that came along and irritated them so much. They asked them, give us a position in Parliament. That we have some people who sit in Parliament from the colonies. And King George said no And like King Rehabal, he split his kingdom. And it's been splitting ever since. Our founding fathers, their faith forged this nation. Faithful people, faith in the scriptures, faith in the Christ of the Scriptures. These are where our founding fathers came from. I'm not saying that everyone was a bloodwashed, born-again Christian. But every one of them revered the Word of God. They let it be their guide and their light. And the vast majority of them were Christians. I'm going to go through some of the names of that. and some of you heard. You go to college today and don't start talking about the American history. And you get on campus, you've all seen this. Someone goes on to campus with a microphone and ask them a question. Who do we fight in the American Revolution? They say f uh uh was it Russia? Oh no it's it was probably China. And they say, oh and by the way, uh you're taking a major here at the university. What's your major? Oh American history. You just I mean you talk you talk to these people. You you can go out and interview them. Who is Sam Adams? Oh that's a beer we drink on the campus at night Sam Adams and they might drink a beer named Sam Adams, but that's not who Sam Adams was. Plymouth Rock, well that that's a that's a rock band, isn't it? They don't know anything. Our founding father Fill them with the scriptures, saturate their life with the scriptures, so they know the importance, the important things called knowledge and wisdom. The Declaration of Independence. You'll be taught it was written by a bunch of hypocrites who loved slavery. Not true. 1760. John Adams, second president of the United States, in 1760. Thomas Jefferson, third president of the United States, in 1760. Benjamin Franklin. They petitioned the King of England to eradicate slavery in America. And King George said, no. Seventy years later, he would allow England no he wouldn't, but the those who were running England at the time, they arrêted they got rid of slavery England, 70 years after Adams and Franklin and Jefferson said we don't want it here anymore. We see what it's doing. How can we promote liberty throughout all the land and have slaves Once England got rid of their slaves, America got rid of theirs in about 25, 30 years as well. But don't tell me the founding fathers were for slavery. They didn't want it But we're not taught that today in the news media or anyone else. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Second Corinthians three seventeen where the Spirit of the Lord is there should be liberty. They did not free. I'm not saying that every founding father, that none of them had slaves, but many of them saw the heirs of the way. George Washington got rid of his slaves. Actually didn't get i in his will when he died, his slaves were all released. They had trained, they had skills, they didn't need to be here on the plantation anymore, and he also paid for anyone that wanted to go to college a full ride That's how Washington treated his slaves when he released them. Spirit of the Lord, they There will be liberty. Today many think of the Declaration has lost its significance. Well it has for some of the Supreme Court judges And as for some of your local and district judges, the Declaration of Inpendence has lost its significance. But in 1776 it was quite significant to the people there. They wanted their freedom. There was a plague, a smallpox plague that broke out in 1776 throughout all Boston. At the same time, they heard the Declaration of Independence have been completed. And the people, though there was a smallpox plague in Boston In July 1776, the people came from all over and went to the churches. They didn't care about the plague. They want to know about freedom and liberty And they knew they'd find out and hear it in the churches of their day, and that's where they went. They risked exposure to smallpox to hear the Declaration of Independence read. How many people a day would travel five miles To hear the Declaration of Independence. How many people here today that we know would ever want to go someplace in a in a place that was just infested with smallpox or some other horrible disease? It has become Significant, hasn't it, to this nation? But there are still some that love to hear it, still some that think it's a responsible and a great document And we had that. Our founding fathers, many of them, followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just talk to you about the delegates that attended the first Continental Congress. We have Congress down in Washington, D. C. It was called the Continental Congress. Of Congress in the beginning, and each state sent delegates to the Continental Congress. Of course, the Continental Congress, then we have only 13 states. But let me just read you some of the ones that are Continental Congress. John Adams, he was a delegate from Massachusetts He's he did as President of the United States in the second term when he was in office second president. He spent every day copying down chapters of the Bible each day into his He said it was one thing to read the Word of God, but I'm going to write it out. And the whole time in his office, every day for like twelve hundred days, he wrote out several chapters every day for twelve hundred days and put them in his journals They still have those journals. He thought that much of the Bible, he'd take the time. How long would it take to sit down and write a couple chapters long hand? Boy, you'd miss a couple of TV shows doing that, wouldn't you? But that's what John Adams was like. He was a man that revered the Word of God. His cousin was Sam Adams. Both John Adams and Sam Adams, by the way, before they got into politics, they both had studied for and wanted to become ministers of God. Of Jesus Christ. Neither man felt really called to that ministry. They eventually felt a calling more for the area of politics. Sam Adams did marry a preacher's daughter. That's about as close as he got to the pulpit But they definitely had a love for the scriptures, those two men, Sam Adams and John Adams. I wonder how many presidents of the United States in the last thirty years even read one chapter of the Bible a day, let alone write out in longhand a couple of chapters a day Sam Adams was also a delegate to the Continental Congress. The British called Sam Adams. He was the most incinerary, he was the most flamboyant, he was the most boisterous, he was the one that they they had wanted potion for Sam Adams. The British hated him. They called him the angel of darkness. The father of the American Revolution is Sam Adams, by the way. That's not a beer. It was the father of the American Revolution. The British were so incensed. They didn't know how to stop this guy. They could they uh they he was always surrounded by people who could protect him and they wanted him to stop and they finally got a little quiet time then one time. And they threaten him with death, abuse, and torture. And Sam Adams says, Go ahead, it's not gonna change things. You make a martial out of me. And then they change it and say, I'll tell you what, how much money would it take to just shut you up? That's what happens in Congress and Senate. You vote people in so they'll vote the you're you're they're supposed to vote their constituents what their constituents want, they don't They get bought off. They try to buy off Sam Adams. Britain offered him any amount of money we need, just to make a deal, to make peace with King George. We'll give you any amount of money you want. I I've got the op here it is, it's an open check. What do you need, Sam Adams To make peace with King George and just to be quiet. And Sam Adams' reply was, I already made peace with the King of Kings. Why should I make peace with King George? Tell King George to make peace with the King of Kings and everything will be alright. Christ has called The King of Kings in Revelation 17, 14. Sam Adams knew who he meant. He knew who he was talking about. He was talking about making peace the King of Kings. He was talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. One of our founding fathers, as well as John Adams. In 1776, Sam Adams was suffering from palsy. Hands would tremble, arms would tremble, and yet he led the Boston Team. tea party one night all dressed up like Indians onto the ship and people of the college professors tell you that was breaking and entering. It was destruction of government property And they go on and on and on. Well, they did pour the tea into the harbor. But they warned them not to bring the tea to the harbor. If you did we're going to get rid of it. We're going to destroy your tea. But as far as breaking and entering goes, let me tell you something about Sam Adams, a Christian. They cut the locks off, tossed them aside, threw the T in the bay, and then some Adams came back with brand new locks, installed the new locks with new key He said it's not necessary we destroy everything. We're just after the T was not going to be imposed upon the colonies, but to break the locks and not replace them wouldn't be a Christian thing to do. He replaced the locks the locks and the ships. But they don't teach you that in public school or public colleges or anywhere. Or on the news media. They'll never tell you that part of Sam Adams, the father of the American Revolution. This is a prophetic thing from Sam Adams that he said: whether America shall long preserve her freedom will depend on her virtue. So America will only preserve its freedom as long as it preserves its virtue. You don't think that allowing gay marriage in this country Is going to destroy our virtue? Is it going to destroy our country? You don't think allowing transgenders or men, whether they're transgender or not, in the ladies' bathrooms is not You don't think we're going to pay for that? He said we'll never keep our our country free. Or we'll lose our freedom if we have no virtue. Sam Adams. As governor of Massachusetts, he proclaimed, this is the governor now, he's now the governor of Massachusetts. He made a proclamation. He said, May the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ be everywhere established. Wow, when's the last time you heard a congressman or a senator say that? Or a governor or a mayor? Stand up. Proclamation, we've got the fourth of July. Would you love to see uh uh uh Governor Hogan or or uh mayor Stephanie Rawlings way come on and say, I just want to make this statement on the Fourth of July. Can you can you imagine this happening? That they would stand up there and they would say Preserve our freedom. May the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ be everywhere established. Don't hold your breath for any Republican or Democrat. Maybe Ted Cruz would. There's probably a few out there that will. But I bet we won't Film at eleven. Senator Congress proclaims, Let's establish the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout all the land. No, you won't you won't see that. It does happen. Delegates to the Continental Congress considered independents. There were many of them. There was a Thomas Cushing of Massachusetts, another delegate. By the way, Thomas Cushing was a deacon in his church Okay, in case we don't think that these are Christians involved. John Jay, he was a descendant of the French Huguenots, that's the reformers, Christian reformers in France. And he was also a delegate from the state of New York John Jay. Okay, so he's a descendant of French Huguenots. Doesn't mean he's a Christian. He was president of the American Bible Society. Hmm. Continental Congress would open each day with prayer. And there was another member there, Silas Dean. He was of Connecticut. He was a delegate. And he said Every day it opens, and every day it opens a prayer. He said, and I've got to come down from Connecticut and sometimes I make that long ride overnight. He said, I'm going to tell you something. I'd ride a hundred miles To hear the prayers that I hear in Congress when they open every day. You ought to hear the preachers they bring in and the prayers that they pray. It's fantastic Now the chaplain of the Senate. I think it's I think it's still Barry, I forget Barry Black is Barry Black. At least he he has been for a long time. Uh and I knew him Godly fella. But you know suddenly he opens uh on the floor of Congress and the Senate, he's a chaplain, and there's about four people there I mean, here you got a you got the fellow, this Silas Dean from Connecticut. He'd ride a hundred miles to hear him open Congress with prayer. That's the kind of people that led this country. Our founding fathers, they love to hear God Men pray. Down there in Congress now the chaplain, he opens it up. Oh, I know it gets piped into their offices somewhere, out there in the in the Senate building somewhere. But they're not there either New Jersey delegate. Reverend Reverend Jonathan Willispoon. Well, he probably was a Christian, wasn't he? Oh yes he was William Livingston, the two of them. William Livingston from Delhi, he was a dagger from New Jersey, as well as Reverend Willersburn. They both, he served as a missionary, the Mohawk Indians. William Livingston. Reverend Johnson witherspoon of course a great man of God. The preachers talk from the pulpits then when those who govern attack God's word we are morally this is this quote when those who govern attack God's word we are morally obligated to resist them and if needfully dispose them I could get arrested today for saying that one. So let's Let me say it again. When those who govern attack God's word, they are morally obligated, we are, to resist them and of needle depose them. To obey an ungodly law, this is the rest of the quote, was considered treason against you. You you disobey the word of God, like the bathroom bills here in Maryland with the transgenders and the and the gay marriages. You you you when you disobey the word of God and that's what those things are they are. There are laws that are disobeying or going contrary to the word of God. When you do that That is treason against humanity, it's treason against sensibility, and it's treason against Christianity. We ought to obey God rather than man. Acts 5 and 29. And yeah, in Acts 5-29, they got a rest of John. John and Peter for obeying God rather than man. Thomas Jefferson, we hear so much about him not being a Christian. I I know there's some doubts of Thomas Jefferson, but I can pile on some stuff to you about Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson that makes me any church today would gladly welcome, but the testimony I can give you about Thomas Jefferson, he's got a stronger testimony than half the people in Christian churches today. Do you know that Thomas Jefferson go down to uh Montebello and ask them about his art collection? Honest with you, there's an art collection kept in the basement at Montebella. It is the largest Christian art collection in the world. Thomas Jefferson owned it. I asked him, do you ever put it on display? Well, once in a while we'll bring up maybe one of the paintings. or twice I haven't seen any of the paintings yet. How many have ever been to Mountability, the home of Thomas Jefferson? Did you see any Christian paintings on the wall? Boy, he's got the largest cre it's all down in collecting dust and wrapped up. He had the largest Christian art ever. And when he signed his bills as President of the United States He often signed them in the year of our Lord, which sometimes the presidents still do that today, in the year of our Lord 2016. But he signed it in the year of our Lord Jesus Christ. Not many presidents all through the ages did that. Not even George Washington did that. That was Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson wanted the national seal not to be the eagle, you know, with the arrows in one hand and the and the and the the leaves, the piece of leaves in the other hand. Thomas Jefferson wanted the national seal to be the cloud That was guiding the Israelites through the wilderness by day and a column of fire by night. That's what Thomas Jefferson wanted as our national He wanted right back directly into the scriptures. There are some that say well he wrote a Bible without any of the quotes of Jesus in it. Yes he did. It wasn't because he didn't believe in the miracles of Christ. He just wanted the people to read get a get a he said I I I I'm trying to reduce some things here, so people who aren't going to read the whole Bible, at least they'd read through the gospels and he and he cut some things out for that purpose. It was it was kind of like a reader's digest abridge. I don't like an abridged Bible But that's what he did. But it wasn't because he hated the gospel or hated the words of Christ. And that's in his own testimony. On the floor of Congress, Thomas Jefferson would quickly condemn any critic of Christianity, calling them a heathen. And in 1803, Thomas Jefferson wrote in a private correspondence that he probably never probably thought would never see the light of day. In a private correspondence in 1803, Thomas Jefferson, our president, said, I am a Christian in the only sense in which Christ wished any one of us to be. I am sincerely attached to Christ's doctrines and preference to all. others. Private correspondence. Never expected to see the lady. He believed in the virgin birth. He believed in the judgment. In fact, you go down to the rotunda where his statue is, he says, I tremble that we have a just God and his mercy and his judgment will not He believed the coming judgment of Christ. It's engraved down there on his memorial, Jeffson Memorial Let me leave you with this final thought. There are men out today attacking the Founding Fathers. And they they attack the Founding Fathers and they say they weren't Christian. They didn't have the Christian faith. They didn't forge this nation. You know, I don't know why people think they were Christians and why they why they were they were they were Bible believers and Bible thumpers and Bible followers. And they'll tell you it's just not true. They'll tell you they were universalists and they were atheists or agnostics. And there there were among those fifty-six signers less than a handful of men that you could have said were uh universalists. I don't think you could have found an atheist Among him. But they they throw this blanket over all the founding fathers and say that they weren't Christians. We weren't a Christian nation. They didn't believe the Christian faith. The Christian faith didn't forge this nation. And then the next day when you come back to class, you know what they tell you in the next class? The founding fathers, they pass laws making you go to church on Sunday Wait a minute, yesterday you said they weren't Christians, and today you said Pastor Paul's making us go to church on Sunday and worship Jesus. Now which is it? You can't have it both ways. These guys, you just can't have it both ways. They're bipolar, I think. The men attack our founding fathers. It's a contradiction in logic to say they weren't Christians and they made us go to church on Sundays, pass laws, even put a church in the Capitol down in Washington, D. C. where the Congressman centers attended. It's a contradiction in logic what we're being told today that when we say the founding fathers weren't men of God, weren't men of the scriptures. It's a contradiction of recorded history. And it's surely a contradiction of their own conscience when they can make one statement one day and total 180 degrees out, make the other statement the next day. May that not be so with you, Pilgrim. May you not only understand what the founding fathers were all about and what they believed and who they followed And the words that we've heard. But may it also be your path that you're following. God's word, not man's word. This fourth of July, if if you are not independently free from your sin, if you're not freed up from the habits of sin, what a great day it would be. Fourth of July celebration to be free indeed. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you have given us a foundation in this nation where we could be a Baptist or a Methodist or a Presbyterian or uh just a Christian if we want to be. That freedom, Lord. What country? There were so many countries where you had to be a Catholic. You had to be a Presbyterian. You had to be a Baptist. Oh Lord. What a wonderful liberty we've had in this country for so long. May we maintain it. May we keep it. May we pray to keep it. May we have a revival, a great awakening, as things are getting as bad as they were in the 1730s, Lord. Send us an awakening, Lord. Send us a revival. Give our grandchildren what many of us had in the 50s and the 40s. And we ask this in Christ's name. Be merciful to us, O Lord. In Christ's name we ask. Amen.