Let me recap. Forgiveness. What is it? It is a promise. It is a promise not to bring something up again. How does God forgive? I have promised. He promises not to remember our sins. That's a glorious teaching. Very practical in life relationships. When you have an issue with someone and you say, I forgive you, what you're doing is making a promise that you won't bring this up again. Well Let's look at some examples contrary to what we looked at last week, which was when somebody doesn't Repent, what do you do? How do you handle that? And so we looked at those scripture verses last week. This week, let's look at an interesting case of what forgiveness looks like We don't want to consider a case, for instance, where somebody just flippantly says, oh well, yeah, I'm sorry I did it, you know, I apologize. And then all of a sudden we're supposed to automatically accept it as if though the I apologize term is more than adequate. May not be in many an instance. So let's turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 1. If you have a handout, it's there for you. If you don't, you can turn in your Bible to 1 Corinthians 5. 1. And this is an example I want to walk us through from the church at Corinth. Here the apostle writes this. They had written to him about certain questions. Before he even got to answering their questions, he had to cover a few other topics with them. 1 Corinthians 5. 1, we read this. It is reported commonly. This was open knowledge. It is commonly reported. that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much is named among the Gentiles. This is an extra bad case. That one should have his father's wife. And ye are puffed up and have not rather mourned that he hath done that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. Apparently the man divorced, remarried, that was not his mother. It was uh uh his his father's second wife, and yet he seems to think no issues. For verily I, as absent in the body, but present in spirit, have judged already as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, we notice he hammers that name twice. He's really hitting the authority of Christ here. To deliver such a one unto Satan to the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. Now to deliver someone unto Satan Doesn't mean we go look up his address, knock on his door, uh here we have someone for you. Hand it to him. Satan is a ruler. He is a the prince of the power of the air. He is one that rules over the dominion of darkness. In other words, he's the head of the unsaved. So to deliver one unto Satan means, insofar as the church is concerned, they're excommunicated. They're put out of the church. They're considered as an unbeliever. They don't belong in the kingdom of God. They belong to the kingdom of Satan. They are excommunicated. That's what excommunication means. All right. So I've got a few questions about what we just read. So How does this man's sin come across to you? How would you describe it? I'm not sure what he did. You're not sure what he did? Yes. Alright. Somebody can help there? That's your matter just for It's uh the father's wife. He didn't marry her 'cause his father married her. Oh, okay. That I understand, thank you. Yeah. All right. So this would be what in your opinion if there was an individual like this in your church, how would you describe that situation? Appalling. Appalling, all right? Immorality. Immorality, yeah? Disgusting. Yeah, pretty disgusting. Here you are in church And I am blush to even try to embellish it further, but the apostle says it's commonly reported. In other words, this wasn't some hidden secret. This was pretty well known. This was the sin of Absalom when David was out of town on the rooftop. Yeah, this was Absalom's sin as well Now, delivering them to Satan, as I indicated, meant to excommunicate, but what might be the difficulties for any church to deal with this issue? Why would it be difficult? Why was it difficult, do you suppose, for the Church of Corinth to even deal with this? Just looking at the text, uh the first part when it mentions that fornication is not named among the Gentiles, I get the sense that this was something new they had never experienced before and they didn't really have any precedent to fall back on. But I Well, that's an interesting vantage point, and I can't discount that. Victoria's pointing out that perhaps this was something that wasn't even named among the Gentiles. It was a new level of sin. It was a new depth of depravity that had not been seen before. Perhaps they didn't have a precedence for how to handle that. Alright, that's an interesting insight. Because it says it's not even named among the Gentiles. Uh if it's commonly reported, it seems like that most people thought, well, it's not worth dealing with. You know, it wasn't viewed as being an issue. Okay. Yeah, it wasn't viewed as being an issue for some strange reason. Um I mean, let's bring the Church of Corinth here and let's play it, let's plop it right down in the 21st century. Would today's church deal with it? Would Pick one. There's no Baptist. Sure. Would a Baptist denomination deal with that? Well flavor of bad. Wouldn't it speak to the person first and then see if the person is um is repentant or not? They I mean they should speak to the person to see if they're unrepentant, yeah. It's kind of an open question because obviously it depends on which church. So if you pick a church, any church Maybe a church that you've been in those five to ten years ago. How might churches deal with it today, but not dealing with it? They probably wouldn't deal with it, right? There's a certain very large denomination called the Roman Catholic Church, which I would put only under the broadest umbrella of Christianity simply because they claim the name of Christ and that's about it. But that denomination for years has had priests molesting young children, boys in particular, and they've never dealt with it. It's been and it's commonly reported. There's nothing new under the sun about it. This was they have dealt with it though. Only after quietly They well the way they quietly dealt dealt with it as Joey, did you have a comment or something? No. Oh you know painting over mold isn't dealing with it And that's what they've done. They've just covered it up. Yes, they sent pay money, I think, to keep it quiet. They would pay money to keep it quiet. They would quietly take that priest and put him to another uh location where he could do his damage over there. They kinda and the OPC, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church has done the same thing, take one heretic out of one uh Presbytery and shuffle him over to another where uh you know he could do that. In fact, in concerning sexual sins, there was a notable uh OPC um missionary of the Southwest in the Arizona area that for years had molested uh uh young girls and they knew about it and they just shuffled them along And so the only reason any of these people have done anything is when the uh afflicted went out to the judges of the court of under Satan, under the Gentile world, and complained, and even of the Gentiles, which say no, that's wrong. Come back with a lawsuit and hit them with a lawsuit. Then they see the light. And there's an old phrase in corporate American management doesn't see the light until they feel the heat. And that's the only way they would do it. So what happens if a church doesn't deal with these things? We just forgive him. You should just forgive him. I know he's molesting whoever, but you should just forgive him. What happens if the church doesn't deal with these things? I think people individually do. Becomes corrupt. Becomes corrupt? So you say people individually do. How do they think so? How do they individually deal with it? They shunning. They start to shun. Okay. Um Penny, you have some thoughts? Either of you. opposite. Some may shun, but others may come to accept it and think it's not really that bad. Therefore other sins aren't really that bad. What's one of the chief complaints why people don't go to a church? Because there's a bunch of hypocrites in there. Well, would this add to the factor that the church is acting like a bunch of hypocrites if you have this position? All right. Yeah. So you see that there's some issues here and a lot of it has to do surrounding issues of forgiveness. When do we forgive, when do we not forgive? And the problem is we don't know when not to forgive because we don't like confrontation. Confrontation is hard. That's what the church leadership is supposed to do. They're supposed to confront. You know, it used to be common in America that the pastor would come and visit. I'm not dinging anybody now, but what I'm saying because of the the the way that our our our land is set up, but it would used to be the case where the pastor would come and visit and I appreciated those. I had I had one minister visit me Once. And uh it was a it was a nice visit. He asked me point blank, is the Lord giving you enough enemies to love? No, that's a dynamite question. That's a dynamite question. But just the opportunity to bring the Word of God in a home and to learn something when you're in their space, there's a lot to that. In this case, would it be wrong just to forgive and forget? No. Sorry? No. It would not be wrong to forgive and forget. No, it would be wrong. It would be wrong to forgive and forget this individual. Because they're it's commonly reported, they're the individual habit become becomes a habit. Becomes a habit. So everybody does the same thing. And then everybody does the same thing and we have to tell. It's not ours to forgive God they have sinned against. Well let's turn now to 2 Corinthians 2 and let's see what happened to this. Second Corinthians two six where we read this. He says Um sufficient to such a man is this punishment which was inflicted of many, so that contrary-wise you ought rather to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Wherefore I beseech you that you would confirm your love toward him For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you whether you be obedient in all things. So it turns out that this man of whom he wrote about now took the excommunication seriously. That was the severe enough alarm to ring his bell. And he was grievously afflicted that he had done this thing, and he had, in fact, repented. Now the church is stuck with a different problem. So if you were that church where there was a sexual predator in your midst, and the church had excommunicated him, and he had repented, In a manner that we'll say the Apostle Paul would accept, how hard would it be for the church to bring that individual back in? Yes, people would be afraid also. People would be afraid? They can't trust him anymore. They can't trust him. It would be very difficult to trust this individual. Here he's done this tremendous damage and yet The apostle says you ought to comfort him. You ought to bring him in, lest he be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. You know, um there's uh there's there's got to be, of course, uh some evidence, some evidence um that uh there had been a change in his life. I was looking for the passage here and I don't think I I can find it quickly when he talks about uh what zeal. There was a great zeal he had. I thought I had it in my notes when I'm looking and I I don't find it quickly. Um uh that this in all things you've proven yourself in this, he says. I I can't find it quickly, perhaps if um Um forgiving. Forgiving and comforting, etc. , doesn't mean that you put temptation in this way in the future. future. If you have someone that's molested children, you might forgive them, you might have them in the church, but you don't let them alone with children. Sure, you don't put a stumbling block in front of them. Right. and sin and accept them into the midst. But it doesn't mean you make a thief. You're you don't you you don't have the thief watching the offering plate. Mm-hmm. Yeah, you'd you wouldn't want to put that uh in front of them So what came of Corinth's handling of this matter is what? You see how Corinthian church handled it, and what came of it? Yeah, the fellow actually repented. You know, God puts this threefold process in place according to Matthew 18. You confront them. See if they'll turn. They don't. Take two or three witnesses. Confront. See if they turn. They don't? Take it to the church. Church confronts. Do they turn? No. Excommunicate. Sometimes it takes that third step for them to realize, no, you've done something that rightfully puts you out of fellowship with the people of God. This behavior is unacceptable among God's people. We can't have you in our midst Sometimes, sometimes it's that great difficulty that causes it to happen. Does anybody remember the story of King Manasseh? Manasseh was the long-serving king in Israel. I think he went about 50 years, mighty, mighty, mighty long time. And it says he did evil more than his fathers. He did horrendous amounts of evil. Finally, at the last, God had the Babylonians come and take him, and he was found He was bound and put into prison. He found himself cast into a prison. And in a Babylonian prison, there he repented. There he changed. And the testimony of Scripture is adequate to make us realize, you know, it seems like Manasseh turned at the very, very, very, very end. He actually did change and convert and repent. Sometimes it takes the hardest forces to crack somebody to get that act of repentance to thresh it out and to thrust it out to flesh it out. I kind of threw two words together there. before that actually comes about. So here we see that he encourages this church to forgive this individual. I think we're reading about him also in 2 Corinthians 7. Look at this language here. Look at this language because this is, it wasn't just he said, Well, yeah, I'm sorry I made a mistake, forgot about it, I apologize. Listen to this language in 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 11 This is the one I was looking for early, and I did have it in my notes. He says this, for behold the selfsame thing that ye sorrowed after a godly sort. What carefulness it brought in you. You were full of care to not repeat this thing. Full of care. You were evidently concerned. Hey, I'm not going to do that again. What carefulness it wrought, it worked in you. Yea, what clearing of yourselves. Yea, what indignation. You were indignant that you had done this idiotic thing. Yea, what fear you are afraid that you might fall into it again. Yea, what vehement desire Yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge. In all things you have proved yourselves to be clear in this matter. So this doesn't sound like a flippant, oh I'm sorry I apologize or move on. Well I might have done wrong. I'm sorry you thought of it that way. I'm sorry it offended you. They're apologizing for you taking offense. That's not theirs to apologize apologize for. No, those are unacceptable. That's a clear indication that the individual has not, in fact, repented. But this description in 2 Corinthians 7 is a very good indicator of what true repentance looks like. There is evidently to people. a change of heart. Just as his prior sin had been commonly known and commonly reported, now it can be commonly seen. I've seen cases where Just down the road, Central Baptist, they had a horrible incident many, many years ago where there was an inappropriate incident with an older man and a younger woman and it caused great consternation. I read about it in the news. I was not even a member at Central. Later when I was looking for a place to land temporarily because they used the King James. I went there and I talked to the pastor about it. I said, well, did this fellow ever repent? He said, well he had repented to me. In other words, there was a private repentance there. That's not what we read about here in 2 Corinthians 7. It says what zeal, what godliness there was among this group. It wasn't a little private secret thing. The difficulty is that there's such a the the stumbling block of the Christian church in America, and I will put myself in that camp. I'm not going to look down my long nose because I'm looking in a mirror is it is difficult and hard for us to make a confrontation. We don't like confrontation. It's not a desirable thing And so this can lead to some significant problems. How many of you have heard of the word penance? Penance. Which denomination is that associated with? You know where that came from. So the early church in the first several hundred years was quite zealous. They were quite evangelical. They were spreading abroad, and this thing came all the way up into Rome, and it began to become Very, very populous. And nothing new under the sun, much like the Hebrews who were lively and bore lots of children in Egypt, and the Egyptian pharaohs said, Mm, they're getting to be too numerous is a problem here Same attitude occurred in Rome. They began to punish Christians. They began to put them in the uh arena and they would uh spear them with wild animals and have them attacked and so forth. And uh and there was all kinds of persecution that was coming. And it was just to a few notable Christians so to terrify the rest And so what they would then do is they would send people around to say, offer a pinch of incense to Caesar so that you can get your certificate and then you can do your business. You can run your business in the agora, which was the shopping place of their day. All you had to do was to put a little pinch, a little bowl. You got your signed certificate. There wasn't any act of faith in it. It was just a ceremonial civil procedure. The Gentiles, the Romans, the Hellenists of that err uh era had no issues with that. They could care less. They would be snubbing Caesar and cursing him while they pinched the incense It was accepted. They did it. They got their certificate. Their business could stay open. Now what happened in the church? Well, some Christians in good conscience could not do that. Only Jesus is Lord. However, some Christians said, well, I don't mean anything by it. In my heart, I don't mean anything by this whatsoever. And all of a sudden you can see that there is a division now in the Christian church Well what do you do? Now you come together. Hey, did you hear Brother Joe? What happened, Brother Joe? He lost his business. What happened? He didn't offer a pinch of incense to Caesar. Oh no, he didn't get the certificate? No, he didn't He's looking for a different job. He's got to do something else. He may just have to be a soldier in the Roman army or whatever. Yeah, but brother brother brother Fred, he didn't have a problem. He still has his business. Why? He offered a pinch. That means he said Caesar is Lord, not Jesus. Yeah, if he doesn't mean by it There was a tension in the early church. It was a big issue. There were those who were called the lapsed. The lapsed were those who pinched incense. to Caesar. And there were the confessors, those who confessed Christ as Lord. There's a division in the church. And then those who were lapsed, the church would confront, how do you have communion with this people? This brother is suffering. He's made a bold testimony for Christ in a small thing and he's paid a large price. Are we going to sit and have communion with him just like brother so-and-so who who offered this pinch? No, he can't be in our midst. Get him out of here. Oh, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. That was so bad. I really shouldn't have done that. That's terrible. Do we accept that apology? And so the Roman Catholic Church came up with a solution. They said, well, how do we judge when a lapsed confession is legitimate or not? And so that's where they came up with the concept. of penance. If you do this, that, and the other thing, then we accept your confessional statement that you are in fact repentant, and we will bring you in. But if you don't do these things, we don't accept it and we push you out. So you see, penance as a church process seemed reasonable, but guess what happened? Tradition began to trump truth of Scripture, and it took on a whole life and meaning of its own until it replaced the word repentance with the, well what are the what are the three things I have to do? And then they kept lowering it. Well you have to rub a few beads and say a prayer to Mary and and they kept lowering the standards. And they kept elevating their magical, mystical elements as if though this were some big great thing. And it was That's where repentance came from over a very similar issue like we're dealing with at the Corinthian church. What constitutes a real act of repentance? So I thought you'd appreciate that piece of history there. You know, there's a couple of other examples of true repentance that leads to forgiveness in scriptures. Look at Job 42, 6. Job says, Wherefore I abhor myself and repent and dust and ashes. You know who else that brings to mind? Somebody who abhors themselves of what they've done and they repent? David David in Psalm 51 is crying out, O Lord, take not thy salvation, take not thy spirit from me, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. David was smote He w the the prophet, the bold prophet, came in and pointed out, thou art the man. That was pretty bold with that prophet. I mean, this is not a division of government. David could have said, Yeah, I don't like that, take his head off, and no one would question him. Yet that prophet uh uh Nathan was very faithful. Oh wretched man that I am, Paul. So he um I don't know that that that's a true statement. I don't know that he's acknowledging that uh in repentance before sin. Uh but certainly that is his view of himself. And when confronted with a sin, a believer ought to have very little pride. It really ought not to have too great of a difficulty in saying, yep, I believe I've screwed up in that area and that's pretty bad. Oh wretched man that I am. That I do. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. They ought there ought to be a recognize recognition of that. James 4. 8, notice what he says in James chapter 4. He says, draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. You know how easy it is to be double-minded? In the group of Christians, in the group of church, oh, our mind can be this way. We train ourselves. Click, we're going to church, turn on the button. We're going to turn on the church button. Now we walk out, click, turn on the world button, and we're comfortable with the world. We're comfortable with unsaved family. We like hanging out with uh unsaved friends. That's double-mindedness. You know, we're not to be minded as a Christian just on Sundays This is what James is talking about. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Well, I want to give a few applications before I uh get over to some in fact I want to spend the rest of this time dealing with some practical applications about this whole business of forgiveness. Forgiveness When an offense occurs, you don't automatically forgive. You have to confront the individual. Perhaps they didn't know And confrontations, in fact, are necessary. And that's our first application. They're necessary because the offender doesn't realize he may not realize he hasn't done anything wrong. I think I didn't say that right. Anyway, you know what I'm trying to say. The offender may not realize they've done anything wrong. And so Uh I've got too many double negatives in there and I see the English teacher waving a red flag. I'm expecting to see a red flag come flying across the pulpit this morning Second application is you continue to hold their offense against them as a testimony to them of their need for personal repentance and forgiveness from God. How are they going to know they're going to they have to Repent if you've just made the offense, oh well, I'm just going to forget about it. There has to be a reminder, no, you this is not cleared up just yet. This is not cleared up just yet. Oftentimes, an offense in the Bible is listed as a debt. If somebody owes you money, do you forget about it? You kind of, hey, when are you gonna pay me? Hey, hey, you owe me some money. Oh, well, yeah, I've I've forgotten about that. Just just go on. It's all good. No, it's not good. You owe me money Well, if you won't do that with money, which you have greater respect to, would you not do that with the commandments of God? Do you have no respect for those? Because ultimately the offense is not really against you, it's against the Lord It's an offense against God Almighty. You just happen to be His representative at that point in time for that particular issue. Don't release these unrepentant from their need to repent by saying, I forgive you. If they haven't repented. You know, and when you knit things in the bud early, and when it's easy, and when it's small, it doesn't grow into greater things. I fear a huge reason why we have so much rampant lawlessness in our society today is because of issues of failing to deal with children in the public school system from 20 and and from their parents 20 to 30 years ago. I don't think these young punks running around have ever actually had somebody tell them no and mean it. When mother says, don't stick your finger over here in this potted plant because you're going to drag dirt all over the carpet and the baby sticks his finger in the potted plant, baby's finger needs to come in contact with a slutty stick. Nice little three sixteen cents dowel rod from Home Depot, 48 inches long, cost two dollars, cut into three pieces. You got three convenience swatties, one for the bedroom, one for the dining room, one for the car. Best two dollar investment you'll ever make. Yeah, I thought you were gonna say three Well that's three swatty sticks, right? And nine of them, and we had them conveniently strategically located within arm's reach. That's some by the by the dinner table, some on top of the fridge, some over here, one in every car. And you know what, it works very well because when you nip it in the bud early, it's very easy and it's less painful later on. It's never too late to start. In our county, the police are saying, well, we don't want to deal with small offenses. Well, if you don't deal with small offenses, then you have recidivism, meaning they get busted, they get zero cash bail, they're back on the streets, they do it again And your husband, whom I've talked to, says he absolutely knows who all the criminals are in DC because they keep hauling them in every night and the DA keeps releasing them every night. They know exactly who these people are. Where they live. I mean it's probably a routine. Hey buddy, you know what the routine is. Yeah, okay. I mean it's it's almost like Otis the Drunk in uh Andy uh what was the Andy Griffith show Except it's more serious than that. Third point, if this individual will not hear the church and their faithful judgment of the matter, he proves himself to be a reprobate and not a Christian. If they will not hear the faithful leadership in the church, they are proving to you and to others they are a reprobate. They have no part in there. Remove their names from the roles. Don't count them. As a member, you've got to dismiss. Now, to be fair, we do not insist on an apology for every minor offense. We have to simply let some things go that are minor. We we don't get into a tizzy over certain things. We can let them know uh that it was a nuisance or an annoyance, but we don't have to hold that for every little minor thing. Let not these things move you. Fifth point, number E, we do not harbor anger or wrath, which is what happens when we don't rebuke the offender who claims to be a brother. You can't harbor that. That's all part of that passage in Leviticus. You know, you shall not suffer sin because of him. You're not going to hate him in your heart. You've got to confront us. Point number F, retaliation is never allowed. Scripture says, recompense to no man evil for evil. You cannot go out and be vigilante. It's not allowed. And lastly, Scripture has very strong language to the unrepentant offender. Very strong language. And you read about that in Luke. In Luke 17, then said he, this is Jesus. Then said he unto the disciples, it is impossible, but that offenses will come. I think what he's saying there is, oh yeah. It's impossible for an offense to not come. It will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. In other words, this is an offense for which an individual does not repent, therefore it's still on the books as an offense. He says it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. neck and he cast into the sea, and than that he should offend one of these little ones. Little ones is not talking about an infant. The little ones he's talking about is God's elect, his children, his believers. God says that that individual, if they sin greatly against you, and oh by the way, that can include sexual sins, of course. That God says if they don't repent, it'd be better if that individual were taken out into a boat and you hang a millstone around his neck. Now a millstone is not this little bitty thing you have in your kitchen. In ancient times you had the upper and lower millstone. The lower millstone was a very large rock on the ground, and the upper millstone had a center post that it attached to and it was upright and had a hole through it and it went out from the center post and at the end of it was an ox. It's a little hard to depict this thing, but it's basically a a one uh wheel on an axle. And the center part of the axle is attached to this post. You put corn on the lower millstone, the ox goes in a circle and it grinds out the corn. And that's what that he says, you take that monster stone, which is ridiculously heavy, and you hang it about that person's neck. He says it would be better, it'd be better for them than for God to get a hold of that man. So yes, God takes it very seriously. So if this happens and you do not have an unrepentant offender, he has the most strong and serious language in Scripture against him. And thus it requires some very strong and serious actions against them to perhaps rattle them to get them to wake up. Alright, next practical point. We get it if this individual's in church. I think we can see that, though difficult, it's possible to confront somebody in a congregation. Maybe with some help of an older brother, some advice on how to do these things, somebody who claims to be a fellow believer. What do you do with an unbeliever? This is a little more difficult. They don't go to church. You can confront them, and you should confront them with one or two witnesses. But now what? How do you handle them? Well The matter of how to respond to offenses, uh uh we we kind of somewhat uh dealt with that a little bit uh with unrepentant believers. Now let's talk about the unrepentant unbelievers. So what directives do we have of the Lord for how to handle these individuals? So let's look at these passages here, and I want you to notice the action words which come through this. Alright? So this is what we find. Let's look at Matthew 5, 43. And I actually think Romans is very practical and helpful, but let's look at Matthew 5 from the Sermon on the Mount. Ye have heard that it hath been said, You shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which falsely accuse you and persecute you. that ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven. And then you can read the rest of that. Now I know I want you to pay attention to the action words in green. So here is an unbeliever, and they have done some hateful things. By the way, these for the most part appear to be I don't want to call them garden variety, but they're not, they haven't uh shot your kid or something like that, right? This is not something of which necessarily you would go to law for Love, bless, do good, pray. I don't see the word forgive in there. Did you notice that? Jesus didn't say to forgive them. He says there's certain actions you need to do. What is the highest love you could do for your fellow man? What is the highest love Do which? Pray. Pray? Okay, well that's getting there. Yes, you certainly want to pray for them. Share the gospel with them. Absolutely. Share the gospel with them. The highest love you could show to your fellow man is that they would become saved. They really need to come to salvation. They really need to have eternal life. They really need to repent and believe in Christ. Alright, then we see in Romans 12 Romans 12 and verse 14, it says, Bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. So this is the approach of dealing with the unbelievers. Now notice the word forgive is not in there. It's not in there. What you're doing is you're demonstrating actions towards them that says, you need to be saved. I'm doing these things that you might be saved. I'm wishing that things would go well, but you need to become saved. You let them know their need of the gospel, their need of salvation. But it doesn't say forgive. And also notice how you can handle the hurt. Handle. Because the unrepentant, apart from Christ, the world doesn't forgive. I can bear record of having been in corporate America for 30 some odd years, that if you screw up, you speak in an inappropriate way to a customer. There's no forgiveness. I'm talking college-educated people who are financially well off or educated. You screw up once. There's no forgiveness. They don't forgive you You're dismissed. You flunked. You failed. And so I don't expect the unbeliever to repent. I don't expect him to change. I expect him to act every bit as scripture says. He's a pig We can't think of the unbelievers that the heart of man is uh uh uh is good above all things and desperately uh uh faithful. The scripture doesn't say that The heart of man is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. We ought to expect that the unbeliever behaves like that. And as a result, we, as Christians, behave very differently, knowing that the goodness of God leadeth them to repentance. All right, I have some anticipated questions, and I'm gonna ask them. Just got two, we'll wrap it up What if an individual claims to be a Christian and doesn't repent, even after repeated confrontations, according to Matthew 18? What do you think we do? The church has now excommunicated this individual. Now what are you personally going to do? The church has excommunicated this person. What are you personally going to do with this individual? I just don't have anything to do with them. Don't have anything to do with them, that's correct? Yes. Similar, cut off ties with them. You cut off ties with them, right. You don't recognize them as a brother. You don't slip around behind and you know you're still in contact with them. Oh I'm feeling so sorry for you, though I'm not so sure I agree with what they did, oh I love your mind. I mean you you can't go down that path. They are now as a heathen and a publican, meaning they're unsaved and they're a traitor. They're a traitor to the cause of Christ. You have to commit this matter to the Lord. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. That's how we handle within our camp. And that's really the bulk and the emphasis of where I'm trying to go with all of this teaching on forgiveness. Now, what if they don't claim to be a Christian and they sin against you? Well, here's some helpful tips over that. Obviously, as I've mentioned, confronting them over their sin will probably not achieve repentance since they're not subject to the law of God. Romans 8 says they're not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in flesh cannot please God. Shouldn't surprise us. A loving your enemy is not a feeling, but an action. There's an action involved. So you make your response be what their soul needs. Bless, do good, and pray for them. The goodness of God led us to repentance, and so we overcome their evil by our good. You know, think about this. You remember the soldier at the cross? He's just carrying out his job. He didn't make any decision. He's just doing what his boss told him. Put this man on this cross in that hole on that hill. Yes, sir. He's a soldier carrying out what he's doing. And Christ turned and said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And do you remember what happened at the cross when they heard him cry out? He said, Surely this is the Son of God. He made declaration. So, yes, I think Jesus was not forgiving Pontius Pilate Or Caiaphas, the high priest, I think he's forgiving the soldiers right then and there. They don't know what they're doing. They're just carrying out their duty. They're just doing their job. And so the goodness of God led him to repentance. You remember the stoning of Stephen, and who was there? Man named Saul. He was there. He witnessed this. Stephen wasn't cursing at them. They're stoning him. He says, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. He had a good testimony in his death. And it haunted and plagued Paul all of his days. He says, I did it ignorantly in unbelief. I am least than the least of the apostles. It really struck him. So God may use a great offense in your life. to the conversion of the church's most notable warrior in our time. That can happen, and it has in Scriptures. Now, if they remained hardened, if they remained unrepentant, I close with this encouragement from the Apostle Peter. It's the last verse in your handout, 1 Peter 4. 14. If you be reproached for the name of Christ, happy, and that's the word blessed are ye. You may not be happy about it, but you'll be blessed. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he's evil spoken of, but on your part he's glorified. Verse 19. Wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. Folks, this is not an easy topic to talk about. It is a difficult one. I pray in trust and hope, and certainly it is Joe's and Pastor Joe and my prayer as well that God would keep or small flock in good and excellent fellowship one with another. But these matters of just taking care of little things while they're small and dealing with them is so vitally important to a congress It is so vitally important to the churches of God. It's so vitally important among the people of God. We've got to be of the same mind. We've got to be of the same spirit. We've got to be unified in our judgment of things. An offense to one part of the body is no different than if this finger was broken by somebody. If if that finger is broken, the whole body feels it. And I've had a broken finger and it hurts and it feels bad all over. And so it should be in the body of Christ. If there is an offense to one member of the body of the Christ, the whole body ought to feel it. The whole body ought to join up and say, you know, that hurts me too. And that shows great comfort to the affected member. But if you're like, nah, that's none of my business. They got a dog in that fight, not worried about it. Who are you unified with? Where's your union? Who is your real family? Well we close with that. Pastor, and then Anton, if you close in prayer. Yeah, just just back to your applications on the first page, which are all excellent. Not uh letter F really stands out, retaliation is never allowed. And a lot of times, oh I'm not gonna get eaten with them, but we never stand out. Stop talking about it. And and our telling everybody what he did against me is a form of retaliation. Yes. That we we kind of secretly hang on to. You know, we have to let it go Yeah. Confront and if they don't acknowledge then yep, we have to give up to the Lord. Sure. That's very Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. We thank you, Lord, for your uh wisdom and guidance that you do give us, that you do reveal and illuminate to us through your word. that lamp that's to our feet, O Lord. Help us to walk according to it. Help us to uh uphold these principles of forgiveness and to practice them. Even as you practice them, O Lord Lord and help us even in application of loving our enemies. Uh offended us, oh Lord. Even as um as you do let the sun uh shine and the The rain fall both on the just and on the unjust. Pray that you would uh bless our time and the service upcoming, oh Lord. And we uh ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.