Well, we're coming to the punchline of the final warning in the book of Hebrews before we get into some divinely uh charged uh exhortations. Hebrews 1225 says this. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escape not, who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven. That's our single verse we're going to cover today. And actually I'm primarily covering that first sentence. And uh I did put out a question about what's the biggest disappointment you've ever had or your roughest rejection. And uh online member writes this. It was quite the story, and boy, I just hurt when I when I read this about a the biggest rejection, the the biggest disappointment During the mid to late 90s, as a district government public affairs employee, I developed and submitted a plan to establish a unit to provide quality services and assurance within the Department of Employment Services. The plan required no new hires, no additional costs to the agency, but provided cross-in-house training to promote proficiency in the agent in the agency for the public, vendors, and other departments. The plan was studied, it was evaluated for efficacy, immediately hailed and accepted. Sounds like a a win-win, right? However, the HAIL project right off the bat was given to another senior person in the agency to implement. And This person was not involved on any level with the project. Sounds like things that happen at the Pentagon a lot too. The best of ideas get stolen. somebody else gets the credit. Yeah, that would be a huge disappointment. That would just really hurt you. That was a great idea and uh boy there's nothing that comes from it. What's your biggest disappointment? What's your biggest or roughest rejection you've ever had? Of course you know I have a we have a big disappointment, uh five states and fifteen thousand miles and fifty-three thousand kits handed out later no uh payment for what we were expecting. Yeah a huge huge investment into COVID era uh services for public health and benefit only to receive nothing because of somebody's poor contractual ability to write and read. Yeah, that is rough. That is exceptionally rough. Any others? We had a pastor visit us in Jamaica. And um I don't know if he was just trying to ingratiate himself to the people in the community or what. But um He made a lot of comments that maybe in American culture would have been nothing, but in the Jamaican culture, comments about pen and I Um in the Tibetan culture would cause great offense not to him but offense of the Jamaica people against us. And of it it it basically split the church. Um And we were kind of pariah in the in the community that we had been working in by that time, what, then, six years, seven years? Yeah. Um and it took a while to build that confidence back. You know, and um he never really understood what he had done, but he had come in and done great harm to the ministry. Yeah, nothing like uh somewhat that's kind of akin to the idea of a trader, somebody you think is on your team or there to help. What an encouragement this would be for others to see. turns out to be completely the opposite and a huge disaster in the process. Well I I I turn into that question because uh This gets to this final point of Hebrews. Recall now that we've come off this 11th chapter, this chapter of faith And it's dealing with a lot of Old Testament patriarchs, how they trusted God, trusted his promises, and they endured a great many things. You don't read through Hebrews the kind of admonitions you get from the Apostle Paul, not by works of righteousness which we have done. But by his grace, his mercy, uh he saved us. Uh Paul makes a very sharp distinction between not works but grace. What he means by works, of course, is not carrying out the old covenant This epistle, written very much to Hebrews and to Jews familiar with that, are being exhorted to look to the promises. But there's been kind of a hard left turn, or a hard right turn, I should say, that's been made when you go from the old to the new. Let's face it several thousand years of human existence and the Hall of Faith starts all the way back with You know, Cain and Abel, the blood of Abel and so on, going forward, that there's always been this thread of faith, faith, faith, hope, promises, etc. Moses comes on the scene, receives ten tablets, ten commandments engraved with the finger of God on stone. And so much the Pharisees would say, well, you know, we know who Moses is. We know God spoke to him, but as for this man Jesus, we don't know. Yet he was and is and ever shall be that promised Messiah. He was the one to come. It's a tough lot for a Jew to pivot away from the old covenant to the new. To footstop this point, because actually all throughout Hebrews it's been building up to this point, see that you refuse not him that speaks. Who is that him? Jesus on his heart? Yeah. Jesus. God Almighty. It's the same hymn that spoke on Mount Sinai and the same hymn that spoke to Jesus and through Jesus and is Jesus. He was on that mount of transfiguration when that voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son, hear ye him. As it were, God is placing a divine stamp of approval on him. That's the exhortation. That is the whole point. I have already exhausted to you Hebrews 12. 25 You cannot refuse what Christ has said. I don't care if you're a Jew with millennia of history or a Gentile who's just been brought into this. You can't refuse what Jesus has said. God is insistent on it. And he doubles down. He says, if they didn't escape, paraphrasing, if they escaped not, who refused him that spake on earth Referring to Mount Sinai, the thunderings, the lightnings, the that if a beast would touch it he'd be killed, how much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaks from heaven? So I do believe that you understand this point, don't refuse. But what I want to spend time on is, well, what does that look like? What do you mean don't refuse him that speaks? What does it mean to refuse? And it's curious because It lends right into a strength that Joe and I share and a habit, which is to kind of dissect the words. You know, God spoke in old Hebrew, Aramaic, Assyrian and Greek to capture the scriptures for us. Those are dead languages. The Greek they spoke in Old Testament times, Quine Greek, they don't speak over there. They could recognize it, but like you and I reading Old English, it just wouldn't be the same. The meaning is frozen in time. It cannot change. I'm going to look at the word refuse, and we're going to look at the word turn away. I hope you have your Bible because we are going to go through some passages of Scripture, and I'm going to read them, and I'm going to ask you to tell me. what the refusing is, but we're going to look at different words because this word refuse is, I'm not going to pronounce it right, para itiomai. It's a negative para in here number of meanings, but here means against. Against that other word, aito. Aito is a word that means to ask in a serious manner of inquiry. You're serious. You're seriously asking. For instance, it would mean beg or crave or desire. A beggar is not casually wondering, they really want something. It's used in Matthew when Zebedee's mother came, the sons of Zebedee, their mother came to Jesus Worshiping him and desiring a certain thing of him. They really wanted this thing. It's used in the book of Matthew when Um Joseph of Arimathea went to Pilate and he begged the body of Jesus. I want to have this. It wasn't a spare dead bodies on hand. No, he really wanted that specific body. That's the sense of the base word. But it's got this phrase, this prepended para meaning against that. It's the opposite of craving, the opposite of desiring, the opposite of sincere inquiry and ask, you know, it's okay to ask questions of scriptures. I'm glad some of you are sending me topics for follow-on Sunday school, for things that maybe you've wondered about. That's okay. That's good and healthy. You can bring all your questions to Scripture There are five ways that men refuse to hear, and I'm getting all five of these based on that word refuse, because there's a broad range of uses in the scriptures. If you look at your bulletin, I've printed them there for you. If you find a bulletin and flip it, you look on the back side just above the announcement, there's the five words right there for you. It's avoid, avoidance, it's rejection, it's shun, shunning, deprecate. Does anybody know what deprecate means? To deprecate something? It kind of means to Those are all synonyms for this word refuse, all right? So what I want to do is I'm going to read certain passages, and then I want you to describe the refusal to hear using one of these five words, or your own phrasing, if you will. Don't use the word refuse, right? Because I'm trying to put some sense to it. What does it mean to refuse the scriptures, right? Okay. The first is Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4 and in verse 3. It's the parable of the sower. And it turns out our exact same word uh does show up in here. Um And Mark 4, I believe it does, don't don't uh I I'm pretty sure it does show up in here. Mark 4, verse 3. I'm saying it does because I didn't Flag it for myself to tell you which word it is. Mark 4, 3 through 4 is the first of parables that Jesus gives, and he says, Behold, there went out a sower to sow. And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the wayside. The fowls of the air came and devoured it up. Well, now that's the parable, but Jesus isn't here giving us a lesson about birds picking up seeds in the ground. He's not here to instruct farming communities. He gives the interpretation in verse 15. So if you move ahead to verse 15 is where Jesus gives his interpretation. He says this And these are they by the wayside where the word is sown, but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately and taketh away. the word that was stowed in their hearts. I believe that's the word that we have in their he what what is what what's going on here? It's a rejection. Yeah, it's a rejection. There's a th th this thing is is is just kicked out, yeah. Let's look at the next one in Matthew 22. Matthew 22, another parable that Jesus gives, Matthew 22, 4. Because Scripture actually presents refusing to hear in many different lights. And I think it's helpful to consider it. Matthew 22, 4 says this. Again he sent forth other servants saying, tell them which are bidden, behold, dot, dot, dot, all things are ready. Come unto the marriage. But They made light of it and went their ways. One to his farm, another to his merchandise. Alright, the key phrase here is they made light of it and they went their ways. What would you say is going on here? Certainly seems dismissive, yeah. What else do you think? Deprecating, made light of it. Yeah, I'm I'm bringing something very heavy to you and you just kinda like, nah, that's not a big deal. Uh what about that phrase they went their ways? Avoid it. Get away from the messenger. We we don't want to hear this again. Yeah. Much higher priority on Other things. Higher priority elsewhere. Yeah, that's kind of taking that which is valuable and that which is fluff and changing them. Little children do this a lot. Give them nice something shiny with lots of bling and a little fuzzy bear. Oh, they'll go for that every time. Alright, Luke 14 is our next passage. Yeah, dismissive, deprecation, avoidance, all those are correct That's all related to this idea of refusing to hear. Luke 14, 17 says this, Luke 14, 17. It's related, but this is a it's it's kind of related, it's a parallel passage, I suppose, to Matthew 22, but there's a little different spin that's put here Jesus relays this, Luke 14, 17, and he sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, they were invited, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse. Well, what's that one? What's that one? What are they doing? Avoiding it. They're avoiding it. Yeah. I would come except Avoid, avoid, avoid of all kinds of excuses. Um you know, there's there's just ways to get around this Look at Acts 18, 14. Now, this is a very fascinating one here, and I learned a very interesting bit of history for you. The Apostle Paul is before a ruler. In Acts chapter 18 and verse 14, we have this interesting account. Here we read this. Now I want you to pay careful attention to this first sentence and then the very next part. Oh, it's actually all one sentence. It's up to the comma. And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Galeo said unto the Jews, if it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, Reason would that I should bear with you, but if it be a question of words and names and of your law, look ye to it. Now what's interesting about this is who Gallio is. Junius Anicaeus Gallio was a proconsul of Achaea in about A. D. 53. His brother was a famous philosopher named Seneca. This is a quote-unquote wise man. Notice what this wise man does. Paul was about to open his mouth, and he steps in and says, That's very interesting. What kind of uh refusal is that? Shun it. You didn't even want to hear it. He didn't even want to hear it. He cut it out before it came out of the gate. He already pegged Paul as a likely source. of this Christian business, and we're just going to cut it off the pass. Cancel culture. Cancel culture right there in Acts 18-14. He didn't even have a chance to open his mouth. He was prejudged before he even got his words out. And he's supposed to, does not our law hear men before it judged them? Now he just cut it off right out the gate. You know, sometimes your reputation precedes you, and you're not too terribly welcome or interested in being they're interested in having you in their company. Skip ahead a few chapters to Acts 25, again another time when uh Paul is brought before a ruler Acts 25 and verse 14. Bear with me here. We've got one more section to go through, and then we'll continue on. Acts 25, 14, just to get context, in the middle of that verse, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king. So Uh Festus is going to speak now to this king. And then we get in verse 18 and we read this. When the accusers stood up, They brought none accusation of such things as I supposed, but had certain questions against him, that is Paul, of their own superstition. And of one Jesus, dot, dot, dot, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. The key phrases, he says, of their own superstition. Well, what is that? When somebody refers to Paul's message as the Jews or Paul's superstition, what is that doing? anything else basically. Yeah, dismissing it? Yeah. Any other thoughts? That's correct. There's there's a again, there's a lot of overlap and nuance in these It also reminds me of the deprecation where they're trying to be like trying to lower it. Yeah, lower it. It has some force. But it's superstition. It's nothing of significance. Yeah. It's interesting the ways men deprecate the gospel. One calls it superstition. Yeah, they were actually referring to the Jewish religion is what they were calling superstition. Yeah. And the whole Jewish religion, of course, which would have prophesied of the Christ to come. Superstition. You know, that's why I think the apostle later writes to his young protege Timothy, saying, We've not followed cunningly devised myths. We haven't followed these things. These are real. We have real proof. But this is a way that men refuse the gospel. There's a last one I want you to consider, and that is Acts 28. Acts 28. And verse 23, very very last chapter of the book of Acts, he's uh for a season, has some liberty to speak. And we read the following in Acts 28, verse 23, middle of the passage, speaking of Paul, expounded and testified the kingdom of God. Persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets, from morning until evening. Wow, preaching all day long. Wouldn't you love to have a recording of that? Just one tape recorder, just one session of Paul. And I would assert I would assert you've actually got it in the book of Romans. And some believe the things which were spoken And some believed not. And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed. And then you read In 27, as the apostle said, well did the prophet speak, for the heart of this people is waxed gross, their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed. So those that believe not, you have an apostle, a miracle-working apostle, in their midst, an eyewitness of the resurrection of Christ. What is their action? What is this like? Rejection. It's a big rejection. They've they've heard the evidence. It ain't getting in, just bouncing off, put the foot down Stiff arm it. Nope, not for me. Just outright rejection. And it reminds us of when Esau said, What profit shall this birthright do to me? Is there any difference? He dismissed it, he deprecated it. What profit shall it be? There's nothing to this, right? And so that's how the warning ends. See that you refuse not that you shun not, that you avoid not, that you deprecate not. And there's ways that we as Christians today are all subject to that. There are times when we can perhaps consider the gospel to be, well, maybe not that weighty, maybe not in this area, maybe not in this situation. Maybe I'll deny him a little bit here, like Peter did. But the admonition of scripture is, see that you refuse not him that speaks. Because if they didn't escape Him that spoke on earth in Moses' day when God came and touched the mountain, how much more they who refuse him who speaks from heaven. We're going to explore the warning more next week, but I just want to focus on this practical application of refusing because it's a clear warning and we don't want to Say to ourselves, well, I'm here, I've accepted it, I've I've showed up, right? I'm watching it online. You know, frankly, when men are serious about spiritual matters, when they're serious about it When you've really got some Holy Ghost impetus that wells up in you, that you're sincerely asking and inquiring, you're going to receive it Regardless of the messenger. Regardless of the messenger I love this passage in 1 Thessalonians 2 and verse 13. You can turn there if you like because you might want to mark it for yourself in the future. But 1 Thessalonians 2. 13 says this Paul speaks of these brethren in Thessalonica, says, when you receive the word of God, which you heard of us, the Apostle Paul and his crew. Ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in the truth, the word of God. That's how you received it. They knew, hey, when this man speaks, there's something different going on here. This has weight. This touches the soul. This is answering the deep crevices and recesses of my mind, heart, and soul. There's something to this message. You receive it as the Word of God in truth. He said that's how they received it from Paul. And we think, well, Paul was super eloquent, you know, you look at this right. Oh no, that wasn't his testimony. He wrote to the Corinthians, he says Paul's of himself, he says his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible. He wasn't an eloquent guy. In fact, he went out of his way not to speak that way. His bodily presence was was contemptible. He was weak. You know, oh here's the great apostle Paul's coming. Oh, watch that. Hey, everybody gather. Here's Paul. Who's this old guy coming in? We've never seen him before. That's Paul? I mean he was just not somebody you'd expect. He he wasn't this fellow that You know, you would look at and go, wow, here's a mighty messenger of God. He just wasn't eloquent. He stumbled. His words were better in writing. He could write very well. But speaking wasn't his strength. And yet he started so many churches. So many churches. You know, look at Proverbs 8, chapter 3, because this warning here in Hebrews 12 is echoed in the first eight chapters of Proverbs. It's echoed throughout throughout Isaiah. It is echoed throughout the gospel accounts. It is a consistent warning that you must hear Jesus Christ if you care for your soul If you really have any interest to lay claim on the kingdom of heaven and eternal life, there's one way, only one way, and you can't refuse it. Proverbs 8 says this. He says, hear instruction and be wise. Proverbs 8. 33. And refuse it not. Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favor of the Lord, but he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul. All they that hate me, all they that refuse me, shun me, deprecate me, avoid me, dismiss me, all those They hate if they hate me, they love death. They just love death. That's what's happening. That's what you're doing. So I've got three points from just this very first simple Explanation is that, you know, with this cute little exercise going through some verses and giving, you know, the correct description of it, look folks, you and I all know when men are dodging and avoiding the gospel, right? It's not a mystery to us. We've seen it. You perhaps have done it yourself. I have. As an unsaved person, I've seen the dodging and the avoiding. I didn't want to hear it. Because it it kind of makes me want to live differently. I don't want to live differently. I like the way of death. Right? You you and I know that. Second point is this that God uses weak means to convey profound life-altering, glorious spiritual truths. And that's according to his own purposes. Because God's just not impressed with human wisdom. The world by wisdom knew not God. It just really God's just not impressed with human wisdom. He looks at it like it's a 13-year-old telling you how to build a rocket to go to Mars. That 13-year-old doesn't have a clue. And so he's not impressed. God's just not impressed with human wisdom. And the third point I would make here, and this gets to a topic that I touch on often, is this business of presenting the gospel. The gospel is not an offer. It's a direct command. Repent, believe. It's not an offer. It's not an option. It's a divine charge. It's the word of the king. The king sent forth his messengers. Come to the wedding. All things are prepared. Oh, can you schedule another day? No, the king said, come. It is a glorious offer, but it is a command, first and foremost. And so when Jesus Christ, your creator, the sovereign of the universe, the King of King of Kings and Lord of Lords, commands, who are we two Step back. That's the first word that I've explored here in Hebrews 12. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. And then the second part is that word turn away Turning away. That's that second part of Hebrews 12, 25. And the result of refusing is that men turn away. They refuse to hear it. I'm not going to be impacted by the message. But I don't want to hang around hearing this thing, so I'm gonna turn away. I um was shocked when I came across this this passage in the book uh of of of uh of 2 Timothy. And I'll never read 2 Timothy with the same tone or manner before. You have to I don't even know how to present this correctly At first, the Apostle Paul saw a phenomenally great turning to the Lord in Asia. There were great many people turning away from idols and to God. You read about this in Acts as he's touring around. All the missionary journeys, the back of many inexpensive Bibles have five or six simple maps, and in that set usually is the first journey of the Apostle Paul, second, third, fourth. It shows all of his journeys. He's going through what is now modern-day Turkey, which was referred to as Asia. In the scripture times. Asia, where you have the churches of the book of Revelation, Ephesus, Smyrna, Philadelphia, Thiatera, etc. Asia. That's where Paul went For instance, I'll just read a couple in Acts 19 as to his great success. It says Paul in Acts 19. 9, he He separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyranus. He's got a place where he can bring the disciples aside, and he's going to convince, argue, reason, hear those tough questions, give those tough answers. By the space of two years, he was able to do this. So that all which dwelt in Asia, all which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Phenomenal ministry in that school it was spreading out. And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul. A tremendous outpouring of of of results and fruit in the ministry. In Acts 1924 you have his adversaries speaking about him and the impact that he had. Demetrius the silversmith said this Almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying, they be no gods which are made with hands. What a phenomenal result The whole area of Turkey. Have you looked on a map to see how big that region is? This is an ancient time, so I mean it wasn't fully populated where every square foot had a human set on it, but they had cities, key cities, and it was spreading and the word was getting around. Phenomenal success That would be like our brother here who labored in Jamaica for 16 years riding home in Kingston and Mobay and all these different cities. They're all hearing the word of the Lord and they're turning away Insomuch that the Rastafarians are angry at us. And can you imagine that kind of a report? That'd be wonderful. Who wouldn't want to get that report? Paul ends up in prison. Over time, the churches in Asia begin to eclipse. And he writes this sad statement in 2 Timothy 1. 15. It hit me like a ton of bricks. I've read over it and skipped over it for years. You know what he writes? In 2 Timothy 1? He says this, this thou knowest. That all they which are in Asia be turned away from me. I read it several times over to make sure I wasn't missing anything. Was I misinterpreting this? All they which be in Asia. All the people who heard the word from his mouth, all of them are turned away. Do you know Timothy was from Asia? He had a handful of disciples who walked closely with him. Timothy was one of them. Timothy had not turned away, thank God. Out of the masses that heard, the multitudes turned away. It was so bad that God wrote to the Apostle John in a vision so that John would write warnings to the seven churches. In the book of Revelation, warning them to turn back. Shh, stark warnings. That's why this warning is in Scripture, because men turn away. If they turned away from the Apostle Paul, how much more in our day? When there's distractions that abound. And folks, I would encourage you not to come to church and read scriptures from your phone. You know why? Any little notification that pops up, any little text message, any little phone call will disrupt will interrupt, will put a foothold in for another voice to come and turn away your attention. Use the good old p n ain't nothing ringing out of this book. It's ringing in my ears is what happens. There's plenty ringing out of this book in a different way. In a good way. But how easy it is. Yes, I'm not saying chuck your phone in the trash. I am saying use it wisely and understand. Second Timothy 4, he wrote to him again, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables, because men have itching ears. And that's what happened all Asia. So though a miracle-working apostle starts many churches in a large area Yet that precious seed can in fact be swept off wayside and stony ground and thorny ground hearers. It in fact can be swept away. So the warnings of scriptures are not in vain Turn to 2 Peter 3. This will be the last passage, then I'm going to try to get through my five or six practical applications. 2 Peter 3. 10, one of my favorite chapters in all of Scripture, says this. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heaven shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all? holy conversation, meaning conduct, and godliness, looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved And the elements at the atomic level shall melt with fervent heat. What a great way to describe a nuclear explosion Verse 17, what's his encouragement? Ye therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things, Beware, lest ye also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. I think that's what he means when he says, see that you refuse not him that speaks. You don't want to get swept away. There's a real current out there. There's a real current, and it can in fact sweep and Don't be in stupid places at stupid times with stupid people doing stupid things. Avoid the four rules rules of stupid. I'm telling you. It's very helpful. Six practical applications. I'm going to try to get through them quickly. Number one, today, hearing him who speaks from heaven doesn't mean you go to the beach or the woods and look at a butterfly. God ain't speaking through that. Sorry It occurs through God-ordained means. What are those means? They're called the means of grace. Preaching, reading, meditating. Studying on the Word of God, memorizing the Word of God. That's where it comes from today. That's how you hear him who speaks from heaven. It's right here. You don't need to go elsewhere. It's right here It's right here. It's sufficient. The reformers taught that the scriptures are sufficient. All that is needed. God has provided. And it's not far away. We gotta ask for it. And you ain't gotta pay for it. It's right here Number two, the battle for church on Sunday morning begins on Friday night. This is a cluthism. It just is. Because I'm telling you, the devil is going to throw and Satan's kingdom is going to work to distract, redirect, overcommit. What you need to do on Saturday is going to exhaust you with all kinds of church blockers. That's exactly when unsaved family are going to come in at 3 o'clock and say, I got to move today. Can you help? When did this moving plan appear? Couldn't you have told me this like earlier? Could have planned for it? And you can politely say, no, I have to prepare for worship at the Lord's house. I'll help you later If you need some money for a uh a U-Haul truck, I'll pay that. But no, I can't. I gotta get ready for worship. You can push back. It's okay to push back That's a testimony. That can be a witness to them. He holds worship of God in more esteem than me. Yes. And I'm here to educate you on that. How oft we fall from that Third point. You can strictly teach little ones in church to pay attention. I don't believe in children's church. In the days of Moses, they had plenty of kids hollering out in his congregation of 600,000 men plus however many women and children. You know what? They were all there hearing, thus saith the Lord. cultivate and strengthen their mental attention muscles. I know they can't pay attention for a while, but they can be taught. I've seen little kids who are, I don't know, five, six years old sit through a whole sermon patiently and not fall asleep. It's possible They're little humans, they're bright, they're brilliant, they're intelligent, they can be taught to pay attention, to exercise the mental muscles. It takes work, and what do kids not like? Work What do adults not like working? This is nothing new. We understand. Don't cater to whining Because they're whining for hell. All those that hate me love death. They're whining for hell. You've got to put a foot down and say, no, I'm not tolerating this. Not in church. We don't do this. And I'm not beating up on anybody in particular here This is something I've put into practice with our children. Number four, a wrong view of end times can promote a lackadaisical response to God's warnings. Oh, I've got another thousand years before I worry about it Don't miss out on a few rewards. No. The day of the Lord comes is a thief in the night. And the whole point about a thief in the night is you don't know when the thief is coming. That's what 2 Peter 3. 17 exhorts Point number five, you know, those older in faith, don't let these truths get too familiar. Don't let them get too familiar Don't get too sleepy. Stir up that gift that's in you. Stir it up. Don't let it slip away. Number six, the last point here is that the 21st century form of refusal that's in fashion and in vogue these days is to deny the very parts of canon of Scripture. Ah, well, that part can't possibly be in there. That's a refusal. That's refusing him who spoke. That's dismissing it. That's cutting it out. That's taking a pair of scissors to the canon that's refusing him whose folk from heaven. Insomuch that there's a warning at the very end of Scriptures If any man take away from the words of the prophecy this book, I'll take away his name out of the book of life. The book of life? Who's that? People who think they're saved. Who are the ones cutting out words of the canon? Well, it ain't the Muslims. It ain't the Hindus. It ain't the Sikhs. It ain't the atheists. It's the religious people It's even the reformed religious people doing this. God says, you take away from my word, I'll take away your name out of the book of life. Don't mess with it. See that you refuse not him who speaks from heaven. That's the consideration for today. I uh trust it's an awakening and encouragement to the soul. Jeff, would you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, I thank thee that you have uh uh opened your word to us in our hearing I pray that uh it will sink in and stir the heart uh to consider thee at all times and in all places and under all circumstances. The very word of life is in our hands, in your word. And it's it is thee that applies it to our heart. I thank you in Jesus Christ name. Amen. Amen