I am so looking forward to this particular lesson today. So I'm going to read Hebrews chapter 7, 11 through 17, so we get the text in front of us and then we'll get into our discussion question I had some answers from the people online as well, so I'll read their answers first. A lot of good feedback. Trust it's going to be helpful to you. I'm going to read Hebrews chapter 7, and I'm going to begin at verse 11 And uh hear now the word of the Lord. If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the law, what further need was there? That another priest should rise after the order of Melchizedek and not be called after the order of Aaron. The Iranic priesthood, the Levitical line. Verse 12. For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law. For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar. For It is evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah, of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood. And it is yet far more evident, for that after the similitude of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest who is made not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life, for he testifieth. Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. So that's the passage that we're going to look at today, a rather large chunk. I it didn't seem right to me to split it up, but to take it as one piece, so Uh but there's a lot here, so I want to get into this. So discussion. Perhaps you and I have observed the same thing, that when horrible crimes occur in the land, the governing rulers always jump to one thing. We have to enact a new law. And they do. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Now, if you were king for a day, Imagine that. You were a ruler, you had the lawmaker, you could pass judgment, you're the judge, jury, and lawgiver all at one. You're king for a day What law or laws would you pass, would you make enforce, and they're enforceable now, to rid the land of all crime? What would you What would you suggest? Well while you're thinking about that, I'll read some from others online. We had these answers here. From Patty, she says, there will and would never be a perfect person on earth except for Christ. One law would have to be if you father a child, you have to stay in that home and raise that child. That would certainly cure a lot of ills in the land. Fatherlessness is a big deal. Most crime is due to a breakdown of the family. Other points were made as well that were all very good. Bev writes, there's not any laws that create perfect people, so no amount of law will create perfection. In other words, it's not even really possible. Matt says the same thing. It's not possible. I wish it were. Anyway, your thoughts. What laws would you pass to enable a righteous society? I think you could get closer to it if you said um if lawmakers pass a bill that is later deemed to be unconstitutional, then They should be punished for that, preferably with jail fine. Oh, that would be nice. Yeah, if lawmakers pass laws that later are found to be unconstitutional or bad Yeah, then they face jail time. Yeah, that would certainly correct a lot. That would steer it in the right direction. Okay. Other thoughts? What laws would you pass to try to move society towards righteousness This doesn't take you in the wrong direction. We're off track here. But The ultimate way to stop lawlessness is to eliminate the lawbreaker. And that was God's first law. The day that thou eatest, thou shalt surely die. And so a death penalty for any infraction eliminates all infraction. Ah, that's a very good one. The death penalty for any infraction. It's interesting you mentioned that because when a uh marketing director of mine I used to work for was telling me the number of trips he's made around the world, he said the most interesting was a trip to Saudi Arabia. They had an open marketplace with a little cheap bamboo wooden fence and they had tables out there and you could buy all kinds of gold. It was a gold bazaar Uh gold bracelets, gold watches, gold earrings, gold this, gold that, gold figurings, all gold. And at the end of the day, uh they would just swing the little fence around, put a little peg in the ground and and walk away There was no big security bars. There were no, you know, it wasn't heavily protected at all. It was just a simple fence. Really, it looked like just to keep small animals out of. Nobody stole a thing from it Because right next to it was the place where they prosecuted thieves and the and the prosecution for a thief was they cut your hand off. So there's a bunch of Hands lying on the ground next to the bazaar. And it's amazing how nobody ever stole anything from that. Any thoughts? Other thoughts? How would you establish a righteous society What would you pass? I would choose I had to pass the law. It would be requiring men to keep God's law if they had to follow the law of scripture or be persecuted. But at the same time, God's given us a perfect law. And because of men's simple heart, we cannot keep even the most perfect law So kind of the point. Yeah. It seems that uh we would be hard pressed to find something better than the summation of God's law in Ten Commandments. You know, Ten Commandments I can write on A piece of paper. Moses got it on a tablet of stone that apparently he could carry. That was it. I have no idea how many laws I have in this land. I don't even know where to go to look up all the laws in this land. I discover new ones all the time. It's really amazing Hard labor. Hard labor? Yeah, let them do the streets, let them know. Any violators would so that would be the punishment phase. Mm-hmm. Pick up trash, no money? Yeah. There's no wrong answers here. I'm just trying to get you to think about how do you uh establish a law. Victoria, you had a point? One thought is that um the commandments are summed up in the golden rule which is to love your neighbor as yourself. So that would be a law which is the law of the land. But the difficulty with that is you cannot prosecute someone for an evil thought or any kind of uh actions that outflow from the heart. So that then leads to, well, okay, we mandate the Ten Commandments, but again, I think the penalty has to be very severe to enforce it. That's the thought that came to my mind. Right. Victoria is positing that the uh Jesus summation of the commandments, love your neighbor as yourself. uh would be a good one to put down and uh but of course part of that falls into how do you prosecute things such as the tenth commandment, covetousness, that would be a thought crime. How do you How does the rulers, judges, mere mortals like us be able to enforce that? So the title for today's message is A Formula for Perfection And the reason I'm focusing on that word perfection is because in our passage that's exactly where the penman is coming back around to. Because we have been microscopically walking our way through Hebrews, we we might begin to lose track of what the original readers would have had in their mind oh so two or three minutes ago, which is a stream of thought regarding perfection. For instance, uh the point of it Started, you see, in verse 11, if therefore perfection were by the Levitical preachership. Why is he even concerned about perfection? Well You find in Hebrews 2. 10 that Christ was made perfect through suffering. Hebrew 5. 9, Christ was made perfect In chapter 5, verse 11, he complained that they were dull of hearing. There's many things we've got to say. You can't yet even hear these things. We've got to go to the first principles of the oracles of God because you need those. Strong meat belongs to them who are full age. That word full age is the word perfect. They're mature. And so then in Hebrews 6. 1, the previous chapter, he said, let us go on unto perfection. So his whole point has been we need to bring you towards perfection. And so chapter 7, verse 11 says, if therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood. Now he's trying, he's still trying to get to this business. of getting to perfection. In my first application as Christian, do you realize that you are on a path to perfection? This is where God is taking you to perfection. Alright? So we're going to look at the implications of several different things. There are three different things that we need to look at, and they're kind of outlined. the implications of a different priesthood, the implications of a different tribe, and the implications of a different life. So in 11 and 12, the implications of a different priesthood and that's an interesting verse we have there in verse uh uh twelve we'll get to that word change in a moment but He says, if perfection were by the Levitical priesthood. So a large duty of the Levites, they were the priests, right? There was only one tribe dedicated to this task. One of the big tasks they had was to teach. They were the law keepers, the law copiers, the law transmitters, they were the law teachers. That was their job. I wonder what would happen if the National Archives had a job of teaching. You know, they're they're keeping and maintaining records But, you know, the record keepers also have to be the the the teachers of it. They have to be the expositors, the expounders of it. We sort of don't have that function. You know, if the Supreme Court were lecturers, if they taught As opposed to just judge. It might improve things if they kind of let people understand their thinking this is how the law is. And then you might not have so many infractions come up if they were taught how it was to be done. So a large duty was to teach the law. And I just put a sampling of Old Testament passages before you here in your bulletin Malachi 2-7 gives a God's perspective. He says the priest's lips should keep knowledge. They should seek the law at his mouth, at God's at at uh at the mouth of the priest, for he that is the priest is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. So here he is. This is his job. He's the one teaching the people. What happens when they don't do their job? Well, in 2 Chronicles 15, And we get to Judah's long descent into apostasy. Sadly, we read this. For a long season, Israel has been without the true God. The Chronicles is the Chronicles of the Jews and their of Judah and their writing of the Northern Kingdom They've been without the true God, without a teaching priest, and without law. If there's no one teaching it, there's no law that's really there. Yeah, one reason I don't know the law in the books is there's nobody out there talking about it. You know, what are the laws? There's no one really teaching it. They just write it and forget about it Micah 3. 11 says, The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach for hire. The prophets thereof divine for money, yet they lean upon the Lord. Here you got the wrong people in the job So there was all kinds of problems you had when the law keepers were not doing the task of being law teachers. So the point is of all this part is real simple. This is your second fill-in-the-blank here. The priests taught the law. The priests taught the law, that's the point being made, and they did so according to the law, sometimes rightly, others wrongly, sometimes not at all. But that was their job. Verse 11, again, is making the point that the Messiah, that is Jesus, came according to Psalm 110, but he would be a priest after a different order. Order uh is the concept of taxonomy, a a a an organization, a position, a role. Now Verse 12 of Hebrews 7 is basically saying the new priesthood implies a different or a new teacher of different laws. And lo and behold, we find that teaching was a large part of Jesus' ministry, wasn't it? He went about teaching people all the time. He also was healing people. to validate to others. Yes, I'm the Messiah. When he comes, he's going to be doing miracles. Notice this point that is made, and I want to see if you catch what's going on here in Matthew 21 We here we read in verse 23 of Matthew 21, When he, Jesus, was come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and said, By what authority doest thou these things? Who gave thee this authority? Why do you think they're asking that? How come they're asking Jesus this question? Well you say that the priests are supposed to be teaching the law and here Jesus is teaching so they're wondering, well, are you a priest then? Yeah, we as Americans uh uh have lived for so long in freedom that this kind of question really strikes us as unusual. I mean anybody can teach in this land. You can teach garbage, you can teach foolishness, you can teach whatever. Plenty of people do it and they call it a university and they get paid handsomely for it. But in olden times it was more of a tribal thing. In fact, there used to be things called guilds. You perhaps were in the Shoemaker Guild or the Tent Maker Guild, and that was your profession, and you passed it on not to just anybody, but typically those within your family. And so your last name became the name of your guild Smith, for instance, would be a blacksmith. They would hammer things out with metal, and they passed that on to their family It was subsequent laws in later generations that realized, wow, if a famine wipes out the family of the Smiths, we're not going to have anybody to make hot irons and nails for us. We could lose an entire Knowledge base of how a particular profession works. And so different institutions arose to break that. But that was not so in Jesus' day, and certainly was not so in Israel's day, where by law As J. Rowell points out, only the priests had a teaching duty. So when Jesus stands up and starts teaching the people, he's not just some radical that shows up on the street with a with a billboard or a placard. trying to pitch his ideas, he's really being very bold and he's challenging authority. And that's why they asked the question. When Saddam Hussein, if you remember back to the Gulf War when he was captured and they took him to his trial, one of the first series of questions he was asking is, by what authority is this trial being executed? He was trying to pull the authority question because he had the authority in Iraq. He was the authority. And so he says, Who are you to do this? You have no authority. Well, right of conquest, of course, something wasn't in his dictionary, but uh That's how he approached it. So they very much understand the authority angle. And Christ taught as one having authority and not as the scribes. Yes, he very much taught as one having authority. But he gets to this point about teaching and authority. You see in uh uh Acts uh in your handout, Acts 613, that they um uh were Accusing Jesus, they said, this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place and shall change the customs which Moses delivered unto us. Jesus' teaching obviously differed from that which the priests said. And so my point here in the point of Hebrews is that a different priesthood means different laws Let's face it, if you got a the priests of Baal, they have their own laws. The Levites had God's laws that he gave, but then Jesus comes along, the ultimate lawgiver, and he's teaching laws. But they differ some What's going on here? So that's one of the main points of verse 12. You have a different priesthood. The priests teach laws. Therefore, there's also different laws. Maybe you haven't thought of that. 13 and 14, now we have the implications of a different tribe. The implications of a different tribe. 13 says, for he of whom these things are spoken, Hebrews 7. 13. pertaineth to another tribe of which no man gave attendance at the altar. No Melchizedekian ever went to the altar to offer sacrifices. You never read about that If this is an individual who had been a truly eternal individual, and he would have still been ruling at Salem, and if he was a priest, he might have still been found giving attendance at the altar. You don't read that It says in fourteen, it's evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah, of which tribe Moses spake concerning nothing, uh spake of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood. Well, Judah uh is a tribe. They had their lot. Their lot had nothing to do with being a priest. That was not their lot. But at Jacob's blessing of his descendants upon his death, we read this very curious prophecy. It's in your handout, Genesis 49 and verse 10, the Scepter. shall not depart from Judah. The scepter is a is an instrument of rulership. It's that which the king would have. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver From between his feet, until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. That's an interesting phrase from between his feet that means his descendants, his son. His sons. Alright. Well, Jesus was from the line of Judah. We know that from Luke 3. Luke gives the lineage from Jesus' father's side. Matthew gives it from his mother's side. Jesus' father was supposed to be Joseph, so he inherited his father's name being in his father's house, so he was of the royal lineage. He inherited the right as one born in that house, but he was not a physical descendant of. He would have physically come from the line of Mary, who was from the line of David. As was Joseph, but that's a different point. So lo and behold, we have Jesus from the tribe of Judah, and he's a different priest, different order of a priesthood. So he's a king. and a priest. He's from the line of the kings, he's from the line of the priests. And so the point of this section is a priest from a different tribe, that's your next fill-in-the-blank, also supports a different priesthood and different laws. Now these are all stair steps, folks. Bear with me here. We're climbing a steep set of ancient stairs, right? The modern building code, which has long landings This is not enforced. This is not an elevator. This is stair steps. And so we're building our way up. And we're getting to the point I want to discuss the most, because this is where it gets, I think, really interesting. I'm going to pose it with a different question. If you've noticed so far we've been talking about perfect perfection, but let me ask a question. What does a other than Jesus, don't just throw the answer as Jesus What does a perfect person look like? Describe such a one to me. Other than Jesus, don't just throw Jesus out. That's cheating. That's going to the back of the book. What does a perfect person look like? I knew you would say that. I absolutely knew you would say that. I'm sitting here at my desk as I'm framing this question. I know Joe is gonna say petty. I just knew it. So Joe gets his brownie points for today. Yep, and Marissa pointed to Elias and I would be hard pressed to disagree. A future perfect process. What does a perfect person look like? What are their attributes? You've already answered. You gave up your answer. I was gonna say they're uh without sin. They don't have any um errors. Without sin. Without errors. In conformance to the law. Conformance to the complete conformance to the law. Complete conformance to the law, okay? Keep going. You're alright. You're right. I want you to see if you make another connection. This is where I'm going to get to. You said not Christ, but be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven Alright, as your father in heaven is perfect. Describe that. What is your father in heaven like? What does the perfect person look like? So we've got conformity to the law. Got that Morally good in thought, word, and action. Morally good, thought, word, and action, yep, that's still conformity, absolutely. Yes, they have a perfect nature. A perfect nature, yep. So you're you're diving into the heart, morally, perfect nature, yep. I would say they can't improve it all. Can't decrease a level of full maturity. There's no better that they can get Ah, yes, there's no better they can get. Go ahead, Jeffrey. I guess from a human perspective and kind of looking at painting should be perfectly attractive Right. Right? Very desirable. Mm-hmm. Yeah, Joe's gonna talk to you later. Yeah, it was a cowboy. People think she's my daughter. A perfect person, folks, is one who lives forever. A perfect person is one who lives forever. If you sum it up in two words, that's it right there. Why did Adam fall? He would have lived forever, would he not have? What is it that brought about death? These are basic questions you all know, but you haven't made that last connection in the chain. Because when you say you live forever, you're also saying you're perfectly righteous. You're morally perfect. There's no change needed. You're excellent. God made man upright. He made him perfect, but he sought out many inventions So when you say you have eternal life, what you're saying is you are eternally righteous, because there is no cause for death. Sin is what brings about death. Sin brings about unrighteousness. All unrighteousness is what? Sin. Do you see the connection? That's what's being talked about in Hebrews 7. Because listen to this point again. I'm going to read 15 through 7, 15 and 16 one more time. It is yet far more evident. In other words, he's like saying, You want more evidence? You want more evidence than what I've given you? He says, after the similitude of Melchizedek, and by the way, if you want another similitude, Adam was made in the similitude of God. And Adam is the similitude of Christ. There ariseth another priest who is made not, notice the contrast here, we're going to explore that, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. There's the contrast. There is laws of a carnal commandment, but then there is the power. That's dunamis, not authority. That ability, that strength, that raw power of an endless life, eternal life. The he, it says, in He testifieth, verse 17 is referring to our Lord. He's testifying through scriptures, thou art a priest forever after Mekizedek. In verse 16, the Levitical law required a definite carnal descent. You could say death was baked into the Levitical priesthood You had to have a genealogy. What's a genealogy? I had a father and mother. Are they still around? Uh yeah, well, I got a picture of them on the wall. They died. They had descendants. They had children And they grew up and they live and they served the priest and they died. Baked into the Levitical priesthood is the concept of death. It presumes the person will die It presumes that his reign will terminate. In fact, at the death of the high priest, those slayers of men in the Cities of refuge could finally be released. Inherent into the law, death was baked in. It was a carnal commandment. It was a fleshly commandment. Okay? But lo and behold, none of the Old Testament high priests had immortality Matthew Henry makes this before I move on. I'm going to contrast Levi with Melchizedek here in a moment. Matthew Henry makes this very good observation. The very law Which constituted the Levitical priesthood supposed the priests to be weak, frail, dying creatures, not able to preserve their own natural lives. Remember the statement they gave to Jesus, physician, heal thyself. He saved others, let him save himself. There's the contrast he makes. The contrast of law versus power, and the contrast of a carnal commandment. with an endless life. Listen to this, just listen very carefully to this statement made in 2 Timothy 3 Verse 5. There are those who have a form of godliness, but deny the power thereof. You see the contrast? There's a form. The law of God that's given. Could God have given a better set of laws to a nation? A nation has existed on earth, which did have an excellent set of laws In fact, God even commented, these other nations will see the laws you have and say, I'm paraphrasing, what righteous laws you have, what a righteous nation you are. There's nothing wrong with the laws We can't improve upon the law of God. Many of you said, well, we'd give them the law of God, but others pointed to the root issue as to why you're not going to get perfection. Heart of man. How can you construct corrupt men to rule and govern to produce an incorrupt society? Can't be done. Just like saying I'm going to build A high performance sports sports car using corrupted metal. Which piece of that high performance vehicle are you going to put a piece of corrupted steel in where it sort of doesn't matter? Where if it fails it's okay? I I I don't know how to do that. Corruption tends to spread. Rust tends to travel. This is the fundamental problem. No amount of laws, folks, are ever going to fix this land. No mental laws are going to fix your life. No amount of laws are going to fix your family. Does that mean we should quit trying? Absolutely not. It's a restraint mechanism. You can get closer towards it, as Gabriel pointed out. And it is a restraining mechanism. It's a filter. It holds it back. It prevents the the flood from going completely over the dam, as you see happening in some places where the laws are just let loose and a flood comes through, shutting down stores in some states, collapsing city budgets here and there But the other contrast between the carnal commandment and an endless life. And the Apostle Paul spoke at length about this. Hebrews is climbing up the back side, the Jewish side of this argument. It spends, there's Seven or eight references in the entire Bible that use the phrase after the order of Melchizedek. All but one of them are found in the book of Hebrews. He's making much about this eternal, endless life. Listen to what the Apostle Paul said. Because a perfect people, again, are people who live forever. That's what you're trying to get to. Want to live forever. Galatians 3. 21 is the law against the promises of God, God forbid. For if there had been a law given Which could have given life, can restore you, can make you whole. Verily, righteousness, notice the connection, should have been by the law. There's no law given that can give you life. It testifies of life. It testifies of his life. We're reading about it in the law of God. And the apostle in Romans is very clear. What shall we say then? That the Gentiles which followed not after righteousness. Gentiles, they didn't have the law of God, they were not under it. have attained to the righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith. But Israel which followed after the law of righteousness has not attained to the law of righteousness wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. How do you get eternal life? By faith in Jesus Christ. You've got to believe God's promises. God grants new hearts. He actually changes people. And the mechanism by which we lay hold on that is called faith. That is the path. And so actually, if I were going to mandate a law, it's that you must believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. That might be the only law that you could mandate to begin to start to create a few perfect people in society. And if they want to know more about what that means, hand them a Bible. That might be the only path that you're going to start to create some perfect people out of society. Because it's not going to come by a carnal commandment. You've got to have the power of an endless life. It's got to be Christ in you, the hope of glory. Romans 10 We read this and throughout your bulletin I highlighted the word perfect that Greek word telos, telos. There's many cognates of that Greek form that are rendered perfect. I put it in your handout in purple And that same word shows up here, the Apostle Paul uses it, and it's a verse that's often misunderstood. Let me read it to you, Romans 10, 3 and 4. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. This is the history of Israel. There was God's righteous standards. Couldn't keep it. Changed the law so they could it still didn't work. Create their own, it didn't work They've not submitted themselves to God's righteousness. They've tried to establish their own. Verse 4, for Christ is the end, meaning the goal, the perfection, the fulfillment, the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believes. Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. I am not come to destroy I have come to fulfill. How can he fulfill it? He's the lawgiver. Okay, just so he gave it, he has an endless life. That's the difference, the power of an endless life. So obviously the observation is that there is a huge connection between righteousness and eternal life. Surveys have been done where they're trying to look at the lengths of lifespans of different classes of people. They'll go down the races, they'll go down the different sexes, men and women, they'll even look at the longevities of homosexuals, those who identify as such. And so they can use this to develop models for what insurance companies use to issue life insurance policies. They're known as actuarial tables. That's the big high-cylinder word for it. If you're over the age of 72 and you're you're getting required minimum distributions, you are being distributed according to a actuarial table for what the expectancy of your lifespan is. These are things the government does to attempt to fairly distribute money, to manage expectations. The difficulty with the homosexual community among many others, is that they can't find any sufficient representatives to have a statistically significant population above the age of 55. Most of them die long before they get to that age. Oh, there's a few old perverts out there. Not enough to actually make a statistical significant contribution at that latter age. The wages of sin is death, and some sins will accelerate your deaths. You want to play loose with your um uh your your your morals and You you want to play loose with your health? Sure, you can. It can terminate it early. Man can terminate his life pretty early if he cares to. There is a connection between righteousness and eternal life. If you have eternal life, you're eternally righteous. They're saying the same thing. Men die because they're unrighteous and sinful. And so anyone who lives forever, by definition, is your last fill in the blank, perfect. So, Melchizedek, that high priest, the power of an endless life, he's got the power of perfection. The priesthood had no ability to be perfect because the high priest himself died. An ever-living high priest who intercedes for his people brings them into a righteousness that never fails, true perfection. You have one pulling for you. You have one perfecting you. You have one pulling, growing, enhancing, building you out So the answer to our opening question is there aren't any laws which can create, establish, or maintain a perfect society. There has to be a fundamental change within every heart, soul, and mind. You've got to be born again. And so that's today's message. I hope you profited from that. I enjoyed it immensely. We're going to continue this subject next week when we get into the law made nothing perfect but the bringing in of a better hope did. That's a big statement right there. Gabriel, would you close us in prayer? Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you that you've adopted us and redeemed us. And called us by your name unto the glorious gospel. Lord, I pray that our path and our life would shine more and more unto the perfect day. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.