Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the book of First Corinthians and the tenth chapter. First Corinthians chapter 10. And I'm going to be reading the first 15 verses of the chapter. And if you kind of still have Hebrews 3, our responsive reading open. We will be referring to that passage as well in the course of our consideration this morning, as well as Psalm 106. Because all three of these passages are linked together. In fact, I believe that Paul's 1 Corinthians chapter 10 is in many ways a commentary on Psalm 106. If you have your place now, begin in the first verse of the tenth chapter of 1 Corinthians Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea, and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed and fell in one day, twenty three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ. As some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of servant serpents. Neither murmur ye as some of them also murmured and were de were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all these things happen unto them for our ensamples, and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore, let him that thinketh that he standeth take heed lest he fall. Thereeth no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men, judge ye what I say Let us bow for prayer as we begin. Heavenly Father, now may you open your word to our understanding. May you search our hearts with a candle. O Father, may we be receptive to thy word. May you grant utterance to thy spirit and great liberty to work and move in our hearts. Father, this is indeed the Word of God. It is given by thee. Apply it to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I mentioned already that I believe that when Paul was preaching or writing this letter to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter ten, he was Giving a commentary on Psalm 106. And the third chapter of Hebrews is the same story as well. All three of these accounts give us the warning of the children of Israel that came out of Egypt with Moses. And yet never made it to the promised land. They perished in the wilderness. There are two words that we need to examine as we begin. They're found in verse 6 and verse 11 of our text. The first word is the word examples, and in verse 11 it is in samples, but it's actually the same word in the original language in both places. What does this mean? Well, this word in sample or example Literally means a mark left by a stroke or blow or an imprint. I think most of us that had godly fathers At one time or another, had the imprint of our father's hand on our backside. We got a good swat. Well, that's literally what this verse means. It is the mark that is left By a stroke. It's a pattern or figure of a blow. In John 20 and verse 25 When Thomas doubted the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we find these words. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I see in his hand the print of the nails, and put my finger in the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And that word print that Thomas uses is the same word example. If I see and put my finger in the example, in the imprint of the blow, then I will believe. Now take that verse-to-verse comparison back These things that are written for us are for our example. Verse 11. Now these things happened unto them for our example are in samples. In other words, these things that we read about Israel perishing in the wilderness They're the warning. That is the stroke. That is the blow. That is the wound that they received for their disobedience. Oh, may we take the example. And so the first word we need to consider is example. In Titus 2 and verse 7, in all things showing yourself a pattern of good works, and that word pattern is the same. But then the other word is the word admonition that is found there in the 11th verse. Now these things happened unto them for our ensamples, and they were written for our admonition. to upon whom the ends of the world are come. This word admonition means exactly what we think of in the English. This is the warning This is an admonition. Take heed. Look out. If you're driving down the road and you see a vehicle with flashing lights, on top. You know that there's something happening. For some reason, traffic has slowed down and you better slow down too. There's an accident ahead. There's a tow truck beside the road. There's a police officer. There's something. It's a warning to you. And these verses should stand as a flashing light on the highway of life. Be careful. Be admonished. There's something taking place. And you need to be very, very careful lest you fall into harm. Titus 3 in verse 10, a man that is an heretic at the first and second admonition, reject In other words, the heretic that has been warned of the wrath to come, and he will not turn from his heresies at the second and third admonition, warning, he's to be rejected. Now we read there in Hebrews 3 our responsive reading, and I deliberately took a New Testament as opposed to our typical Old Testament. responsive reading because Hebrews three is this same warning. Verse twelve Brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God, exhort one another, the deceitfulness of riches. It says there in verse number 14, for we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence. Steadfast to the end. And some men have used that verse to try to say, Well, see, you can lose your salvation. But we're not saved by holding our confidence steadfast to the end. Rather, it is the evidence. That those that hold their confidence steadfast to the end indeed were believers to begin with. Because the whole context of the passage is that all these came out of Egypt with Moses. But very few entered the promised land because there was a whole multitude of hangers on And they're referred to in the Old Testament as the mixed multitude that fell to lusting. So with that foundation Let us approach this passage that we have before us here in 1 Corinthians in chapter 10. In the seventh verse, well let's start in the sixth verse. Now these things were for our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. And we're going to see all the four sins that we're going to deal with this morning all are tied to lust. And yet they're all ultimately idolatry. And they're all ultimately a rebellion against God. Verse 7, neither be ye idolaters. As were some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and rose up to play. We know the story Moses is on the mountain in Exodus 32. God is giving to Moses the law. And in 32 in verse 1, the people see that Moses is up on the mountain. And where is he? Of this Moses, we know not what has become of us. And they say to Aaron, make us gods For as for this Moses, we do not know where he is. Make up, make us gods, which shall go before us, for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we know not what is become of him. And so Aaron tells the children of Israel, break off your earrings. Is that just a casual thing in scripture? Break off your ear. What's significant there? Well the tradition in Egypt was that the slaves wore earrings. I've asked some young men on the street, who who who's your master? I I I see you have a have a a s a a slave's earring there. Uh who who who is your master, you have a Probably shouldn't do it. I don't get a very good response. Oh, I like it. But you see, God had delivered Israel from what? Slavery. Yes, they had earrings in their ears, but that was the mark of their slavery. And the type of earring and the side of it size of earring was a mark of their status. And when they said to Aaron, Aaron, we don't know what's become of Moses. Make us an idol. Aaron says, give me your earrings. You see, the earring and the removal of the earring to become the God was saying this is the God that delivered us from slavery. This is the God that has taken away the earrings from our ears. And so Aaron says he threw it into the fire and it came out the calf. Well, it was was made a calf. But what does Aaron say? These be your gods that brought you up out of the land of Egypt. This is your delivery from slavery, from bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make of thee any graven image or likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Now, I would venture to say that none of you have an idol. I would venture to say that none of you have an image. I don't think there's any statues of Mary in any house. of this congregation. I don't think that you have any little Buddhas on the shelf. In Jamaica, it was very common to go into a shop, particularly the shopkeepers that were of Indian, East Indian origin, uh or some of the Orientals, and they would have their little shrine there behind the cash register, and sometimes there would be incense sticks. burning around the little figure of Buddha. Or there would be a picture and it was all surrounded. And they had this little shrine there in their shop and they were praying to that shrine that God would bless their business. I don't think any of you do that. I would doubt, and if I'm stepping on somebody's toes, I'm sorry, don't mean to be rude, but I would doubt that any of you have a picture in your house that is supposed to be of Jesus Christ. You may have a picture in your house, but it's not Jesus Christ. And if you do, I would encourage you to remove it. And if you want to burn it, that's fine because you're not burning a picture of Jesus Christ. It is an image, and it really does not have place in a Christian home. That's right. We don't have idols. Oh yes, we do Because you see, these children of Israel have broken off the earrings And from the earrings they've made an idol, and Aaron declares to them, These be your gods that brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And how quickly our employment becomes an idol. How quickly our finances become an idol. How quickly our social status becomes an idol. How quickly anything gets between us and God and it becomes to us our idol. Because you see, an idol is anything that stands between me and God. You realize That the children of Israel made an idol while God was giving them the law. Did you ever think about the time frame here? Yeah. It's crazy. God is giving them the law. And Moses has been gone for so long. I saw a little meme the other day. It was two dogs talking to each other and they were telling horror stories around the campfire. And the caption was one dog saying to the other dog, and then the humans were mil were gone for fifteen minutes. You know, because if you have a pet dog, you know how they can go berserk in ten minutes of you being away from them. Well, the children of Israel, Moses has been on the mountain 40 days and forty nights. They've seen the smoke on the mountain. They know God is doing something on the mountain, and that is when they make their idol. Turn over with me to Psalm 106. I considered actually using Psalm 106 for our responsive reading, but instead we're going to be going to it. multiple times this morning. The 106th Psalm. And I would draw your attention to the 12th verse of the Psalm. Psalm 106, verse 12. They believed then believed they his word, they sang his praise, they soon forgot his works They waited not for his counsels. Verse 19. They made a calf in Horeb and worshipped the molten image They changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. Let me read that verse again. Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. How was man created? In the image of God. But when they made their calf Out of the symbols of their slavery to sin, Egypt picturing in the scriptures the world, Pharaoh picturing in scriptures Satan. When they made an image for themselves out of the tokens of their slavery to this world, they marred their own image. It was to their own destruction. For they were created in the image of God, but now they changed their own image into the similitude of an ox. You see, when we substitute anything in the predominant place of our heart that belongs to God alone, we do our own selves harm. We mar our own image. They forgot God, their Savior, which had done great for them things great things for them. in Egypt. And so going back to First Corinthians chapter ten and drawing your attention to verse 12 of 1 Corinthians 10. Wherefore, let him that thinketh that he standeth take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. Wherefore, dearly beloved, flee idolatry. And so the first warning, the first deadly sin that we find here, repeated three times in Scripture, of which we're warned, is the temptation to let anything. Stand between us and God. God has delivered us from our sins. God has blessed us abundantly. And yet, how quickly those things can become to us idols. And though we profess to have left the world, how entangled we become in the things of the world again. But then there's a second sin of which the Corinthians are warned in verse eight. First Corinthians ten and verse eight. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day, three and twenty thousand. Turn with me to Numbers chapter 25, which is the passage to which Paul is referring. In Numbers chapter 25, verses 1, 2, and 3, I'll give you a moment to turn there, and then we're going to go to Psalm 6 as well. Numbers 25, the first three verses, and Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab. And they called the people to sacrifice uh to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people did eat and bowed down unto their gods. And Israel joined himself to Baal Peor, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. You see what's happening here? They are committing fornication, they are committing adultery, and yet their adultery has become idolatry. And then go to Psalm 106. And verses 28 and 29. Psalm 106. Verses 28 and 29. If you have a Bible marker, you may want to stick that or your bulletin or something there, because we'll Keep coming back to it. Psalm 106, verse 28. They joined themselves unto Baal Peor and ate the sacrifices of the dead. Thus they provoked him that is God to anger with their inventions And the plague broke upon them. Now I would venture to say that within This company of faith, this body of believers, it is unlikely that there is fornication taking place. I say unlikely because we're all susceptible. And yet adultery is more than the simple act, physical act of adultery. Of course, Christ says in Matthew 5, ye have heard that it hath been said of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery with her heart in his heart. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee. For it is profitable from thee that one of thy members should perish, and that the whole body, uh and not that the whole body should be cast into hell. Scripture is very clear that adultery is more than just a physical act. Oh, I've never committed adultery, says every man. And yet we find in Scripture that there is a purity that is required that is far more than just the act. And we find that adultery is tied in Scripture to idolatry. Their adultery led to idolatry. It is all a substitution of myself. For God. And so we see in idolatry that they substitute these other things outside wealth, position, respect of man. And adultery is substituting myself and my own desires and my own lust for God. It is all coming against me. God. And adultery itself, lust itself, is a lust against the sacrifice of Christ. When a man or a woman commits fornication, it is a violation of the very blood of Christ. Look with me at Ephesians chapter 3 or chapter 5, verses 31 and 32. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 31 and 32. For this cause shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. And you see, when a man or a woman commits adultery physically, they obviously have violated the blood of Christ, the sacrifice of Christ, because of the picture of Christ in the church But the same, the same applies to what we do on the internet. The same applies to the thought processes, because any thought processes that is a violation of Christ becomes to us an idol. It stands between us and our fellowship with God. And so God's condemnation was not simply for the physical act of adultery, but for the mental act of adultery. Look again at numbers 25. I know I've got to flip it and turn it. I should have given our fine internet guy a copy of my notes ahead of time so his fingers should be ready. But numbers 25 Verse 1, I'm going to start partway in the verse. Numbers 25, verse 1. And the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab. And they called the people to the sacrifices of their God, and the people did eat, and bowed down to their gods, and Israel joined himself to Bel Pior, and the anger of God. was kindled. God was not pleased. Why was God not pleased? What know you not that your bodies are the temple of the heart? Holy Ghost. And so again in First Corinthians and verse 12, chapter 10, verse 12. Wherefore let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will also make a way of escape. That you may be able to bear it. Joseph had to leave his coat behind, but he ran. And so scripture clearly teaches us that idolatry is anything that becomes between us and God, but our own lustful selves can also come between us and God. But then we find a third sin here in 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 9. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted and were destroyed of serpents And this is in Numbers 21. I won't have you turn again, but let me read to you, Numbers 21, verses 5 and 6. And the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of the land of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our souls loathe this light bread And the Lord set fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. They tempted the Lord. What does it mean to tempt Christ? Well, tempting Christ essentially is blasphemy against Christ. It is to bring blasphemy before the Lord. And again in one hundred six of Psalm thirteen through fifteen, they soon forgot his works. They waited not for his counsel, but lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. And he gave them the request, but sent leanness to their souls. They tempted Christ. They blasphemed against Christ. And I love that it is pointed out as Christ that they blasphemed against. Not that they blasphemed as good, but that reference of Christ in the Old Testament is glorious Tempting Christ is the sin of rebellion. In 17 and verse 2 of Exodus we find this, wherefore did the people chy with Moses? And said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? Wherefore do ye tempt the Lord? The children of Israel, in their rebellion against Moses, were rebelling against God, because God had brought them into the wilderness. And yet they say to Moses, Why did you bring us in this wilderness where there is no water? When Israel should have entered the promised land, they tempted Christ by their unbelief. In Numbers 14, and the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, and the whole congregation said unto them, Would to God we had died in the land of Egypt. Or would to God we had died in the wilderness. Wherefore hath the Lord brought us up unto this land? to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey, were it not better for us to return to Egypt. Then Joshua pleads with the people in Numbers 14, verse 8. If the Lord delight in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not against the Lord. How often do we tempt Christ when God has laid before us, Christ has laid before us a very plain path, and yet we refuse to believe that He's able. God had said, I'll give you the land. A land that flows with milk and honey. Oh, but there are giants there, the sons of Anak are there, and we're as grasshoppers before them. We cannot go up and conquer the land. But God had said, go up and conquer them. That's blasphemy if it's Christ. And yet, how often we are burdened before the Lord for certain things that we know we should do. And yet we draw back in unbelief and in lack of faith. And thereby, just like Israel, we tempt Christ. In Acts 7, verse 52, 51, Peter says, Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did also, so do ye. And so tempting Christ is a rebellion against the directive, against the word of Christ. Tempting Christ is also the sin of trying the patience of God Trying his patience. We are to forgive our brother seventy times seven. How often has God forgived us for the same besetting? And we find that throughout the history of Israel in Psalm 106, verse 7, and verse 43, our fathers understood not the wonders in Egypt. They remembered not the multitude of his mercies but provoked him but at the sea, even the Red Sea. In verse forty three, many times did he deliver them, but they provoked him with their counsel and were brought low for their iniquity In their afflictions, God sent his angel. In their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel is present saved them. In love and in pity, he redeemed them. He bare them. He carried them all the days, but they rebelled and vexed his Holy Spirit. That's Isaiah 63, verses 9 and 10, if you're taking notes. What? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall they that are dead to sin continue any longer? Therein. And yet, folks, just like Israel, are we not guilty of tempting Christ with our prevailing sins, with our continuing sins Can a maid forget her ornaments or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without end. Jeremiah 2, verse 33 And so they tempted him by their rebellion. They tempted him by trying the patience of God. And they tempted him by their unbelief. And we saw there in the last verse of chapter 3 of Hebrews, so we see that they could not enter because of unbelief. When they should have believed, they did not believe the Lord. But then we find a fourth sin. We find that they uh they sinned in their idols, they sinned in their lusts, they sinned in tempting Christ. But the fourth one I think is the one that hits home more than any other. They sinned in their discontentment. Or we could phrase it again, they they sinned in their discouragement. And folks Discouragement is a sin. And I know we're all susceptible. And yet we find in verse 10 of chapter 10 of 1 Corinthians, neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed. of the destroyer. Let's see what we got here. We have idolatry. Oh, that's a big sin. That's a big one. We have adultery. Well that's that's a great big one. We have tempting Christ. That's huge. And now the capstone of it all. Lord, you mean my complaining is sin? And yet how often we are guilty of the same sin. Turn with me to Exodus chapter 16. The 16th chapter of Exodus. And while you're turning to Exodus 16, let me give you the context Exodus 16 takes place two and a half months after the plagues of Egypt. Exodus 16 takes place two and a half months after the first Passover. And the death of the firstborn. Exodus 16 takes place two and a half months after they were rescued at the Red Sea, when the Red Sea opened up and they walked through a dry land. Folks, they had a lot to encourage them. They should have been discouraged already. And yet in Exodus sixteen and verse two And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the children of Israel said to them, Would to God we had died at the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. when we sat by the flesh pots, and when we did eat bread of the full. For we have brought for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole congreg whole assembly with hunger. We don't have anything to eat. And the God that opened the Red Sea, he can't give us food. The God who slew the firstborn, even the Pharaoh's son, he can't give us food The God who brought the frogs out of the river and turned the river into blood and sent the hail and the locusts and the flies and the darkness, he can't feed us. What are you doing, God? Here we should have died back there than come out here. And yeah, folks, how often and how quickly we can go from, oh, the Lord has done great things for us wherever we're glad, to Lord, what are you doing? And that too is a sin. That too is an idol. Because it's putting my own will above his and my own lust before his. But continuing there in Exodus 16 and verse 7, Moses speaks to the people. And in the morning they shall see the glory of the Lord, for that he hath heard your murmuring against the Lord, and what ye are we and what ye And what are we that ye murmur against us? Verse eight, for that the Lord heareth your murmurings, which ye murmur against him. Verse nine. Come near before the Lord, for he hath heard your murmurings. Verse twelve, I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Folks, be careful what you say. Because God hears your murmurings. God hears our complainings there in four verses again and again and again. God's heard, God's heard, God's heard. Verse 12, I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God. And it came to pass that at evening, at even The quail came up and covered the camp. In the morning the dew lay round about the the host In Psalm 78, we find this commentary on what took place there in Exodus 16. Psalm 78 verses 28 and 29. I'll just read them for you quickly for the sake of time. But Psalm 78, verse 29, so they did eat and were well filled, for he gave them their own desire. They were estranged from their lust, but while their meat was yet in their mouths, the wrath of God came upon them, and he slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen. Men of Israel. You see, God sent the quails. They weren't expecting that. God knew how he was going to feed them. But folks, oh how we get discontent with the will of God. Oh how we get discontent with our or circumstances. Lord, there was there was flesh plot pots and leaks, and there was bread back there. Lord, why is it where it is today? Why is it everything I pick up false? Why is it everything seems to go against me? Why can I not get on top of my problems? Why am I constantly doing the Dalby paddle with the water up to my nose? My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. You see, in this list of four sins, the last one is the one we think is the most insignificant and the one we think that we can get away with. But we see again and again the Lord heard their murmurings. The Lord heard their murmurings. And you see, murmuring is again idolatry. Because it's saying that I know better than God. If I am wiser than my God, I am above my God. But if my God is wiser than I am, yea, he is omniscient, he hears my murmurings. Then he knows what he's doing. And he is truly in control. God promised to Jacob, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all places whither thou goest. Who were these Israelites? They were the descents of Jacob. God said to Jacob, I'll bring you into the land. Well Jacob never got there, but his children got there. I've been young, and now I'm old, yet I've not seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass, which is today, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall not he much more clothe you, O ye of little faith. Take no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought of the things of itself. Sufficient unto the end is the evil thereof, but godliness with contentment is great Gain. And so we have these stern warnings to the children of Israel who left Egypt but did not enter in. And then we have two times in the New Testament, 1 Corinthians 10, Hebrews 3, where the New Testament believers are pointed back to Psalm 106 and pointed back to Exodus 16 and pointed back to Numbers 21 and warned you're susceptible to the same sins How often I become my own image. I become my own idol and my own worst enemy How often my own lust for other things takes over and clouds the mind And becomes a separation between me and my God. And so my own desires and my own lusts become my idol because I want something that God does not want. And how often I have tried Christ, and we try Christ because we rebel against his will. It doesn't seem right to me, so it can't be right to God. God, what are you doing? And how often we begin to murmur and complain, and we chide against what God has designed for us, and we begin to say God cannot provide manna in the wilderness. God cannot provide quail in the evening, and God cannot take me into the promised land. And so our own will becomes to us an idol. But let us go back to First Corinthians chapter ten. And look again at those last four verses. Verse 12, last four verses of our reading, not four verses of the chapter. Verse 12 of 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Wherefore let him that thinketh that he stand, take heed lest he fall, we are all susceptible. There's not a one of us that's immune. There is no temptation you, but such is common to man, your temptation isn't any different than your brothers. But God is faithful. Boy, there's the key of the verse, isn't it? But God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will also with the temptation make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. God is not going to allow you to be tempted to your breaking. There will always be an escape. The question is, will you run like Joseph? Or will you fall asleep on Delilah's lap like Samson? Wherefore, my beloved brethren, flee idolatry. It's all idolatry, all four. I speak as to wise men Judge ye what I say. Paul's not saying I'm speaking to the people that know everything, the smartest people in the world. But rather, when he says I speak to wise men, The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. He's speaking to men who know the scriptures, who know these things to be true. Judge what I'm saying. Don't judge the preacher for saying them, Paul says, but rather judge the words that are said. And may God apply them to our hearts. Our Father, we thank you that your word is yea, and amen. And Lord, as we observed last week concerning the Word of God, no man could have put all this together. This was divinely inspired and organized by God. It is indeed the Word of God. May we not be negligent of it. But, O Father, may your word find deep root in our hearts. May we not look into the perfect law of liberty and go away forgetting what manner of men we are. Bless thy truth to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.