On this last Sunday of 2025. What happened to 2025? I'm still stuck in August. Well Taking ourselves now into more eternal things and just contemplating this book of Hebrews, I kind of feel like we have been over Down a long stream and over Niagara Falls. And we've gotten through a lot of intense arguments. We've gotten through some very uh Detailed strong warnings, and then now we're over the falls. You know, if I were a Hebrew, I'd be wondering, okay. So yeah, I'm supposed to look to Jesus. I don't look to the tabernacle of the Old Testament. So now what? That what what what's the punchline? Is this going to be a Jim Jones event? Are we going to be drinking the Kool-Aid down in the forest of Guiana somewhere? Are we what are we doing? And so this is what Hebrews 13 gets into. Today we're going to cover the first three verses, and I'd like to read those for us, and then I'll get into our discussion question, which should be pretty easy. Hebrews 13, and beginning in verse 1, we read as follows, hear now the word of the Lord. Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them And them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body. I was going to attack on verse 4 as well. I said, no, that's too much. To chew on this one, let's have a little bit more discussion time, so we'll cover four and five next week. And if I were to give a title, this would be called the Four Loves. We're going to look at four different loves here that are enjoined. in this. But my discussion question is this, and uh I'm glad there's some ladies in the audience. How does a woman know This Saba, how does a woman know that a young man truly loves her? Is it with the flowers and the chocolate and the sweet talk? How does a woman know Ms. still reading. How does a woman know that a young man truly loves her? Is it the flowers and the sweet talk? How does she know? The daily faithfulness, uh putting her above himself and above others, a willingness to To give with her, to do for her. Hmm, okay. A daily faithfulness, yeah that's interesting. A daily faithfulness. Yeah. Okay, that's good. Yeah. How does a woman how does a young woman know If you were advising your granddaughter who is contemplating someone for marriage, how would you advise her Whether the young man truly loves her? Is it because he's got big muscles and can throw rocks all around the castle? What's the what would you tell her to look for Uh not uh well not to be uh demanding uh like the what they call it forceful Yeah. That's a good counter so bad. So you want something too bad. And that gives it a Yeah, if he seems to be rushed, forceful. Forceful rushed. Yeah, uh that's kind of the opposite of what you know Penny was saying, which is, you know, is he interested in seeking her betterment first? And of course we could flip the question, and as a young man know, a a a young woman's truly interested in him, but I think we would get similar answers as well. That's why I didn't think this was too hard of a question to send out in advance. And the point about it is going to be this topic, which is the topic of love. You know, I went back looking over my Bible studies over the years, and I've been doing this since, I don't know, uh ninety six or thereabouts, ninety-six. I don't have too many sermons on the love of God for whatever reason. I just just don't have a lot of sermons on that. Yet it's a fundamental Christian teaching. And here we find, I think, four loves that are there. The first one starts with let brotherly love continue. Let brotherly love continue. The first love is loving a brethren And I and I, you know, first we do have to ask of whom does God speak? Do you think he's talking about your your siblings? Or is he talking about somebody else? Which brethren do you think he has in view here? Our brothers in Christ. Yeah, our brothers in Christ. For instance, uh Mark four, thirty-three, and this is a classic passage, says this. Jesus is speaking. And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brethren? And he looked round about on them, which sat about him And said, Behold my mother and my brethren, for whosoever shall do the will of God, the same as my mother, my sister, and my brother. I'm not going to get into the mother aspect of it. That would be those who serve as a spiritual midwife, those who help bring in and usher in a new creature. But uh we're we're we're considering the love of the brethren, spiritual brethren. I think we get that. But now I have a question here because our text says to let brotherly love continue. It's just to let it continue. Well, there's kind of an implication there that it might not. And so the exhortation is to let it continue. Why might brotherly love actually not continue? Why might it not continue? Could there be anything to interfere with that Human nature can interfere, okay. Our our tendency To judge, to be critical of others, to be unforgiving and unkind. Human nature, to be critical, unforgiving, unkind Yeah, all kinds of sins and offenses can pop up. Sadly, the bishop church is one of the most fractious organizations there ever was Yeah, and so you see right out the gate the very first admonition is let it continue. Let it continue. But what do we do when there's an offense? What is that does the church of God have any recourse? There's an offense. Uh uh I borrowed Rick's shovel and I never returned it to him. And he's wondering, where's my shovel? Hey you gonna get back to me? Yeah, eventually, eventually. Now I'm sitting on his shovel and I never get it back to him. Eventually I lose it Well, he's going to have an offense against me. Is there any course? Is there any recourse? Well, yes, the Bible does talk about that. There has to be repentance. There has to be uh an ign Somebody has to go and tell him, hey brother, you've offended me. And uh you know, patiently, kindly, you don't go and slash his tires to get his attention. And then if there's uh an acknowledgement, wow, I'd Totally forgot about that. My my apologies, I'll buy you a new shovel and a new wheelbarrow. You know, you make it good. If that doesn't work, you take two or three others. If that doesn't work, you take it to the church and say, this is this is serious stuff. And I've had to go to that extent uh at times in the past. And by God's mercy it in fact does work. And but imagine you go all the way through the biblical process outlined in Matthew 18 about this threefold step to resolve Offenses, which undoubtedly, assuredly, and most positively will come and do come, imagine you go all the way through that, but they're still not willing to forgive Well, that can be a problem as well. And I think that's where our exhortation gets in. In fact, I'm reminded of the passage in 2 Corinthians 2, where in the first epistle the apostle wrote to the Corinthians was concerning a man that needed to be excommunicated. He was, they censored him, but he apparently repented It might have been that individual or another one, but it was likely the same individual of whom he was writing about the in the first epistle And by the time he gets to the second one, he writes this in the second chapter, six through eight, he says, sufficient to such a man is this punishment which was inflicted of many, many brethren, being joining with the ministers to say, yes, such a one should be cast out. He should be shunned. So that contrary wise you ought rather to forgive him, this individual had demonstrated to them that He in fact was a repentant individual. We read about that in the earlier verses. And it says, to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love toward him. There are some cultures where an offense to the family, say a son or a daughter does something to very dishonorable to the parent that in an honor-based culture, America doesn't have that kind of culture, we have a shame-based culture, but in an honor-based culture That's an unforgivable sin. That can be grounds for killing that individual. In fact, they call it honor killings. But the admonition here is to let brethrenly love continue. A love of the brethren is a very common theme in the New Testament. In fact, it's a hallmark of the true church. And that's a change for those who would be Gentiles, but this is being written to Hebrews. It's being written to Hebrews, Hebrews who are familiar with the law of Moses, familiar with the Torah and the Tanakh, the Old Testament and the writings. But it's repeated in the New Testament so that the love concepts, the love principles of the old are carried forward into the new. For instance, you find this a lot. Turn to 1 John 4 1 John 4, 7 and 8. We're going to skip around in there a little bit, and it'd be nice if you had it handy. 1 John 4, 7 and 8. You know, Jesus, of course, earlier in John said, by this shall all men know you're my disciples, if you have love one to another. But I like the way 1 John captures this as well. 1 John 4, verse 7, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. This is a hallmark, this is a proof that in fact an individual is born of God. They have a love for the brethren. There's an attachment. It's not just, yeah, you're my neighbor, that's nice, uh how how'd he do? There's an actual heartfelt love for this individual. He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. If God dwells in him, there ought to be the love of God, the love of his brethren coming out. Skip down to verse 20 now. Verse 20 we read this. 1 John 4, verse 20. If a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar, for he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen How can he love God whom he hath not seen? That's a really good question. Does a church have favorites? Can we have favorites in the congregation? You know, some people it seems are easy to love on because they're very outgoing. Maybe they're tall and handsome, maybe they're attractive, maybe they they're very generous, maybe they they make a lot of good meals and cookies, whatever. You know, some people are just kind of easy, others are, you know, seemingly bumps on the log. They They're kind of there, they're quiet, maybe they're more of an introvert. Uh are we allowed to pick and choose? I think even asking the question tells us that no, the answer is no, we can't do that. It says, this commandment, verse 21, this commandment have we from him. The Lord Jesus Himself, that he who loveth God loves his brother also. So right there you see that's a familiar theme from the Old Testament. When Jesus was asked which is the greatest commandment He didn't boil it down to one. He said there's two. To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. This is the first and greatest commandment, and the second is likened to it. You should love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. It's based on, here's that word, love. It is an outward love. Turn to 3 John. Just flip over a few more pages for 3 John. There's only one chapter in 3 John. We'll begin in verse 5. And I'm going to ask a question, and the question is going to be this. What are the benefits? What are the benefits of the love that we see in here? 3 John, beginning in verse 5. We read this, Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren and to strangers. which have borne witness of thy charity that's the word love before the church whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort thou shalt do well because that for his name's sake they went forth Taking nothing of the Gentiles. In other words, they didn't have to take up some kind of offering from those to whom they were ministering. Those to whom John was writing paid the way. Verse eight. We therefore ought to receive such that we might be fellow helpers to the truth. Now according to this passage, what were the manifestations? of their love. What was the manifestation of their charity? How did it show out They gave. They reached into their wallet. You know, how does a grandchild know a grandparent loves them? Grandma and Grandpa reach into their wallet, reach into their cookie jar, reach in the pantry, reach for a shelf in the store, reach for the toys. They make some motion to illustrate, to tangibly demonstrate that love, and what a greater way to show that you're affiliated with, you support, you're aligned with that ministry than to give and support. And what does that do? It supports evangelism. It supports the furtherance of the gospel. It's another day where the truth of God is echoed. The lighthouse lights are on So do you see how love is the energy, the fuel that operates in a church? As that love operates and works in the body of Christ, it does fuel the various other commandments that God makes. So this is the love of the brethren, and I trust we are somewhat familiar with that. We're very blessed to be in a church that is very loving of the brethren. And this is a delightful thing. It's a disaster to be in the church where this commandment is somewhat forgotten, where even if you preach it you get snarled at. It's a strange thing. But then there's another one called the love of strangers. It's the Greek word phyllo xenia. Maybe you've heard it in the news. Oh, such and such a uh president or person in Congress or power is xenophobic now Uh borrowing a Greek term that means xenophobia is the opposite of our term, which would be instead of a fear of strangers, it's a philo xenia, a love of strangers. And again, this is a very familiar concept to the Old Testament. Hebrews, this love towards the strangers. This is really nothing new per se. And that word entertain doesn't mean you send them to a movie theater. Doesn't mean you give them tickets to the ballgame. The idea here is to lodge them, to shelter, to bring them into your home if they have need of that, to support their needs. So for instance, throughout the Old Testament we read this. I'm just going to cover a few passages in the book of Exodus. Exodus 22, 21, God, through Moses, instructed the Old Testament people of God to do this. He says, Thou shalt neither vex a stranger nor oppress him For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger, for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing you were strangers in the land of Egypt. How does that play out in the New Testament church? What does not vexing a stranger look like? Give me some examples. There's several different ways where that can play out. Given that we're talking about loving the brethren, now it says to love the stranger, how how does that play out here? Um welcoming people and not relegating the stranger, the unknown, poorly dressed to the lowest seat. James has a very good practical application. Our brother recently preached through that on a Wednesday devotion that to him that has the the bright clothing, the brightly colored, wealthy looking attire, you know, to oh sit up here and pat him and become his friend and uh practically give him an eldership on the spot. And then there's somebody that comes in a little commonly dressed like maybe they just came off of work because perhaps they did, uh, and to somewhat dismiss them or just give them a curt hello and just really don't interact with them much. Have you ever been a stranger in another church? I can tell you I have been. There was a long season of my life when I was unsaved and in a congregation. And as I think back upon those days and during those times, I can count on one hand and have fingers left over the number of individuals who are truly concerned about my soul. Now they weren't pushing it, but they were concerned. Now I'll give you an example. I've I've given this before and uh I uh had uh attended for many years a um youth group uh at Irving Bible Church in Irving, Texas. And they're now in a different location, but I believe they're still pressing on. And I as an unsaved individual, I was interested in the social activities. They played ball games. I broke my finger at one of the ball games. Just had a lot of fun with my friends and kids there. And uh I went off to college. It became evident in college that I was unsaved, and I think it was my first summer back from school, and I ran into one of the youth ministers there. His name was Larry Latour Now he was not seminary trained. There were some that were seminary trained, and so being an associate or a youth pastor was part of the course. And uh I felt that they were too clinical, too technical, kind of detached, you know, just the police, the sergeant-at-arms But Larry was just this real deal. You could just tell just by looking in his eyes, you could just see the love of God in his eyes. He had that bright, warmth, welcoming love. Big fellow used to play professional football. He was ginormous. And then this little bitty skinny wife. She's even smaller than Marissa. She's just this short, skinny little thing, and here's this huge behemoth of the man Make Joe, it was twice as Joe's size, it was the largest individual I'd ever known at that time. But such a nice individual, and I ran into him at an ice cream shop And I said, Larry, how are you doing? He said, Vince! He was so happy, screamed my name out. Everybody in the store turns around and looks. And he looks at me and says, man, are you going up? Or are you going down? That was a great question. I remember that question to this day. He was concerned about my soul. He wanted to know how I was doing. And all of his time there, I just remember. There was a It was a love. A love for a person who may or may not have been in the gospel from his perspective. For mine definitely was not Other times when I was looking for a congregation, shortly after I'd been saved, I went into some churches and I Remember thinking as I began to sober up from my old ways, literally, thinking, yeah, going to church, what a great idea, and going in and hearing hymns, and I couldn't sing them because I'm like, I should know this song But they were so unfamiliar to me. I was very much a stranger in there. Some would embrace, others would look at me and saying, you don't know the glory of Patri? Just almost dumbfounded like You don't know this song? I mean, just with this dumbfounded looks like, yeah, I'm sorry, I'm an idiot. What can I say? Lover of strangers, that's a big deal. You know, hospitality is commended in the New Testament, 1 Peter 2. 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, you know, we are strangers, and we ought to be kind to the stranger as well. But then our text goes on and says, don't be forgetful to entertain strangers. He says, for thereby some have entertained angels unaware. Now, I don't want to intrude into those things which I've not seen There are real creatures known as angels. They can appear as humans. We saw that at Sodom and Gomorrah. Two angels appeared to the tent of Abraham, who said, Lord, would you destroy the righteous with the wicked? Far be it from thee. Negotiated them down to ten. The angels take off And it appeared to Lot as two men. For instance, you read in uh uh in uh uh Genesis 19, the first two verses, there came two Angels to Sodom, and then the whole event with the argument at the front door, Nokia got to leave. And as he's taking his time to depart the city, it says the angels hastened Lot, verse 16, the men laid hold upon his hand. So they can appear as men. And they're still angels. And they are still around. And I have read very credible reports of missionary stories Where they have said, man, the bandits came and they were going to attack our house, uh, but for some strange reason I was moved by the Spirit of God to go out there and shake at them and wave my flashlight. Here they had spears, this young lady has a flashlight. And they all run off terrified. And then later she asked the gardener who she found out was one of the sources of the bandits coming, why didn't you why did they run away? She says, oh, because of all the men in white that were around your house She didn't see them. Yeah, they do come. They do come. Now, practically speaking, it can also refer to a current or a future minister of the gospel. They're also called angels For instance, in the Book of Revelation, the opening chapters, to the angel of the Church of Philadelphia, to the angel of the church of Smyrna, and so forth. Not that the church is being ruled by a winged creature that can appear and disappear. It's referring to the pastor. The messenger, absolutely. The Apostle Paul said this in Galatians 4. He says, My temptation which was in my flesh he despised not nor rejected, but received me as an angel of God. even as Christ Jesus. Earlier he talked about that the law was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. It's referring to to men in powers of position and authority. You know, there can be some individuals that come through your house that you may find out later, hey, they're a minister. They become a minister, a lover of strangers. You know, somebody comes from the mission field, and you know, the uh In the mission field, it it doesn't take much American dollars to support them overseas, but when they come here, it's very expensive. And it's greatly appreciated when foreign missionaries come in and maybe they're doing, I think it's called deputation, and they go to different churches and let them know how the ministry is faring and if they would like to shoulder and bear some of the burden and support that. Where do they stay? I mean yeah they could do a motel eight their hotel six or whatever. Cheap place, but it would be much better to be in with some saints. You know, we've hosted people here over the years who um have come in. uh a a I'll get you in a second a most notable one was a uh a young husband and wife from the Netherlands from the Dutch Netherlands and they were looking for a reformed church in which to worship they showed up at our congregation And they were staying kind of like a hostel. I guess they thought America was like Europe, and so they found some place where they could rent a tent. Well it was like winter time And they were going to sleep in this tent. And I looked at Angela and I said, They're not sleeping in the tent tonight. And so we turned to them and said, Hey, would you like to come to our house? Come and have lunch. Why don't you stay in our house for the night And I'm like, and and the husband's like, no, no, that's okay. And so I turned to the wife, I said, sleep in a cold tent, sleep in a warm bed Sleep in a cold, sleep in a warm bed. Your choice. You talk about it. So we parked their way for a little bit. They came back. We love the cups. And then she grabbed him by the ears. I don't know what the conversation was. And I'm still in contact with him on LinkedIn. He's the president of some company doing some whatever, but you never know where people may go. You never know when that young individual could be a young family with little ones You may be entertaining an angel, a future messenger of the gospel, unawares. What a glorious tribute and help. Pastor, are you going to say something? Yeah, dear brother who now was with the Lord owned a car dealership. And uh he made sure we understood that when we were in the States, we always had a vehicle. You know, we drove vehicles from his dealership on his dealer tags Time and again. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. And you see how this is such a practical form of letting brotherly love continue. These are just practical ways to do that, to illustrate, to show, yes, I'll do that You know, if you're in a position to be able to do that, uh that's a wonderful thing. Sometimes you have to prepare to be in a position to be able to exhibit and give love, to live below your means. So you're not always living paycheck to paycheck and you got Ten dollars spare every month. You don't want to live like that. You want to live in a position so that you're able to facilitate loving the brethren. Then we get to a more difficult topic And this is the love of the prisoners. And verse 3 of Hebrews 13 has two parts. Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them. And them which suffer adversity, that's the second group we'll talk about in a moment, as being yourselves also in the body Them that are in bonds as if though you were bound with them. This is referring to prisoners. Someone who's in bondage in the time this was written was not in an air-conditioned, heated cable TV provided, college education possibility, three squares a meal. Oh no. You were no kidding chain in a damp dark prison Hands and feet, it was rough, it was cruel, it was ugly, it was nasty. Strong as bound with them strongly implies that these are fellow Christians We're not going out and visiting every prison and every prisoner in there regardless of their circumstances. It's saying as bound with them. They are of your brethren. They are with you. Your brotherly love doesn't stop And incarceration. You know, Christians in prisons is not unusual. Can somebody name some famous Bible prisoners? Who were some people of God that wound up in prison? Anybody? Peter absolutely was one that was in prison. Who else? Jeremiah. Jeremiah from the Old Testament. Who else? Joseph. Joseph, oh my. Yeah, they bound his feet with fetters. John the Baptist, yeah, he never got out. He never got out. And Jesus never saw him. He never went to him in prison, which is interesting. But he said did send messengers. Who else? Yeah, Paul and Silas. And they were singing. Singing hymns, still being a powerful witness. Lots of prisoners you find. add up all the men in the Bible and then divide that by the number that were in prison. Right. It'd be a high percentage. It would be. It would be. It would be. You know, um Uh let me ask you a question. What would you do if you found out next Sunday Pastor Joe was incarcerated? For some odd reason. It could happen. What would you do? What would your thoughts be? What would come to your mind? Go and get his guns. Make sure you steal his gun from Sleep keeping, of course, yes. What would your thoughts be? Go protest it. Go protest it, yeah, stand outside. Let Joe go. Let Joe go. Let Joe go. So see if I could just have any word for comfort. See if I can just be there for it. Yeah. Reach out. I mean, we might first ask why. Yeah And then we might realize that, you know what, I know this man. I know his character. I know the state. I know the propensity for the state To put a false label on things. And I'm not necessarily going to believe the state's label right off the bat. I know him. I know his manner of person, his character. And I'm not going to be quick To abandon my love for him at a time when he really needs it. I'm not going to be quick. He ought not to be You know, the Apostle Paul wrote as such to Timothy, from prison. He says, don't be ashamed of me and my bonds. Who knows what horrible things they said about this rabble rouser of the sect of the Nazarene, a leader of a sedition and a mover of insurrection across the land. All these, I mean these are sentences that could get you the death penalty in that day. And he's telling Timothy, don't be ashamed of that. Don't be ashamed of that. You know I'm not that. You know my manner of life. And so he appeals to that And so yeah, you ought to think about that. You know, um one thing you would do is you would pray, you would pray diligently. You mentioned Peter in prison, that's an interesting account. Turn to Acts 12 Uh Acts twelve and verse one, we read about Peter being in prison. Now about that time it says Herod the king stretched forth his hand to vex certain of the church. And he just killed James, the brother of John, with a sword. He just said, sure, let's just kill him There's no record of charges. There's no record of wrongdoing on James' part. There's no indication that he had done anything wrong. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. Verse 5. Peter therefore was kept in prison, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him Verse 12. After Peter's removed, he's brought free by this angel who cracks open the gates. Nope, not your time. And I think this is when angels get sent. When there are some extreme situations, not, oh Lord, my air conditioner's broke. Oh look, he feeled he he healed my pipes and the he see. No, it's not. There's repairmen that can take care of that. I'm talking about something that's really beyond human means. When he considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark. So this is a different John, not his own mother, but this is a different John. Where many were gathered together praying. I think at a minimum we'd be praying for our brother. Matthew 25, 34 is another classic passage that speaks of many of these things we write. Then shall the king say to them on his right hand, I'm in Matthew 25, 34, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world And he goes on to list a number of conditions, for I was sick, etc. Now one of the ones he says in verse 35, I was a stranger and you took me in, right? So that's what we're reading here. A lover of strangers. You were a stranger and took me in. I was in prison, verse 36, and you came unto me, and a number of other things, verse 37. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, You know, when did we do these things? Verse 40, the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as you have done it unto the one of the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. See, this only makes sense in one context. That as a Christian, a true born again, born from above, earnest of the Spirit deposited Christian. You are now connected and united to that which is known as the mystical body of Christ. It is a worldwide, universal, throughout all time body that God is stitching together Like the stars of the sky and the sands on the seashore, which no man can count, because it spans all of time We don't have records of who was or wasn't saved way back when. We're being stitched and knit and brought into that organic spiritual body. It's a real body. We're going to be dwelling with each other and all the saints in glory forever. Hallelujah. We're going to love them forever and eternity, and they'll love you forever and eternity, and there will be tremendous peace and great joy, your joy which no man can take away, the glory of which is beyond our comprehension, and we are now organically part of that And therefore, we are to act that way. We are to recognize that. We are to embrace it. We are to assist in our times of need. You know, there was a man named Zecharias Abraham. He was a member, he was not a member, he was a missionary at a uh uh Evangelical Presbyterian Church in Eritrea. And in April of 2007, the government security forces burst in the doors, arrested him and 80 members of his congregation and threw them in prison They were held incommunicado, meaning without communication. You don't know why they were in there and they couldn't report anything back out. They were just grabbed up tight. Well, after significant global pressure, he and about those church members were released in late May of 80 May of 2007. He was in there a little over a month. He came and preached in my living room. When we were starting a small church, he happened to be in the area we asked him to come and preach. Unfortunately, our recording device did not work that day, but it was one of the finest messages I've ever heard, and it was like, I get it. If I were a prisoner, this is what I would be thinking. What's it like? To be a minister in prison. You know what his concerns were? He was concerned about his family, who's going to care for them, his wife, his children. He was concerned that their faith fail not. I don't want their faith to fail, because if you strike the shepherd, the sheep will be scattered. He was concerned about the rest of the congregation, the weak. He was very concerned about that And so, you know, that made me think that if one of us for some reason wound up in prison, what a wonderful thing it would be for someone to come and visit Because then you could share those concerns with them. And what a wonderful message that you would have to be able to bring back to the family and the children of the afflicted one. I've spoken with him. He's okay. His concern is that your faith failed on. That would be a wonderful thing to do. But imagine if nobody visits him and nobody talks. And he doesn't get his words out. They're so crucial to him. It's burning and tearing him up. And also the family likewise wanting to hear that. You know, sometimes that's where a young person can come in at because they have, you know, as it were nothing to lose. They can risk their their own life to get in there, not themselves be worried if they wind up in the prison cell next to them. But it's something to think about, and I've often thought about it, Pastor Zeke. Last one, I have to go quickly, I've got a few minutes left. It says a love for the afflicted, uh those that are in adversity. Suffering adversity is yourselves being in the body. You know, uh this is an unusual word, adversity. It's only used twice in the Bible, both times in Hebrews. The other time is in the 11th chapter where it's translated torment. Those are an adversity Some kind of torment. And there's a lot of different ways that people can suffer torment it can be from A horrible job situation just can't get out of, or you're underemployed or unemployed, or crushing debt, or all kinds of things that can come upon a person to remember such. You know, thankfully not all of us are called to suffer at the same time, because if the entire body is hurting at once, well, you know what it's like when you have sickness go through your house. Everybody's down, boom, at once, it's miserable Our last page is 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Go to 1 Corinthians 12. And I have a little typo in my notes, so I hope I'm directing you to the right chapter. It's the chapter concerning the parts of the body. Yes, 1 Corinthians 12, we're going to begin. In verse 12, I've got just a few moments to reread this. The apostle says, as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members are of that one body. Being many are one body, so also is Christ. That's what I was speaking about before. For by one spirit we're all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, bond or free, we've been all made to drink into one spirit, the body is not one member but many. Then he goes into this very interesting Hypothetical situation where if my foot says, well, I'm not the hand, so I'm not of the body, the eye says, uh, well, what need have I of the toe or the foot and so forth? It goes into this silly Scenario as if members of my physical body had the ability to complain. But they don't. What happens? It says that in verse 23, those members of the body which we think to be less honorable upon these we bestow more abundant honor. And he says, verse 25, there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. When one member hurts, all hurts. I guarantee you when you mash your thumb with a hammer or getting up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom and hit that bottom metal frame with your bare toe and it hurts pretty bad for the next several days. You feel it. Your whole body knows it. You walk a little more gingerly and tenderly. You don't ignore it. You pay attention to it. And so it is in the body of Christ. If there's somebody there hurting There's got to be a love, a care. Why do we do it for our physical body? Because we care for a physical body. And so it is in the body of Christ. My last concluding point comes from Matthew Henry, where he writes Those with the most liberty must sympathize with those in bonds and adversity. It would be unnatural in Christians not to bear each other's burdens. And I think it's a very good point. That's a good point. Anton, could you close us in prayer? Yeah. We thank the Lord for granting us your word which gives us even the uh instruction in righteousness uh how to walk pleasing in your sight and even your commands regarding Loving the brethren. Help us to be faithful in these things, O Lord. May we not just be hearers of your word, receiving our own selves, but help us to be doers of it as well. applying this to our own lives, our own hearts only and uh yeah, please uh hope uh fervent charity among the brethren to abound even here in the mind of admission by the church. Lord we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Give keep screaming for a second. I forgot to point out Some years back, I received this book from Voice of the Martyrs called Religion and National Security in China, Secret Documents from the Chinese Security Sector. It's a report that they were able to extract of the multitude of underground Christian churches suffering direct persecution. and torture and being held in prisons away. Inspeakable things done to young women, 23 years old uh the beatings, the severe treatment of Christians in the underground church. They have officially recognized church there, but they're full of observers and they have to tow the party line And whether they're Protestant or Catholic, whether they're Orthodox or etc. , if you're a member of that state-approved church, you have tremendous restrictions. So the faithful meet underground in house churches. And sometimes a word will go out among two or three believers, hey, we're going to have a worship service at this house and such and such a time, and instead of three or four showing up, a hundred show up. And that's not unusual. And then it gets reported. And then they come in. And the House and all the members there that are associated with that house get arrested Remember them that are in bonds, is bound with them. The underground church in China is thriving, and I really think that if the torch of the gospel were to pass from America to another nation, I believe this is how it would work. You realize God has to save only one individual to make that happen. Only one. The leader of China. If God saved Xi Jinping truly saved him, gave him the heart of a Jehu and the spirit of a David and the strength of an Elijah, which I think our God can do. I guarantee you the gospel church would go to China because there's a lot of hunger for the gospel, and a lot of people willing to risk it all to worship God. So, who knows? Who knows what may happen. Alright, that's all