Open in your Bibles with me this morning for our scripture reading from the book of James and chapter 4, the fourth chapter of James. Our text will actually be the fourth verse, but we'll be considering all of the first ten verses. And so I'll read those ten verses as we begin to look at God's Word together. James chapter 4. Beginning with verse one. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lust, that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain Ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lust Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Do ye think that the Scripture saith, In vain, the Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify ye heart your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's Word together this morning. Our great Heavenly Father, we pray that you would give us your people a hatred for sin. Oh Lord, how our sinful nature tends to evil, and how quickly we can stumble into iniquity. O God, watch over your people. Keep us from sin. As David said, keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. No God, this morning, may your word be that sharp two-edged sword that pierces the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow Lord, as we look into your word today, may we gain a fresh zeal for righteousness and holiness before our God May our love for Christ be increased, for indeed it is our love for Him which causes us to hate sin This morning may we adore Jesus Christ in his marvelous salvation. We thank you that you indeed give more grace. And so, Father, we rely entirely upon the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is our defense from sin. Grace is the remedy that has redeemed our soul through faith. Bless your word to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse four. Ye adulteresses, adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Our text this morning begins with a terrible reality A frightening truth. To be the friend of the world is to be the enemy of God. How many lost people have you heard make the statement? Well, I'm not so bad. I'm pretty good. I'm not as evil as this man or as wicked as that woman. I'm pretty good. But the unbeliever is the friend of the world. And the friend of the world is the enemy of God. And so first off, we have to consider what does it mean to be the friend of the world, or what is worldly friendship. Well, there's an old saying that I believe is very apt to the point. The enemy of my enemy is my friend, and the enemy of my friend is my enemy. Satan is the adversary of Christ, and he is the adversary of the believer. God hates sin. Satan delights in iniquity. And so what is sin? Well, we go to the Westminster Confession, question 14. What is sin? Sin is any one of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God. And our text itself very clearly expounds for us the character of the man that is a friend of the world, or of the woman that is a friend of the world. Look with me in verses 2 and 3. Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lust. Let us break that down. First of all, it says in verse 2, ye lust and have not The world is always looking for the next thing, the bigger and the better, always looking for a new iniquity. Scripture tells us that they do not sleep unless they cause some to fall And so the man who loves the world is always trying to find the next thing, always indulging more and more in the iniquity of this world And it says ye kill and desire to have, and of course literal murder could fit in there, but oh how men will scheme and destroy another man just for the purpose of their own game. Robbery is the destruction of another man's property. And there's the old saying, if I can't have it, you can't have it either. How wicked men will destroy something just out of jealousy. You desire to have, but you cannot obtain. The things of this world never give the satisfaction and the fulfillment that they promise. Ye fight and war and have not, because ye ask not, ye ask and receive not, because ye ask and amiss. Men will pray even for evil things Or pray for things according to their will rather than God's will. Ye ask amiss that ye may consume it upon your lust. And so we find in these two verses that this friendship for the world is a worldly-mindedness. It is a mind that can only think about how I can get more of this world, how I can please myself. How I can gain stature, how I can be better than others. But for the child of God Our desire is not the things of this world. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world, but rather the desire of the true child of God. is to be like him, as the old hymn says, Oh, to be like him, blessed Redeemer. The child of God is not concerned with laying up treasures here on this earth Oh certainly we need clothing, we need a roof over our heads, transportation, there are things that we need, but those things are not the driving force of our lives You see, all of these things around us that are so important to the lost are the love of the world. And yet, even among the children of God, this love of worldly things begins to creep in and take over, and we become friends of this world. We become comfortable. in this world when Christ said ye are not of the world ye're of the Father and so there is a worldly mindedness Paul gives us a very instructive exposition of right and wrong. And we're going to spend a little bit of time here, but turn with me over to Ephesians chapter 5. And I'm going to read through several verses in Ephesians 5, reading one verse and then making some comments on it as Paul expounds for us this difference between right and wrong. If you had her place now, and it'll be on the screen for you as well, if you had her place in Ephesians 5, verse 1, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. That says a lot, doesn't it? Oh, how men are followers of this world. How we idolize some Hollywood wicked person or some athlete that that um takes the Lord's name in vain and profanes the Sabbath perpetually. The child of God in not loving the world is to be a follower of God as dear children. And verse 2, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us and given himself for us for an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. Okay? The second part of not being in love with this world, uh not being A friend of this world is the sacrifice of Christ. Christ gave himself a sacrifice for a sweet-smelling savor to God. And that sweet-smelling savor that we find here in Ephesians 5 and verse 2 is that same concept when uh Noah after the flood made an altar and the aroma of the sacrifice went up to God and it was a sweet smelling And that's when God said, I will not again curse the earth with a flood. Christ offered himself a sacrifice. Now what did Paul say in Romans twelve? I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God. That sweet smelling savor, that sacrifice. That is delightsome to God. We're to follow the sacrificial example of Christ. And that example is not an example that is in friendship with the world, but rather in love of Christ. Continuing there in Ephesians 5 and verse 3. Here's the negative side. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as become a saints. These elements of the world, don't let them once be named among you. Don't let them be found within the company of the people of God. Those things are friendship with the world. Verse 4, neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving thanks For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Okay, you have the children of disobedience who are lovers of this world. And you have the children of God who are to be different. Verse 7: Be not therefore partakers with them. Don't be a part of it. Don't partake. Don't eat of this world's dainties. Verse 8, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now are light. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all right, godliness and righteousness, and truth. Proving things acceptable unto the Lord. Okay, we have a contrast here. Love of the world, things that are acceptable unto the Lord Verse 11, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. Don't have fellowship with them. Now, this word friendship that we have there in uh James 4 is only used in that one place. This word fellowship in Ephesians 5. 11 is a different word, but it has a very similar meaning. The word fellowship here in uh Ephesians 5. 11 is only found three times. in our New Testament. Don't be a friend of the world. Don't have fellowship with the world. What is fellowship? Well My father used to say that fellowship is two fellows in the same ship. Fellowship is that communion, that oneness with the world and the iniquity thereof. Excuse me, Paul said in Romans 8 that to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded uh um uh because the carnal mind is enmity against God For it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. And so rather than being the friend of the world We should be the friend of God. Go back to James chapter 4. Let's then flip over back one page from there in James chapter 2. And verse 23. Of course, these verse and chapter divisions were placed in our our Bible many years later for us to be able to find things easily. But in this same exposition that James is putting out in James chapter 2 and verse 23, and the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God And it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. You see the contrast there? Abraham was the friend of God. The wicked were the friends of this world. And so friendship with the world, first of all, is this Love of the things of this earth and love of the things of this life and love of iniquity and love for sin, all the lust that our wicked, sinful, fallen nature can consume our friendship with the world. But then we notice also under this terrifying reality that friendship with the world is is enmity with God James calls them adulterers and adulteresses. Now, who is James writing to? Well, this book of James is written to the twelve tribes scattered abroad It's written to Jewish believers who are Christians, who have converted and believed in their Messiah. And because of the persecution, they've been scattered all over the known world. And so he's writing to those that believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that believe in the name of Jesus, and who have accepted him as their Messiah. And yet he calls them adulterers and adulteresses. And I believe this uh corresponds with Christ's words in Matthew 5, where Christ said, Ye have heard said before of old time that thou should not commit adultery But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already. in his heart. In other words, Christ said that adultery was not simply the act of adultery, but the lust that leads to adultery is also adultery. And so here James is saying to these Christian Jews, you adulterers and adulteresses, don't you understand that your love of this world and your love of the things around you that are evil, that are polluted, that do not lead to godliness, that love itself is spiritual adultery against God the Father. In the Geneva Bible, which predates in translation our King James Bible but was translated from the Textus Recepsis from the same source The Geneva Bible has a series of notes that were added by man, but they're a good commentary on Scripture. And the note in the Geneva Bible on James 4 and verse 4 is this. Another reason why such unbridled lust and pleasures are utterly to be condemned to it Because that he who gives himself to the world divorces himself from God and breaketh his band of that holy and spiritual marriage. And so the the the commentators there were saying that those that love the world, they have committed spiritual adultery against Christ. They have broken the sacred vows of that marriage. It doesn't mean that they're not saved. But they have violated the vows of their spiritual union with Christ. And so here, James calls them adulterers and adulteresses. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. What is adultery? Well, first of all, Adultery is a matter of illicit or inordinate lust. Inordinate love And I mentioned the verse earlier, but we read in 1 John chapter 2, love not the world. You can't love God and love the world as well. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, this world system, all the lusts of this world, the love of the Father is not in him. The two are mutually exclusive No man can serve two masters, he that he will love the one and hold and despise the No man can serve two masters, let me quote it right Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God And so adultery is inordinate or illicit love, and adultery is a divided love. Now let's apply that spiritually as James does. For me to love the world is to love that which Christ hates. For me to love sin It is to love the very thing that nailed him to the cross. It was my sins that drove Christ to the cross. For me to love the things of this world is to love what God hates, and I cannot claim that I love God and I love What he hates, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. The friend of my enemy is my enemy. And so To love this world and to be the friend of this world is to commit spiritual adultery with Satan. It is to unite myself with him rather than to be united with Christ. No man can serve two masters. And if you look back to our text there In verse 4, verse 8 of chapter 4, it says, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded Those that try to mine the things of God and mine the things of this world at the same time. And if you go back to chapter 1 of James and verse 8 We read there, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. In other words, the the man who tries to love this world and love Satan, he's tottering He's unstable. What happens when we're unstable? We fall. An unstable gate leads to a flat out fall. And if we as the children of God are trying to love the things of this world and love our Savior at the same time, we are destined to fall. And so this passage begins with a terrible and frightening reality. If I am the friend of this world, I have made myself the enemy of God. I cannot claim to be a child of God and yet still claim to love the things of this world. The second thing I'd have us to see here A terrifying reality if I'm the friend of the world and the enemy of God. And then a sober reminder. Look down at verse 5 of James chapter 4. A sober reminder. Do ye think that the Scripture saith in vain, the Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to evil. Scripture reminds us that the old wretched nature that dwells within me is opposed to God. The scripture doesn't say in vain that the spirit that dwelleth in me lusteth the envy, but rather the scripture is my constant warning and my constant reminder. Oh, I must be on guard. For I am prone to fall. In the book of Genesis, chapter six, in verse five, it says that God saw the wickedness of men, that it was great on the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts Of his heart was only evil continually. In other words, God saw that all men wanted to do was depart All that man wants to do is to commit evil and iniquity. That is the state of the old man. He cannot do right. The unbeliever, the ploughing of the wicked, is sin, we read. And so the man who is not the child of God has within him no ability for good Yea, the unbeliever has not even within him the ability to call upon God for salvation. For God must give that ability. When Christ called Lazarus out of the tomb Lazarus could not come forth until Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth. And so the man, dead in trespasses and sins, is dead. He is putrid. He is rotting. All he can produce is corruption. And it takes the call of God to bring him from death to life. And so we have a sobering reminder here. That in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. Scripture warns me that all that I do apart from Christ is wicked and polluted. And if you look there at the first verse of chapter 4, And verse 1 of James, from whence cometh wars and fightings among you? Where do these things come from? Come they not hence, even of your own lust, that war against your members There was a saying a few years ago that people laughed at and they thought it was cute. The devil made me do it. Well, that's not something to be laughed at, my friend. That's not something to make light of or to jest about. But the sad reality is the devil doesn't make you do anything But rather, the sin and the iniquity that I commit, it comes from within my sinful fallen nature. May God give us grace to overcome sin, a sober reminder. And of course our minds go to the words of Paul there in Romans 7. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? The good that I would, I do not, and the evil I would not, that I do. It's a sober reminder That Scripture warns us again and again that our old sinful nature will always go after iniquity. We must have help if we are to overcome sin. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them, by the judgments of the Lord, is thy servant warned. Ah, we have a sober reminder But that reminder comes from the Word of God. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? What is our hope? By taking heed thereto, according to his word And the spiritual armor that we find in Ephesians chapter 6, the last piece of armor is the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And so this passage begins with a terrifying reality. To love this world is to hate God. To be the friend of this world is to be the enemy of God. A sober reminder. Scripture tells me that sin dwells in me and that sin will overcome me. Except I have a helper through the Word of God. But that helper is the third thing that we find here in James chapter 4. We have an unfailing help. Or better stated, an unfailing helper. Look down at verse 6. James chapter 4 and verse 6 But he giveth more grace. Oh Lord, I don't want to sin. I don't want to to fall into evil. How can I stand? He giveth more grace. Wherefore, continuing in verse 6, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. If we are ever to have victory over sin, it can only be by the helping grace of God. Wherefore let him that thinketh that he stands, take heed lest he fall. The spirit within me, that is my old man's spirit, my spirit which I have by nature is evil. It is wicked But there's a new spirit in me. Ah, as the child of God, the spirit of God dwelleth within me. And that spirit of God within me is able. to do that which was right, is able to keep me back from presentuous presumptuous sins. For by grace you are saved through faith, and not of yourselves, that is the gift of God Moreover, the law entered that the sin might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. For God is able to make all grace to abound to you And God said to Paul, My grace is sufficient for him. And so in Hebrews 4, verse 16, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find help. In time of need. We have an unfailing help, and that help is found in the grace of God through the Word of God. And so We are to fear and be terrified by this truth that to be the friend of the world is to be the enemy of God. We're reminded daily in the Word of God that we are prone to fall because sin dwells within us. But, oh dear friends, we have an unfailing help in the grace of God. But then this passage also gives us a glorious promise. And actually three glorious promises are found in this passage. Look with me at verse 7. Verse 7 of James chapter 4. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. And there's that phrase double-minded again in the passage. The glorious promises. Submit yourselves to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Oh, how we hate to submit Oh, how our old man desires to rule in the garden. What was it that Satan said to Eve, Ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. You will be elevated. You will be great. But we are to submit ourselves to God. Oh Lord, I am a sinner. Lord, I accept your righteous judgment against me. And I believe that my judgment has been poured out on Christ. Submit yourselves to God. And here's the promise. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Resist the devil, and he'll flee. He'll run. What a glorious promise that is. William Cooper, the hymn writer, said, Satan trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees. You know what? You can't run from Satan. We're to flee the lust of Satan, but our adversary the devil, the roaring lion, seeks who may devour But if we resist him, there is the promise he will flee from us. I can't explain to you how that happens, but I know it's true The Word of God tells me, resist the devil. Submit yourselves to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. And I mentioned Peter talking about the roaring lion. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. But then the next verse, first Peter 5, 9, whom resist steadfast in faith The promise, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. But then the second promise we find there in verse nine, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Do you remember as a child Being frightened and cuddling up against your father or against your mother. Oh, protect me. Oh, child of God. If we draw nigh to God, if we cling to Him through prayer, through the study of His Word, through corporate worship, Iron sharpening iron, if we draw nigh to him, there is the promise, he will draw nigh to us. Doesn't sound like friendship with the world, does it? You see, friendship with the world, friendship of the world draws to the world. But oh, if we draw nigh to him, the second promise, he will draw nigh to us. If we resist the devil, he'll flee. If we draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to us. In Psalm 73, the Psalm we read for our responsive reading this morning, in verse 27 and 28, it says, for lo They that are far from thee shall perish. Thou hast destroyed all them that go ahooring from thee. And that hoaring is interesting, talking about spiritual uh adultery. Verse 28 But it is good for me to draw near to God. Draw nigh to God, he'll draw nigh to you. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. The second promise, draw nigh to God, and he will draw lie to you. And then the third promise Repent, and God will restore. Look at verse 20 uh verses 9 and 10 of James chapter 4. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness Oh Lord, may I afflict my soul for my iniquity. May that my sin be abhorred by me. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Oh, may we weep over our sin. May we be truly be brokenhearted that we have offended the righteousness of God That we have come short of His glory, that we have been laxed in our spiritual life, that we have been engaged in this world rather than lovers of Christ. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness, and then here's the promise. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up. If we resist the devil, he will flee. If we draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to us. If we repent, if we humble ourselves in the sight of the Lord, he will lift us up. I mentioned earlier that in the second chapter of James in verse 23 we find that the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God. And it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Abraham believed And the righteousness of God was imputed or infused into him. And he was the friend of God. You see, my friend, dear ones. If I love the world, I am the enemy of God. But oh, in repentant faith before Him. His Spirit fills me. His righteousness through grace is imputed to me instead of my unrighteousness. And I am made the friend of God. The best illustration for scripture is always the scripture itself. Let me read for you in closing the very familiar and dearly loved Psalm 1, and I believe as I read you'll see how it corresponds with our text today. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Isn't that a contrast from one who is a lover of this world? Ah, the blessed man, he doesn't walk in their counsel, he doesn't stand in their way, he doesn't sit in their seat. But rather his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. Oh, I love not the things of this world, the psalmist is saying. I love the things of God. May that be true in our hearts and lives. And he shall be like a tree, planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leap also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Ah, there in Psalm one is a man who is not a friend of the world, but rather is a lover of God The contrast, the enemy of God is found in verses 4 through 6. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff, which the wind driveth away. What do we read about chap in the New Testament? Well, it's gathered up and it's burned. It has no value. It is driven away. The ungodly, the one who is the friend of this world and the enemy of God, he's like chaff. The ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. He knows that they're a lover of him, or a lover of this world. And the way of the ungodly shall perish. Oh, my friend, what a terrible, frightening reality it is. And to be the friend of this world, to love the things of this world, is to be the enemy of God. May God give us grace not to love this world, not to be in spiritual adultery with the world. Oh, how glorious it is that this sober reminder is given to us again and again in the Word of God, that our old sinful self that dwells with us as long as we go on this earth It is corrupt, but the Word of God gives us warning and gives us that glorious truth that there is a helper, that God gives more grace. And the glorious Promises of God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh unto you. We had the glorious promise that if we repent In sorrow before him, he will lift us up. What a great and gracious and glorious God we serve. My friend, do you know this God? Today, are you the friend of God as was Abraham as we read there in chapter 2 and verse 23 Or are you today the enemy of God in friendship of this world? Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. It is appointed unto man once to die And after this the judgment. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Are you a friend of God? Or a friend of the world. Dear one, dear believer, just as this book of James is written to two Jewish believers scattered abroad today Is your life entangled with the things of this world? Do you love Christ? Or are you a friend of the world, making yourself the enemy of God? God. May God grant us this repentance spoken of here. May we truly love Christ and live for Him day by day. Let us pray.