Remember we got the letter from the government. on a Thursday or Friday I think. And we didn't even have any chairs. I don't know who was involved with that. We ran out and bought a hundred chairs or something. So uh You having trouble hearing me over there? Can't hear me? Oh, maybe it's Yep, it's on. Okay. So we had to run out on Thursday night and get a hundred chairs. Each one came in a cardboard box. We had cardboard boxes all over this place. And uh we had a first service. That was fifteen years ago We got a pretty good custodial crew here, but if you looked around I wouldn't be surprised you found some cardboard still. I mean it was a lot of cardboard to get rid of. Alright. Thanks Rob for that information. And I gave you the army, so you know you alright, alright. Good game. Okay, second Samuel chapter nineteen We are looking at David returning to Jerusalem. He has defeated his son in battle. His son Absalom has been killed. And now David is on the one side of the Jordan River. And And he's about to be met by those who want to welcome him back as their king. And we find especially in this chapter, uh those from the tribe of Judah, his home tribe or family, and some Benjamites. Benjamites and the Judites are usually very close. And so we find a meeting takes place before he crosses the Jordan and uh heads back to Jerusalem. to sit back on his throne again. So we're looking at chapter 19 of 2 Samuel and beginning at verse 16 through verse 30. And Shimei, the son of Girah, a Benjamite, which was of Bahuram, hasted and came down with the men of Judah. to meet King David. And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him. And Ziba, the servant of the house of Saul. Remember Saul was also of the Benjamites And his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him, and they went over Jordan before the king. And they went over a fair and there went over a ferryboat to carry over the king's household. And to do what he thought good. And Shinei, the son of Girah, fell down before the king as he was come over the Jordan. And he said unto the king, Let not my Lord impute iniquity unto me. Neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my Lord the King went out of Jerusalem. That the king should take it to his heart, for thy servant doth know that I have sinned. And therefore, behold, I am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my Lord the King. But Abishai, he was one of David's captains of the military. Abishai the son of Zeriah Answered and said, Shall not Shemi be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord's anointed? And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? That you should this day be adversaries unto me Shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? For do I not know that I am this day king over Israel? So Abishai wanted Shimi put to death. For having cursed David as he was run out of the city of Jerusalem. Therefore, verse twenty-three, therefore the king said unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. That must have been a peaceful thing to hear from him. And the king swear unto him. And then we read in verse 24 someone else who came down and And Mephibosheth, the son of Saul, came down to meet the king, and had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes from the day the king departed until the day he came again in peace. And it came to pass when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest thou not with me, Mephibosheth? You know, when I left Jerusalem with very few people, you didn't come with me. Why didn't you come with me? And he answered, My lord, O king, my servant deceive me, for thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass that I may ride thereunto and go to the king, because thy servant is lame. And he has slandered thy servant on the Lord the King, but my Lord the King is an angel of God. Do therefore what is good in thine eyes. And all of my father's house were but dead men before my lord and king, yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table. What right therefore have I to cry and any more unto the king? So Philip says that he's trying to get an excuse for why he didn't leave Jerusalem and go with David. And um he said, You treated me well. And then verse 29, the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of the matter I have said, Thou and Ziba divide the land. And Mephibosha said unto the king, yea, let him take it all, for as much as my lord the king has come again in peace, and onto his own house. And so that might be a lot to s to take in in that faster read. So we're going to slow it down a bit and hope that you get a blessing out of what we we find here. First off, in verse 16, the first character that comes to David after the battle who meets him at the Jordan River is a man named Shimei. Shimei the Benjamites, and of course the Benjamites, that was King Saul's tribe, and there was an animosity about David being a Jew of the tribe of Judah becoming king, and not someone from the tribe of Benjamin taking over as king after the death of King Saul And Shimei was one of these, and early on in in 2 Samuel, we read about it uh four three chapters earlier in chapter sixteen. Verses five and six, when David was coming to Jerusalem and and then when he was leaving again, Shimei was not happy. He begins cursing David, throwing stones at David, throwing stones at At the troops or uh his gu his protective guard, throwing stones and cursing even at David's family, this guy Shimei. And some of them want to dispatch and Shimei then. And David said, No, uh this must be of God. God has sent this man I'm not perfect either and and you know, let 'em go. Just just it's fine. So here we got Shimei, the man who was tur tossing, casting stones, cursing, and and who had just had all this animosity towards David. He's the first one to return to say, hey, I'm I'm I'm sorry. You know, now that you're in the driver's seat, now that you're the king again. Boy, boy, boy am I sorry. You know, he's really upset about this And so he comes before him and he comes with a thousand men from Benjamin with him. I guess he thought in case David decides to take him and cut his head off, I've got a thousand men and we can put up a little bit of a fight and I can escape or something But uh here he is, uh he come down with a thousand men with him from Benjamin, uh offering an apology, as it were, and he brings a man named uh Ziba with him Now David had become surprised that Ziba was with Shimei. David knew that Shimei had been a foe, not a friend. Titled the Message of Ziba. morning, friend or foe. Where where Shimeh had proven himself to be quite a foe, uh Zibah had proved to be quite a friend. It was Ziba that came when he was on the other side of Jordan when he fled Jerusalem Zibed came with it with an ass full of wine and grapes and fruit and bread for his men, for the small body of men that had fled Jerusalem. So Zibed proved a friend, and David believed that he was his friend And he believed that Shime of course was his foe. And what are these two guys d doing together? You know, I mean what wha he's supposed to be my friend. What's he hanging out? Why is Zibia Ziba hanging out with Shimei. Just, you know, it had to cause him uh some thought, uh some thought-provoking things to go through his head And um just so the followers of Christ. We we shouldn't enjoy hanging out with the foes of Christ, should we? So why does Ziba enjoy hanging out with Shimei? We we as Christians we don't enjoy hanging out with the foes of Christ And so I would say this morning, pilgrims, are your favorite companions faithful followers of Christ? Or are your favorite companions the foe of the faithful? Now you know, you've got friends and you know whether they're the foe of the faithful, whether they they mock the things of God or or mock those who are faithful to Christ Jesus, you know that And that's this is the same thing that Zibba Zibba's going on here. David's saying, Zibba, wow, you're so good to me. What what are you doing with the Shimiae? I mean this just Something's wrong here. And believe me, if you've got friends who are foes to those who follow Christ, there's something wrong here. You profess to be a Christian, but some of your best and favorite friends are not. You like to hang out with him more than those who love Christ. And so this had to be going through David's mind here in verse 16 and verse 17. Yet, what can we say? Ziba is with Shimi when in verse 18, and we might think and wonder: is this a surprise to Ziba? Because we're going to find out later on who the real friends and the real foes are here But here's Zibah, he's he's palzi, Walzie with Shimei, and in verse 18 they're coming down the Jordan to meet David, and Shimeah falls down before the king, falls down on his face. I mean he's just He says in the dust before the king's feet, and his face in the dust before the king's family, and his face is in the dust before the king's armed forces, and his face is in the dust even before Zimba, And before the thousand Benjamites that he's brought with him I don't know that Zib expected this. I certainly think that David did not expect this. Here comes Shimei, my foe, the one that cursed me and and uh that cast stones at my family and so forth. And in he's bowing down before me. What a surprise. David had to think, has Shemiah Shemia become my friend who was once my foe? Well, Shemiah had committed quite an offense. The cursing of David, the casting of stones at David and his family. And when we have committed an offense, And we are going to apologize or confess and repent of what we've done. As public as the offense was, so should our confession, profession, and repentance be just as public. And Shemiah does that, doesn't he? He his offense has been so public and so horrid that he does this. And you know that's what the Bible tells us. If we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in thy heart, God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Romans ten nine, part of the Romans Road. Well, I want you to look at that closely. You confess with your mouth and believe in your heart. And so people think, whoa, okay, I I've done all these terrible things. I've just got to get up there and and uh get baptized and confess in my mouth and believe in my heart. Hold on See, Shimei is confessing. And he says he's repenting. And he's turning over a new leaf. He's changing. But does he believe it in his heart? Because that's what it says, if you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart, you know, Satan can confess And profess that Christ was raised from the dead. And he can say he believes it, and he does believe it. But it doesn't bring him joy to his heart. Satan does not confess with his heart He he's not in love with the idea that Christ was resurrected. So you can be sitting there this morning thinking, you're saved. Oh, I know I'm saved. I made a confession of faith and I got baptized and I believe in my heart that Jesus Christ is raised from the dead and I'm saved for all eternity. I'm going to heaven. Really? Zero in on, and if you believe with your heart, I mean if you really love the idea that Christ was resurrected from the dead, that he paid for your sins on the cross. You have to love that, not just make a profession. That's what Christ did. Appear with the head And so Shinei's coming, he's making this great profession, he's falling on flat, his face, his feet are in the dust. His face is at the shoes of King David. He's always a I did perversely. I repent. Please forgive me. Don't keep this iniquity against me. Trust me. Believe me. Looks pretty good, doesn't it? Not to give you a spoiler, but a few chapters later on we find out it wasn't genuine. Okay. So we profess and confess our mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord, and we believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, and anything short of believing with your heart is not Salvation. If you don't love the idea of what Christ has done for you, and if you love the idea, you'll want to read about it again and again and again and again Or you fall in short of salvation. Anything short of this, believing and loving it in your heart is not repentance, it's not saving faith. In fact, as we will find out as we go through the chapters, you can fall down on your face. And you could ask God to forgive you in front of a large body of people, and you can repent and say you're gonna turn a new leaf over and you're gonna turn around and you may do that for uh weeks or months or years and And but if it's not in your heart, eventually it will be exposed. And some of you may are sitting here right now and you already know whether you did it with your heart heart or not. And so he goes on here. He's it's making quite a profession. He says here Well Shimei in verse 19 said unto King, let not my Lord impute iniquity unto me. In other words, believe me, don't think I'm lying, don't impute iniquity, and don't think I'm I'm conjuring up something here. Neither remember that that thy servant did perversely the day that thou left Jerusalem. He said, I don't want you to remember that. Like the Lord Jesus Christ said and how it's taught that God in the scriptures, He puts away our sins as far as the East From the West, and he remembers them no more. He said, I don't want you to remember what I did you before, that your servant was so perverse what I did to you. Please don't remember that. He says, and then verse 20, for I have sinned. I have sinned Sin, he said. And therefore, behold, I've come this first, this day of the house of Joseph. I'm the first of the house of Joseph to come to you to meet my Lord the King. That's pretty good confession. But is it in Shimei's heart? We'll find out later. It's not But he's out there to you know he he's he's he's a real snake, that's what he is. Shimmii's a snake. But you know something about snakes? They want to live too, you know Even a snake doesn't want his head cut off, all right? That's what a king would do if he had someone like Simeon. He'd cut his head off. This is a man who doesn't want to die Is he friend or foe? Well at this point David's convinced and so is his family and so is everybody. This guy's he's repented. We can't read your hearts. And we have to take it at face value. And when someone comes to me and says they're sorry and uh they they apologize and they confess what they did was wrong I have to forgive them. You do too. I don't think it's genuine. It doesn't matter what you think. You're ascertaining someone's heart. And if they say something like that, you have to forgive them. They have made the profession Now, like Ronald Reagan used to say, trust but verify. I mean you you know you forgive them, but you you keep an eye on them. David will keep an eye on Shemiah So listen what's going on here. Uh he has made this radical profession. And and that's what it should be in your life. If if you've gotten saved, your profession if if you are really saved, it's gotta be better than Shim. You know, sh as we find out Shimiayes fall short, but if you if you're if your profession of faith isn't at least as good as Shimeiis, you know, uh it's There should be a radical change towards the King of Israel. A radical change towards the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the King of Israel, the King of Kings. If you say you're freely saved, there ought to be a radical change, whereas before you never read this book You ought to be reading it now. If there's that's a radical change. You know, the throw down the comics or the Sunday funnies or the newspapers, you know, or or reading other books A radical change would be you start reading the Bible. A radical change would be you start reading the Bible and you don't mind if other people see you reading the Bible while you're riding on the bus or on the train. The plane. There's a radical change. There was a radical change here in Shemiah. It wasn't even genuine. But in a person's really saved, we our testimony's got to be at least as good We need to be more righteous than the Pharisees, the Lord Jesus Christ said. There ought to be a radical change. And here we see this radical change towards King David. And another radical change is that we don't mock Other people for being religious Christians. We don't mock other Christians for being goody two shoes. We don't mock other Christians for being holier than thou. As though they have stained glass w stained glass windows for glasses or something like that. We don't mock. All this ought to change We don't make fun of the commandments. We don't make fun of the Word of God. We don't make fun of the things that are in the Word of God. We, as Christians, will stop Doing that if we really love the Lord. The mocking will stop. The mocking will stop For good forever. That's what Christ says, He that shall endure on the end shall be saved. Matthew twenty four thirteen. If we're if we're really changed, if there's this radical change that the Holy Spirit's coming and cleanse our hearts, there is such a change and it's It starts and it stops. All the bad stuff should start falling away. Sanctification ought to grow. There ought to be fruit. Many fake it, by the way. I think Shimia, well, as we read further on, Shimia is faking it. Okay But he's gonna spare his life, but he's faking it. Many fake it for a while. You know why people fake being a Christian? Born again? Love the Lord? They fake it. You ask uh Officer Dan uh and Hoon, he's off there too, uh in the uh correctional facility. People fake it. They start going the Bible studies in the correction facility They start reading their book. They fake it. They're hoping for an early pardon or an early get-out-of-jail free card or something. They fake it for the pardon. They they fake it so that they're for a promotion. You know, the boss should get ready to promote some people and if he knows I go to church every Sunday, maybe I go to the boss's church. That's always good. Sit at a pew in front of him so He sees me every Sunday. You know, we can fake it for the pardon, we can fake it for the promotion. We can fake it to make our parents happy or grandma happy. We can fake it for that. Some people fake it so they can dupe other people, the simple people out of their pennies. Sometimes it's just profitable to pretend you are a Christian. So question today this morning. Pilgrims, all of you. Anyone here faking it? Some of you know in your heart that you probably are Now in verse 21, Abishai wasn't buying it. In fact, Abishai, Abishai, he's a great warrior for David He's the brother of Joab. Abishar. He looks down and he says, Shall not Shimeon be put to death? He wanted to put Shimeon to death the day he was caught him throwing stones and cursing David's family. If you go back to chapter uh uh earlier chapters here. But uh he wants to put him to death. Abishai is a great warrior. I don't know that he's a saved man. I hope he is, but boy he hasn't got a lot of compassion He's not one of you talk about to be full of mercy. You probably wouldn't want him to marry your daughter. You'd love to have him as a son, you know. He's a he's a man's man. But whether you want him to marry your daughter, you want a guy some more compassion And Abishai said this, yeah, let's put him to death. He cursed the Lord's anointed. And he had cursed. David was the Lord's anointed. He was the anointed king. And Exodus 22, 28 says that the ruler, he who curses the rulers to be put to death. Abishai was right. He was dead right. He was right on. He was as little as he could get. He was black and white, and that was it. And there there's no mercy from this man. He he'd never heard Christ teach to forgive seventy times seven Well, Christ hadn't taught it yet. But the principle was taught in the Old Testament, forgiveness. He wasn't that kind. He wasn't a very forgiving person And uh in in telling him this man ought to be dead, he he ought to be put to death. He cursed the Lord's anointed. He was speaking to David because David would not touch King Saul. Why David had a couple of opportunities to kill King Saul, who was chasing him and wanted to kill David, but David would not do it. Why? What did he say? I will not touch the Lord's anointed In fact, when a man comes and says, King Saul is dead, and I had a hand in it, I actually dispatched him at the very end. I killed him. What did David do to that man? He said, You touched the Lord's anointed? You dared to touch the Lord's anointed? And David executes the guy. So David here, he's he's one that you know you he really holds to that, that the Lord's anointed, you don't do that. And yes, he did curse me, and I am the Lord's anointed. And the law of God says yes, he should be put to death. But David was a merciful, merciful man for a number of reasons. First off, David knew where is their hope? The whole army of Israel, you know, all the ten tribes and Judah and uh even Judah and the Benjamin, they came in, they joined with my son Absalom, they chased me out of Jerusalem, they want me dead, they tried to kill me I won the battle, they lost, and now the first man over Shemiah who cursed me, and if I chop his head off, the word goes back to the other tribes. Whoa! Heads are gonna roll. We did worse than that. Shemia threw a couple of rocks. Shimei cursed him and his family. Well, we're shooting arrows, we're slinging stones, we're coming to swords and spears. We're trying to kill David. If he beheads Shimmi Man, there's no mercy for any of us. It's over. Everybody flee back across the Jordan. This guy's not gonna I mean, where's the mercy? If if if there's we're worse sinners than Shimei in in this revolt, in this rebellion What hope is there for mercy for any of us? But David was merciful to Shimei, that the word would go back, that there is mercy at the throne of the king of Israel, no matter what you've done. And you know that, friend There really is. Christ, the King of Israel, will extend mercy to anyone here, anyone out there that repents It doesn't matter what you've done. It doesn't matter how many times you've done it. Doesn't matter who you did it to The King of Israel, Jesus Christ, the King of kins, he will extend mercy to you for anything you've done if you'll fall down on your face before God and repent. You don't have to fall down on your face before me. You can do it in your prayer closet, you can do it at home somewhere in your privacy of your own home. But you need to fall down before God and repent and change, a radical change. Confess to God. And He is faithful and just to forgive you of all your That's called the gospel. That's called the good news. And David wanted his men to hear the good news that there was mercy at the throne of the king of Israel. Anybody here got friends that they don't talk about they're they're they're more like Abishai. You got an Abishai friend, you know, it's a man's man Macho guy, real real strong individual and and uh oh the Bible says and that's what we should do, and blah blah blah, and all you know and and you know, and I I agree, the Bible says and that's what we should do. But Bible does talk about mercy. But so do you have any friends out there that when things are when someone does something to you, they say, Hey, I got a great way to get even with them, huh? Oh man. Or they say, hey, turnabout is fair play. Boy, can we stick it to them next week when we see them? You got a friend like that? The friend like that will turn on you someday too. You know that? If you got a friend that's not very merciful, that's not very forgiving, he's encouraging you not to be merciful and not to be forgiving, he's encouraging you to get even all the time. and to turn on somebody else who's done something to you, he will turn on you someday too. And you know what you have to do? You need to seek some sanctified friends. Let me say that again. If you've got a friend that's always encouraging you to get even with somebody, stick it to them, you need new friends. You need to look for some sanctified friends. You know where you find them? Well, they've usually got their nose in the Bible. Okay. That's what you need. You need new friends. And Abishai, he was a great warrior for David. But he lacked compassion. And the king says unto Shimei, verse twenty three, thou shalt not die. That had to be good news. I mean, is that good news or what? Is that what the Lord tells us if we confess for our sins and believe in our heart that Christ raised him from the dead? That we shall have eternal life. The gift of God is eternal life. We shall not die. The death of dying, we shall not die. The death of death, the second death, we will not die. We'll live for all eternity Not that the people in hell don't live for all eternity too, but that's not living, friend. I mean you'll be alive in hell, but that's that's not you're not gonna sit down in your hell and say, oh man, what a life. Hey, I'm down here with all my friends. You might be But to live eternal life is a joyful life. It's a heavenly life. It's a great life. You see people who are not going, things aren't going so often, you say, they got no life That's not living. That's right. But if you trust the Lord, confess your sins, He'll give you eternal life. Life more abundant, the Bible tells us, than anything we've ever seen seen here. Now I have to stop and ask myself, wow, how does David forgive and forget The accusations from Shemiah, the cursing from Shimei, the casting of the stones from Shemiah. I mean, he cast some of those stones at my wife. He cast some of those stones at my little boy Solomon. I mean, he was cursing and accusing me of things that were not true. And it it almost hit Solomon, almost hit Bathsheba. I mean I how do you forgive a guy like that? I mean you go out here in the parking lot and somebody takes a punch at your wife or ta or knocks your kid down or something like that It's pretty hard, isn't it, to to let it go? How does David forgive them? Well, the answer is that David had been forgiven for Such sins, so gross, so horrible, that he could forgive for lesser sins. And he had murdered Uriah Committed adultery at Bathsheba, taken on concubines. I mean, God had forgiven David for such gross sins. How could He not forgive Shimei? How can he not forgive Shemi, who is aggressively pressing his face against his shoes and saying, I sinned, forgive me, I did perversely, I'm sorry How do you how do you not forgive somebody like that? You say that no one's ever come to you like that Well, I had someone come to me like that one time. Someone that I said I would never forgive. I would I was a pastor. My wife used to rebuke me. I said, I can never forgive them. I can never, I can't, I can't. And they came, dropped down on their knees and just said, weeping. Do you know how long it took me to forgive them? In the twinkling of an eye. That was such a genuine confession. I stopped them before they got all the words out of their mouth. And David thought this was genuine too. I know sometimes we don't think the profession is very genuine. The confession isn't heartfelt. But we can't always read the heart. But David did forgive. I'd ask you about your profession of faith, confession of sin. Hopefully it's happened. I hope everyone here has at one point in their life came to the Lord and said, I I've sinned, I've sinned, I've sinned. Ask God to confess you. I mean ask ask God to forgive you. Confess your sins. You know, name them the Lord. You might as well name them, you don't have to name them to me. Well you might as well name them the Lord because he knows them anyway. Well, I don't have to name the real dark, deep, secret ones that I just thought in my head do it. Yeah, because he knows them anyway. But here here's the point. Hopefully everyone here is as at one point in their life, or maybe several times in their life I mean every time I sin I confess it again and ask God to forgive me again and and uh I I can remember for years every time I would sin, I would say, Oh Lord, maybe I'm not saved. You know, if I'm not saved, save me now. I d I I can't believe I did this horrible thing or thought this horrible thing. You know, forgive me. And here's the thing I want to say to you. Because some of us out there we've done some pretty nasty things. We we've taken the Lord's name in vain Talking about the name of Jesus and how we use it, stick it in there kind of like an adjective on the end of some other sentence, and we just toss it out there all the time, like hit our thumb with a hammer, whatever. In vain. We've mocked the scriptures. We've made fun of the stories in the Bible. We've done some horrible stuff. And as aggressive as you were in your sinning, you ought to be that aggressive in your repenting Let me say that again. As aggressive a sinner as you were in your early life, your repentance ought to be just as aggressive. Simeon had done some horrible things here. And he doesn't he doesn't wave across the River Jordan and say, King David It's your servant Shimei. Hey look, I said some nasty things there a couple of months ago and I just want you to know that um I didn't mean it or I did mean it but now I don't and I just you know Can we let bygones be bygones? I I confess it was wrong. No, Shemiah comes and falls down at his feet, grobling in the dirt, and says, I've sinned, I've done perverse things. You know, please do not hold this against me. So when you got saved, think about how aggressive, how what an active sinner you were, and your repentance ought to be just as aggressive And serious and sincere and earnest as you were an earnest sinner. Or maybe it isn't genuine salvation at all. Christ forgave Paul The Apostle Paul, Saul, his name was of Tarsus. He forgave him. He is called the chief of sinners. Paul Paul describes himself that way. How do you forgive the chief of sinners? I would have thought that was Judas Iscariot Although Jews Iscariot is not arresting Christians, tormenting Christians, torturing Christians, causing the blasphemy of God and putting them to death. You know, that was that was Saul. That's pretty bad stuff, isn't it? But how do you forgive a guy? How does Christ forgive Paul, the chief of sinners? The blessing here is if Christ can forgive the chief of sinners, then he can forgive anybody here. Because none of you are the chief. Paul Paul was the chief. You were somewhere below the chief, maybe way below the chief Or maybe right under the chief of sinners. But Christ can forgive the chief of sinners. But how do you forgive the chief of sinners? I mean, as horrible as Paul was, hey, his repentance was pretty earnest. When you are a when you are a sinner and you really are repenting, you have to be as earnest and sincere about your repentance as you were about charging after sin, seeking sin, uh absorbing sin, enjoying sin, you have to be that sincere. Sincere in your profession and confession. And it is read here in Acts 9 and 6, it says that Paul he came trembling and astonished. He said, Lord, what would you have me to do? What will it take? Just name it. That's Paul's. That's pretty good, isn't it Groveling in the dirt before the Lord. Who art thou? What do you have me to do? Trembling, astonished. Name it. What do it take? That's a profession. And that was a genuine one And in verse 24 we got someone else coming, Mophibasheth. And he's coming to meet the king. And it says here he hadn't dressed his feet, he didn't have shoes on or socks on or whatever, hadn't washed his feet, nor had he trimmed his beard nor washed his clothes. from the day the king departed until the day he came again in peace. And this has to be a month or two. Because remember when uh when uh David fled Jerusalem Uh Absalom is going to go right after him and say, No, no, once you get a big army together first, gathering every all the tribes. So we've got to figure a month or two has taken place. And Mephibosheth hasn't washed He hasn't washed his clothes, he hasn't shaved himself, trimmed his beard, uh he's he's a smelly uh mess at this point. And so he comes in this unkempt condition. But it is proof, it is proof that he was really focused on the return of his king. He could think of nothing else. He was he was in mourning that the king had been driven out of Jerusalem. He wanted King David back. He sat at King David's table every night and ate the meals and he wanted King David back and he was so distraught and so upset he c he just could hardly eat. He could he couldn't wash, he couldn't bathe, he couldn't he didn't care about his clothes. And he comes in this condition after a couple of months. He must have he must have looked like some uh bag lady or or or some Ragamuffin out in the streets of Baltimore somewhere. Because he was focused on the return of the king. That's all he wanted is for King David to come back. Wow. Pilgrim, we just had some elections in this country. And we're breathing a sigh of relief. Well my question is this. Before the elections, a lot of us were focused on the return of Christ, weren't we? Oh my boy, this must be it. We must be in the end times. Oh Lord Jesus, come quickly. Even though Lord, come now quickly, right? Wasn't that our focus? Guess what? That's still to be our focus. Is that your focus for Christ to come back? Or because things are looking up and things are a little better now, maybe? That should be our focus. We should be like Mephibosh said our focus ought to be on the return of our king. The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. That should still be our focus. And if that's not our focus, we miss the target. We've lost our first love in one week because of the elections. And the king said, having heard Zebba's treasonist report, verse 25, he'd heard the treason report by Zeba that Phibisha doesn't want to come. You go back and look at that in 2 Samuel 16. He didn't come because he's hoping that if Ab Absalon tosses you out, your son, that he will reinstate Mephibosheth, the the grandson of King Saul on the throne with the crown. So he's back there. He's joined with your son. It was a lie. Zebba lied. And Zebba says by the way I've I brought you bread and wine and raisins and all this fruit. And so David sees Zebba as his friend and Mephibosheth as his foe. And so we have here David in chapter twenty or verse twenty-five. He says, Wherefore wentest thou not with me, Mephibosheth? She said, I treated you good. Why didn't you come out of Jerusalem? Why didn't you join with me? What's the problem here? I like this about King David, this he's open to hear both sides. I don't have to hear her story or his story. I got it. I need it. I don't need to hear anymore. But David's willing to listen to both sides of the story. We ought to be too. And I hope And the Fibisheth answers in verse twenty-six, he says, My Lord, O King, my servant, that is my servant Zibah. All right, if you read that slowly, because it's all these words are kind of run together. He says, my servant, that is Zibah, he deceived me. For thy servant, that is me King, thy servant Mephibosheth said, I will saddle me an ass that I may ride thereon and go with the king. Because thy servant Mephibosheth is lame. I need to ride. But Ziba deceived me riding to you on my saddled donkey with my supplies. I am loyal to my king. And I'm louder, my king, look at the presence of Absalom, your foe. And Absalom had to know what was going on with me. The whole city knew. I was walking one morning. I wanted to return to my king. I told I wanted my king to come back. I could hardly eat. I can hardly sleep. I didn't care about my clothing or or shaving. I just wanted my king to return. That was my priority. Zibah, he says in verse 27, had slandered thy servant, Mephibosheth, unto the my Lord the King And we read about that in 2 Samuel 16. I did not want to join Absalom so I might get the crown back and the throne back. It wasn't true. And then he says, and the king is an angel of God. Because you've you were so good to me before. You most kings come in and they take over and they kill all the predecessors' children. You didn't do that. You came in and invited him to your table and he gave me food. You're like an angel of God. And we oftentimes say that to other people Someone comes by and does something for us. Maybe we got a flat tire and they stop and ruin to help us, and we say, well, it's like it's like God sent me an angel to fix the flat tire. We call each other angels of God sometimes when something done is done very nicely to us And so here he is. He says, What right have I then to cry out or complain to you? In verse 29, the king says, Thou and Zebah shall divide the land. That doesn't quite seem fair, does it? I mean all the land was Mephibosh, and now he says, Well I'm not quite sure who's telling the truth and who isn't. You know some questions about why you didn't come. There's some questions about Zibah, you know, now why he's up there with Shimei, my enemy. So I you know what I'm gonna do? Just divide the land. Now the commentators take it two ways And I'll and I'll give you the two ways. First the commentary say he meant divide the land the way it was before. Okay, gonna go back to the ways before. Zebah and his sons and servants will take care of the land And they can live off the land, but the bisheth, you still get all the profits. So when he said divide the land between the two of you, he meant go back to the way it was before, the same responsibilities, and that is it. But I like it better this way When he said divide the land. Alright? I believe it was a test that David presented to Ziba. Ziba's there, by the way, and Ephibisheth. He said, I want you to divide the land. Divide the baby in half. Remember that? Divide the baby in half. That's what Solomon would say many years later. He would say, divide the baby in half. And of course the woman says, Yeah, that's okay. That's okay And the other one said, no, give her the child, now give her the child. And look what Mephibosheth said when he said, divide the land in half. Mephibosheth in verse 30, he said on the king, Yea, let him take it all. He had the whole baby. For my king has come home. That's all he wanted. Befibitha spoke like a true friend and not a friend. So Zimba doesn't say anything. You know why? He's happy, divide it in half. Whoa, I didn't have that. I get half it. All I was before is a servant of land. Now I get half the land. Oh right. So he says nothing But Mephibosheth says, he can have it all. My king has come home. I think he passed the test. In fact, I know he did. If you read on further, you'll see a relationship between King David and Z and Mephibosheth that's good. And you never hear of Ziba again. Christ our King, he still tests us as David David did here with Mephibosheth, 1 Peter 1, 6 and 7. He still tests the visible church. He tests the visible church to refine it, to refine us, and to expose who is friend and foe with We need to know sometime who the friend or the foe is within the church, don't we? Or the friend or foe within our own families. And so Christ still tests us to refine the church and expose the friend or the foe. And I would say this morning, are you a faithful pilgrim? The testing will show. And the testing of a true pilgrim will benefit you in the Church of Christ. Don't hate your tests. It's an opportunity To show the Lord and the Lord's people that you really are one of his. And to expose those that aren't. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we look to you this morning. What a trial for Mephibosheth. He's he's lame, he can't walk in a decent manner, and now his reputation is ruined and and uh The king is coming back and could be head Mephibosheth as easily as Shimei or others. And yet this story has a good conclusion. And so we pray, Lord, that those here this morning that your conclusion will be a good one too. May you prove in your latter days the testimony you give was genuine. And that you You are not a foe, but a friend of the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, a dear friend, a true friend, a true pilgrim. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.