Turn within your Bibles to Luke chapter 5. I have mentioned before that Peter is my favorite among the Bible characters. Peter is my favorite because he had so much desire to do right and to serve Christ. And he's also my favorite because he failed so often in that ambition. And I think a lot of us can identify with Peter because, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest I love thee. The Lord knows that our heart's desire is to serve Him and to be ever faithful. And yet our flesh gets the best of us again and again, and we fall and fail. And uh the very fact that God has given us such flawed Christian heroes. Is evidence in itself that the Word of God is true. Because when man writes of a hero, he elevates man. But the word of God never elevates man. It shows us godly men and shows us their failings. David was a man after God's own heart, and he was also a murderous adulterer. And so this morning, we're going to see Peter going from doubt to faith to action. I'll be reading now in the fifth chapter of Luke. And read the first eleven verses of the chapter. And it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret. And saw two ships standing by the lake. But the fishermen were gone out of them and were washing their nets. And he entered into one of the ships which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people out of the ship. Now, when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a draught. And Simon answered, said unto him, Master, we have toiled all night, and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net And when they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net broke. And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in other ships, that they should come and help them. And they came and filled both ships so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he was astonished, and all that were with him at the draught of fishes which they had taken And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed Him. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach your precious holy word, Given to us by inspiration of the Holy Spirit, preserved for us by that same Spirit. Father, may you bless your word to our hearts. May we be convicted of our doubting May we be encouraged in our walk with thee. May we be strengthened by thy truth. May we look into thy perfect law and not depart the way we came. Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. And it came to pass. Isn't that a beautiful phrase? Isn't that glorious? I love great literature. and have been blessed to be able to study literature educationally and have been cursed to waste an awful lot of time on literature that was of no value. But I love good writing. This is good writing, folks, and it came to pass. We find that phrase in our English Bible 452 times We find it in the Old Testament coming from the Hebrew and here in the New Testament coming from the Greek, from Ginei. It came to pass. And this phrase that we find here is interesting in that it is almost exclusively used of actual events. In other words, it's not typically found that it came to pass and then Christ speak a parable. This is one of the reasons that I believe with all my heart that the rich man in Lazarus is not a parable. For it says, and it came to pass that the ri that Lazarus died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom, and the rich man died also and was buried. It came to pass that Lazarus died. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be passed. And it came to pass as the angels were going away from them in the heaven, the sh the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has made known unto us. It came to pass. And here we find a story of Christ speaking, and it says it came to pass. And we don't find the sermon. There's not a single word from the sermon that Christ preached recorded here. We have the Sermon on the Mount recorded at length. We have multiple times where Christ is preaching and under divine inspiration, the human authors recorded what Christ said and the import of his teaching. Here we have none of that. We don't find the sermon, but what we do find is that the whole scene was designed for the education of Peter. to teach him, to instruct him. And so this phrase it came to pass is a key phrase in all of Scripture. In Matthew 1. 21, we read, Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled by the prophets, and that's done is the same Genemai. All this came to pass. that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of Christ by the prophets. It all funnels down to point out the truth of God. It came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God These folks were hungry. These folks wanted to hear the word of God. They weren't coming to hear the word of a man from Galilee. They weren't coming to hear just some guy that's preaching in the wilderness. They came to hear the word of God. There was far more people gathered here than could be accommodated in any synagogue. And besides that, if there was teaching in the synagogue, the women would have been excluded. And if there was teaching in the synagogue, the Gentiles would not have been welcome. But here beside the Sea of Galilee, here called Genneseret, which Genneseret is the Greek version of the Hebrew ancient name, and I can't pronounce it, but it's China something. The ancient Hebrew name for this lake, here we find it in the Greek ver form, which is Gennesseret, also called the Sea of Tiberias. But here we find Christ teaching by the lake, and the people pressed upon him. It's interesting also the timing of this. There are just so many things in the Word of God that prove it to be the Word of God. And so many things that prove it to be inspired And that which the world would look at and say it contradicts itself are not contradictions at all, but rather they're proofs of its inspiration. And so When it says it came to pass here, it's not following a direct chronology. For in chapter 4, we have the healing of Peter's mother-in-law. And in chapter 5, we have a great draught of fish, and we don't find a reaction from Paul at the healing of his mother-in-law, but we find a marvelous reaction at the great draught of fish. And some people tried to make a joke out of this that, well, he didn't care if his mother-in-law was healed, but boy didn't even caught some fish. That was a good one. But you see, these divinely inspired authors are recording events from the life of Christ, but they're not necessarily recorded in the chronological order in which they took place. And that alone is a proof of inspiration. Because we don't write books like that. Man does not write books that way. That proves the Word of God. In John chapter 1, we find one of the two disciples. Which heard John, that's John the Baptist and followed him followed Jesus, were Andrew and Peter's Andrew Peter's brother. And then in John 1, we find Andrew finding Peter But here in Luke, the story is told differently. We find Christ coming to Peter, and then again in Matthew 4, we find Christ walking by the sea, and he says, Follow me, it'll make you fish in the bin. But Luke records it a little bit differently. Does that mean we have a contradiction here? No. It shows us that God allowed the personality of the divinely inspired authors to come through. We find in chapter four Luke talking about great miracles. And the miracles in chapter four are miracles of healing. Why is that important? Because Luke was a medical doctor And in chapter 4, Luke is recording, as a medical doctor, I couldn't do these things, but Christ did them and even healed Peter's mother-in-law And in chapter 5, he shows that not only does Christ have power over sickness, Christ has power over nature. Because you see, this great draught of fishes wasn't because the disciples were fishing in the wrong place. The great draught of fishes took place because when they threw the net at Christ's command, he filled the fish. with the net with fish. And he may have even created them on the spot. And so We find this marvelous phrase, it came to pass. And we find that the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God. In the parable of the sower, we're warned that not all hear. Christ said, To you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but to them it is not given. Take heed, therefore, how ye hear. And folks, that's a stern warning. Have you ever pushed your way into a door of a church fighting a crowd to get there? Have you ever climbed a tree? To hear the word of God? Have you ever torn up a roof to bring a friend to Christ? You see, these people were serious about what they were doing. They were pressing on Christ in such eagerness to hear the word, they had to find some way to step back from them. And so he comes. What a beautiful scene it is. Here beside the sea or the fishermen's boats. The fishermen have been out all night fishing. We find all through the New Testament that night was the best time to fish. We find them fishing at night. And I believe all of us at some time have gone to a seaport and we've seen the boats and the beauty of boats sitting on the water and the the beauty of water itself. My wife and I took a real quick anniversary trip early this past week and we were by the sea and the beauty of the boats and the the scene is gorgeous And here are the quaint little fishing boats, 25 foot long, not huge boats. Their sails are furled. The fishermen are there and the fishermen are taking their nets and they're washing their nets, for the nets have become fouled with bits of wood and pieces of seaweed And they've got to get those things out of the net so tomorrow night or this evening when they fish again, the the fish will not see the net And Christ comes along. And Christ says to Peter, thrust out a little bit from the land. He gets in about three. And here is the Son of God, the creator of all things, sitting in a boat made of wood from trees he created. Sitting on a sea filled with water that he created, surrounded by people that he created. And he's not there to destroy them. He's there to bless them with his word. Folks, this beautiful scene could be a puzzle for you to put together. This could be something that you would hang on your wall. It's beautiful. The Son of God is sitting in a boat and teaching, and yet Peter has no idea who he is. Peter is sitting in the boat with his creator, and he doesn't get it. And folks, I believe many of us can testify that we were around the gospel of Christ for years. And then one day we were arrested by it. Just as the Apostle Paul, who did many things against the truth, was suddenly arrested on the Damascus Road. And folks, I would pause this morning to ask you, have you ever been arrested? Not talking about the police. But has the gospel of Jesus Christ ever grabbed your heart and shaken you to your soul? Ye must be born again. Many people sit in the boat and listen to the preaching But they are never saved. The beauty of the scene passes them by, and they know nothing And so we find first of all Peter in doubt In verse 2 and 3, Christ enters into the ship, and then we come to verse 4, which All we know about the message is those first few words of verse 4. Now when he left speaking. That's all we know about the message. Now when he left speaking, he said unto Simon, launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a draught. And Simon, answering, said unto him, Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. First time we find Christ called Master. And actually, it's only in Luke's gospel that this name, this title for Christ, is used. This title that Peter uses here means basically supervisor or overseer. He's not calling Christ master as in, oh, you're God, or you're the Son of God. It's not even quite rabbi. But rather, it's just just master, my supervisor, my overseer. If you're telling me to do this, I will obey because you are higher than me. But he's not yet falling at his knees. Master, we have fished all night. We toiled all night and take You see, everything in Peter's personal life experience fights against doing what Christ tells him to do. Peter was a fisherman. He knew how to fish. He knew when to fish. He knew where to fish Peter was most likely the son of a fisherman. He had gotten this profession from his father. And Peter had probably been on the fishing boats when he was four and five years old. He grew up on the sea. He knew everything about fishing. Master. We've toiled all night. We worked all the fish just ain't out there today. They're not biting. We've toiled all night. And we take it Nothing. And we've toiled all night. They spent the whole night on the sea. They've come in. They have washed their nets. And we should have been taking our nap while you were preaching, but we stopped and listened to you. We stayed to hear what you had to say. But now the nets are clean. The nets are prepared for tonight. For tonight we must go fish, Master. We've toiled all night and taken nothing. Scripture is found with this kind of instructions that make no sense to our wisdom. Noah, build an ark. First of all, Lord, what is an ark? And Lord, what is a flood? Abram, leave your family, leave your country, leave everything you've known, and go to a place that I'm going to show you, and I'm going to give you great blessings. You see, Abram was not the eldest son. Abram was the third son. Abram really had nothing to take with him. When he left his father's house, he left everything. He left his living because if he remained in his father's house, he would receive the blessing of his father's house all of his life. But Abram was not the eldest son, he was not the inheritor. Abram, leave your father's house and your country. Now, Abraham, I've finally given you a son. Take him over Mount Moriah and sacrifice him. Didn't make a bit of sense. Moses, go tell Pharaoh to let my people go. God the last time I was there they tried to kill me. I'm out here in the wilderness because I had to run for my life. Aaron, cast down your rod, and it will become a serpent. Joshua, march around Jericho seven times and blow your trumpets. God, that's just gonna annoy them. That's just that's that's gonna tick them off. They're gonna be really mad at all the racket Gideon, send your army home. Now, Gideon, with the 300 men you have left, go fight the Midianites. But oh, by the way Don't take your swords and spears, lamps and pitchers. What? That makes sense. And then divide your 100, 300 men into three groups, smaller yet. Naaman, wash seven times in the jewel. Samuel, go anoint David to be king. David, go fight Goliath. Isaiah, take off your clothes and walk around naked for three years. Ezekiel, lay on your left side for three hundred and ninety days, and then lay on your right side for forty days. See, folks, many times God's commands are confusing. Many times God's commands go exactly against everything we've learned our entire lives. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. You see, sometimes, off times, the way of God, the way of holiness, is totally in opposition to our human nature and our human experience. But it is right. As for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in Him. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of those who seek him. By faith the elders obtained a good report, and all these, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. Through faith, we understand that the worlds are framed by the word of God. But look what Peter says there in verse 5, the last part of the verse. And Simon answering him said, Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. You know, I believe that's one of the most important phrases in all the New Testament. Definitely one of the most important phrases in Luke. Nevertheless, at thy word, I will let down the net. Write down upon your soul. Put that on a note and stick it on your mirror where you'll see it every every morning. Nevertheless, at thy word, I'm going to let them a man. Lord, it doesn't matter how Opposed to my sinful human being, the word of God made seem. It's true. It's right. My father used to say, God said it, I believe it, that settles it. And then later on I heard him say, you know what, that phrase is wrong. God said it, that settles it, whether I believe it or not. The I believe it part is really irrelevant. It doesn't matter if you believe it or not. God said it. That settles it. It's true. Nevertheless, at thy word. I'm gonna lay down the left on the net. I'm gonna do exactly what God commands me to do. In spite of what happened last night. In spite of my failure last night, they didn't catch a fish. Lord, last night I fell flat on my face, didn't catch a thing, only got some seaweed and some sticks. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. And it's at thy word. If you look back up at the verse verse, why were the people there? They pressed upon Christ to hear the word of God. Peter, sitting in the boat, what did he hear? He heard God's word Peter let down the net at thy word. You said it. Therefore, I will. But we find also that there's great reward for obedience. We've seen Peter go from doubt to faith. Look at verses 6 and 7. And when they had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes And their net broke. And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. Help, help, help! But that's breaking. And they came and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink. Peter believed Christ's word when Christ's word was opposed to everything Peter had learned in his entire life. And when Peter believed God's word, which was opposed to everything he believed in his entire life, he saw something that had never happened in his entire life. He saw a miraculous bunch of fish. You see, if if Peter could chance on this kind of fish He had no need of Christ. But this was no chance. These fish were not caught because Peter cast the net. These fish were caught because Christ put the fish in the net. You see, if this could have been simply a natural occurrence, if it could have been simply that they just happened to throw their net in the right place at the right time And caught some fish, there would be no reason to fall at Christ's knees. But the reaction of Peter to what happened is an indication that this was a miracle. This was something great and miraculous. This was not a fluke of nature. Christ had brought the fish to the net. And so in verse 8, then Simon Peter, when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a Sinful man, O Lord, depart from me, for I am a sinful man. There's great precision here Notice what it doesn't say Peter did. It does not say Peter fell down at Jesus' feet. He fell down at Jesus' knees. And we find multiple places in Scripture where people fell down at Christ's feet or fell at the feet of a sovereign, of a king. There's only a few places where someone fell at their knees. You see, you fall down at someone's feet to worship them, but you fall down at their knees to plead for mercy. You see, the one who comes to worship, he bows himself before someone's feet. But when you come for mercy, you grab them by the knees. Help me! Help me! Spare me! Don't kill me! And that's the difference here. And Peter makes it very clear that Christ said Paul Peter or sorry Luke makes it very clear that Peter fell at Jesus' knees, not at his feet. This is not an act of worship that Peter is performing. It's an act of repentance. Depart from me, O Lord, I am a sinful man. Woe is me, for I am undone, for mine eyes have seen the Lord. This is Peter's Isaiah VI experience for an Isaiah six Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifting up, and his train filled the temple. Above him flew the seraphim. This is Isaiah 6 for Peter in Luke chapter 5. Peter said, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man. You see, Peter was a Jew. He would have grown up with the teaching in the synagogue. Peter knew from the Old Testament. And uh in Exodus 33 and verse 20, and he that's God said, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me and live. These people had pressed upon Christ not to hear the words of a prophet. They had pressed upon Christ, verse 1, to hear the word of God. And Peter has just spent the last hour sitting in a boat beside Jesus without knowing who he was. And now Peter knows who this is, and he says, depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord, and he doesn't say, O master. For before Peter said, Overseer, Master, at thy word I'll let down the net. And there's something else here. Peter is in a boat that's full of fish, and it's about to sink, and he has no care for the boat of the fish. He's not concerned about the boat of the fish. The boat's sinking. We read that in the passage. It's about it's full of fish about to sink. And there's probably fish flipping over the sides and getting away because the boat is so full. Well now Peter's come to realize what's really important. Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. When Manoah, the wife of the father of Samuel, saw saw the father of Samson, saw the Lord, he said, Surely we will die. When Jacob wrestled with the Lord on the plain of Panaya, he called it Poniah because he had seen God face to face, and his life was spared. And so Peter, grabbing the knees of Christ, pleads for his very life. But look at the words of Christ in verse 10. And so also was James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not. From henceforth thou shalt catch men. Peter, you're right. You're a sinful man. But fear not. And I love the fact that it doesn't say that Christ addressed Peter, James, and John. He's talking to Peter. Peter, fear not. We don't find James and John grabbing the knees of Christ. But we do find Peter. That's not saying they're not repentant or not affected by the story But here we find Christ addressing Peter. Jesus said unto him, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. They were astonished. We read in the previous verse, verse 9. They were astonished by that which Christ had done. Fear not, Simon, I'm not here to kill you. Fear not, Simon, I know you're a sinner. Fear not, Simon, I know your weakness, and I will teach you. Fear not, Simon, I have a purpose for you. I have a work for you to do. Fear not, Simon, I desire that you follow me. And fear not Simon, because your work is going to be successful. From henceforth thou shalt catch men. Last night's fishing trip was a total failure. But you shall catch men. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth that will not return to the me void, but will prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it God's word will not return void. You shall catch men. And look at that one word there. From henceforth. Isn't that a beautiful word? From henceforth, from here to eternity, from now on, you will catch men. And so we first found Peter in doubt. Master, didn't work last night. Refine Peter in faith, depart from me, for I'm a sinful man, O Lord. But then we find Peter in action. Verse five. And when they had brought their ship to land, they called the merchants, and they sold their fish, and offloaded the cargo, and cleaned the nets again, and got ready for the No. They didn't even sell the fish, folks. This is the ma this is the biggest windfall of their life. They have got a boat full of gold. And when they brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed. Yeah. It's the old song we used to sing with the children. I've decided to follow Jesus. I've decided to follow Jesus. I've decided to follow Jesus. No turning back No turning back. Another one we used to sing. When the Lord says what to do, you better do it. You better do it. You better do it. When the Lord says what to do, you better do it, or like Jonah, you'll find out the hard, hard way. Folks, have you brought your ship to land to follow Christ? Have you knelt at the knees of Jesus, not just at his feet? In repentance. Have you been arrested by that truth? Nevertheless, at thy word, I will let down A net. God's way seems wrong to our human nature, but it is right. The way of salvation seems contrary to the will of man, but there's There's only one way. Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you this morning for this glorious and marvelously instructive, marvelously convicting passage of thy word. O Lord, how much we can and we should learn from thy truth. Blessed to our hearts this morning. Transform us from being fishers of the world to fishers of men. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.