Our Blessed Heavenly Father, the God of the Universe. The Sovereign One, the Creator of all things, the One who gave His only begotten Son for our salvation. We pray this morning through the merits of Jesus Christ, through whose blood we are bidden to come boldly to the front of grace. We pray this morning that you might indeed create the fruit of our lips. For Father, we have two natures within us. We have the new redeemed nature that is to be fed and edified and gardened and shepherded through the Word of God. But Paul said, I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind. And so, Father, it is our desire this morning that you might Create within your people worship that is acceptable in thy sight, and that we, through the preaching of thy word, may more and more crucify the flesh. More and more, put to death that old man and die daily. Lord, that we might be made more and more like Christ. And O Lord, yea, that we might be clothed with Jesus Christ. Bless us to these ends this morning. Speak to our hearts through thy word. May you be honored and glorified in all that is said and done. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship is from the book of Ecclesiastes in the third chapter, verse 14. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Nothing can be put to it. Nor anything taken from it, and God doeth it, that men should fear before him. Thank you for that call to worship verse. I came across that recently and discovered, hey, that's actually a pretty good verse to argue for the preservation of Scripture. Ecclesiastes 3. 14, marvelous passage. Our opening hymn, number 302, Lord of the Worlds Above, number 302 in your blue song book. The tune is Darwal, you know this tune, from the uh the uh the song Rejoice the Lord is King. We'll sing all four stanzas. Yes. To the ball My heart aspires with warm face I first saw Oh happy soul that pray, where God always to hear, Oh happy men that day there. And all the light I unskill I go from strength to strain through this dark veil of tears till Each arise at length in heaven Oh glory when God are kings Now that the pre-folly God is our son and shield our light and our keep them kissed his hands are till we Blessing Christ, O God of those whose spirits rust. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. And Brother Anton, if you would, bring us the confessional reading for this afternoon. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we're looking at the second portion of Article 22 of the Belgic Confession regarding our justification through faith in Jesus Christ. Christian, in what do you believe? Therefore, you justly say with Paul that we are justified by faith alone, or by faith without works. However, to speak more clearly, we do not mean that faith itself justifies us, for it is only an instrument with which we embrace Christ, our righteousness, but Jesus Christ, imputing to us all his merits And so many holy works which he hath done for us and in our stead is our righteousness. And faith is an instrument That keeps us in communion with Him in all His benefits, which, when they become ours, are more than sufficient to acquit us of our sins. The second portion delves into the role of faith in the believer's justification It starts off with quoting Paul's teaching that we're justified by faith alone, without works. That justification is uh viewed is um Acquired through faith. That's the determining factor. It's not by works. And scripture is very clear. Paul labors extensively in the New Testament to make that very clear. You might wonder why does it say we don't mean that faith itself justifies us? Aren't we justified by faith? So what's the point being made here in this article? And the point being made is that your faith, your labor or your action or your decision itself is not what God looks at to say and to determine, well good, you've achieved salvation for yourself. You've done something so righteous, you've earned your way into heaven. So that when the believer dies, they can't say, Well, yes, I'm here in heaven because my faith was good enough. I just did it. Look at what I did, look at my response, look at all of that No, but instead what the believer ought to say is, look at what Christ has done. The only way I'm here in heaven is because of his merits. And yes, faith is the thing that shows I'm truly in Christ, but my faith has no glory in it of itself. As uh uh a term that could be used is we don't have faith in faith. No, but rather we have faith in Christ. He's the one through whom we have our redemption, our righteousness The Saint's righteousness is fully dependent on what Christ did. He lived out the perfect life and was found righteous before God. He perfectly atoned for his people on the cross. He's the one that acquired our sins and paid the punishment for them. And simultaneously, he passed on his righteousness to the believer. This is that concept of imputed righteousness. We received it or inherited it from Christ. It's something that was put on us. We're not made righteous of something we've done or an action or a stance that we took, but rather we received it. It was imputed from Christ. Second Corinthians five twenty-one it makes that clear, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The believer receives the righteousness by being in Christ, by being his. And having a real faith is truly a a good way to look at it as as the article here explains it is an instrument or what I would call the glue. This is the thing that glues you to all the promises of Christ. The promises of being in Christ, the promises of God to the believer, to his child. If you're a faith if you have faith, you're glued to those promises. You um you you you you inherit everything that that Christ has done for his believer Paul says that he counted all things but loss to win Christ. It says, and be found in him not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ the righteousness which is of God by faith. Truly we're made righteous we're made the righteousness of God in Christ and it's by faith. Faith is that thing that glues us. That that um shows that we've had Christ's righteousness imputed unto us. And uh I'll close out with First Corinthians one thirty. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sac sanctification and redemption. Thank you, brother, for that very able exposition. Well, what a great privilege to pray. Can you imagine going through life not being able to pray? Or to pray to a God of wood or stone. You've made this God for yourself and now you pray to it? Um a lot of the shopkeepers in Jamaica were Hindu and they had little shrines there in their in their stores. How vain Their prayers never got bef got outside of their shop. But we pray to the God of heaven. Let us talk to him right now. Gracious Father, how good and how kind you are. Lord, you spoke and the worlds came into existence. We speak and you hear us. What a contrast. Your voice was so mighty to create. And yet you will hear our voice. Lord, such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it. But Father, we know it is true by faith, and we rejoice in it. Lord, forgive us for our prayerlessness. Forgive us for not praying without ceasing. What? Could you not watch with me? One hour? Lord, how often we should pray and not faint, and pray that we enter not into temptation. Lord, make us a prayerful people. Lord, I help us to be attentive in prayer. Lord, how easy it is for our minds to begin to wander and for thoughts of other things to intrude. But Father, we pray that you would teach us to pray as your disciples ask the Master. Father, we thank you for the multitude of answers to prayer that we see border on a daily basis or on a weekly basis. Father, we thank you for the Renewed health of several in our congregation. And yet, Lord, we are not finished bringing empty barrels for you to fill with oil. We pray yet more, O Father. Lord, we know that it is appointed unto man once to die, that these bodies will perish in this world. But Father, we pray that you would give us strength and vigor. And Lord, we we thank you for that promise that uh even in the old age uh that you will keep us until we have told this generation. I'm not quoting Lord, but this generation as well. Lord, give us that blessing and that privilege. Lord, we pray for our children for their salvation. We pray for our grandchildren for their salvation. Lord, and aunts and uncles and brothers and sisters and parents and others that are relatives of those of this congregation And Father, we pray that you would give us health and strength and vigor, that we might be able, Lord, to share with them the glorious gospel and light of Christ, to preach Christ in our words. and preach Christ in our daily testimony as well. Father, we have several of our congregation that are facing grave needs within their families. Father, we do pray for our dear brother who suffered a heart attack two weeks ago, Lord, and we thank you for a good recovery thus far, but he has left very weak. and adjusting to the medications. Father, be with our brother and with his dear wife, both of whom are facing physical conditions. both the onset of age and the uh diseases that are so uh much a part of this world because of the curse. And Father, we pray that you would give them strength and health, Lord, and bless them. Lord, we pray that you would be very dear to them. And Lord, help us as a congregation to be a help to them. Father, we pray for uh the uh man that is in intensive care this morning, um, father suffering very grave uh physical ailment. Um That came upon him in the midst of strength, in the midst of years. Lord, he was smitten with a grievous disease that has robbed him of his employment. robbed him of his mobility, robbed him even of much of his vocalization. Father, I pray for him this morning. I pray for his wife. Lord, I pray that your mercy and your grace would surround them. I pray, Lord, that you would work in their bodies and in their souls that which is needful. Father, be with our dear ones. So much a blessing to this congregation. So much a part of us, Father, that that are greatly concerned for a daughter and son-in-law. Father, bless them, Lord, with health and strength as well. And again, Lord, may we as a congregation come alongside and help and be a blessing there. Father, we thank you for our far-flung congregation as we sometimes refer to them. Lord, we thank you for a brother that was with us last week. And Lord, I pray for those that are very much a part of us and yet are separated by many miles. Father, may you bless them. May you encourage them. May you meet their needs. Lord, may the time of worship in their home as they are online with us be a blessing and edifying And Lord, we thank you for those that are able to join us on Wednesday. And uh it is such a blessing to see the faces And Lord, though again many miles stand between us, yet we enjoy fellowship together and feel that closeness, that oneness. And Lord, we thank you for that. Father, may you bless them. And then, Lord, we thank you that you have allowed, through your sovereign providence, Lord, this congregation to have an influence that goes beyond our own borders. Lord, we pray for our brother in the Philippines, Lord, that you would bless him and encourage and strengthen there. Lord, we thank you that the materials have been able to reach him and pray, Lord, that you'd help him bless there. And Lord, we pray for our dear ones in Jamaica. And thank you, Lord, for those of this congregation that gave in order for the young people to attend the Christian camp this summer And Lord, I pray for these young ladies as they go to camp, Father, may their hearts be open to thy truth. Lord, may their lives be transformed. May they find at that week of camp themselves to be on the roads of Damascus. And O Lord, may the the light of the truth of Christ shine into their hearts. May they hear within their soul the voice of Christ saying, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Uh Father, bless to these ends, bless this morning as the service is going on at this very hour, Lord. I pray, Father, for the uh missionaries there in Belize that Penny and I hope to visit with in July. Father, I pray that you would bless them, Lord, as they are have just finished their worship hour. Lord, bless and help there, we pray Father Lord, there are many ongoing physical needs within the congregation. We do not inform thee of them because you know what things we have need of before we ask. But Lord, we come before the God of heaven pleading that you would help and bless there. Lord, that you would heal, that you would strengthen, that you would make injections and treatments effective and efficient. Lord, that you would provide for the payment of medical bills. Lord, that you would turn the hearts of those within the business departments of uh medical companies, Lord, that they might look favorably on the people of God in this place. Lord, these things are are not with thee. And we bring them before you. Father, we do pray for our young families that you would raise up in our midst very strong families. Bless them in their prayer time together. Bless them, Father. May they uh seek thee in prayer and Lord, may they their homes be havens of thy truth. Bless the young children in our midst, O Father. Save them every one. Bless our young families with a quiver full, as your word declares. When we pray for our young single men that are so much a part of this congregation, bless them, bless their employment, bless their educational endeavors, bless them spiritually with growth and grace and in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. Bless them socially, Lord, in their interactions with their friends. And Lord, we pray that you would establish even more godly homes. Lord, I pray that you would bless them in this way Father, we are so blessed and honored with the senior citizens of our midst. And Lord, we find throughout thy word the elderly, the simians, the uh Her name slips me at the moment, who departed not from the temple. But Lord, your word is replete with godly senior citizens. That were such a blessing. And Lord, there is the instruction that the older ladies are to teach the younger. And so, Father, we pray that you would bless those among us. whose bodies may not carry them as far or as fast as they used to go. And yet, Lord, they spend their time in prayer. They send out scriptures to others. They are a witness and a testimony to us all. We thank you for them. And Father, we pray that we might be a blessing to them as they are a blessing to us. Blessed are yet latter years with freedom from pain. Blessed are yet ladder years with health and strength Bless their latter years with joy in the Lord and joy in fellowship and joy in their families. We thank you for them. Father, we thank you for this time of prayer. Lord, it is good that we pray long. And yet, Lord, we are we are here this morning for the study and preaching of thy word. And so, Father, may you open our hearts to hear thy truth, open our ears to thy understanding. Open thou, O Lord, my lips, that I might faithfully proclaim the gospel. Uh Lord, bless this assembly this day in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm five in your Bibles for our responsive reading. Once you've located Psalm five in your Bible, please rise. We'll read all twelve verses of Psalm 5. To the chief musician, Ponniela, a psalm of David. Give ear to my words, O Lord. Consider my meditation. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my king and my God. For unto thee will I pray. My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up For thou art not a god that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with thee. The foolish shall not stand in thy sight. Thou hatest all workers of iniquity Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasting. The Lord will abhor the bloody and deceitful man. But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy And in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness, because of mine enemies. Make thy way straight before my face. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth. Their inward part is very wickedness. Their throat is an open sepulchre. They flatter with their tongue. Destroy them, O God. Let them fall by their own counsels. Cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against thee. But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice Let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them. Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee, and altogether For thou, Lord, wilt bless the righteous. With favor wilt thou compass him as with a shield. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his Holy Word. Well, our book of Psalms for Singing is back for this sermon, Psalter. Please turn to your red song book either at the foot of your chair or nearby. Number 67A, an adaptation of Psalm 67. O God, to us show mercy. Number 67A, in your red song book. We sing all three stanzas and the Amen. O God, who are so mercy, and bless us in thy grace was thou To shine up on us in the brightness of thy days, that's so thy way born Holding for a place to be known, and unto every people my saving grace. Oh God, let people praise me, let all the people, the nations will be so For the world joys not in the righteous death. And for your patients, I wish to presence. Oh God, let me connaissive let all God People say for the rich of London who was the food will bring all God or wonder why. And all we are. Thank you, baby. Turn in your Bibles this morning, please. The book of Romans and the thirteenth chapter. Romans chapter 13. And our scripture reading will be verse 11 through 14, a shorter scripture reading than we often have But then I'm going to read several other scriptures without having you turn to them, just one verse here and one verse there, which all relate back to our passage for this morning. Romans chapter thirteen and starting with verse eleven And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. And let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness. Not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envy, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ And make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. Let's pause for prayer. Father, now, as we approach thy word, we pray that thy Holy Spirit would be the true preacher in our midst. May your Spirit speak truth to our hearts. May you proclaim your word. Father, we thank you that you've chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them to believe. You have entrusted your word to man to expound. You could have chosen angels, but you've chosen fallen men. And so, Father, I pray this morning that your Spirit would lead and guide. And Lord, as the old Puritans used to pray, Lord, we pray for that divine aid without which a man cannot faithfully preach. Here are a few other scriptures. Uh you can try to turn to them if you'd like, but you probably can't keep up because some passages just reading one verse. But in 2 Peter 3, I'll read verses 9 through 11. The Lord is not slack concerning his promises. Some men count slackness. But is long suffering to usward, not willing, that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night When the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing that all these things, this world, shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought we to be in all holy conversation? And godliness. Now folks, we're not going to preach this morning about when the Lord's coming back, and we're not going to try to set dates, but we know it's going to happen. And in light of the fact that all this is going to be consumed and the Lord is coming back, what manner of persons ought we to be in all holiness and godly conversation? And then 2 Timothy 2, verse 4, just one verse: no man that warreth and tangleth himself with the affairs of this life, but it may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And then James chapter 1, verse 8, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways And that same book, James chapter 4, and verse 4, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enity with God. Whosoever therefore shall be the friend of the world is the enemy of God. And then four verses later, draw nigh unto God, and he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify ye hearts, yeah. Double-minded. So in James 8, verse 1, verse 8, this term double-minded comes up, and in James 4, verse 8, it comes up again. Colossians chapter 4, verse 5, just one verse. Walk in wisdom toward them that are without. Redeeming the time. And then Ephesians chapter 5, verses 14, 15, and 16. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, Arise from the dead, and Christ shall give ye light. See that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise Redeeming the time because the days are evil. And then again, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 34. Awake to righteousness. And sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God. I speak to your shame. And then 1 John 2, verses 15 through 17, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. There's a mutual exclusive there. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of light is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of the Father abideth forever. And that brings us back to our text in verse 11, knowing the time. Knowing the times, all of those verses in some way or another either spoke of time, redeeming the time, or our conduct in this world. I thought about titling this message, What Time Is It? But that's not what the text says, is it? It says knowing the time! Folks, if you're a child of God, you already know the time. And you know the times in which we live. We know the environment in which we live. And so what are we as Christians supposed to do? Well, look at verse 11. Of Romans 13. And knowing, and that knowing the time, that it is now high time to awake out of sleep. It's time to wake up, folks. It's time for Christians to throw off the sleep. It's time for the people of God to wipe the sleepies out of their eyes. Wake up, folks. We know what time it is. We're not foolish virgins. We have oil. It's time to wake up. Knowing the time, it's high time to wake out of sleep. And I read there in Ephesians 5, and if you want to turn to it now in Ephesians 5, verses 13 to 16. Actually, I'm sorry I didn't read that one. I read a different one uh earlier. But Ephesians 5, turn there with me, please Ephesians 5 and verse 13, and we read there, but all things are approved that are made manifest by the light You don't sleep in the light. You need to turn the light off in your bedroom to go to sleep, right? Well, all things are approved by the light, for whatsoever does not make manifest, or whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as wise, redeeming the time, because the days Are evil. Knowing the time. In 1 John 2, verses 18 and following, we find this: little children, it is the last time. And ye have heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists, whereby we know that it's the last time. Let me pause there. This is not talking about the Antichrist. Some people try to take this verse and shoehorn the Antichrist that is prophesied into this verse. This is not the Antichrist because he says there are many Antichrists. This is the unbelieving multitude of our world that denies Christ. They are anti-Christ. You've heard there's going to be many, and the last day there'll be a great falling away We live in a day when the multitudes of this world and even multitudes that call themselves the church are antichrist Therefore you have major denominations that are marrying and even ordaining homosexuals. They are the Antichrist. And so, yeah, little uh little children, it is the last time and you have heard that Antichrist plural shall come, and even now there are many antichrists whereby you know it's the last time. Okay, we read there in Romans, we know the time. Wake up, Christian. We know the time. Verse 19 They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have no doubt continued with us, but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not of us. But we have an unction from the Holy One and know all things. Okay, so Paul is established here. And folks, this isn't a mystery. We know the time. Oh, we're not date setters. But we know he's coming. And we know he's coming soon. Wherefore, awake thou that sleepeth. It is high time that the people of God wake up. And I read there in you read there in verse 14 when I read in uh Ephesians 5, verse 14, wherefore awake thou that sleepest? And several of the commentators actually took that New Testament passage in Ephesians 5 and verse 14, awake thou that sleep us, and they relate it back to Isaiah 60. Isaiah sixty, Arise and shine, for thy light is come Why is it? How is it that we know all things that we're awake? Because our light has come. Christ has come. What did Christ say? I am the light of the world. He didn't say I'm the darkness of the world. He said, I'm the light of the world. In him is no darkness at all. Folks, people sleep in darkness. But we find here that it's high time, Romans thirteen, eleven, for us to awake out of sleep. And consider this. Consider this. When people sleep, they're inactive. Oh, my wife would tell you I can I can kick and pull sheets and steal the pillows w with the best of them. The other night I I grabbed the pillow and I threw it on the bed And I thought, oh no, that was Penny's pillow. So I picked it back up and I went to throw it over her side and I boffed her with it. Now she's awake. But but folks, when we're asleep we're not active, we're not doing anything. Folks, we're to be about our father's business. We're to be active Part of the problem is the church is asleep. We know what time it is, the alarm bell's ringing. We need to be awake. And I read there 1 Corinthians 15, verse 34, which says this, awake to righteousness And sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Basically, Paul says to the believers, there are people that don't know about God, shame on you. Because God's people Rather than be awake. And so when people sleep, they are inactive. Think about this. The disciples slept when they should have been praying. The disciples slept when they should have been watching. The disciples were asleep, but Jesus knew that Judas, the betrayer, was on his way with a band of soldiers. And yet they were asleep. When men sleep they are inactive, and when men sleep they are insensitive to danger. What good does a sleeping guard dog do? What good does a sentry who falls asleep on watch do? He jeopardizes everyone in the process. Spiritual sloth results in lazy devotions. Spiritual sloth results in a dull conscience to sin. You know, a sleeping Christian who is spiritually sleeping is susceptible to any sin. Spiritual sloth results in yielding to temptation. Spiritual sloth results in drifting from sound doctrine. Christians who are asleep rather than reading their Bible drift into all kinds of error and falsehoods. Folks Samson's hair was cut while he was asleep. And so Paul says here, it is time for us to awake out of sleep. The devil planted tares among the wheat while men slept. 13 verse 15. While men slept, an enemy came and sowed the tares among the wheat. Folks, the church today is full of tares. It's full of errors. And it's because God's people have been asleep. If you look back there to verse 11 of our text again And knowing that and knowing I keep messing that up, pardon me. And that knowing the time, that it is now high time to awake out of sleep For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. That's a somewhat confusing phrase, isn't it? What do you mean our salvation is nearer than when we believed? Well I passed from death to life many years ago. And I'm sure many of you did too. Folks, our redemption draws nigh. Every second we are closer to the coming of our Lord. And folks, what Paul is saying here is our salvation is nearer than when we believed. You shouldn't still be a baby Christian. You believed how many years ago? How much have you grown in those time a time? It's nearer now But are we sleeping? Are we not growing? Christ declared, Behold, I come quickly. In Revelation 22, 7, and again in Revelation 22, verse 12, Behold, I come quickly. Our salvation is nearer than we believed. In the past, our salvation was justification, which is the removal of the guilt of sin. We are saved from sin's penalty. In the present, our salvation is sanctification. The daily working of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer, we are saved from the power of sin. In the future, our salvation is glorification We shall be with him and saved from the presence of sin. Folks, we're not of the darkness. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 4, but ye brethren, are not in darkness that the thief should overtake you, or that you should be overtaken as a thief. Ye are the children of light, ye are the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. And so Paul admonishes us that it is time as Christians to get up, to get out of our spiritual beds, and get busy. But the second thing I would show you that Paul is telling us here is not only we need to get up, we need to get dressed. We need to get dressed. Look at verse 12. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us cast therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Get out of your pajamas And be dressed in the armor of light. Verse twelve uh thirteen. Continues, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envy That's the that's the night clothes. That's the works of darkness. That's the pajamas. That's what we used to wear You see, part of the reason that the believers today are asleep is they're too comfortable with nightclothes. They're too comfortable with sin. They're too comfortable with those works of darkness that were supposed to have been cast off. Folks, pajamas are comfortable I enjoy wearing a suit. I wear I've worn suits my whole life. I've had ties on since I was two or three because my mom put ties on me for church all the time So I have gotten used to being dressed this way, but this isn't the most comfortable clothes I wear. Right? Folks, the clothing of this world can be very comfortable sleeping. But here we find that we're not to be in rioting and drunkenness, not in public sense. We're not to be in chambering and walkness. We're not to be in hidden sins. But rather, we are to put on the armor of light. We find in Psalm 66, verses 18 and following, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me, David prayed. But verily God hath heard me. What was that? David is testifying that he's thrown off the works of darkness. That God is hearing his prayer, therefore those things are gone. He attendeth the voice of my prayer, blessed be God which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. We're not to be in rioting and drunkenness. We're not to be in chambering and wantonness. We're not to be in strife and in envy. Paul said in Colossians 3 verse 12, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so do ye also We're to put off the old man. We're to put off the works of darkness. And we are to put on the armor of light, verse 12. We put on the clothes of the day. We change from the clothes of the night to the day. It's interesting that Paul says there in verse 12, the armor of light. I'm a Cursory student of history, particularly ancient history or older history. But the Roman army, if you've ever seen the pictures of them, They would have shields and breastplates and helmets, and they would polish those metals to a mirror finish. And it's said that the Roman army liked to approach their enemy from a direction that had the sun shining almost in their own faces. Because all that shining armor would just be blinding. You know, you you ever been driving down the road and the person ahead of behind you has their high beams on, their mirrors shining in your eyes? It's it's blinding Well, that's the illustration that Paul is using here. We're to put on the armor of light that we as Christians are to be just as the Roman army reflected the sun back in the face of their enemy. So we are to reflect Jesus Christ into the face of his enemies. But folks, that only happens when we have on the armor of light. When the night clothes have been cast off and we've been clothed in a new armor. And of course we think of the we think of the Christian armor in Ephesians 6, loins gorge about with truth. Our brother spoke of that in prayer meeting. Breastplate of righteousness, feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, shield of faith, and so on. But folks, there's more than that because look down to verse 14. This is where this passage blessed my heart, and it's exciting. Verse 14, put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ! Folks, that's the armor of light. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And here, again, going to the commentators, particularly Adam Clark, the old Methodist commentator that I always enjoy so much. He explained it this way, and I'm going to read here a couple short paragraphs just to make sure we get this information right. This is a paraphrase from some of the things he said. To be clothed with a person is a Greek phrase, signifying to assume the interest of another, to enter into their views. To imitate him, to be wholly on his side, to be filled with his principles To imitate his exact example, to copy his spirit to become like him. Did you catch that? Let me read it again because this is important this is what it is to put on Christ. To be clothed with a person is a Greek phrase signifying to assume the interest of another. Okay, suddenly I'm not cared about caring about my welfare. I'm caring about what he's caring about. To enter into his views. Okay, I don't look at the way things the way I would see them, I look at them the way he would see them. To imitate him, I'm going to act the way he would act. To be wholly on his side. I'm not over there with the enemy. I'm over here with the army of light. I'm 100% on his side. To be filled with his principles. Okay, the principles of Christ. To act according to his teaching. To imitate his example, to copy his spirit, to become like him. This mode of speech is taken from the custom of stage players As they assume the name and garments of the character they're portraying. Okay, a good actor, he becomes the person they're portraying. He takes their name He dresses with them as them. He speaks like them. He acts like them. Assumes the name, garments of the person whose character they are to act, and endeavors as closely as possible to imitate him in spirit, words, and actions. Thus, to put on the Lord Jesus Christ means to take him as a pattern and guide. To imitate his example, to obey his precepts, to become like him. In all respects, the Lord Jesus was unlike what he had specifically Had been specified in verse 13. Okay, what's verse 13 say there? Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness. Well Christ is nothing like the works of darkness. If we are going to act like him, the works of darkness have no part in that character. And verse thirteen, not not in rioting, drunkenness, chambering. You see, there's a total transformation of the person because we are putting on the Lord Jesus Christ. We are transformed by him. But it gets even better because the ancient Hebrews frequently talked about putting on the Shekinah. Well we understand the Shekinah glory of God. Putting on the Shekinah or Divine Majesty to signify the soul being clothed with immortality and rendered fit for his glory. Now, no sin can enter into his presence. But we enter into Christ by the robes of righteousness. Now think about it, folks. Adam in the garden. Was naked but clothed. He had no fabric upon his flesh But he was not naked. What was Adam clothed with in the garden? He was clothed with the glory of God. When Adam sinned, the glory of God was stripped from him. And now, rather than running to God for a walk in the garden, Adam hid himself. So what was Adam's solution? He tried to make a covering of his own. But he was still naked, even though his flesh was covered. And so what we find here is Paul saying, folks, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Take his righteousness to yourself. Christians, it's time to wake up and it's time to get dressed. It's time for the people of God to start living out the life of the Satan. It's time for the people of God to become that reflection of the divine glory. And so we find that it's time to get up. And it's time to get dressed. But the passage has one more. It's time to get busy. Look at verse 13. Let us walk honestly as in the day. Folks, you don't walk sitting down. You don't walk when you're idle. Let us walk. Christians are not supposed to be sitting around spiritually. Let us walk honestly in the day, not in riding and in drunkenness. Not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envy, but let us put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it. Folks, it's time for us to get busy. It's time for God's people to be act active, for some had not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Because Antichrists are all around us, and we're called to stand as the army of light to shine the light of Christ and to blind the enemy. With the glorious, glaring light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's time for us to get up. It's time for us to get dressed. And it's time for us to get busy So for the sinner, it is indeed time to repent. For Christ is coming. And some have not the knowledge of God speaking to our shame. For the backslider, it is time to repent. Folks, if you're lying around spiritually asleep, it's time to repent. If you're la lying around still dressed in the clothes of night, even though you've been redeemed, it's time to confess our sins. For he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And for the believer, it's time to get busy. In Luke 19, verse 13, we find this, and he called his ten servants. and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. Folks, we know the time. We know the Master's coming. We know the day of his coming is sooner than it was the day we believed. We know that Christ has given us a glorious alternative to the close of night, and Christ has given us his own example for us to follow. An army of occupation is awake, is dressed, and is busy because occupation is not an idle perception. And so, awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak to your shame. May we as Christians truly not be sleeping in the garden. May we as Christians not be wearing the clothes of this world rather than the armor of light. May we truly be clothed with Christ, and may we be busy about our masters. business. Father, we thank you for the beautiful practicality of the Word of God. We thank you, Lord, that it is fit to our lives. Lord, that you give us thy precepts and thy examples, things that are confusing to the world, but your people understand them by thy grace. Bless thy truth to our hearts. Forgive us, Lord, for sleeping on the job. Forgive us, Lord, for still wandering around in the pajamas of sin. Help us, Lord, to be clothed with Christ day by day and to be busy about the Master's business. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let's uh close with our final song of the Blue Song, Book 561. Five sixty-one, how gentle God's commands. Five hundred and sixty-one That's a reasonable thing to ask to get up and get dressed. He didn't say go climb the tallest mountain. He just get up and get dressed. 561. We'll sing all four stanzas. No children to go hut your comments out of his pretty sets Command your burdens. Bears all nature off from his children. Was your real mind and do your family? This way the sands are broken to I'm in, I'm in. That's a nice little sweet song. Yes, it is.