Um it offers us an opportunity to do a little bit of review, just very brief, and then getting into the next character in the Hall of Faith. Um Hebrews 1132 reads this, and then I'll get into our question. Hebrews 1132 says this. And what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak, of Samson, Jephthah, David also, Samuel and the prophets. Um that's quite the sweep and we're actually going to be in this first for a while. So my discussion question is this, in your mind, uh who are the she has a a a bulletin. Who are the great heroes of faith in your mind? Who are the great heroes of faith as you think back, either through what we've read or maybe someone that stands out to you Um who would you count as somebody who's a great hero of the faith? Billy Graham. Okay, Billy Graham, he was quite the evangelist. Uh the Billy Graham in the early days was quite good, yes. Miss Penny? Missionaries of the nineteenth century, Livingston, Hudson Taylor, Amy Carmichael, and Barry Splinter is always my area. Certainly from a foreign missionary. Uh other foreign missionaries who paved the way in incredibly difficult circumstances were quite admirable indeed. Yeah, they were great great heroes of the faith. Anybody else that comes to mind? Tyndale. Oh yes, Tyndale. Boy. You talk about a uh interesting fellow here going against the commandment of the law of the land and not put a Bible in English and I remember the account where he uh lost his most recent copy of the updates to the the translation at sea and had to start all over again. He was like 85% of the way through, something like that. And then painstakingly went through it all over again. Yeah. And much of the Bible in English that we read today is due to the work of Tyndale and he never got to see it completed. Yeah, he's a great one. Lisa, you had your hand up. Okay, so but I don't remember where I don't remember the who, but I just note that there were some missionaries that lost their lives. But um when they went into this Um Ecuador. Yeah. The Saints. Yeah. Saint Saint and Saint Jim Elliott. And Jim Elliott. I I read through Gates' Thunder sitting on my grandmother's couch when I was eleven. And it made a huge impression. I remember clearly sitting there for one afternoon, two afternoons, reading Yeah, what's really impressive is just I mean just the whole Saint and Elliot family and how the wives then go and the You know, these cannibalistic people don't attack the whites. You know, it's just astounding the inroads they've had, and they uh it turns out that that was a rich Christian harvest field. It really was Yeah, there it's it's quite spectacular. I go to scripture for mine and uh my favorite has always been Peter because he tried so hard, failed so often, but always got back up and kept going That's a really good person to consider, and I think it's a good segue into these next series of people we're going to read about. Now, the passage, thank you all for that. That's good. It gets you thinking as to maybe why you might have picked certain individuals. You you look back at the great deeds they've done and what they were able to accomplish. This is a very curious section, and I must admit over quote unquote vacation, more of a staycation, I did read ahead, but I I'm kind of stuck at that first phrase, and what shall I more say You know, holy rip does not have anything in it that is incidental or accidental. Some people have likened the Bible to trying to investigate a crime scene Where they go and they pick up all kinds of little bits and pieces of information, maybe even a cigarette butt, because that might contain saliva from which they can get the DNA of the murderer. And so no little pieces left unturned, but sometimes they pull up things like a Coke bottled cap that's useless. And some have described the Bible that way, that it just adds little incidentals in there that, you know, they just kind of grabbed everything. But You know, all you you can't strain at every word. I would disagree with that. I think you can. I think it's there, not by accident. It's there intentionally, and God is inviting us to consider this question. It's a hypothetical question. The Bible asks questions. And this is an interesting one uh excuse me a rhetorical question, what shall I more say? You know, you would expect him to say, I I can't say any more. I've said everything. But then he goes on to list these other characters. Why would he say, what shall I more say? Well, I think you would ask that because it would seem to me that the inspired penman of the book of Hebrews was simply telling us Just look back at everything we've already talked about. Look at all these different individuals. And so I invite you now to turn to your bulletin where I have a nice little table, which is where I spent the bulk of my time on the study giving you a summary of all the heroes of faith that we have so far covered and what their deeds were and what the faith lesson was. And so I went back through my notes and pulled it out and I hope you find this helpful. The first one mentioned was the elders. There was no specific deed mentioned, but it does show that, you know, that their good habits formed good character, and they ended up with a good role. Not the passing of time doesn't produce maturity, right? I mean there has to be some restraint of sin, some clean living. uh some guard over oneself. And of course, in this context here, somebody who continues to believe God. They would be representatives of their tribe. Abel, who offered a better sacrifice He had a brother who also offered a sacrifice. God didn't accept it because he offered the fruit of the ground. And the faith lesson there was that God accepts worship done his way. laying the groundwork that says, look, a lot of people try to come to worship God, but if you're not worshiping him in a way that he ordains or in a way that pleases him, it's not accepted. Not all worship is accepted. Just because somebody says Oh, this is a worship service. No, if you're bringing all the world's junk and thorns and thistles, God's not accepting it. He doesn't accept it. You find Enoch. He walked with God, and he was not, for God translated him, for he had this testimony that he pleased God. One of the few people in Scriptures that never physically died It says God translated him. He just took him straight to heaven. What a glorious way to go. Never feel the sting of death. God took him at a relatively early age of life at the age of 365. So you're a You'd be a spring chicken back in those days, Mrs. Ross. God rewards a pleasing walk that diligently seeks him. And so we see a tremendous reward there. Noah, boy, he's one of my favorites. Noah. the greatest engineer as far as I'm concerned of all time. He built an arc. He didn't have DeWalt power tools. He didn't have a Home Depot to go to. He didn't have contractors with cranes. He couldn't outsource the job to the Amish. He was it. He made the nails, he made the pegs, he made everything. He cut down the trees. That was a big job, a massive job, and it had to work the first time. He didn't have a template to go by. He had very broad, high-level instructions. And today believers are doing the same thing. We are building a spiritual house. We are calling people into that spiritual house. It's a big job It's taking a long time. We can't outsource the job. We can't think somebody else is going to do it for us. And we're bringing into it clean and unclean. Jews and Gentiles alike are coming in. And uh and so he's a tremendous lesson of faith. Abraham is one that's highlighted a couple of times, you know, leaving his country at God's call. Didn't have 401k plans back then. You left your country You leave your kin, your family, some of you have come from a different country. You know what it's like to leave a lot of family behind, the food you like, the environment you like, everything is different in this new place. They may not accept you. Um your honor may be lost. And so likewise we're strangers on sojourn to a celestial city. That's what Abraham looked for. A place whose builder and maker is God Himself. Sarah conceiving at an old age, and we looked at her and she was at one point laughing, mocking, shall She that is of old age, you know, have pleasure and bear a child, is that really gonna happen? She was uh quite old But no, God in fact can use the weak and elderly in faith. He can. You know, you can't say, well, I'm too old, I can't do anything. Nonsense. God doesn't think you're still here because you still have a job. And so when your job is finished, then he'll call you home. Abraham offering up Isaac, God's salvation being seen in the mouth of the Lord. What a tremendous command and difficulty Abram faced, a complete conundrum of God's commandments. Isaac, shall thy seed be blessed? Now go sacrifice him for an offering on the mountain. To him, God doesn't make sense. To him that just doesn't connect. That doesn't commute compute. And he reasons that Well, God tells me to kill him. I'm going to kill him, but God's going to raise him up from the dead, so I'm going to go forward with this. What a tremendous way of just not questioning God and just going forward. is certainly one that stands out. Isaac blessing Jacob and Esau. You know, Isaac was wealthy, inherited everything his father had. His dad made a little trip through Egypt, got a bunch of slaves, did quite well. He was very wealthy And he passed it all on to his only son, Isaac, what a great deal. And and uh and yet as a rich believer instead he passed spiritual promises to his heirs. That was the first thing he passed along, is the spiritual promises to him that was greater. and the treasures of the worldly goods. Jacob blessing Joseph's two sons. It's noted that he did this on his deathbed And that he worshiped on his deathbed. And so saints can even worship God in their death. That's very fascinating. It shows that he still believes God. Joseph, the great vizier, the great ruler of Egypt, second in command, who had rescued a great many people, including the Jews, of course, the Israelites He says, when I die, you pick my bones up and haul them out of here. Don't leave them behind in Egypt. And that's exactly what archaeologists have found in a very interesting uh site in the old land of Goshen, a place that appears to be a palatial estate that has a dozen tombs. uh of a family and uh one of them was very Egyptian-like, very notable, had a statue. Statuary uh is that of a Semite, not an Egyptian not an Egyptian, Semitic, of which Joseph would have been There's no bones there. There's bones of the others, but there's no bones in that one. That's exactly what we find in Scripture. His bones were carried up because he knew God would visit them. years later and take him out. And he wanted to leave a legacy that says, God will surely visit you. He didn't want his bones to stay behind. The parents of Moses. Anybody remember the parents' name of Moses? This is a pop quiz. Amram and Jochebed. Amram and Jacobed. We learn about that in the book of Exodus. They uh They hid Moses for three months. How many of you ladies have had a three month, three, three-month-old baby? Are they quiet or are they noisy? Do they demand a little bit of attention or a lot of attention? But you're a slave and you're living in a small house, and how do you hide an infant for three months as a slave when you're not in control of your schedule? Amazing how they did that. Just an amazing feat. And Christian parents it shows that they do what they can. trusting God to do the heart work, even of the king. And the princess came and had favor upon that infant. Again, Moses, who chose affliction with the people of God instead of the treasures of Egypt, here this guy is Again, second in command in Egypt, in line to be the next Pharaoh. Jewish history had that he had fought many of Egypt's wars down in the Ethiopian area Uh we we don't know that from scripture, but he was uh mighty in deeds, uh the uh book of Acts records. He had respect to God's rewards even if it meant exchanging power and riches for difficulty. That had to been a tough decision As a treasurer in church for over a decade, uh it's amazing how it's hard for people to to to get them to crack open their wallet and give more than twenty or thirty dollars Here Moses had far more than that. He did not tenaciously cling to that. He left it all behind. He said, nope, I'll choose affliction with these people. rather than miss out on God's reward. The Jews of the Exodus, they kept the Passover, the first one, passing through the Red Sea on dry land at night as well And teaching us that only the sacrificial lamb can prevent the angel of death from entering your house. You know, I didn't realize and I shared this that when they passed through the Red Sea it was at night. The glory of the Lord, that angel, was darkness to the Egyptians behind them in the in the Wadi, in the valley between these two mountains. He had them blocked in so they couldn't come around the side. But it was light to the Hebrews, and this wind blew all night long and it divided the sea. I don't know exactly how it worked, I think it was a miracle And it gave light to them to cross through the sea at night because it says in the morning they saw the Egyptian's dead body on the seashore. You ever try to walk through a swamp at night? How about uh deciding to go in the middle of an ocean where to the right and to the left it's a wall of water? That would be pretty ominous to me You look in, okay, where's the walls? There are no walls, Jeffrey. Trust me, they'll stay right in place. And the last you've checked water, it pretty quickly returns to where it's at. It was a tremendous act of faith for them to cross through And then after forty years of sojourn and it comes to Moses' right hand man named Joshua, they knock down the walls of Jericho. Jericho, a mighty city on the southern Canaanite border, a very impenetrable fortress, one of the oldest In continuously occupied cities with double walls and great steep entrance to it, it was impossible for anybody to get it. And yet lo and behold, walls fell. Out through what? The blowing of trumpets, the circling of the city. And the lesson here is that God conquers man's best defenses using the strangest of means. You know Man shaking his hand at God is like an ant getting angry at me on the patio for stirring up his nest. I'm really not concerned much about the ant. He doesn't really pose much of a threat to me at all. If he bites me, it's not even I don't even count it anything. It's nothing. It's i i in a moment he's obliterated. And his entire colony Well, then the last one we looked at was a disreputable character named Rahab the Harlot. She goes all throughout scripture with that name, Rahab the Harlot. You would think at some point That would get cut off that entitled that appendage might be Rehab the the the the grand uh mother of the father of David or something like that. No, she's known as Rahab the Harlot And she did not perish because she received the spies with peace. You know, even the worst of sinners who give it all up For Christ and his people and his kingdom can in fact gain a great reputation. She's no longer viewed negatively in Scripture. Oh no, she's viewed very positively. You know, so our verse started and we began down this path with the phrase, what shall I more say? So as you've reviewed this list, as we've looked at it together, let me ask the question, what is missing? To you, what faith lesson is missing in all these things? Is there something here that doesn't seem complete? Is there an example that we don't yet have? If you can't answer, that's okay. Neither could I. Because it's quite the healthy list, isn't it? A wide variety of circumstances. different people from the youngest to the oldest covering three months old up to Sarah at a great age to time of peace, to times of battle and war, to times of famine and good. You know, faith is applicable to all areas of life at all stages of life. There's never a time In life, when you can say, well, faith doesn't matter here. Faith can't help me in this situation. Well, you can't honestly say that. You really can't. Well, lo and behold, the Panman under Divine Inspiration continues on. And he says, for time would fail me to tell, and he lists a bunch of other people. Again, this is the book to the Hebrews, and if we were Hebrews, we might have heard some of these characters that we find in the book of Judges and in 1 Samuel. Certainly you and I have heard of David. And you might even be a little familiar with Samuel, but prior to today, how many have you even heard of or know what Gideon did in the scriptures? Or Barak He's an obscure character, and yet he's held up as a hero of faith. And we're going to look at each one of these fellows one at a time. If I can, I'll put two of them in a lesson. We'll see how it goes. But the first one is a fellow named Gideon. And Gideon is in the book of Judges. And so I would have you now turn to Judges chapter 6. I'm going to give you an overview briefly of the book of Judges as we look there. If you need a Bible, we've got one. Nassaba, could you hand her a Bible? Plenty of debt. Because in one fell swoop, Hebrews 11 covers highlights from these two books of Judges and 1 Samuel And uh, you know, the Holy Spirit has a start with Gideon. He appears in Judges chapter 6, 7, and 8. We're really going to look at portions of 6 and 7. Now it's interesting because the next fellow listed is Baric. He shows up earlier in chapter four. We'll come back to him. But there's one thing about the book of Judges you you need to understand is that it's weird. It's weird. It's weird because it's a nation that is beginning to form. There is no such thing as a strong central government. There are a bunch of Israelites. As long as they have faithful leadership, the people follow God. When the faithful leader dies, and by the time we get to these fellows, Joshua and the elders and all who had seen the great works of God previously have long since gone, and the people go drifting away. They go drifting away. They get into trouble. Midianites oppress them. Amalekites come. They become oppressed by their enemies. Philistines, you name it. They cry out to the Lord. God raises up a deliverer who incredibly, miraculously delivers them from their woes. There's a season of peace. Wash, rinse, repeat, the cycle continues. It just continues again and again throughout the book of Judges. Judges is an excellent example of what happens when you don't have enduring good and godly government. The people eventually just go a whorring and and going away. They tend to follow their leaders. And so God uh here is now going to raise up a very unlikely warrior named Gideon. So in the one of the earliest cycles, we encounter this fellow named Gideon. Now I'm not going to read through all of it because I do want to get to a couple of what I believe are key parts in here But in Judges 6, the first six verses, you can scan it if you'd like, the Midianites are oppressing the people of God. And there's no shortage of them. They're described as grasshoppers. If you've ever had a plague in your garden, mine this year received a plague, and uh they're called the spotted lantern fly. And they've all fallen upon Angela's beloved grapevine. Turns out to be one of their most favorite plants to eat. And eat they did. It started off with a wonderful uh horde of clusters and now I don't think you'd want to eat any of the grapes that came from it. They're just so eaten up by all these bugs. And the Midianites were no different. They were this herd of people eating up the people of Israelites' grain so that they couldn't even harvest from their own field. Can you imagine? You're in an agrarian society, you're trying to raise your crops, and then these horde of people who don't do any planting, don't do any tending, none of that, they come and chase you away and they take all the grain and food for themselves. You're just trying to survive at this point. It's very difficult. And that's where God encounters Gideon. In 7 through 10 of Judges 6, God sends his prophet. And he's going to reprimand them. You have not followed my ways. You have not cleared out the inhabitants of the land. Therefore this has fallen upon you. Repent. But I will relieve you. I will grant you a deliverer. But now we're going to read in Judges 6. We're going to read 11 through 16, and I'm going to get a reader. Let's go Judges six, eleven through sixteen, uh, if we can. And uh and uh If Joseph finds his place, I'll get him to boom it out for us here. This is an interesting section. I want to spend a little time in this, and I've got a couple of questions. My first question will be what in the historical account stands out to you So we're going to read Judges 6, 11 through 16. And there came an angel of the Lord and sat under an oak, which was an oathra. And pertained unto Joash the Abarazite, and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press and hid it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of hour. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord! If the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not our Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites And the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hands of the Binionites. Have I not sent thee? And he said unto them, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one. So again, my question here, what in this historical account stands out to you? What seems interesting or different? We're talking about the faith chapter and Gideon seems to have that he's hiding from the Midianites. He doesn't believe God's call or the guy can use him. Yeah, he seems to be pretty pretty timid, pretty fearful. He says, I'm the least in my father's house Um yeah, he's he's hiding because he's scared of the Midianites. Uh would you or I have done any differently? You know, frankly, yeah, if I were there. What is warning We we get warrant. We get worried quickly. He was certainly very worried and he had good cause to be worried. You know, he can't go out there, shake his rod at 500 Midianites saying, hey, get out of my field or I'll beat one of you with my stick. There's 499 that might have another opinion Yeah. You know, he's also very poor. He's lowly. He doesn't think he's got any resources to do it. And uh yet God comes and speaks to him. This is an interesting thing in Scripture, is that God could have spoken to the Midianites directly and said, uh You know, you're all dead if you don't depart by tomorrow. And plopped an angel in front of him with bright glowing wings and a flaming sword. He could have chased him away with an angel. He's got that tool at his disposal. He could very easily have done that. God could have caused an earthquake to have appeared that's right along the edges of the field of where the Jews were and the Midianites fall into this sinkhole and swallows them up and the earth closes back up. God could have done that God could have sent a bunch of hornets or bees or wasp. He could have hissed. They could have come and chased him out. There's no shortage of ways for God to do this. Again, that's like an ant shaking his fist at God. This is not a big deal for him. Why do you think he would choose Gideon? He chooses the weakness versus the weak. He works through the weak things just like us. His strength is made perfect in weakness. So the next time you see a Admonition or an exhortation from Scripture, go you into all the world, speak the gospel, share the Word of God with unsaved people. If you find yourself saying, Oh, but I can't Well, just know that when you say that, you're declaring yourself to be the perfect candidate. It's because you can't. That God is tasking you with the job. Remember Gideon. Remember Gideon. He was the perfect candidate. The cannot. God wants the can he uses that want. He doesn't need anything from us. He uses the can nots, the have nots, the want nots, the do nots. Those are the ones that he picks. The knots. We're a bunch of knotheads. That's the ones he picks. And that's the ones he uses And isn't it so godlike that if by chance rescue comes, well, who's going to get the glory? If it came through your hand, the one who was resistant, the one who said I can't, the one who said I don't have the means, who gets the glory? Well God does. Because look, I Your only testimony is I the least of my father I didn't even want to go. I you know I didn't, I didn't, but God, well that's the right testimony. That's what God's interested in God has not ordained that bees and wasps and earthquakes are going to be the means that God uses to glorify his name. Well What's also interesting, and I want you to pay close attention to verse 14, because I had not noticed this prior to preparing for this. Look at what God says. Let me read it again. The Lord looked upon him, him being Gideon, and said, Go in this thy might. Now Gideon just got done telling God, I'm the least in my father's house, I'm poor, what can I do? God says, Go in this thy might. And thou shalt save Israel. Well, to what was God referring? What was Gideon's might? Any ideas? Have not I sent thee? Have not I sent thee? God's sending was his might. God was the might be on the Yeah. Look also, that's correct. Look at verse 13 again as well, back up to the previous verse. Because what is Gideon's testimony? He says in the Lord, oh my Lord. If the Lord be with us, why is this befallen? Where are all his miracles? Now the Lord's forsaken us and delivered us in the hand of the Midianites. Was Gideon telling the truth? To a degree he was. Yeah, where is the miracles? God's forsaken us. There's a touch of faith in Videon in Gideon's declaration. There's a little element of faith in there because he's recognizing that God is the deliverer and the strong one, and he's not delivering right now. So there's a little spark of faith And God says, I've sent thee. There's a little bit of faith, and there's a commissioning of God, and that would be the strength. Those two. There was just enough faith He didn't say God has totally given us up and we're going to die and be consumed. No, he didn't say that. Well, the account continues on, and it's amazing because as was pointed out this is the Hall of Faith chapter, and yet we find a fellow that's very uncertain. He's so uncertain that we read in verses seventeen through twenty-four of the sixth chapter. He's so uncertain of his task and his commission that he asks for a sign. Does anybody remember the sign? It's called Gideon's fleece. A fleece, of course, is very soft wool, and it was a blanket of some sort. And he says, Oh Lord, I'm not really sure you've sent me. He just had God come and talk to him. Not sure what more you might need Well, he asks for a sign. He puts the fleece on the ground. He says, tell you what, Lord, I'm going to leave the fleece out. If the ground around it is wet with dew, but the fleece is dry, then I'll know. Sure enough in the morning, ground is wet, fleece is dry. Now, I suppose If I were Gideon, I'd be thinking, well maybe there's a property to fleece I wasn't aware of that it doesn't absorb dew in the morning, so let's swap this out here. Alright. If the fleece is wet and the ground is dry, then I know. He asked the Lord twice. For a sign, he wants some proof. That doesn't sound like great faith to me at all. That almost sounds like testing the Lord. But God suffered it, and lo and behold The fleece was wet. He wrung out a lot and the ground was completely dry. He said, okay, now I know. A little step up. A little bit of encouragement. Okay, I really have been commissioned. And then we get to 25 through 27 of Judges 6. And there God tells Gideon, Cut down these groves and throw down these altars of Baal. Starting with your father's house. You know, isn't it kind of difficult when you're young, living at home? That you're then being tasked with God to go throw down all your parents' religious articles and artifacts? That would be a little fearful, wouldn't it? You know, that that's kind of a little bold, and in fact, it was a bit much for Gideon. And uh he takes some friends with him and says, hey, let's let's go do this thing at night So at night he cuts down these groves. Apparently Israel liked to worship with all these big groves of trees. I guess there's nice shade there or whatever and fruit and looks nice. Cut all those down and knock down all the Baal statues. So he does this at night. And then in the morning when the men of the city discover it, they all come out and they go attack Gideon's father. Hey, do you know what your son has done? He's cut down all the the Baal idols. Bring him out so we can kill him. And surprisingly, his father defends him. He says, well, if Baal is God, let Baal defend himself. Then Gideon got a different name, Jerob, Baal, or something like that, meaning Baal will defend. He was afraid to cut down those idols. Now follow with me as we read in uh uh Judges uh uh uh uh 3633. Oh that was the the account of the fleece. I'm sorry. I read that too too uh too early Judges 6. 33 to 40 is the account of the fleece, but I want you to see now how he assembles this army. We're going to start picking this up now at um Yeah, verse uh verse 33. Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of East were gathered together, went over and pitched in the valley of Jezreel. So now it wasn't just a whole bunch of grasshoppers. The grasshoppers brought their friends the locusts, the Midianites and the Amalekites. So now it's even worse. But the Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon, and he blew a trumpet, and Abbeazer was gathered after him, and he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, so all of those local inhabitants were then turned into messengers to go out elsewhere in Israel to get more help. Throughout Manasseh was gathered after him, he sent messengers into Asher, Zebulun, and Nephtali, and they came up to meet him. And uh And so now he gathers, and he has this large army that's gathered together. And look now at chapter 7 and verse 1. Then Jerob Baal, who is Gideon, And all the people who were with him rose up early and pitched beside the well of Herod, so that the host of the Midianites from the north by the hill of Morah in the valley. The Lord said unto Gideon The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me. One lesson we get from this is that we as humans have very short memory. In time of great distress, oh, we're on our knees, we're just so pathetic, and we're just begging and oh help and the tears and the crying and woe is me, you know And then God delivers and then Pupson says, well that wasn't too hard. Look at that. Look what I did. That was great. Give him a big Opened up a canto, kick butt. That was great. Look at what I did there. And then we start boasting and bragging like we act like we really had something to do with this See, God has seen this again and again and again and again and again in human history and he tells Gideon, You got too many people. You've got too much. That's your problem. You ever have your bank account dry up? Have it get hit by something and goes dry? God says, well yeah, you just had too much money. And you're like, I'm trying to survive. You ever have your health disappear and vanish on you got some you have too much strength. And that's gonna disappear You have too many friends and too much popularity? It's gone. You have too much. You have too much. God insists he will be glorified. through you and in you. And he's not going to do it through human means. It's not going to be by a bunch of likes and popularity. It's not going to be by flesh of arm. It's not going to be by a lot of finances. It's not going to be a lot a lot of popularity and success. He tells Gideon, your army's too big. 20,000 fearful depart. He says to this in verse 3. Now therefore, Judges 7, 3. Now therefore, go to. Proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead. And their return to the people, 22,000, there remained ten. So we had an army of thirty thousand, he just lost two-thirds of it that were afraid. That would turn out to be a pretty good move. There is a thing in battle known as the confidence of the troops. If the morale is down, you're gonna lose. It just It just eats away at the fabric of the forces, and bad and poor morale spreads like wildfire. And the Lord said to Gideon, the people are yet too many. Bring them down to the water. I will try them there for thee. It shall be that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with we with thee. And whomsoever I say unto thee, this shall not go, the same shall not go. God picks our companions in battle. He's the one that picks the ones who are going to be joined with us in this business of sojourning. New Testament application. It's called the church. It's called the people of God. Well, we're not very big. We're kind of small. Perfect. You're the right size. But I don't have perfect. You've just declared yourself to be a suitable candidate. You see how God operates? It's not the way we like to operate We we want safety in numbers. That's not how God operates. He's got the whole chunk of the numbers 10 trillion plus two is a big number. God's got all that he needs. Well, he brings the people to the water. There's a curious test about how people drink from the water 300 passed the test. That's the size of his army of 300. And Judges 7, 9, Gideon himself is still a little afraid And in verses 9 through 18 he says, I want you to go down to the camp at night. And I want you to listen. Oh, I'm afraid. Well, take Fuhrer, your servant, with you. And they went down. And they just happened to go next to a tent Where two fellows are up at night and they're talking to each other and they're worried, man, I had a dream last night. A barley loaf came down and knocked over the tent. The other fellow said, I know what that is. That's the sword of Gideon. We're gonna get killed. Oh no. And he hears this. And he sneaks back up and he says, the Lord's given this to us. He's given it to us. They're terrified. They're afraid. And so he's going to rescue the people again by a very strange means. What does he have? Trumpet, a pitcher, with a candle underneath it, a lamp. And they're going to sneak in with their candle hidden. The light's not coming off. And he says, when I blow the trumpet, smash the lamp. The lights will light up and scream out the sword of the Lord of Gideon. That was an important thing to say Because that was the thing in the dream that scared them. And as soon as they did that, the Midi Knights freaked out. They're in chaos. They're in panic. They pick up their store sword and they start swinging it wherever, whoever, and they're killing each other. God does this a lot. He allows our enemies to self-destruct. You know, the wicked eat their own. And you see this again and again. And I'm sure you've got certain political examples in mind right now as they're destroying themselves. But this is how God operates. He lets you don't have to raise anything. The battle is the Lord's. He's the ultimate mind operator. But you've got to use God's message because it's aimed at the very critical weak spot that the enemy has. And if you do that, phenomenal success will come. And then we read that he destroys all of that Midianite camp, and then the end of chapter seven He destroys their deployed army, including two notable princes. And the eighth chapter records him continuing to pursue them all throughout the land Until they're gone. Complete and total victory. It was so effective that they even said, hey, would you be our leader? They wanted to promote him to a ruler. So What are the faith lessons that stand out to you from this account? You know, I'll just pause here for a moment after everything we've read. What are the things that left an impression upon you? Trusting God. Yeah. What's another good faith lesson? You don't need anybody but God. You really don't need anybody but God to get through whatever the difficulty is. Whatever his direction is. Whatever his direction is, yeah. What else stands out? God's balance of power is completely different than man's. Absolutely. Do not be afraid. Do not be displayed. The battle is not yours, but God. Hmm. Why does he tell us not to be afraid? Because we will be. Why does he tell us to not be dismayed? Because we will be. You know, the things that stood out to me, and I'll close with this, God insists on being the deliverer through weak people, even like you and me. I think you mentioned that earlier, Jeff. God can and will strengthen our faith if we ask him to. It's okay to ask for help. It really is okay I find that to be one of the effective tips in prayer. Lord, I fell back into this sin. I went back and did some things that the old man did. Lord, give me a hatred for that sin. I really I shouldn't have anything to do with it. Give me a hatred for that. You can pray that. The victory is ours if we follow God's approach. He and he alone knows how to win the battles. And the last point is God always gives the victory that glorifies his name. And so that's the account of Gideon, and he's included briefly in the Hall of Faith. Not for any one particular deed, but somewhat for the account of his deliverance of Israel as a judge. Well that's all for today. We uh trust that that would be helpful to you. Pastor, can you close us in prayer? For the accounts in your word which encourage us, which uh teach us that the arm of flesh will fail us, but the arm of the Lord is strong and mighty. We thank you, Father. that you have left us these these examples, Lord, these these um ones when we are weak that we can look to and say, well, you know, the Lord sustained him, and he will sustain me as well. Lord, bless this teaching to our heart, Father. I thank you, Lord, for a good group gathered here for Sunday school this morning. And Lord, may we indeed be hungry for thy truth. Lord, bless now and prepare our hearts for the service to follow. And Lord, may your word go forth in clarity, go forth to the instruction and teaching and admonition of your people. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.