Of the book of Hebrews. We are in Hebrews chapter 2, so if you will either open your Bible or turn to the inside of your bulletin where I'm putting the Sunday school notes. I hope you find that helpful Cuts down on the printing. I just have to print one thing, not two. And uh we're going to kind of break this down into uh several parts. I'm only going to cover the first three two and a half part of the third verse today. I would say that of all of the passages I have looked at so far in Hebrews, this section has probably been the most impactful to me. They say the teacher gets the first blessing, and indeed because you're the one that goes through it and does the digging, that you begin to get some insights. And uh I'd like to start with Hebrews 2. I'm going to read 1 through 3 just so we have the passage in front of us. So you'll know what I'm talking about. Hebrews chapter 2 and the first three verses. If you need a a backup Bible, there's one over here. That's a psalm, if you need a psalm book. Victoria will bring you a Bible here just shortly. Hebrews chapter 2 and the first three verses, we got a Bible coming around here. That's great. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard. Lest at any time we should let them slip. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, And every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense, a repayment, a reward How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him I'm only going to go through the end of verse 3. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Alright. Anytime you see the word therefore in the scriptures, there's a good question you can ask yourself. Does anybody know what that question is? It's very helpful. What's the therefore? Therefore. It's an easy one to remember. What's the therefore, therefore? Therefore is a concluding point, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Therefore, some other thing. And it's a good time to stop and to reflect why it's there. To do that, we have to consider what we've learned from the first chapter. So let me just give a succinct summary of what we learned from chapter one, because he says, therefore, well, we might have forgot Therefore, we have learned that the Son has come and spoken unto us. Pretty straightforward. He came after a long line of prophets, spoke to our fathers He is the heir of God, angels or not. He is the brightness of his glory. Angels are not. He is God's very character. Angels are not. He is the first begotten. Angels are not. Jesus is not an angel. He's far better than angels. That was pretty heavily emphasized. He upholds all things by his power. This whole creation, everything you see Including angels. He created the host of heaven. Angels just occupy it. He has a more excellent name than angels. He receives worship, even from angels, and he rules on God's right hand. Angels are but court servants, and it is their duty and job to glorify him So that's what we've learned from that first chapter. That was the huge summary point, if you will, of that first chapter. What do you suppose then when we read this word therefore? So what is the first chapter now in your own words? What is Hebrews 1 really emphasizing? What is it really emphasizing? From what I've just told you. The supremacy of Christ? The supremacy of Christ? Yeah, all right. How else would you phrase that? I'm just looking for your ideas. How are you to explain? How would you explain it to somebody? Nobody else. No one else. No one else is like Jesus. Yeah. Right. He's very unique. Yeah, that's good. I like that. Hadn't thought of that. That's really good. See, I get ideas from you too. I'm not always the professor asking a question and looking for a specific answer and there no one's a no one's gonna everyone's afraid to answer because they may fail. No, I actually get some good feedback from From you as well. There's no one else. Uh I I kind of spun it this way. Because Jesus is better, we better listen. Because Jesus is better. We better listen. He is better. He's better in so many ways which no one else. He's supreme. He's high and exalted. Well, um, this argument of chapter one from power to extraordinary power, from the lesser to the greater, is a common one that's used not actually, it's actually not that common. It's not commonly used in scripture If you look at your bulletin, we have an argument from the Apostle Paul as he writes to Titus in Titus chapter 1. The opening verses read like this. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledging of truth, which is after godliness, in hope of eternal life, kind of here's the punchline. Which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began, but hath in due time manifested his word through preaching. So here he's reaching back to an old promise and coming forward to now. So that's the closest analogy I could find in scriptures of this type of argumentation where there's a comparison between this thing in the past, this thing which is older, this thing which is inferior, to Jesus Christ, who is predates that, who is greater than that. This is kind of the closest I could find. So the book of Hebrews is very unique in this line of argumentation. Now we get to the next part. We've covered therefore. Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed. Now you will notice in your uh we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard. And also look at verse 2. Where it says, for if every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense, a reward. Oh, this is where it kind of got exciting for me. So in your handout, you'll notice that some words in the verses are embold. And they have a little asterisk next to them. That's because I'm going to give a little bit of insight into the underlying Greek meaning. This is where it kind of exploded in my face. It was really quite impressive here We ought to give the more earnest heed. Let's kind of drill into that a little bit. You can put a dash between more earnest. It's really one word in the Greek. And it really means to go further than necessary. to to be super abundant, to go beyond measure. You know, in the uh Middle Eastern culture, uh, when they serve you dinner, and it's true to this day Even my mother-in-law, when she feeds me, you know, she's not a sandwich. It can't just be a sandwich. It's a lot of food. It's super abundant. It goes beyond measure. It's just Very gracious and you know what I'm talking about, Carol, right? That's the it's it's a complete embarrassment to have, you know, some plate empty, right? There's got to be all kinds of overflowing food. That's the idea here the the more earnest heed. We have to be superabundant. And heed, taking heed, means to hear, to listen, to pay attention to, all right? We have to give a more earnest heed. And then the flip side, in chapter 2 and verse 2, it says If every transgression, uh if the uh word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience. Now that's interesting It says transgression and disobedience. Well those are kind of the same thing, aren't they? You transgress, you disobey. I'm sure Elias, when you know something comes up. I know he's such an angelic looking child, but I'm quite sure that in the privacy of the home when no one else is looking, a little bit of mischievous activity might come forth and is that a disobedience or is that uh uh uh uh a transgression? Uh you know what's the hair splitting here? Well it turns out that that word disobedience is quite interesting Because this is I've I've heard that Hebrews is an excellent uh oratory in classical Greek. It is some of the finest Greek literature you'll ever find. I don't read Greek, but from everything I'm seeing in the English so far, certainly gives Character to that, that word disobedience, get a load of this. This is amazing. It has the sense of hearing amiss. Disobedience here has the sense of I was hearing amiss. Alright? So you parents know what that's like. Tell the child don't touch this or whatever, and they touch it. Well didn't you hear me? Isn't that one of the first things? Didn't you hear me? Weren't you listening? Or um you you instruct them to go do such and such and they totally mess up the job and and they did part part of it right and part of it wrong. Didn't you hear me correctly That's the sense of disobedience here. It's actually not the routine word for disobedience. It has to do with the sense of hearing amiss. You heard them wrong. And you might say, well, wow, how is that the case? Well, we're going to see some examples where some who heard amiss received punishment from the angels. Suffice to say, what he's saying here is because of these things, because of the supremacy of Jesus Christ, because of how Superabundant, excellent he is, you ought to give superabundant, excellent listening to what he says. You ought to be more attentive. Give me some examples where you have highly attentive listening. What are some situations in life where you really pay attention? Interview? A job interview, yeah, right. You're going in for a job interview, you've read up on the company, you've read up on the job requirements, you looked at what they're paying, uh where it's located at And you want to know, do they like me, do I like them? Kind of all antennas are out. You're looking for verbal cues, nonverbal cues. To interact. Alright, that's a good example. Interview. You really are you gonna fall asleep in an interview? That's probably a career-limiting move, right? What are some other examples and situations in life where you're really going to pay attention? Like uh when you have a prognosis of you may or may not have cancer, you've done some scans, and now you're going to listen What's what's the doctor gonna say? Yeah. What's uh what what condition do you have? Yeah, yeah. You're worried about some lump or some pain that you've got and they get the MRIs and the x-rays and there's a bunch of Menanginona, whatever strange medical terminology, yeah, you're laughing at me because it's like there's no such thing as I know that, but that's what it looks like to me. And so I'm trying to understand what this stuff means and you're gonna sit with a doctor, well is it serious? Yeah, you're not gonna Conch fall asleep in the middle of the diagnosis. What's some other time you're gonna pay attention? He pretty much said it. I was gonna say when the doctors said Funny what they're gonna do to your knee. Yeah, when they tell you what you're gonna do you Yeah, you're kinda entrusting the care of your body to him. He's gonna put you under and when you're under I'd kinda like to know what he's gonna do. Yeah, being attentive. Yeah. But an example of being extra attentive. Uh Victoria had her hand up. Thank you. That's a good one. When you recite your marriage Oh yeah, right. Yeah, no chance the bride's gonna fall asleep then. Okay, well we're getting to that, obviously. Yeah, obviously we should be. Uh you're a good Christian girl in a Christian family, yes. You gave the right answer. Five stars for Miss Penny Myston's gonna be a five star. So I guess compared to yours it's like two stars. No, it's okay. At work when your boss is giving you instructions on What do you want it done and how you want it done, you're gonna listen. Well that's because you're a good employee. I wish all my employees were like that. I give instructions and I'm not sure they really followed through. I can think of some that didn't really pay attention. Let me give a totally different one. And I'm glad none of you thought about this, probably because uh you've never been in this situation. You're sitting, you're accused of a serious crime and you're in court, and the judge is going to read the sentence that the jury just came back with Think you might pay attention to that? You might want to pay attention. What am I going to get? Your glued, your focus. Folks, that's what it's supposed to be. With the hearing of the Word of God. Because it's not a vain thing. It is your life Your very future hangs on it. Your well-being hangs on it. Your sustenance in the battle of life hangs on it. Do you see that? Look at it again with that understanding. Therefore, because of who Jesus Christ is, because he has received a more excellent name than angels. We ought to give the more earnest, the super abundant, the above and beyond heed to the things which we have heard. We've really got to pay attention. We've got to tune up the game. How do we apply this practically in our lives? What is a practical way of applying this? So let's say the doctor appointment. Are you going to be late for the doctor appointment? Probably not. The marriage. Well, yeah, you can be late for a marriage. The boss wants to give you some instructions. Hey boss, I'll be there in an hour or two. No, he's set a time. What are some practical ways that we are going to give the more earnest heed To the things which we've heard, to the things which Christ has spoken. What are some practical ways? So we do do practical I mean we give more attention to the people around us. We are on time on that, but we're not with God. We're not attentive to him. Oh that's a good comparison. Right. Are we more attentive to boss or other people as opposed to the hearing and speaking of the Word of God, right When we really want to hear something we have to turn off the noise around us. Okay. Yes, yeah. Setting that alarm clock early to allow for traffic. I mean, you're gonna hear, Thus saith the Lord. That is, if you're in a faithful church that's gonna declare, Thus saith the Lord. And if you're going to church where they're gonna tell jokes for the first five minutes, be late. It's all right. You don't miss anything. Right? He's a joker, but not Jesus. We ought to give them more earnest heed. And so, yes, there's I I learned just as a tip for young parents growing you know with children, I'm sure you already know this India, but the battle For church services to be able to show up dressed, fed, content, ready to listen. That battle to make that happen starts Friday night. Because if I don't start to plan Saturday carefully and don't get overworked on Friday so that I get up too late on Saturday and the mountain of stuff I wanted to accomplish on Saturday just spills over so that by Sunday morning I'm totally wiped out? Oh no. You can't recover from that. The battle for church on Sunday morning, at least my experience, began on Friday night This is all practical ways to give heed, to to enable. Because see the devil will trip you up. He's going to throw roadblocks in there. He's going to throw all kinds of things in there. Because he didn't want you to hear what God says. He doesn't want you to hear it because he knows God's word is powerful and effective to his children. It's medicine, it's health, it's honey, it's energy, it's everything. It's vital it's water, it's oxygen, it's their life And so he's going to do everything he can. And he's got a lot of little stupid helpers out here to just throw all kinds of roadblocks in the way. And you've got to fight past those. It can come from unsaved family. It can come from unsaved co-workers and bosses. It can come from some nut job driving down the road who's not paying attention to where he's going. It can come from you name it. We have to enable that so that we can give earnest heed and hang on these words. And this book is very different. It's a very different book. So that's one thing that comes through This point of taking heed to the Word of God, and here's your first fill-in-the-blank, is that it is admonished in the Old Testament. And there's a lot of verses of scripture that we find for this. This is nothing new, frankly. Because this is the word of Christ in the old and the word of Christ in the new, though they did not know him by the name Jehovah. Deuteronomy four twenty-three Take heed unto yourselves lest ye forget the covenant You see, if you're taking heed to something, you're going to remember it. I heard it. I ex distinctly remember that. You husbands know what that's like when your wife tells you, no, I distinctly remember telling you, don't put my plastic lids in the bottom rack of the dishwasher. You're busted. Deuteronomy thirty two forty six, Moses said unto them, set your hearts unto all the words Let me repeat that. All the words which I testify among you this day, which ye shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law. Verse 47, I don't know if I got it in your hand out or not, for it is not a vain thing for you. This is not a vain thing. You can't look at this book tie and say, well, yeah, this is, you know, what what profit is this? It's I'm not saying you ever said that to me. I know you never said that. But it's not a vain thing. It's not a vain thing, right? And David said this to his son, Solomon, thou shalt prosper if thou takest heed. Again, that heed, hearing, if you take heed to fulfill the statutes and judgments which the Lord charged Moses with concerning Israel. So God was faithful through the lineage, so that father to son Anton told Elias, son, you have to take heed. Listen up, boy. If it's daddy talking, it's one thing, but I'm giving you thus saith the Lord. You must pay attention to that. You can disagree with Daddy and receive something. But you can't disagree with thus, saith the Lord. Again, Solomon got it, he said in Proverbs. And again, it's not only to the son of Solomon, but to you and I today, my son, listen to all the the the nouns, uh verbs. Attend to my words. Incline thine ear into my saying. You know what incline your ear is? I'm unfortunately a product of the 80s and the music of the 80s and as an unsaved individual, the 70s and 80s, and really my soul latched on to that garbage And it's sad, but I'll go into a dentist's office and they'll be playing music for my and my ear is inclined under that. I know every guitar riff. I know the words that are coming back. It just pulls it and then I gotta try to figure out how to get this junk out of my head. God says, incline your ears unto there ought to be thus portions of Scripture that you're just inclined to want to hear. Oh yes, tell them to me again. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thine heart. You get this sense of you're just infatuated with it. Brother Bernie used to say, my mentor, people can be a fan of everything except the Bible. They can be fanatics of football. A bunch of thugs running around tackling each other chasing a piece of leather on the field. They can be fanatics about that. They can be a fanatic about, you name it, uh all kinds of goofy things people can get caught up in. But God says, yeah, you need to be taking heed to this because it's your life. This concept that was admonished in the Old Testament still continues through in the New Testament. It's repeated in the New. That's your next spill in the plane. Jesus said to his disciples, let these sayings, I like this phrase, let these sayings sink down into your ears. I like that. Sink down. They've said the farthest distance in any kind of ministry of the word is from the head to the heart. It's got to go from up here. It's gotta sink down. Into your ears, all the way into the heart. Matthew 17, the Lord Jesus is standing on the Mount of Transfiguration with three of his disciples Moses and Elijah appear unto him in a cloud, and then a voice booms out. It says, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye, meaning y'all, all of you, hear ye him Not Moses, not Elijah, not that we ignore them, but you need to hear, you need to pay the more excellent, superabundant heed to him. I think you're getting that. It's emphasized again. There's something weightier in Jesus' teachings, both in the gospel and the luter later New Testament books. You're next to in the blank. It's emphasized over and above the Old Testament. Later in Hebrews, this point is foot-stomped. God is going to make sure we don't get it Listen to Hebrews 10, 28 and 29. He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who has trodden underfoot, the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has done despite to the Spirit of Grace. You see the comparison? In the days of Moses, if you despised his law, if you went and picked up sticks on the Sabbath under the old covenant He didn't know what to do with this fellow. God says, oh yeah, he violated my Sabbath, still him the stones that he dies. Joshua's going in, says, destroy everything. Achan said, no, I'll hang on to a few things. He despised the word He was taken out and killed. And then Israel had a victory. He that despised Moses' law, you know, one way to despise it is to hear it amiss. Oh, I thought you said this. Is to, well, I know you said this, but I want to do that. Under Moses' dispensation, that's how they were handled. He says, and so how much worse do you think it'll be for those who despise the words of Jesus in the New Testament? He says it's very serious. It's a very serious thing. You see, God is very enamored with the work of his son, and what the son says, God thinks matters. And it is very important. So here's what we're trying, and in Hebrews 12, 25, see that you refuse not him that speaketh. And that's a marvelous passage in Hebrews 12. Well, in verse 1 uh and three is what we're trying to prevent. It says, lest at any time we should let them slip. Um that word slip, that's the only time this word is used in the New Testament, this particular Greek word, and it means to To carelessly pass, to just let it slip by. I'll be going down the sidewalk. I I I'm I'm a kind of a fanatic for trash. If I see trash, I like to pick it up and clear it, especially on the property. See something that's supposed to be pick it up. Just pick up the trash. Just deal with the trash quick. I'm going by the sidewalk, see a piece of trash, not my property. Just going to pass by. Jesus, don't let these words just pass by. There's even a hymn we sing, O Gentle Savior, pass me not by. We don't let these things just carelessly glide by, just slowly like you're in a canoe and some trash just floats next to the boat. You don't want to let them slip. And it says in chapter 2 and verse 3 again, how shall we escape if we neglect so a great salvation? This is what we're trying to avoid. Don't let it slip, don't let it pass by. And don't neglect. So great salvation. Neglect is to make light of. To make light. To regard it not. Oh, that's just the words of of Jesus. That it was written later. They invented this. I don't think it's anything important. That's what it is to make light of it. You know what would you say are the impacts of those? And I'm really going to aim right now at those in leadership positions. And I'm thinking mostly outside of Mission Bible Church for the moment, although what I say is relevant to us as well. He says we should not let any Of these New Testament words, especially. Don't let them slip on by. Don't be careless. Don't count them as a thing of not. What does it say to those who are using a counterfeit Bible? Or they drop a lot of God's scripture. What does it say of them? Do you think they're guilty of letting it slip on by? Yeah, I think they are. What about those who who uh one one time uh one of the favorite passages my wife likes to use is John 14, 6 when people of a different religion. She loves to target Muslim women because she can evangelize them here in this country. You can't do that in their country. You're gonna face a much greater penalty. So she'll go to them She'll give them passages and or offer them a track. Sometimes they'll make the claim that all roads lead to God. She says, no. John 14, 6. Jesus says, I am a way. The way. A truth? The truth. A life? The life. No man, some people, no man comes to the Father but by me. What do you say for them who ignore that? You gave a witness to them, and they count it in the light thing. They disregard it No, my you have your truth, I have my truth. They they disregard that. What does that what does that say for them in light of what you read here I think the answer is obvious. It's a grievous thing. Don't let that slip away. They're neglecting it. You can't, you can't. God does not take his word lightly So there's a positive thing for a believer. No amount of witnessing is ever wasted. If you're providing someone the words of Jesus and you think, boy, I really lost that argument with so-and-so because All I could think of was just this one verse of scripture. Huh? Hold on. You gave them, thus saith the Lord. You gave them a passage of God's holy word to them, and they rejected that? They didn't stop, they didn't give it superabundant heed to consider the things which were spoken. They rejected that You won the battle. You won the battle. It's bad on them. And God says every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account. in the day thereof, in the judgment. They'll have to give account of that. I because when I called, see that's you calling. You gave them, thus saith the Lord. That's God calling through you. You're the channel. When I called You refused and would none of my reproof. It's a reproof to them. No, but Scripture says this. They dismiss it. Ah! God called and they refused. God doesn't take it lightly. Neither should we We we almost need to treat this. How many of you remember the silly character from cartoons called Superman? I just remember as a kid that there what was the one thing Superman couldn't stand? Kryptonite, some mysterious mythical nonsense. I'm sorry to totally pollute an excellent study with something as stupid as that. This is even more powerful than kryptonite. This will drive men into hell if when they hear, thus saith the Lord, they don't repent. The king of Assyria got it. Jonah came through, yet 40 days and God destroy you. The king went, ah, I mean his hair went white. I mean I'm just making that up. But I mean he just absolutely panicked And said, we've got to repent, man and beast, declared a nationwide fast. Who can tell that God will relent? He took the word of that prophet deadly seriously, and it spared the nation. So it's not the volume of words you give or whether you can win a logical argument rhetorical argument with somebody. If you're coming with us, saith the Lord, and it's a word fitly spoken in due season, the bat is on them. Their onus is to listen and take more diligent heed. So that's the part that really hit me this week. And I I if you walk away with nothing else, I hope that really grabs you. Alright, we're going to kind of take a little bit of a rabbit trail and a detour in this section because It is a section of scripture that I haven't really thoroughly exhausted to try to give an answer to, and it's this very phrase in the second verse that says, if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, dot dot dot, the word spoken by angels. Hmm. All right, what's going on there? Well, that word word is the word logos, so you begin to think, huh, okay, what do we have about this? And then there's other passages in Acts Engulations that kind of connect angels with the giving of the law, and you kind of scratch your head and say, um Did angels give the law of God? I thought the Ten Commandments began with, and God spake all these words, saying I mean it's God that spoke from the mountain, right? So what is this word given by angels? So uh I think the context, and this you've got several checkboxes here. The context helps us a lot. Are we talking about spiritual creatures? Are we talking about a human messenger? You know, John the Baptist was referred to as an angel. Um John, you can compare John excuse me, Matthew 1011 with which is quoting from the Old Testament. Rahab's two spies were called angels in James 2. Sometimes it does talk about human messengers, pastors in the seven churches of Revelation. to the angel of the church and so and so. Could be them. Occasionally refers to God himself, especially if he receives worship. Abram and Mount Moriah, uh the angel that was in the mount. If you compare Genesis 22 with John 8 Jesus makes it pretty clear, yeah, that was God in the mount. But the context really seems to indicate that the angels mentioned here are those spiritual creatures I I don't think we can make them out to be prophets or God Himself. Can't be God Himself because He's comparing and lowering angels to the words of Jesus. So it won't fit that context. And I think the word doesn't mean the entire Bible. I just think it means when an angel talks, his word had weight, not that we received this entire book from the mouth of an angel. And we're going to get into some more verses to explore that. So what are some instances of that? I'm going a little out of order here, so let me back up and go to go in my order here. We do find out that angels were in fact present at Mount Sinai. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank. So for instance, we go to Deuteronomy 33 and verse 2. That's your next verse in your handout. And it says, Moses said, the Lord came from Mount Sinai. And rose up from seir unto them. He shined forth from Mount Peran, and he came with ten thousands of his saints, that were holy ones. Ten thousands of his holy ones. That wasn't the resurrection. You didn't have a bunch of Old Testament dead believers gathered there. His from his right hand went a fiery law for them, that is the people of Israel. Acts 68 excuse me, Psalm 6817 rounds that out more when you compare the two. The chariots of God are twenty thousand Even thousands of angels, the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, as in the holy place. So it's pretty clear that angels were in fact at Mount Sinai One of the things you read that angels do is they can blow trumpets. And what do you hear at Mount Sinai? When the sound of the trumpet waxed longer and louder, so certainly there were trumpets blaring. And of course if you got a bunch of angels wailing all on a trumpet. I imagine it was mighty loud. They said the ground shook, the people quaked, of course the mountains on fire and smoking. So yeah, I believe angels were present at Sinai Now the commentators are a little odd on this because it says if the word spoken by angels, we're trying to explore that. John Gill in one place says, well, it was the law given by angels. But then later in Acts, in in the book of Acts, he says, well, it was not the law given. He flips on his position on that. He hadn't integrated the two views on that, which I found to be unusual for Dr. Gill. But angels help set the arrangement for the law. That's your next fill-in-the-blank. He helped set the arrangement the angels set the arrangement for the law of God. I don't think they were the mouthpiece. I think they were there helping to arrange it. Now why do I say that Well, this is now where we look at Stephen's recounting of this in the book of Acts. You know, he was uh the first deacon. He was full of the Spirit of God, and he was no theological slouch. For a first example for a deacon, you don't get somebody who's a novice in scriptures, because Stephen had the Old Testament down pat. He had it cold. And so as he's recounting this, bear in mind people are around him with ever-increasing scowls on their face, looking for rocks, because they don't like what he's saying. He's just going on and on and on, and this dear brother, and Saul of Tarsus is among that group, staring him down. He says in Acts 7. 35, as he points out the rebellious nation of Israel, how they've always rejected the Word of God, he says, This Moses, whom I'm in Acts 7. 35, it's in your handout. This Moses, whom they refused. saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge? The same, meaning Moses, did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer? Now notice this, by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush. So there was a bush that burned with fire. And then a voice spake to him out of the bush. Okay, maybe that's God. And then you read in verse 38, this is he, it's a capital he It's Jesus, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him. So apparently at Mount Sinai, God had a cohort, an angel. And an angel there There's an angel at the burning bush, God speaking, but there was also an angel of the Lord that went throughout and among them. And that's so godlike You think God's going to leave the whole retinue behind? I mean, even when uh uh Naaman the Syrian came, he came with some of his servants and his choice warriors. Why wouldn't God do the same? He doesn't need a lot. I mean, one angel is more than sufficient The return of Christ is accompanied by angels. Yes, he's always surrounded by angels, as it were. They are just his his attendants. Then we read in thirty-eight. Oh yeah, we have already covered thirty-eight. This was he which is with the angel which spake to him in the Mount Sinai, and with our fathers who received the lively oracles to give unto us Act seven fifty-three, our fathers received the law. Now this is an interesting word. It's bold again because I'm going to tell you a little insight into it. Received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it Now that word disposition, there's a same cognate. That means the base word, like arrange or arrangement. It means an arrangement here. It was given by the arrangement of angels. It doesn't say by the voice of angels It's by the arrangement. They have disposers. They arrange things. They kind of coordinate and make things happen. They set the stage, if you will. And certainly they were present blowing the trumpets. Galatians three nineteen, the apostle says this, Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions Till the seed, now that's Christ, should come to whom the promise was made. And it was ordained, that's that word dietasso. The other one was deotage, arrangement. It was ordained or arranged, set in order by angels in the hand of a mediator. So they were the arrangers. They were the setters in order. They were used of God in the deliverance of it. But they weren't the mouthpieces. I don't believe they were. I can't I I don't have enough scripture support to justify that. That language just isn't there Now, what's the point of all this? Well, he says that the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and if you transgressed, if you disobeyed, if you heard amiss, that received a just recompense. Well let's look at some examples of when that happened. There's an angel that told Manoah, he says, Of all that I said unto the woman, let her beware. So here the angel tells him, Noah, I'm, as it were, I'm a servant of God. I'm a servant of the king. I came down from heaven and I'm here to give you a message. Angel also means messenger. And it's interesting sometimes if you do look at where the Bible uses the word angels, just kind of in your mind flip it and use the word messenger, and you might get a little extra insight into that. Sometimes it's insight into the role of the prophets, of the believers. For the most part, when you find the word translated angels, it really is referring to a spiritual creature. For the most part, it really, really, to a high degree. There's nothing wrong with it. I'm not saying you should unilaterally flip it. But it is interesting if you do that. An angel told Balaam, only the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. He told Balaam, You don't go beyond what I'm saying. And isn't that so true for believers? We're ambassadors for Christ. We're not diplomats, because diplomats compromise. An ambassador is just here to deliver a message. He can't change it. I'm just here to deliver a message. You don't like the message? Don't shoot the messenger. So you better hope you're not being asked to deliver something to the Greeks. Yeah, they didn't like the messengers Now, Zacharias, here's another famous example. Do you remember when Zacharias is in the temple? This is in the days in the very opening book of Luke, Luke chapter 1. Here's Zacharias, he and his wife Elizabeth, they're old, got no kids. They've been praying to the Lord for all these years. What happens? Zacharias is busy about his job, and poof, here comes an angel. And he gives them a glorious prophecy that his wife will conceive and bear him a son, and you're going to call his name John Zacharias is stunned, and he says, Well, how am I going to know that? The angel said, All right, because you doubted me, you're going to be dumb until the day that child is born. Zacharias had the most glorious sign he could imagine. When do angels appear on your job? Is that an everyday occurrence? No, it's not. He just had a huge sign from heaven. An angel popped up and said, Hey, here's what's going to happen. Really? How do I know? What do you mean? How do you know? I'm here! And so he even just doubted. He just gave a slight doubt as to what the angel was saying. He says, You're struck dumb. That's interesting. Angels have the power to do that. At Sodom and Gomorrah, they smote the men at the door with what? Blindness. You can be blinded by an angel. You can be shut down by an angel. They have that level of power. Now we're not here to worship angels because we've just covered in Hebrews 1, oh, he's so much more better than angels. But if the word of an angel, which is more powerful than any American president Which is more intense than any world ruler throughout world history. If it's that level of intensity, do you see why then he says, therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed? to Jesus Christ, because he's arguing to a far more superior and weightier word. When you hear, thus saith the Lord, you can't kick against it. If you don't understand, you can pray. I don't understand. Give me understand, right? You can search the scriptures diligently. You can use the means available to you. But you can't say that makes no sense. I don't accept it. Woo! You're treading on dangerous ground. You're walking on a bare electric wire. You're really doing something very foolish. You cannot do that. And young ministers, I would encourage you, anytime you're preparing a message. Don't come in with your own ideas and try to force fit it in the scriptures. You can't do that. You've got to go and let God speak to you And you've got to let him give you a message. You've got to let him give you from his word what he wants you to speak. And you've got to make sure you're on solid footing. Solid footing. We have electrician here. People have lived their life with that. What happens if you wire things up wrong? In an instant it's not good. It's never a good outcome. So you don't want to wire up the scriptures wrong with your own understanding. You've got to let God speak to you that way. Alright, well that closes it for now. If the so the main point for today, if disobeying a messenger from heaven has significant ramifications. Then how bad must it be to ignore the message of Jesus Christ in the New Testament? How bad can that be? So I I love that you brought in the Deuteronomy 32 passage, and it's something I've never really contemplated before. But there it's referred to as the fiery law. And here the author is the human author is writing to the Hebrews who had such respect for the law and the contrast there that you know if you obey that then how much more this words. Oh, this really hit me heavy with that impression. Very heavily hit me with it. Anton, would you close us in prayer, please? Father in heaven, we look to you, Lord. Um we're uh unworthy to receive your word and to uh have any kind of understanding, oh Lord. We pray for your understanding and pray that you would uh make us and keep us diligent in taking heed to your scripture, and taking heed to what Christ has said. And he he's uh far better, far above the angels. And um yeah, please Lord, help us to hear him as as the Father has commanded. Pray you uh continue to guide us and uh please Lord bless this uh time of coming in the service and worship of your holy son. Pray this all in Christ's name. Amen.