Open your Bibles with you this morning, please. For the 80th Psalm, the hymns this morning were all very appropriate to that which we're going to endeavor to consider together this morning. This Psalm 80 is a psalm of prayer But it's a prayer of repentance. It's a prayer of crying out to God for the turning and the restoration. of his people. I'm going to read all 19 verses as we begin once you have your place in Psalm 80 The eightiest Psalm beginning with verse one. To the chief musician upon Shoshan M. Udus A psalm of Abath. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a Flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth. Before Apriam, Benjamin And Manasseh, stir up thy strength and come and save us. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Thou feedest them with bread of tears, and givest them tears to drink in great measure Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Turn us again, O God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt. Thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it Thou preparest room before it, and its cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like unto the goodly sea Cedars. She sent out her boughs under the sea and her branches unto the river. Why hast thou broken down her hedges, so that they which pass by the way do pluck her? The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beasts of the field doth devour it. Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven, and behold, and visit the sky. vine, and the vineyard which thy right hand has planted, and which the branch which thou madeest strong for thyself They just burned with fire. It is cut down. They perish at the rebuke of thy countenance Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon thy son of man, whom thou made as strong for thyself. So will we not go back from thee? Quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. Let's bow for prayer again. Great God, Heavenly Father. Father. Lord, open our hearts today to receive thy truth. Open thy truth to our hearts. Lord, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them. Because they're foolishness unto him. Father, the only way we will receive any blessing and any instruction from thy word this morning He said we receive your word not according to that old sinful man which Paul said always fought against him. But Lord, if we are to receive thy truth this morning, it must be Must be the new man, the regenerated man within us, the man whose ear is open to the voice of God. Father, bless your word to our hearts today. May we be richly edified, corrected, and instructed by it. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This 80th song is to the chief magician musician upon Choshanam Idus. A psalm of ASAP. This 80th Psalm is one of four psalms which has this title, Shoshannon. The 45th Psalm, the 60th Psalm, and the 69th Psalm also share this title And this psalm also has the title Edus, which it shares with Psalm 80. Now why is that significant? Well these Introductions or titles of the psalm are included in our Bible because they are included in the manuscripts They are from the text. It's not something that a Bible translator has added in, but rather they were notations upon the Psalms which the children of Israel themselves used. This term Shoshannon literally is translated to lilies And there's some debate among commentators as to why it was put there. Some believe that the song was sung to a tune, which was called Shochannon, a melody If you look in our hymn books, our tunes or our melodies have names, and that it was a very beautiful or melodious tune. It reminded people of the lilies. There are others that say, well, this Shoshannem was actually a reference to a six-stringed instrument, which was shaped somewhat like a lily flower. But what we do know is it carries the idea of lilies. And so Shechanam is connected to this word aduth. Shoshannon the lilies aduth. And this title, Eduth, means a testimony. In other words, this is a psalm which is a testimony among lilies. It is a psalm which bears with it a testimony. Now, why is that significant? Well, it is a psalm for Asaph. Asaph was the uh uh progenitor or the ancestor of the aesaphat I can't say it right the aesapites who were the musicians in the temple in Jerusalem And this psalm is a psalm of beauty, but it's a psalm of testimony. Now, you'll notice that the psalm naturally divides itself into three. three portions. You find here the refrain that continues in verse three, turneth again, O God. And then in verse 7, turn us again, O God of hosts. And then in verse 19, turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. This psalm is a prayer. It is a prayer for turning. It is a prayer for repentance. And it's a prayer that builds an intensity. Turn us again, O God. Turn us again, O God of hosts. Turn us again. Oh Lord God of hosts. We do not know the specific time or background for this psalm. Many of the psalms we find in the psalm a key that tells us exactly what is written. We know exactly what situation David or the children of Israel were facing when the psalm was written. But this psalm does not tell us specifically what time of rebellion or time of backsliding it was written for. And yet it did It's so many times throughout the history of Israel and so many times in our own lives, times of back Backsliding, times of spiritual poverty, times when the nation of Israel cried out to God for repentance for their sins. And that brings us to something else by way of introduction that we have to remember. This psalm is not talking about the United States of America. So often we find people trying to shoehorn the United States into the Word of God, and we don't find the United States in the Word of God. This psalm was written for the people of Israel And that must be kept in mind. And yet, it is valid and important and instructive and relevant for us today. Because we are the spiritual Israel of God. God has had one work throughout the history of time, not two works. We are saved by the same grace that the Old Testament saints were saved by, and the Old Testament saints were saved by the same grace that we are saved by. And so this is a psalm which was written about the need for revival within national Israel. And it's very applicable. the need of revival within God's people today. Turn us again, O God, and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O God of hosts, and we shall be saved. Turn us again. Again, O Lord God of hosts, and we shall be saved. So we approached this psalm, and I had intended to go through the whole psalm this morning. And yesterday morning as I was Taking a 45 to an hour time of review over the message starting at about 9. 30 in the morning. And my 45 minute to an hour review ended about 3. 30 yesterday. afternoon and came very quickly to the conclusion that there is no way we could consider this psalm in just one hour together For I was arrested by that first verse. And we're going to spend most of our time this morning in verses 1. We're going to verse 1. We're going to look at a little bit at verses 2 2 and 3. But consider with me the first verse of this great psalm. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth Oh, what an amazing verse. We're immediately struck by the name and the work of Jehovah that we find applied here. Give ear, oh Shepherd of Israel. The Lord is my shepherd. Jehovah, Yahweh is my shepherd. And here we cannot think about the shepherd and make reference to Psalm 23 without going to the New Testament. And so we're going to move around a bit this morning, but I would like you to turn with me to John 10, the great shepherd chapter of the New Testament. John chapter 10. For here we find Christ expounding on the nature of the shepherd and declaring himself indeed. To be the great shepherd of the sheep. Look with the beginning in verse 7 of the 10th chapter of the Gospel of John. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. That's very significant. When you consider that phrase further. Verse nine. I am the door. By me if any man enter in he shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture. The thief cometh not but the Steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. I am the good shepherd. the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. This great song, this prayer of repentance, begins with that cry, give Near O Shepherd of Israel. God is known by many names And the names of God tell us about his attributes and about his nature. He is the mighty God. He is the everlasting Father. He is the The creator God. He is the God of wrath. He is the God of mercy. But here, God is specifically addressed as the shepherd. The shepherd of the sheep. And in these verses 7 through 11, Christ declares that he's the shepherd. door he's the way by which men enter in and all others that try some other way are thieves and robbers yesterday morning I was in the kitchen getting a bagel. I like bagels. And I looked out my window and a van pulled into the driveway and People turn in my driveway frequently because I'm just down from an intersection where people frequently go the wrong way. But I noticed the man driving the van was in wearing a black suit and a white shirt and a black And I had seen him pull into my driveway before. And as is his practice, he didn't get out of the van, but two ladies got out. And so I met them at the door before they had a chance to knock, and I did not open the screen door because I will not let them pass my threshold. And this lady stepped up on my porch and said, Do you believe the Word of God is relevant for today? Absolutely, I do. And I had just been meditating on Psalm twenty three, verse one, and I said, Jehovah is my My shepherd, I shall not want. And then I took this lady to John chapter 10, speaking through the screen, because again I won't let them cross my threshold. And I told her, Jehovah in Psalm twenty-three is Jesus in John ten. They are one the same, and if you believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. And I told her, I said, Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we done many wonderful works? And I said, You're out today and you're doing wonderful works. You're out telling people about Jehovah, but you don't know him yourself. And except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And the other lady who was standing down at the porch said Connie, let's go. Now why is this important? Give me a shepherd of Israel Who can we go but Him? Where else can we cry? And here is a psalm of repentance, but it's not give ear, O Judge of Israel. It's not give ear the one who's coming to slay. Give ear, shepherd. Give your shepherd. And in verse 11 to read, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth His life for the sheep. Ah, dear friends, give ear, O Shepherd Hear my cry, for I have failed, and we sang, prone to wonder. Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave. The God I love. And then look down to verse fourteen of John ten. I am the good shepherd. And Know my sheep. And unknown of mine. He knows his sheep. And His sheep know him. That poor lady that came to my door yesterday, I pray for her. And I told her so I'm so glad I'm so glad you're here because you need to hear what I'm going to tell you. You need to hear that Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save that which is lost. You need to hear that Jesus Christ is the same Jehovah. God, the creator of all things. And she said, Can I leave my literature with you? And I said, No. And I said, No, wait a minute, let me take it so I can burn it. Because it's poisonous. And I don't want anybody else to get it. I took it through the screen door and threw it away. He knows his sheep. Yes. And his sheep Sheep know him. My sheep hear my voice. And he hears the voice of his sheep. Give you. Hear me Oh God, hear me. Poor has failed. Lord, I want to live in righteousness before you, but I am a wicked sinner. I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing, for the will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Lord, how can I get rid of this sin I don't want it anymore? Lord, I want to live in righteousness and in truth before you, and yet I look within myself and I say they may do also good things. Turn us again, O Lord, and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O Lord God! Turn us again, O Lord. Lord God of hosts, and we shall be sad. But if you look down to verse 19 and 20 of John 10, Let's back up a little bit. Let me let me go to verse 14 fifteen and read down through verse 18 or through verse verse 18. As the Father knoweth me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Other sheep have I which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice. There it is again, hear my voice. And they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd. Remember I said that this passage in Psalms was written to the children of Israel, but it is for all the people of God in all ages. We are the other sheep which he must bring. Therefore doth my father love me. Verse 17, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down on myself. I have power. To lay it down. And I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my father. Verse 19 is where we're heading. There was a vision, therefore. Again, among the Jews, for these sayings. And many of them said, He had the devil and is mad Why hear ye him? Why are you listening to this Jesus? He's crazy. He's a nut. He has a devil. O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Oh God, hear us. Ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, verse 27, and I know them And they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, but they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I and my father are one, and the Jews suck up stones again. Give the ear, O Shepherd of Israel. And Psalm five The psalmist cries, Give ear to my word, O Lord, consider my meditation. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my king and my God. For unto thee will I pray, my voice shalt thy hear in the morning. O Lord, in the morning I will direct my prayer unto thee and will look up. For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with thee. And in Psalm seventeen, verse one, O Lord, attend to my cry. Psalm one forty one, verse one, Lord, I cry to thee, make haste to help me Psalm 143, verse 1. Hear my prayer, and we find this refrain throughout the Psalms and throughout Scripture. Oh God, hear me O Lord, hear. Oh Lord, listen. Has not God promised to hear Has not God promised to hear? Why do we find this repeated cry in scriptures, O Lord, hear me? And the psalmist will continue. How long? How long will you be angry against the prayers of your people? Ah, you see, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And when the psalmist begins to cry out to God here in this verse When he begins to cry out to the shepherd of Israel, he begins by saying, Oh God, hear. Oh God, hear my prayer. Give ear, O shepherd. Your sinful bleeding sheep is coming in repentance. Oh, we cry out to God, and he is He has promised to hear. But when we come before God, great desire hearing, we come in repentance. Or he will not hear. If we regard iniquity in my heart. Call unto me and I will answer thee, Jeremiah 33. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. How often we quote that verse. Jeremiah 33, verse 3. Call unto me and I will answer thee. But we leave out verses 1 and 2, don't we? Verse 3 of Jeremiah 33 is call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Somebody quote verses one and two for me. Let me read them to you. Jeremiah thirty-three verse one. Moreover the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah the second time. While he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying, Thus saith the Lord The maker thereof, the Lord that formed it and established it, the Lord is his name. Let me read that to you again. Moreover, the word of the Lord came to Jamrai the second time while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying, Thus saith the Lord, the maker thereof, the Lord that formed it, to establish it The Lord is his name. Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. You see, when Jeremiah was told to call unto God, and God would show him great and mighty things We don't find Jeremiah praying, Lord deliver me from the prison. Rather, we find Jeremiah crying on the body in the sentence. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel. Oh God, hear your sheep, for we are faithful. fearful. Hear your shepherd sheep, O shepherd, for we are fainting. O shepherd, we are wandering. O shepherd we can't find you. O shepherd Hear your sheep. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. Give ear Christ, who gave his life for the sheep. But then notice again there in the first verse, it says, Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Notice anything unusual in that verse? Thou leadest Israel like a flock? Thou leadest Jacob like a flock. Thou us Abraham, Isaac. Where else in scripture do you find that leaders Joseph on the flock? Isn't this odd? Isn't this something that should grab our attention and make us say, hey, that's different Anybody that is a collector will suddenly notice something that is different, something that is odd. I think a lot of you know that I collect old Lionel trains And in collecting old trains, you're always looking for the oddity. You're looking for something that didn't quite come out of the factory right. Something that is a misprint. on the side of it. It has some some little thing that's makes it different from every other one. It's an oddity. We've got an oddity here, folks. We've got some different. Why would this psalm say thou that leadest Joseph like a flock? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. We know that God leads his people. In Isaiah 40 we find that he shall feed his sheep like a shepherd and shall gather his lambs in his arms, he shall carry them that's in his bosom, and gently lead them that are with young. But why would he say Joseph. Joseph obviously here is mentioned, not specifically talking about one man, for it was not just the man Joseph that God led like a flock. Obviously this is a reference referring to all of Israel, to all the people of God. But why is it addressed as Joseph? Joseph was the most beloved of his father, and yet Joseph was the eleventh child. He was not the firstborn. Joseph was not the inheritor of the birthright. That would go to the firstborn. But Joseph was the one who ultimately was the inheritor of the birthright. Just as Jacob and Esau. Esau was the elder, but Jacob received the blessing of God. Joseph is the eleventh son. It was the Joseph that the sun, moon, and stars rebound. But those things don't tell us why this psalm would say thou that leadest Joseph. the flock. You see why my 45 minutes started morning went to 330. These things start bothering me. And why would it be Joseph When it says that he leads Joseph like a flock, and yet where did God lead Joseph? Egypt. Slavery. Prison. Things well, doesn't he? Doesn't seem like it. We run into problem to say, God, why? This isn't right. It shouldn't be this way. Where is God's leading? Why isn't God making my life a bed of roses? Why are there so many potholes in the will of God? They're not potholes. They're providences They are God's direction. They are God's appointing. God is leading. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. But think about what I also know about Joseph. Why did God send Joseph to Egypt? Well, so Joseph, you'd gather all the food of Egypt. So that the Egyptians wouldn't starve to death? No. No. So that seventy children of God would not starve to death. And why was it important that those seventy children of God would not starve to death? Because the Messiah was coming through that town. And why was that important? Because if God hadn't sent Joseph, if God hadn't Led Joseph to Egypt, we would have no salvation today. Because the Messiah never would have been coming. How did lead us Joseph like a flock? But then there's more here. Because we've made reference to God leading Joseph into Egypt. But oh how much more attention See, God delivered Joseph in the land of Egypt. The children of Israel were not called by the pharaohs. The children of Israel, they were called the children of Joseph. They were known by the famous family member. They were Joseph's family. And God led them out. And so when it says, Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, It's not talking about Joseph being led into Egypt. It's talking about the God who led his children, Israel, the family of Joseph, out of Egypt like a flock. And throughout Scripture, Egypt is for us a picture of the world. Pharaoh stands in the office of Satan, the adversary, the destroyer of the people of God. And so God led Joseph out of Egypt and delivered them from the one who held them in captivity. You see the similarity there. The picture. And so this prayer of repentance cries out to the shepherd of Israel Who leads Joseph out of the world, away from the bondage of Satan, away from the slavery to the elements of this world, and into the liberty of Jesus Christ. God led Joseph like a flock out of Egypt. And as we pray, hear us, O shepherd of Israel, the one who has delivered us from death. The one who has delivered us from Satan. The one who has delivered us from the slavery of sin. The one who has delivered us from bondage. Oh yes, we are prone to wander and we feel it, just as the children of Israel look back to the leeks and garlics of Egypt. And Paul said, I marveled that you so soon return to the weak and beggarly elements of this world. Here in this great prayer psalm of repentance, the cry is to the God who leads Joseph like a And so Israel being led out of Egypt is the vine that is spoken of here Where God drove out the heathen before the vine. He prepared a way before it. He planted that vine. And it flourished and it grew and it spread out its branches. It was by the river. It reached from the river to the sea. The sea and crying, O God, hear us. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, you that shepherded your people through the wilderness. You that delivered your people from the bondage of Egypt and has delivered your people from the bondage of sin. God terms again. We indeed shall be saved. That's right. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, thou that dwellest between The cherubims. Where is the dwelling place of God? Oh He is omnipresent. He is everywhere present. He is with us today. He is with the child of God in a Muslim prison in Saudi Arabia today. He is here in this house today. And he is in a house in China today where believers are secretly meeting to worship. He is omnipresent. He is present in all Places. Where is this dwelling place? Well remember when when David was or Solomon was building the tabernacle, the temple, he said, where is the house that can contain him. The heaven and earth cannot contain him. And so why is it significant that in this prayer of repentance, he says Address as a woman who dwells between the cherubims. Turn over to Exodus twenty-five God gave to Moses very specific instructions for the good building of the tabernacle in the wilderness and for the arrangement of the Holy of Holies and for the construction of the Ark of the Covenant and the Mercy seat. Exodus twenty-five, and I'll begin reading in verse twenty. Exodus twenty-five. And verse 20. And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings. And their faces shall look one to another. Toward the mercy seat shall their face, the faces of the cherubims, be And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark, and in the ark Thou shalt put the testimony that I will give thee. That is the law, that is the Ten Commandments, is the testimony there. And there, verse 22, Exodus 25, and there on the mercy seat, and there will I meet with thee. And I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, and from between the two cherubims which are upon the Ark of the Testimony, of all things which I will give thee. in commandments unto the children of Israel. And then turn over to Leviticus chapter 16. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, the next book, chapter 16, and verse 14. We read the instruction for the high priest to sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat. Leviticus 16, verse 14, and he, that is the priest, shall take the blood of the bullock. And sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward. And before the mercy seat shall he sprinkle the blood with his finger seven times. Now why is this significant Why do we find this reference to the mercy seat here in Psalm 88? Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, thou that dwellest between The cherubims. The Ark of the Covenant we read in Exodus 25 was the place were the tablets, the tables of the law which Moses received on the mountain, they were kept there. They were in the ark And above them was the mercy seat with the angels. And so the law of God, God's righteous law, God's truth was there. And the cherubims are looking one towards another over the mercy seat, gazing down upon the mercy seat. That's the first But then we find the priest takes the blood of the sacrifice and he sprinkles that blood upon the mercy seat. And so as God looks upon his righteous law, which has been broken by man. He gazes upon the law through the mercy seat. He views the law of God through the filter of the blood. And so the most mercy becomes a throne not of judgment, but of grace. A place not of wrath, but truly a place of mercy. And what It's the significance of the mercy seat. Well, the literal word is the propitiation. Jesus Christ is the propitiation. Thou that dwellest in Christ For it is Christ who fully kept the law of God. And Christ has not entered into the holy place made With hands, with the blood of bulls and goats, we find in the book of Hebrews. But rather, he is entered in once into the holy of place, not for the sins of others, but for our own sin. And there he sprinkled not the blood of a lamb, but he sprinkled the blood of the Lamb. He sprinkled his own blood upon the mercy. Yeah. There for the full and final remission of sin. Hallelujah. Oh shepherd, the good shepherd giveth his life to the sheep of Israel. Thou that Leadest Joseph like a flock. Who led Israel out of Egypt? Well the pillar of fire by night and the pillar of cloud by day? was Christ. Yeah. Thou who dwellst between the cherubims. What was between the cherubims? The mercy seat. And who is the mercy seat? Jesus Christ. You see, this is all. It's about Jesus Christ. It's about Christ. It's about him. Give me here, shepherd, leader, savior Give here. Turn us again. Oh Lord God of hosts. And we shall be saved. The law was in the heart of Christ and perfectly kept there. This is the law was in the Ark of the Covenant. Christ sprinkled the mercy seat with his own blood for the propitiation of our sins. Christ is the propitiation of our sins. He is our mercy seat. Jesus Christ in Christ alone. It is in Jesus Christ in Christ alone that man meets with God. It is Jesus Jesus to whom we pray. And in Jesus dwells the fullness of all the Godhead bodily. But that's not the end of the verse. For it says, Give ear, O shepherd. Of Israel. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine. Shine forth! Lord, we walk in darkness. The people that dwell in darkness have seen a great light. Lord, without thee we have nothing but darkness. Oh my Christ, shine forth upon my wicked sin Shine forth upon the need of my soul. Shine forth and lighten my darkness, for without you I have nothing but darkness. Oh Lord, I need your light. I need the purifying rays of the Son of God to shine upon me. Isaiah 59. And I'm going to start with verse 10, but then we're going to jump around the chapter just a little bit. Isaiah 59, verse 10, we grope for the wall like the blind. We grope as if we had no eyes. We stumble at noonday as in the midnight. We are in desolate places as dead men. Sounds like someone in the tomb does it. In total darkness, feeling their way around the walls and tripping in the middle of the day because it doesn't mean anything to them that there is light outside Inside the tomb, they are sealed inside. They're locked inside. We grope for the wall of the blind. Look at verse 1. Isaiah 59, verse 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not slackened that it cannot save. Neither his ear heavy that he cannot hear. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. His ear time heavy that he can't hear. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you That he will not hear. Remember when we began, I said, why would it say give ear? When throughout scripture again and again we have the promise, God hears, God hears, God hears. Well, our iniquities are separated between us and our God, and because of our sin we will not hear. Look down to verse nine of Isaiah 59. Therefore judgment, therefore is judgment far from us, neither doth justice overtake us. We wait for light, but behold obscurity, for brightness, but we walk in darkness, as in the verse I read. We grope for the wall like the blind We grope as if we had no eyes, we stumble at noonday as in the night. We are desolate as dead men. In desolate places as dead men. But look down to verse sixteen Isaiah 59, verse 16. And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore, his arm brought forth salvation unto him, and his righteousness sustained him, for he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet for salvation upon his head And he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and he was clad in the zeal as a clo in zeal as a cloak. Who's it talking about? Jesus Christ. It's talking about the shepherd of Israel who leads Joseph like a flock and who dwells between cherubims. What a marvelous verse. If that light shines in to our hearts and we truly have light. Not the light of the poor woman who came to my door yesterday. Who got out of a car, out of a van, and walked in the sunlight to my door. And yet Groping in darkness, dwelling in a place of death, seeing but blind In light and yet in utter darkness. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth. Verse 2 of Psalm 80 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up thy strength and come and see us. Who were Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh? Well, Ephraim and Manasseh were the sons of Joseph. Benjamin and Was the dearly beloved brother of Joseph. It's the family that's being spoken of here. It's those that were delivered from Egypt. It is us. Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh were not of the tribe of Judah. They were uh of Ephraim Manasseh. Christ would come, but Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh were not Jews. They weren't Jews. Children of Israel. But the Jews probably are only those of the tribe of Judah. And yet, when the ten tribes left, when the ten tribes went off into sin, who stayed with Jesus Benjamin. Benjamin. It's talking about us. You see, God led the whole flock out of Egypt, but only the remnant reached the promised land. And I I I it was obvious to my heart that I couldn't preach this psalm in one message. Because there's so much here. We got five more hours. Benjamin, the beloved brother. Ephraim and Manasseh. And Ephraim and Manasseh's mother was an Egyptian. She wasn't even an Israelite. She was an Egyptian. But God's remnant comes from every tongue. Language, people, and nation. It's not a matter of of being a child of Israel or children of Israel God. That's right. And look what it says there. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh Stir up thy strength and come and save us. What did we just read in Isaiah 59? Therefore his arm was strong. And who is the arm of the Lord? It's Christ. It is Christ. It is Christ. It all goes right back to Jesus Christ. Christ. Come and save us. That word save means to deliver, it means to preserve, it means to deliver to liberate, it means to deliver from moral problems. It means to give. Victory. Turn us again, verse 30, O God, and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Brother Lord willing next week. We're going to pick up with verse three. Continue through this psalm and consider the vine and how God prepared the way before the vine. He cleared out the heathen and made a place for it and planted it. And yet again and again Again it turned and became a wild vine. It had to be pruned and it had to be cut and it had to be tilled. times we find this refrain, heard us again on God. Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. In number six we find the benediction which is pronounced upon the people of God and uh we will actually have our prayer of benediction after after a bit of time this this Morning. But I wanted to bring the benediction from number six in because it talks about calls thy face to shine. The benediction which Aaron and his sons were to give the people of God was this: the Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee. You see the connection? And be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon thee and give thee peace But the staff can work