With me this morning please to first Thessalonians chapter five the first book of Thessalonians and the fifth chapter And you'll notice in your bulletin that verse 18 is actually our text for this morning, but I'm going to take verses 16 through 24 for our scripture reading. First Thessalonians chapter five, and I'll begin reading in verse sixteen. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit. Despise not prophesyings. Prove all things. Hold fast that which is good. Abstain from the appearance of evil. And the very God of peace sanctify you holy. I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he who calleth you, who will also do it. Let's bow for prayer to go this morning. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you today for your precious word. We thank you that that which we have before us is the very inspired Word of God. We thank you that that which we have before us is profitable to our soul. This is not a self-help book. This is not man's philosophy of winning friends and influencing people. This book is not a book of fables or fairy tales. It is not a novel. It is the Word of God. It's given to us by inspiration. It's given to us for our correction, for our instruction, for our purification, for our admonition, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good work. Bless your word to us today. Set aside anything that I may have to say this day. For Father, there is nothing profitable that comes from the lips of men Man. But that which is profitable comes from the Word of God. And so may our hearts be turned to your word. May our eyes be turned to Christ. And may we be improved in righteousness today. Encourage us, Lord, for in this flesh, in this body, we are prone to despair. We are prone to discouragement. How quickly we begin to look at the winds and the waves, failing to remember that Christ is in the boat. And we are safe. Bless us your people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You will notice that the two hymns which we sung thus far today are very uplifting hymns. Joyful, joyful, we adore thee. God of glory, Lord of love. And then Angel and Trinity played it again for our offertory Like a river, glorious is God's perfect peace. State upon Jehovah So why are we ever discouraged? Why are we ever downcast? Why does the depression creep in upon us? Why do we have cloudy blue days? God's Word offers us something better. I am very prone to depression. I've shared that with some of you before. I've battled it all my life. That I can get very discouraged very quickly. And I can go from the mountaintop to the valley like a rock into water. I don't think I'm alone in that Our text this morning. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Now, let's begin by looking at the list of exceptions. And the list of exceptions is found in 1 Thessalonians chapter 6. And of course there is no first Thessalonians chapter six. Or maybe it's in the third book of Thessalonians No. The command is in most things. No. It's in everything. In everything, give thanks. Now I would love to stand here as your pastor this morning and tell you that I give thanks in everything. But I would be lying. But as a command, folks. Everything. Give thanks. This book of First Thessalonians was written to believers Who had affliction. The popular TV preachers of the day would tell you that God has a blessing. Blessing for you, and your life is going to be roses and flowers, and you're never going to have a problem because you're a Christian now. Look with me at first Thessalonians chapter one, verses six and seven. There, Paul says in the beginning of this letter, and ye became followers of us, verse 6 of chapter 1, and ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word of God in much affliction. Having received the Word of God in the middle of your troubles, having received the Word of God and troubles that came along with it. Woe unto you men when men seek well of you, for so spake they are the false prophets which were before you. Yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. My father used to say that any dead fish can float down the river, but it takes a live one to swim upstream. And Christ said, or we read in Scripture, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. You see, Satan is not the adversary of the world. He's your adversary. Satan really doesn't care about the unbeliever. He has them already. He does not need to tempt them to sin. They'll do it on their own. Everything in their nature is fallen and corrupt. They can do no good. There's nothing to do with good, no, not one. But the child of God has an adversary. And these people that Paul is telling, rejoice evermore, quench not the spirit, and everything give thanks. These are people that receive the Word of God with much affliction. They receive the truth of God with all the problems that come along with it. Isn't that a terrible way to put it? We don't think of it that way often, but it's true. You see, when you're living a life of sin and unrighteousness, Satan will leave you alone. But you point yourself by the grace of God, not by your own choosing, but you point yourself towards the cross of Christ. And then The problems start. Then the affliction comes. In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning You. Now I said a few moments ago that as your pastor, I would love to stand here and say I give thanks and everything, and I can't do it. But the Apostle Paul, by inspiration writing these words, really shows us a pretty good testimony of this. Do you remember when Paul and Silas were preaching in the city of Philippi? And there was a demon-possessed girl that was following them. And she, under the control of this evil spirit, was crying out, and she was heckling them, and finally Paul turns and casts out the demon from her, and the whole city should have rejoiced, because they all knew the affliction that That this girl suffered, but there was a group of wicked men that were making an awful lot of money from this girl. And so Paul and Silas are thrown into prison, not just in the prison, but first they're beaten and scourged. And then they're put into the innermost part of the prison, and even there they're not free to walk about the room, but they're in stocks And at midnight, Paul and Silas were sitting there saying, Woe is me. This isn't right. We were preaching the gospel of Christ, and look what happened. No, at midnight they were singing praises. And the prisoners heard them, and the prison was shaken, and their chains fell off, the stocks came open, the doors of the prison burst open, and the the jailer comes rushing in Ready to kill himself because certainly the prisoners are escaped. And Paul says, do thyself no harm. We're all here. And he was saved in all of his house. And so when Paul instructs these Thessalonians to give thanks in everything, he's speaking on good personal authority. He's not speaking as a hypocrite. He's not saying, do as I say and not as I do. But rather here, Paul is a godly man who has learned that in whatever state I'm in Therewith to be content. He says, I've been shipwrecked, I've been stoned, I've been beaten, I've been in the depths a day and a night. But he had learned in whatever state he was in, they were to be content. And so Paul was later able to say, I go now bound to Jerusalem, and I don't know what's going to happen there. But I'm ready to be ready to be offered. Because I fought a good fight, I finished the course, I've kept the faith. What do we do when the blue days come Well, we begin by being obedient to the Word of God. Rejoice nevermore. And how could we neglect the testimony of Job? In the first verse of Job, we find that Job was a righteous man. He was a perfect man in his generation, is the way that our Bible describes it. Job was, to the best of his ability, living to the praise of God. And what happened to Job? Well, Satan saw it. And we could say, well, God pointed it out, has to consider my servant Job. You know, Job could have possibly hidden in the corner and Satan not taking too much note, but God shone a light on him. Have you considered my servant Job? Job lost his wealth. Job lost his children. Job lost his position in society to the point that a young man would rebuke him. Job 20, or Job 1, verses 20 through 22. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord, and in all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. Have you ever said God why? Don't raise your hand. That's charging God foolishly, isn't it? Rather than saying, God, why? May God give us grace to say, God what? What do you want to teach me? What can I do to serve you in this calamity? What benefit is to be brought to my walk with you through my current darkness, through my trial. But the greatest example of giving thanks in everything is our Lord Jesus Christ. For we read in First Corinthians eleven, verses twenty-three and twenty-four. For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he'd given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me. And turn with me to Matthew 26. Matthew twenty-six and verse twenty-six Matthew twenty six and verse twenty six And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and break it and gave it to the disciples and said, take eat. This is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it. What was Jesus Christ giving thanks for? Was it the bread that was made out of wheat and flour and yeast? Nope, no leaven No, he was not giving thanks for some grapes that have been crushed into wine. He was giving thanks for his body. Hebrews 10, sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared me. He was giving thanks for the body that was about to be crucified. We saw there in Corinthians, and we know it was the night that he was betrayed. It was the night when we saw so beautifully in Sunday school this morning that the hand that ate bread with him was raised against him. It was the night of the great betrayal, and he is giving thanks for the body in which he's about to suffer. He is giving thanks for the blood which he is about to shed. And yet we get upset over flat tires and dead batteries and disappointments of this life. Christ is the greatest example of giving thanks. If you look there in verse 26 of Matthew 26, We took bread and blessed it. That word blessed is a word which means to consecrate. He prayed a prayer of consecration upon that bread, upon his body. It was set aside to a purpose. What was his body set aside to? The death of the cross. And then in verse 27 it says he gave thanks, and that word is a word which means to be grateful or to show gratitude. It means exactly in the Greek what it means in the English. It's a word of gratitude. And in Luke's account, Luke uses that same word, thanks, for both the body and the blood. He gave thanks for the body in which he would suffer. And so Christ is the greatest example. Of giving thanks in everything. Now, how do we make application of this to us? How do we make it practical? Well Going back to our text in 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 18. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God It's not God's will that we be complainers. It's not God's will that we be gers. It's human nature. The old man that we fight against day by day certainly can gripe And certainly can complain, and certainly can come up with all kinds of reasons that it's not right and it shouldn't be the way it is. And yet the will of God is that we give thanks and everything. And from that, we first of all we find that it is the will of God that We give thanks and everything. And this is not an isolated concept here in 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 18. In Colossians 3 and verse 17, whatsoever ye do in word or deed Do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks unto God and the Father by Him. Whatsoever you do in word or deed. Now, to find the exception to that one, you've got to go to another chapter that wasn't. Whatsoever you do in word or deed. That means in your occupation, whether you love your job or you hate your job. That means anything you can think of, do it as unto the Lord. The most pleasant task and the most unpleasant task. Task. The thing you planned to do, and the thing you did instead because your day got all messed up. Do it under the Lord with thanksgiving. And then turn with me again to Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 17. Just a few pages over from where you are there in 1 Thessalonians. Ephesians chapter 5. And here we'll look at verses seventeen through twenty. Ephesians 5 and verse 17. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. That's what we're talking about. It's God's will that we give thanks. Understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine where it is in excess, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. It's not singing the blues, is it? Singing yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart unto the Lord, giving thanks always for some things. Anybody's Bible say that? All things. Giving thanks for all things. The good And we would say the bad, but it's only bad in our perception, because God's in control And then in Hebrews, I'll read this one to you, but in Hebrews 13, verses 12 through 15, wherefore Jesus also that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come. By him let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That the fruit of our lips, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. And this follows right on with what we looked at last week. We're strangers and pilgrims. We go to Christ outside the camp, outside the camp of this world, outside the camp of the Old Testament Jewish system which was of the law outside of the Old Testament sacrifice of the Lamb. Christ was rejected by his own. He came into his own in his own respect. He was crucified outside the camp, outside the city of Jerusalem, and we go to him outside of all the world's nonsense. We go to him outside the camp, and there we're found in him, because this world is not our home. So we can give thanks because it's temporary. We can give thanks because God said Give thanks. And how often we think of Abraham climbing the mountain with Isaac, proving that he would do Whatever God said to do. And so, first of all, we give thanks, for this is the will of God concerning you. But also we give thanks because that which happens is the will of God. And I I understand, and don't misunderstand me, that's not what this text is saying. This text is referring to giving thanks as being the will of God. And yet we know from the whole of Scripture that what does happen is the will of God. In other words, my flat tire is the will of God, my dead battery is the will of God, my sick child is the will of God. Any good or any quote unquote bad that I face, it is the will of God. We are not the victims of fate. We're the recipients of loving providence. We are the children of a God whose eye is on the sparrow and he knows when a hair falls from our head. And as the old reformers used to say, he's too wise to err and too good to be unkind. And so, this thing that weighs so heavy on me, this burden that keeps me asleep or awake at night This problem that has overwhelmed me and has blocked out the sunshine of God's love, this thing which has Burden my heart so greatly is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning me. It will drive me to my knees in tears. But it's God's will. Turn with me to Romans 8. These passages are so rich. I would like to just comment on them, but but we need to look at them and let the Word of God speak for itself. Romans chapter 8 and verse 27, you know where we're going. These are verses that are familiar to our hearts. Romans eight and verse twenty-seven. And he that searcheth the heart knoweth what is the mind of the spirit And the spirit there is capitalized. It's not my spirit, it's his spirit. He that searches the heart knows what is the mind of the Holy Spirit, knows what the Spirit is doing. Because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God. And we know. Okay, we see there in verse 27 that it's what the Spirit knows. Verse 28, it's what we know. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, not talking about the world, verse 28. Not talking about the unbeliever, verse 28. It's talking about those that have an adversary. Remember, we said the devil is not the adversary of the world, the devil is our adversary But we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that we may be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate Then he also called. Whom he called, then he also justified, whom he justified, then he also glorified. He finishes the job, folks. Through all the problems and trials, he's purifying, he's justifying, and he will glorify Just like a diamond has to be cut, just like gold has to go through the fire, the impurities have to be burnt out. That it be made into something precious. Verse thirty one What shall we say to these things? God before us, who can be against us. You see, the things which happen in my life are the will of God. And everything give thanks for this problem I have is the will of God. And Christ Jesus Jesus concerning me. Every situation I cut come into in my life works together for my salvation. And every situation that I come to in my life works together for my sanctification. And what could be better? What shall the profit of man if he gained the whole world and loses no soul, right? And so if the problems I face are part of the process of sanctification, what could be better? Does it make them a bit easier, does it? Does it make them a bit easier? But the child of God knows there's a purpose A child of God knows it's not random. It's not some fluke that has happened to me. But rather, it is that which God has ordained for my salvation, and it is that which God has ordained for my sanctification. And so we can give thanks in the hardest of circumstances. Because it's the will of God that we give thanks in that which happens is the will of God for us. But there's more folks here. There's more. For the verse says, In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. It's the will of God in our Messiah. It's the will of God in him that came to be our Messiah. That came to be our redeemer, and he's not the redeemer of the unbeliever. He is the redeemer of them that have the adversary. Just as he said to Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan's desired to have you, but I have prayed for you. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise. Cast out. No man can pluck them out of Christ's hand. And then he says later, no man shall pluck them out of my Father's hand. And so it's the will of God in Christ Jesus. But then we find also that it's very specific. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. It's personal. Concerning Every one of us. Paul is speaking here to a congregation, and yet he's speaking to individuals. This is the will of God. in Christ Jesus concerning you. It doesn't say it's easy to give thanks. Doesn't say it's Convenient to give thanks. It says it's commanded to give thanks. And everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Some of you know the way name William Cooper. William Cooper wrote, There is a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. He wrote that glorious hymn that was my father's favorite. And I remember many times my dad saying, When this poor lisping, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave. And today my father's lisping, stammering tongue is silent in the grave, but it's not silent in heaven. His lips are silent here, but not there William Cowper, by his own testimony, tried to take his life by laudenum, blade, and cord. He was institutionalized for depression, attempted suicide multiple times. He was an ordained minister. The story is told that one night he was in such great depression that he called for a carriage and asked the carriage driver to take him to the Thames River. And his his intention was to cast himself into the river and drown. And the coachman knew who he was and knew of his difficulties. And so the coachman drove around London for about an hour and then took him home and claimed that he got lost in the fog and took him back home. home. William Cowper, William Cooper, it's spelled Cowper, but it's pronounced Cooper. William Cooper was a dear friend of John Newton. He lived with Newton many times. Newton helped him through his bouts of depression. He and Newton worked together on the only hymn book. Uh that hymn book, published in seventeen ninety something, I believe it was, uh, contained about 300 of Newton's hymns and 80 some of Cooper's hymns Very godly man. But he knew the depths of depression, folks. And I know I I've known those depths. And I know a lot of you have known those depths. It's not a sin to be depressed. It is a sin to stay depressed. Because we have so much to lift the clouds. We have a glorious God who has told us in everything, give thanks. William Cowper learned to give thanks for the dark clouds. He learned to give thanks for that which caused him depression. We don't sing, I don't know that this congregation sings. I'd like us to learn the hymn God Moves in a Mysterious Way. I switched our hymn books to the Majesty this week and then realized that it's not in the Majesty, but it is in the Trinity. So I was going to have you turn to page 21 in the in the Trinity, but you don't have it. But let me read to you the words of William Cowper, a man who was elected or nominated to be the clerk of the House of Lords of London. What a position And he was so terrified because he had to go before the House of Lords to be approved for his position. You know what he did? He tried to kill himself. And for that he ended up in an institution for over a year. One of the highest positions in the land He couldn't take it. He wrote these words. God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rides upon the storm. Deep in unfathomable minds of ever never failing skill, he treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. That's what we're talking about here God works as sovereign wills. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds ye so much dread are big with mercy. And shall break in blessings on your head. In other words, the dark clouds that come in. Those clouds themselves. Why are clouds dark? Because they're full of water. And he says, the clouds you so much dread, they're full up, they're dark because they're so full of mercy. And they'll break on your heads. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make it plain. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace behind a frowning providence. He hides A loving face. Did your parent ever look at you with an angry face? I guarantee they did. Did they not love you? The angry face corrects the children. One of my children I won't tell you which one, but one of my children I never never had to spank because all I had to do was show them that face and that voice. And there was a melting of the spirit. The always had to wail, had to spank frequently. But behind what seems to be the frowning face of God is a smiling face. Of providence. In everything, give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Jesus concerning you. Let us stand for prayer. Oh God, we plead this morning that you would bless your truth to our hearts. Forgive us, Lord. Forgive us for focusing on the clouds and not seeing the blessings. Forgive us, Lord, for complaining about your loving providence that works for our salvation and our sanctification. Forgive us, Lord, for being so despondent by the things of this world, rather than forgetting that this, rather than remembering that this world is not our home. Father, forgive us, Father, for doubting you. For that is where so much of our downcast spirit comes from. We simply doubt the goodness and providence of God. Father, help us your people to rejoice in you. Lord, may we bless the rod of God. For it is for our blessing and our benefit. Father, continue your work in each of us, molding us to your image, making us into what we ought to be. Lift the clouds of our darkness. And cause us to rejoice in the light of your love. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.