Looking at first Samuel twenty five as we continue our pilgrimage through this book, chapter by chapter and verse by verse. Let me uh preface in case we've forgotten where we are That prior to where we're going to start reading this morning, David had sent his men down to a man named Nabal. David's men had been in the field, they've been guarding his sheep all through the winter and protected the man's sheep from raiders and wolves and so forth. And he asked for a little bread and water. And the man said, No, I'm not going to help you. I'm not going to even give you so much a glass of water and get out of here. Very rude to David's men. And David was very irate with this, very irite, irate And uh he gathered his men together, 400 of them, and he's heading down to the house of Nabal. He is going to kill everybody. All right. And on his way heading towards that area with 5,000 sheep, a very wealthy, prosperous man, Nabal's wife finds out from a servant That David's on his way and they're gonna kill everybody. And if she's got a plan she better put together quick. And she put together the plan quickly, and she gathers uh several of the men's servants and they get or their asses and they fill them up with uh carcass of of sheep for s to feed them in meat, not just bread and water. They bring water, they bring wine, they bring pigs, they bring raisins. And she's gonna bring a gift offering to the king, the anointed king, because David is the anointed king, and then she's gonna hope that he gives her time to express why he shouldn't kill her. So that's what we picked up this morning. If you look at verse thirty two, and uh they have just come across each other in in this in this uh as they've come down the hill They just come out in an opening and there she is and her men are. And uh David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me And uh as you remember last week she began to speak to him and she shared with him why they shouldn't all be killed and she wasn't there and she didn't know what was going on And uh she would hope that he'd understand and and alleviate the idea, or uh not eradicate, not do, not kill uh her whole household. So verse 32, and David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which has kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with my own hand. She didn't know what he was thinking. He's got the raisins, he's got the figs, he's got the bread, the water, the wine, but he hasn't said a word. And now he says, Blessed are you, blessed your advice, blessed are you for coming And she probably starts to breathe a little better. In verse 34, for in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hast hasted and come to meet me Surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall. And so David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house See, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person. And Abigail came to Nabal And behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light. But it came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things. that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone. And it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal, that he died. God does kill people, you know. And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach. from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil. For the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent in communion with Abigail To take her to him to wife. Now this probably wasn't the same day. It might have been several weeks or months later, but it doesn't tell us. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail, to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee To take thee to him to wife. And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth. And said, behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my Lord. And Abigail hasted and arose and rode upon an ass with five damsels of hers that went after her. And she went after the messengers of David and became his wife. Don't look at verse forty-three, forty-four. We'll talk about that later. In verses 432 through 34, if you can envision that David is charging down the hill, he's got four hundred, he's going to wipe these people out, and the closer they get The more they anticipate the blood shed, the more they anticipate uh getting even, the more they uh anticipate their revenge Uh he they've probably have big some of them begin to unsheathe their swords and they're charging down and this damsel steps out of almost nowhere. She's got the food for them, she's trying to appease their anger. And she begins to speak. And I think the first thing that Abigail probably noticed is the swords going back in the sheaths. The countenance of David and the men changing. Maybe some of the men changing rather rapidly, attractive lady, and uh her demeanor And they weren't quite sure what they were doing. They looked at David and David's sword was back in his sheath as well, and he was listening. And then he says And Olden understood when he spoke what was going on. Blessed be the Lord which sent thee to me. I would have avenged, I'd have killed everybody. I would have shed blood causelessly Blessed be thy advice also, he says to her, and blessed be thou. In verse 33, you've kept me from avenging myself. Nothing wrong with avenging God, but he was going to avenge himself. Psalm 94. 1 says, God, it's the God whom avenge and for longeth. And Dave was about to commit a horrendous sin. Shed blood causelessly, and it wasn't in vengeance for God. And here Abigail had been as an instrument of God sent. And he notices right away, and I I love that the perception, the spirituality of David here, though Abigail's coming, the food is coming, she's got this great demeanor And she's got these great words of advice. David recognizes that God has sent her. He recognizes she's the instrument, but he realizes that God is in this God has given her the words to speak. The Lord Jesus Christ told us that we'll be brought before kings. She was brought before a king. We'll be brought before kings and governors and governments And we'll have to give a word, we'll have to we'll have to say something in defense of our cause and our beliefs and so forth. And to the Holy Spirit, take no thought what you shall say, the Spirit of God will give you those words. And God gave her the words before the presence of a king. About to execute everyone in her household. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Taught also in Romans chapter 12 and 19. So it's not just an Old Testament idea that vengeance is of the Lord. And David, as I said, rightly proclaims that Abigail was God sent. The title of the message this morning is God sent. And she was God sent. He recognizes that. And he blesses her. There's a psalm that David writes later, Psalm 141 in verse 5. Let the righteous smite me. It shall be a And she came in that day and she is exhorting him, she's admonishing him, she's rebuking him not to shed this blood without a cause, vengeance is Of the Lord. And she's rebuking him. And David says, and I don't know how many of you have ever been rebuked or admonished. If we got parents, certainly we've been admonished and exhorted and probably rebuked. I don't know how well you took it. How well do you take it when somebody steps out in front of you and says what you're doing is wrong? You need to address that. You need to change your ways. David took it right well. He he says in the Psalm, Let the righteous smite me, it shall be a kindness. And sometimes, young people, when your parents are speaking to you and they're rebuking and exhorting you, Uh you ought to look at it as a kindness. They're trying to protect you. It was only, I think, a year or so a girl that a year or so ago, a young girl got in a car with a bunch of her drunken friends And her mother said to her, I don't like what you're doing. I wish you wouldn't go with them. And she said, Uh, I hope that God is riding with you in the backseat. And the daughter said to the mother, there's no room for God in the back seat. Sorry, Mom. And they took off. And they were all killed. Wow. That the righteous smite me and it shall be a kindness What I find here is that David says, bless you, bless your advice, bless you for your God sin. Pilgrim, have you ever blessed someone for rebuking you I mean you've been rebuked, you've been admired, you've been exhorted. But have you ever blessed somebody after they sat down and they rebuked you? Oh, thank you so much. I needed that, you know Boy, that's rare, isn't it? It's really rare that someone would bless you for rebuking them. Or have you ever been blessed by some of you admonished? Not likely. I think we we we lose track here that there are people that In the Bible. And there are few. I I've dug through the scripture, I found I found three that do that. Peter, of course, for the Lord Jesus Christ Christ rebukes him three times. Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? And each time he says, Oh Lord, yes, you know I love you. And Peter Peter's You know, he just appreciates getting a chance to address his sins and and he seems to take it very well from the Lord. Esther Mordecai comes before Esther and says, Esther You've got to do something here. Haman's out there wants to kill all of us. And she says, Haman, do you realize if I go before the king without being invited? That he if he doesn't extend the scepter, I'm dead. I mean I just can't walk in on the king. And Haman says her I believe that God has appointed you for this hour. And she says, All right. I'll listen to you. That was quite a rebuke. She can go in and die before the king. And she listened to Mordecai. And then we have the story of Eli. No, Eli is in 2 Samuel, his his children, how ungodly they are, and and uh along comes in first, in fact, I'm sorry, in 1 Samuel chapter 3. Um Eli's got these ungodly sons, he's a high priest, and little Samuel hears a Lord and he runs them and says, Here are my Lord, what you know, speak Lord, I hear you. And God tells little Samuel, little young child Samuel The Eli, his sons are gonna die, they're corrupt, they're no good, and Eli should have put them in their place long time ago. That's paraphrasing it. And the next morning, Samuel doesn't want to tell Eli What God has told him. And Eli says, You'll tell me, or may whatever it is fall upon you as well. And so Samuel, little Samuel, tells the high priest Eli Your sons are rotten or no good. God's going to take them off because you haven't raised them up the way they should be raised up. And Eli says of Samuel Thank you. Blessed are you, the faithful word. But how often does someone bless you for rebuking them? And how frequently have you ever blessed somebody else when they rebuked you? It just doesn't happen very often. My brain, I was scratching through some verses and I could find a few, but you know, a word fitly spoken, Proverbs says in 2511, is it's like apples of gold in a silver frame. I mean a word fitly spoken. And and well spoken too, as I should say. Not just not just having the words, but uh Um if a word is fitly spoken, done properly and in a loving manner, wow, the the outcome. Uh and I and I believe that that's the way Abigail came here. There was a good outcome because She did the rebuking, she did the admonishing, but she did it in a in a demeanor. I mean she's bowing down to David, her head's on the ground, her head's in the dirt. She calls herself his a servant of his. She calls him Lord fourteen times. I mean she had a good demeanor about it. And if we have a good demeanor about as we exhort and admonish someone, uh more good would come out of that. I think sometimes we we don't think much good can come out of what we say to somebody else. I think that most of us say you've witnessed a lot of people You've tried to instruct maybe little kids in Sunday school class. You've uh shared the Bible, something you drop a little Bible verse with a cashier at the grocery store or at somebody in a parking lot. Um you try all this and you think What's accomplished with all this? Well, a word fitly spoken accomplishes an awful lot. The Bible says in Isaiah 50 and 4 that you should know how to speak a word to him that is weary. And David was weary. He was weary of Nabal. He was weary of how Nabal had treated him. He was weary of spending that whole summer, the whole summer and the winter and spring out there guarding his five thousand sheep and getting nothing for it. David was weary, and she comes in and she knew how to speak a word to him that was weary. And we need to know how to speak to people, especially when we're going to exhort them, rebuke them Admonish them. The demeanor we have. Our countenance as we speak to them about their sin is so important. Our countenance as we speak to people about eternity uh uh about the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, you can't just walk up to the people, I saw what you did, you're going to hell. That just doesn't get it There's a way to speak to people. Some of you remember the story of uh the the Wesley brothers And I don't know if it was John or Charles, but one of the Wesley brothers, he was riding on the stagecoach. He's in the stagecoach of the military man. A high ranking officer and as they're riding there for hours in the dust and the dirt and this officer he's cussing and swearing and cursing and it's it just went on for about an hour or two. And finally Uh the Reverend Wesley says to him, and this is what I mean about countenance and demeanor. He says, uh, excuse me, I don't know what the rank that he was a colonel, general, high-ranking officer, but he says to him, excuse me, sir He said, I wonder if you could do me a favor. And the officer said, puffed up his chest. Of course I can do you a favor. What would you like, Mr. Wesley? He said We're going to be on this journey for a couple more hours. And if you hear me ever swear, would you please rebuke me? And the officer said, Ah, I get your point. And thank you for being so kind about it That's the result you'd love to get every time you talk to somebody about the gospel or scripture or rebuke. It's never it's almost never wrong what we say to them. But oh how we often wish we had said it in a more loving manner. Wesley had a way about himself like that. He was very good about it and and uh Wesley had to have been God sent to that general level That dare, that officer, whatever is rankless. Our countenance is speaking to others about sin, they turn the gospel. It's got to be presented with a heart of love God had sent that servant by the way to Abigail. I mean can you imagine this the servant comes to Abigail? Oh, you don't know what's happening. David's coming and he is really Rip snortin' mad, your husband the fool Mabel, he wouldn't give him water to drink, he wouldn't give him bread. I mean, what if that servant hadn't gone to Abigail? And what if that servant said, oh man, it's bad, and I'm just bugging out of here. Oh man, it's bad. But if I tell her, she can say, what can I do about my husband? You know he's a fool, nothing to do about it. But the servant is God sent to Abigail. To tell her what's going on. Maho, just a couple of words from a servant can change the outcome. So the next time you think that little prayer you said, oh not all that Important. It's only a couple words. Who heard it anyway? Hope God heard it. But next time you think that the things you say aren't all that important, you have no idea. If they're said with a heart. What they can accomplish. Maybe a track you give out or a text you share. In fact, I believe that every track that comes across in our lives Uh it was God sent. I think that every text that we hear on the radio or someone's quoting in our ears are walking by, every trauma, every trial, every sickness, every disease is God sent For a purpose, the servant was sent for a purpose. It was to keep King David from horrendous sin I mean the servant, he doesn't get any credit. We don't know if it's a guy's servant, we don't know if it's a girl servant, we don't know if it's an old servant, a young servant, we don't know his name. But he is instrumental. We can we can pack it all out about Abigail. What a wonderful job she did and David does Maybe he doesn't even know about the server, but God knew about the servant. The servant was God sent. And sometimes we're the smallest cog in the wheel of the machinery. But it's the most important. What we say and we do. Sin has to be dealt with. Sin will harden our heart like an anvil. Sin will make the next sin even easier to commit, and any sin, no matter how small it is, it becomes a stepping stone to a higher and more horrendous and filthy sin. worse sin. So we need to deal with it right away and at the very beginning. And so in verses 35 and 36 David said to her, Go in peace. And Abigail came to Nabal and held a feast like a king, and he was drunk. Do you think that was the first time he was ever drunk? I don't think so. But here we see in his life the false security of those who are lost. Nables out there, he has no idea there's 400 men approaching his estate And they're about to wipe out, and he's already drinking. Sometime during the day, and by that evening he's as drunk as a skunk, or he's dead drunk. And uh he is just he he is totally in he totally feels secure Surrounded by his servants. And that's the way the lost are. They totally feel secure, drunk in some bar somewhere, or drunk with their friends. They're so lost They have no idea. Nabel here is a demonstration of the life of the lost. Not a care in the world, not a care about eternity. He has no his only interest is in having a good time and not in making things right with God. He talks to people out there having a good time. They're not interested in making things right with God. And he's drunk and and they there are people out there they will binge demon rum. That's what they call it. You know you talk to people, what are you doing? I'm drinking demon rum. I mean they admit they're drinking demon rum You know, or they'll talk to you and say, Well you gotta get some fire water, you want some? I mean think about the think about the the alcoholic or the drug e or the drug the drunk rather he He just he's got names for this stuff that you it just kinda sets you back. You call it demon rum? You you call that fire water? Hey, choose your poison. Boy, I heard that one all the time I mean what's with these people? They admit it's demon run. They admit it's usure poison. Oh they'll they'll call it spirits. You know why they call it spirits? Because they know it will haunt them in the morning what they've done while they were drunk. They bins, drink, booze, and sneer at the living water that God has sent us in his Son Jesus Christ. Sneer. Christ said, I am the living water. He that drinketh that I have to drink shall live for eternity. They sneer at that And it's not just Nabal. We can go back to the book of Daniel, chapter 5 and 29, where Belshazzar he had a drunken feast, and David comes to them, and because the hand came out and wrote on the wall, meaning, meaning, secular you farsa them And that and this drunken Belshazzar said, What's that mean? And and David's or Daniel says, Well the short and short brevity of it is this that you've been weighed in the balance and you've found wanting and this night God will require your soul of you And he says, well said, I'm really glad you didn't interrupt that. Here, let me give you a ring of gold, let me give you a necklace, and go ahead. And he kept on drinking. I mean the security of the loss is just phenomenal. They think eternity is never going to come But I will. So Abigail, look at at the drunk. She must have said, I've just come back from speaking with an angry king. And I got through him. I got through to him Thank you, Lord. I got through to them. But Abigail knew you can get through to an angry king, but you can't get through to a drum You gotta wait till he's sober in the morning. And that's what she does. He was so drunk, he never noticed that his wife was missing. He was so drunk, he never knoweth that the servants that had gone with her were missing. He was so drunk, he never knoweth that all the food was missing, and some of the sheep were missing that she took, and the wine, and the raisins, and the figs. He didn't s he knew nothing. Know ye not that neither fornicators, nor thieves, nor drunkers shall enter the kingdom of heaven? The apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul wrote that in First Corinthians 6, 9 and 10. He says He puts drunkards in there with fornicators and thieves. And by the way, there's a long list of stuff he puts in there of those who, if they do not repent of those particular sins, they will go straight to hell. Have you ever checked the entire list of scripture of things that will put you in hell? A good start is right there in 1 Corinthians. Look at 1 Corinthians. That's a good start. In chapter 6. There's quite a list there of things that will put you in hell faster than a New York minute. And let me give you a heads up. Everyone sitting here, you're on that list. We've all committed something that Paul lists there. We all need a Savior. We all need to be forgiven. We all need to repent. Repent, that doesn't mean to I'm sorry. Repent means to turn away from that sin and not commit it anymore. Now it was the morning, verse thirty-seven, thirty-eight, and in the morning when the wine was gone Out of Nabal, his wife told him the things that had happened, and his heart died with him, and he became a stone. It appears that he he just was struck Paralyzed, whether whether he fainted or was just struck, maybe had a stroke, he just couldn't move. We don't know, but he was really struck by what she said. Sin has a paralyzing effect on you It's hard to get off dead center and turn away from your sins and move towards God. It just it just had that kind of effect on you, as it is your unneighboring. When he found out what a sinner he was, it says the heart died within him and became his stone. He just couldn't move. God had sent that stroke And unless God sends us a miracle of mercy, we'll be just like Nabal. Many of us sitting here, you know that you were maybe like Nabal. Didn't have a care in the world. You just want to have a good time, good time, Charlie, or whatever. And then God, in his mercy, miraculously sends to you his grace and touches your heart and changes you. And there's probably some sitting here and they're saying, what's he talking about? What do you mean? Must have been a Christian. I wasn't going to church. What's this gigantic knock me on the road of Damascus experience? What are you talking about? Well, some of you have been raised in a church in a godly family. It won't be as noticeable, but you'll look back over the years of your life and you'll realize, wow, I didn't do that. this, this and that, because the the restraining grace of God kept me from those things and you'll give God the credit. And others of you you've may not have been saved yet. You don't know what I'm talking about. Because you're blind. Your ear gates closed up, your heart gates closed up. You're dead in sin and dead people do you know y you can go to a dead person who's really good on his SAT scores or PSAT, what all the scores are. You know, go up to go up their coffin sometime And ask them a question. Not two plus two. So give you something simple. Do you know that people who are dead, they know nothing. And if you're dead in trespasses and sins Then what I'm talking about here, these are spiritual things, the things of the spirit are spiritually discerned, and you know what I'm talking about when I say that unless God sends you mercifully grace to your heart, you'll never love his word, you'll never love his son, you'll never love to pray, you'll never love to talk about Christ. There won't be a love for the brethren, a love for souls that are lost. It won't be there. And if I describe you sitting there this morning, it's because it hasn't happened yet. And you'll say, Oh, that's okay. Boy, does that show you're lost Nabal was paralyzed. And in about ten days the Lord smote him, and Nabal Verse 38. Nabal died about 10 days later. There was a grave waiting for Nabal. And yet God gave Nabal ten days to repent. And he gave him some time to repent before the Lord smote him. But this death was God sent. It came to Nabal. He had 10 days. Pilgrim. Have you repented? How many days did he get left? Ten? Twenty? A hundred? Five, three, one. How many days do you think you have left? James, the disciple of Christ, said, It is written, Life is but a vapor that appeareth for a little while. a little time and vanish away. Our life, according to James 4. 14, it's just, it's that short. It's like a vapor. You ever see the vapor come out of a steam kennel? It's time it. What is it? Five seconds? Ten seconds? Well in the scheme of things, our life might be 50 years or 60 years, but it it's it's just a vapor. And most of us sitting here are have gone through a good portion of that vapor already There is a grave waiting for everyone who's sitting here. There's a grave waiting for you. In fewer days than most of you can imagine. I mean do you really think you got thirty or forty years? I've been to a lot of funerals. Not just the ones I conduct the Bible attend a lot of funerals. You know what I hear at the funerals? I didn't think he was that sick She wasn't that old. We never saw it coming. I just spoke with her an hour ago. I hear that at all the funerals all of the time. Everybody thinks they got lots of time, but there's a grave waiting for you. And how much time do you really think you got left? You need to get serious with the things of God and talk to him about your sin nature and Your life as one of his creatures. Never saw it coming. Think about it. Next time you go to a funeral, listen, you'll hear that. Herod, he's out there. He's speaking in Acts chapter 12 when the worms came down and devoured him. Ain't never saw him coming. Goliath out in the field. You know, there's David with a sling. And Goliath's not looking at that stupid swing and the stone that hits him. He never saw it coming. Well, at 95 miles per hour, he probably wouldn't either You know, not everybody gets a warning. Not everybody gets cancer and languishes for four or five years and sees it coming. And even when they do, they sometimes think they're going to beat it and they don't see it coming. Three days, just a couple weeks ago, my brother, three days before he died, he had cancer for several years, three days before he died, and just before he slept in a coma, he said, you know something? I don't I don't know if I'm gonna make it. What have I been trying to tell you, Rick? He didn't see it coming. Because we're blind in our sins, we often don't see an awful lot. A lot that's coming. This world doesn't see what's coming, the judgment is coming upon this world for what it's doing. They don't see it coming either And so David in verse 39 he heard that Nabal was dead, and he said, Blessed be the Lord, for the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. Lo. I thought the Bible teaches that we're Proverbs 24 says in verse 17, Rejoice not when thine enemy faileth, or falleth, and let not the heart be glad when he stumbleth. Why is David doing this? Listen carefully. David did no wrong here. And you read the verse right. The verse does say, Rejoice not when thy enemy falleth. And let not the heart be glad when he stumbleth. The verse refers to us not to be rejoicing, one, if we're the cause of their falling, and two, if it's our enemy. But if God is the cause of his enemies falling, we're to praise God for his divine judgment. And that's the difference. If God decides to send death to Nabal, Praise God, that is God. We don't we don't review God for doing that. We praise God for getting the glory. We praise God for taking out one of his enemies But we should not be rejoicing in the fact that when one of our enemies dies because we took him out or had some hand in it. It's when God has a hand in the demise of his enemies that we praise God. And that's what David was doing here In fact, let's give you some verses. Revelation 18:20. Rejoice over her, for God has avenged you on her. When God does the avenging. It's okay to rejoice. David is rejoicing in this way of God's divine justice here. How about Psalm 58? The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance that God had brought judgment on. The earth. We may rejoice when the wicked are obviously getting their due from the hand of God, but never when the wicked are getting their due from our hand, and the wicked are our enemies and not God's enemies. We gotta be careful. Sometimes our enemies are God's enemies, but sometimes they're not How's this one? Revelation 19. Hallelujah! Glory unto God, for righteous are his judgments, for he hath avenged the blood of his servants. See you can shout hallelujah and glory when one of God's enemies goes down and it's obviously God's hand is in it And I love this in Proverb 11. Behold, the righteous shall be compensated in the earth, much more the wicked and the sinner. God's going to compensate us. Oh, I know I get to heaven, you know. I lay on my treasure in heaven, I get to heaven. He said, no, he said he'll compensate us even on the earth And he said you'll compensate the wicked on the earth too. He said, Well, I don't see that happening all the time. Well, you're you're not going to see it happening all the time. Because if God always compensates us on the earth Where would the faith be? We have to have faith in that God will compensate us. Some must get compensated on the earth, some not until we get to heaven. So if we compensate everybody, we wouldn't need faith, would we And then we say, why does he compensate all the wicked? Well, he doesn't compensate all the wicked either, does he? Well, no, he doesn't. But he compensates enough of the wicked people for their wickedness To frighten us as to the consequences of sin so that we don't do it. But God doesn't take care of all the wicked now. And God doesn't bless all the godly and the righteous Now either. Naboth. How do they lie about Naboth? And Naboth is put to death because Ahab wants his vineyard. You keep waiting for God to step in and for God, for something God sent to prevent it all, but it doesn't happen So Navith, he gets compensated in heaven. Surely you've seen some things happen in your life Notice some problem that was God sent to you? I mean God God sends us problems. He sends us uh he sends people into our life sometimes and and maybe they're a blessing to us and maybe they're a pain in the neck to us but we we need to look around and see that when things are happening they are God's sins Up in Pennsylvania. There was a preacher one night and he couldn't sleep. He just couldn't sleep. He said, I'm going to go into town. I don't know why. I can't sleep. You know, can't this was back in the 1700s. You couldn't turn on the TV state, you couldn't turn on the radio. You know, what do you do? I'm gonna go for a stroll. It's late at night, I'm gonna go for a stroll. He's walking out those little villages in Pennsylvania And he sees a light on upstairs in somebody's house. He says, Wow, there's somebody else that can't sleep. Well let me knock on the door and I'll just share a Bible verse with him. He knocks on the door and the knocks and knocks and knock. Finally the guy comes out and says, What do you want? And he said, I don't know. I just thought that I couldn't sleep and that God was sending me somewhere and so here I am. The guy says, Come upstairs. I know why God sent you. He took him upstairs in the law. It was a hangman's news. He was getting ready to kill himself. He said, God has sent you. God sends things in our life. We ought to see things that happen in our life. If the flat tire or a car doesn't start or you know, if if uh there's a leak in a rook, we've got to see these things that God sent maybe God wants you to re witness to the uh the guy's gonna repair your rook, you know? I mean th there's these things happen to us and we've got to notice these problems in our life and realize that God has sent them and sometimes He sent them to us uh uh to keep us from committing a certain sin or from repeating a particular sin as the man was about to hang himself and kill himself Could Samson see when his eyes were taken out that that was a God sent punishment for leering and looking at all the Philistine women? And the prostitutes and whores of Gath. Could he see that God took his own? Sometimes these things we we see why they're why they happen to us. They're God sent to protect us from our sins. The man at the Bethesda pool that Christ healed, picked up his bed and he walked in Christ said, Go and sin no more. Why was that man paralyzed Oftentimes Christ said he's not blind because his parents sinned or he sinned. But here's a case where he said he's been paralyzed because he's been sinning. And so by paralyzing him, he couldn't sin. as much. And now he he la he raised them up in Bethesda pool. We read about that in Mark, uh I didn't write the verse down I guess. But we read about that in Mark or I'm sorry, John chapter five and verse fifteen. And he said, Now go and sin no more, lest a worse thing. Before you. We ought to look about the things that happen to us as being God sent for a reason and a purpose And so David communes with Abigail in verse thirty-nine and forty, and he sends the servants, they spake unto her, saying, David, the senders that take thee to be thy wife Abigail found favor in the eyes of the king, David. Abigail found eyes in David. God's anointed. The Christos is it. So if you're anointed, you are the you've been a Christos. That's a Greek word for being anointed. She found favor in the eyes of the king. King of the anointed. Have you found favor in the eyes of the King of Israel? Have you found favor in the eyes of the Christos, the Christ of Israel? Are you the bride of Christ? Member of the bride of Christ? Because she's about to become the bride of the King of Israel, the bride of the anointed of Israel. And we if the Bible talks about we love the Lord Jesus Christ, if we appreciate his dying on the cross for our sins, that we are his bride. He's our anointed, he's our king, and she falls down. Now here's the woman, she's about to be married to the king. She's a wealthy woman, by the way. Nabal's dad, she is now a wealthy woman, she doesn't need a husband You know, she's got it all. She got servants, she got five thousand, she's got it all, but now she has an opportunity to be the wife, to be the bride of the king And she's about to be the bride of the king. And what does she do in front of all of her servants? And in the servants that David sent, she falls down and bows to the earth again on her face, and she says, Behold, thy handmaiden And I will wash the feet of the servants of David. Do you see in that woman humility, humbleness? Well I gotta tell you ladies, I can fall in love with a woman like this. That she would just drop down and and do it drop everything else and just you know you want your you want your shoes polished? I'll polish the shoes of your servant. I'll polish you know I I could fall in love with women like that You having trouble with your husbands and husbands, you having trouble with your wives? Be a servant. He will be great among you, be your servants. Serve one another. Fall down, bow down. Serve one another. What a difference that will make in a relationship. And this Abigail, she now becomes his wife, but think about this. Where is David? He has no home. He's out in the wilderness. He's fleeing from Saul, fleeing from the Philistines. She is willing to suffer the trials and the hardships as the bride of her anointed in the wilderness. And isn't that where we are today We are willing to suffer if we really love the Lord. We are willing to suffer the hardships and all the terrible things that are going on against the church of Christ today. We're willing to suffer them because we love the bridegroom. We love the Christ. We love God. We love his son. We have a servant's heart, I hope. The servant of King Jesus. She had a servant's heart for the king of Israel, David. But the servant of King Jesus is even more willing to serve and to suffer for their God sent Savior. Are you there yet today? Are you willing to serve and suffer for your King? If you're the bride of Christ, you're willing to serve and to suffer. Be a good servant today for someone. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. Oh, may we not forget the servant that came to Abigail. May we not forget the Abigail that came to the King David. May we not forget the Holy Spirit that came to all of them to move them and touch them And save them and bless them. Oh Lord, may that same Holy Spirit do a work in this small body of people. Go into those little hearts in our bodies, Lord, and clean them up. Touch our hearts and make them glow and glorify you. And it's the name of our great God and Savior, we pray. Amen.