Uh Jesus himself said, You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit and that your fruit should remain. The difficulty people have had with election is the basis. and to look at the notes to determine what was the factor made to decide who is going to be in the Lamb's Book of Life and who is not. And so, Father, we thank you that the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost, and in seeking and in saving, he will be fully successful. We do not fear that we will be recorded by some governmental agency for having been here today. 2 Kings 2. And that word, that which he wanteth, doesn't mean that which he desires that which he lacked. You know, you could answer that request yourself if you just come and do it. And to remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And they said nothing. I trust him now. And hear it and understand it. You can't get around the word elect or election in the Bible. And him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. Some, O Father, who have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof. Lord, we pray for the sermon audio messages that go forth. Lord, I pray that you have blessed your word there, and Father, may it go forth with power. Commit thy way unto the Lord. That's fifty one E adaptation of Psalm fifty one verses nine to fifteen. She was of the wives of the sons of the prophets, and she declares, thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. That's verse 24 of Luke 9. And it's two different words there. It it has no more value. Bondmen. their children were expected to pay the debt, and if the children had nothing to pay with which to pay the debt, they became slaves. And he says there, what shall I do for you? She was one of God's people. And thou shalt pour out unto all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the crews of oil fail according to the word of the Lord which he spake by Elisha And so, Father, we thank you for thy word. And gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And we thank you for the persons who are here gathered. And Lord, we pray today that our singing would be pleasing to our God. And just as Christ rebuked the disciples, could ye not watch with me one hour? Of life to me as thou didst break all those three signos. We deserve the suffering. That's a shocking statement. Why do you pray to God? Unsaved relative. So Lord, we have as we have prayed so many times before, we're not coming to the time of prayer to inform you of our needs But rather we're coming to lay our needs before you in obedience to thy word. And we rejoice, Father, that we in this small congregation, from the time of our first service until now, again and again and again, we have seen you do what man cannot. They meet in the woods and in caves and in dens. And so, O Lord, we pray that you would be pleased with what we're doing here today. May we do so solemnly, reverently, in confession and thanksgiving. Skill that you've given to your servants to put it together. And so may we be faithful to proclaim your message to a lost and dying world. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Trust in the Lord and do good. The Lord shall laugh at him, for he seeth that his day is coming. to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation. God renew my heart and the spirit might import cast me not away from thee nor my. pray. uh for the Christian school. Hebrews 6 verse 10, our brother emphasized this verse as we were going through the early parts of Hebrews. to forget your work and labor of love which ye have showed toward his name in that ye minister to the saints and do minister. I always twist those two, pardon me. And the creditor is come to take my sons to be bondmen. Nothing else. And when he began to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. Uh if there be among you a poor man, one of thy brethren, within any of thy gates in thy land, which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thy hand from thy poor brother, but thou shalt open thy hand wide unto him, and thou shalt surely lend unto him sufficient for his need in that which he wanteth to meet the needs of the community of faith. But I desire fruit that may abound to your account, more blessed to give and receive. well pleasing to God. supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. But if you look at the context, what Paul is saying is that God will supply the need of the supplier. Elisha says, What do you want me to do? It's a small little vessel. But what's in your house? did not swell. which hath five barley loaves and two small fishes, but what are they among so many? That she said unto her sons, Bring me yet a vessel. Hey, we're rich. And they lived on the rest. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. But we seek one to come. And we thank you for the Lord. Thank you. We prayed that the preaching of thy word would search us and try us and bring our hearts to repentance and rejoicing before Thee. Father, we pray that all that we say and do would redound to the glory of the great King of Heaven. But our God is in the heavens. that our souls might truly be fed with the bread of heaven. Me only let thou truth to me to me. It's a good hymn because it shows what that bread of life truly is. God then did manifest himself such as he is, that is to say, merciful and just of mere goodness, hath elected in Christ Jesus our Lord, without any respect to their works Capturing of the doctrine of election. and just in leaving others in the fall and positions wherein they have evolved themselves. Men bristle at this concept of election. his uh forearm would have to cry out mercy, mercy. Or does he find some other means to satisfy it? They come together, and they come together in the cross of Jesus Christ. choosing to save some according to his own plan, his own purposes, his own counsel And they believe in the sovereignty of God, except in this one little narrow area called salvation, his greatest work of all. He looketh upon earth to see if there is any that say, I have done that which profited me not. But rather the preaching of the doctrines of Christ preaches a Christ who is 100% successful. And your word gives us the parable of the man who had a friend come at midnight, and he goes to the neighbor's house, and what is he doing? And so this morning we come and we knock on the door of heaven. And yet, Father, we have seen in recent weeks, Lord, your healing hand, your blessing in the physical things. Lord, we have a long, long list of unsaved loved ones, of children, of grandchildren. To those who love God, to those who are called according to your purpose. that we have as believers, that we are in your hand, that you know the number of the hairs of our head, you feed the ravens and you clothe the lilies. And so you have given us your people the peace of God that passeth understanding. We do not fear that we will lose our employment because we're in church. You have given to us a great and precious fellowship. Father, forgive us our trespasses. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. For evildoers shall be cut off. But the meek shall inherit the earth, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. May God comfort our hearts with this reading of his most holy, precious, and preserved word. Savage shall be turned to me. God, then with joy my tongue shall raise, so thy righteousness to grace, open thou my lips alone. If you have your place with me, read along quietly as I read seven verses, 2 Kings 4, verse 1 through 7. And it came to pass when the vessels were full that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. Father, we thank you that as the old saying goes, little is much if God is in it. God does not need quantities. And we were there in the greenhouse talking with the lady who arranges the flowers, and we heard a child crying in their barn. people. communal society, not monasticism, don't misunderstand here, but they lived in a communal society. They were scattered about. You see, the fact that we were there to spend money on 14 flower arrangements, which is a significant bit of business, was not as important as that child. Who, yes, they were involved in commerce, yes, they lived in the world, but that was a community that had dedicated themselves to the study of the Word of God. That's where this woman came from. But they were not of the world. But I have tools that I just need to throw away because, you know, it's a Phillips screwdriver that all the things are stripped out and This lady that has found herself in this time of need was one of God's people. and his wife and his children and all that he had that payment um for the payment to be made And so Christ gives us parable. But this widow, who has this great miracle, came with a legitimate need that only a miracle could fix. business venture, which is immoral, which happened in that day with a lot of widows. It is more blessed to give than to receive. An odor of sweet smelling, a sacrifice acceptable and well pleasing to God. But that's what they send. God will supply the need of those that gave. But the truth of the matter is, she was not crying to Elisha, she was crying through Elisha. Take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for the body what you shall put on. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. Again, Elijah says, then said he, Go borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, empty vessels. Who brought vessels under her? Moses cast down his rod. makes no sense by human understanding. She believed that if God said, do it, I better do it. or whatever clothing store you want to mention to go buy. That's the power of God. Bring us another vessel, O Lord. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. by a new and living way which He hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be said. of thy word that means so much. having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. And for the souls of our brethren, as we approach the Lord's table, our bodies washed in pure water, our conscience sprinkled from an evil conscience, our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and considering one another And then going to chapter 13 of Hebrews and verse 8 and following, here we find these words For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace, not with meats. but settled upon the Word of God. which serve the tabernacle. It is of the true Lamb of God, not the figurative Lamb of God that was slain in the Old Testament. But we're to be established with grace. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the camp. Folks, broad is the way that leads to destruction. We hid as it were our faces from him because we weren't unsaved. And so, Lord, as we approach your table, may we do so, first of all, in confession of sin. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name We do this in obedience, for you said, do this in remembrance of me. Your memorial is not even the cross. Lord, we pray these things now in Jesus' name. that we have God that controls all things at all times. I did have a few brief announcements though. How I prove him more and more Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus, Oh for grace, to trust him more. And so we find that God of his own purposes chooses people for himself. And so when you find that there is in your soul don't all raise your hands. Think about that. Amen. It priests Christ, who is a ninety five percent failure. And Lord, just as we will see this morning that the there was a call for more pots to fill with oil, so we call for more prayers to be answered. Of nieces and nephews, brothers and sisters, yea, even parents that know not the Lord church and in Christian families and have been catechized and baptized, and yet today they do not walk according to the gospel they once proclaimed. And Father, I believe in full faith that you were able to do that within my own family. Indeed, Lord, your word is filled with examples of believing children that walked astray, and yet you returned them. Lord, our brethren abroad suffer great hardships. Because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Spirit take from me, give salvation joy again, and no wildly minds mistake. And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons and shalt pour out into those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. And pay thy debt and live, thou and thy children of the rest. Penny and I were out Saturday yesterday morning ordering flowers for the Honor Society breakfast that she hosts. Now it turned out that the three children were playing the playing horse in the barn and one child had put a harness on the other child and had stenched the leather straps too tight on the harness. And her sons are about to be taken to be bondmen. The rabbis say that the debt that was owed was he had borrowed money to feed these hundred prophets in the caves. See, we can come with all kinds of things that we think we want, but really those things are all a matter of the world. She's coming to the right source. Likewise he said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart one unto him that hath none. Philippians 4, starting in verse 16, I'll read down through verse 19. I've got a glass of water, and I've got an empty five-gallon bucket. There's more healing that's needed. And he could make it into a life savings. Verse 11, for the bodies of these beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned without the camp. Convince us day by day to live out this faith. To not be in an attitude of prayer, to not be attentive and hungry for thy word. Cease all the straw, and I shall find my display all. We believe that all the posterity of Adam, being thus fallen into perdition and ruined by the sin of our first parents He should have hated the entire human race because they're fallen sons of Adam, and if you read anything about Jacob's record, he's quite the conniver. And Father, we know and we understand that if you choose not to heal this body, you have gone to prepare us another body. Rectify that which is against them. Father, we pray, Lord, for the persecuted church. where we will responsibly read the first 15 verses. And thy perfect ways I'll show my transgressors, maybe one percent shall we? both times in prayer meeting, once in 2000 and I think 2021 and again in 2023. Then she came and told the man of God, and he said, Go, sell the oil. But it means that they were not about this world, they were about the next. A castaway is something that has no longer any value. Luke 9, 24, for whosoever shall save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose it for my sake, the same shall save it. And Christ brought in the same concept, even more so, that those cast away that Christ talks about can be cast away from the kingdom of heaven, can have no place in the Lamb's book of life. man was actually Obadiah, who hid the prophets, had a hundred prophets from Ahab. And she says the creditors come to take her sons to be bondmen. Totally not in scripture. But rather, she comes to the right source. Nehemiah nine, verse twenty one Yea, forty years did thou sustain them in the wilderness, so that they lacked nothing, their clothes waxed not old, and their feet Because you're not done working. When eleven and twelve were still empty. So we find that she was a woman of faith. Unless the Lord says, okay, use it here, use it there, pay your debts, and live on the rest. build up over the last forty years a uh file of of forms that I use for the Lord's table. And because Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever, verse 9, be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. In verse 8 of Hebrews 13, Jesus Christ the same, yesterday and today, and forever. Lord, our memorial, our remembrance of Christ is this sacrifice that He made for us. We have a great assurance, assurance of faith, that his life threatens. Oh God, grace to trust him more. Merciful, since he delivers and preserves from this perdition all whom he, in his eternal and unchangeable counsel Yet God did work mercifully in him, calling him as an elect child, changing him and conforming him over time, which is exactly what God does in election. And we call upon the great physician, the healer of the sick to do what man cannot We have seen you heal bodies which were medically beyond healing. But Father, we thank you that we can cast our care upon you for you care for us. Father, we pray for those that are traveling from us, Lord, that you would be with them, Lord, and those who are receiving family this morning, Lord, that your blessing would be upon them. Father, we pray that you would arrest them and turn them around. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. And uh in studying I thought, well, you know, I have never preached from 2 Kings chapter 4. Thy servant, my husband, is dead. And the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. And she said, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. The first thing I'd have you to notice this morning is that this woman was one of God's people. But the point is this. These sons of the prophets were not the physical children of the prophets, but rather they were Bible students. edification and iron sharpening iron for mutual rebuke when one saw the sin of another That doesn't mean that the disciples ran around naked. But she came from a family that was dedicated to the service of God. But a husband, a father that fears the Lord will teach that fear unto his children. When when you're dead and gone and uh nobody knew anything about you but you feared the Lord? The law of Christ is really totally separate and fresh and new from the Old Testament law. And Jesus says, cast your net on the other side. And they had been out all night fishing, and they knew how to fish and they knew where to fish. And they brought in a net full of fishes so great that the net break. And at that point of improvement in the physical state, the prayer is, Lord, give us another vessel, because the job's not done. Remember what the prophet said? Then she came and told the man of God, and he said, Go sell the oil and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest. He is the same today as he was there in the upper room. Jesus, just from sin and self-duse, just for Jesus simply taking life and rest and joy and peace. Reading our call to worship this morning from the 115th Psalm, wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? Teach me to love thy truth for thou send my spirit more. In it we find that God is merciful. Merciful is like that game the kids used to play, at least in my day, they would lock fingers together and they would try to bend the other one's hand down until his wrist was bent back so far that the other kid, whose knuckles are practically touching his and in just wrath passing over others. He does give us a hint as to whom he chooses. So that when you find deep in your soul an agreement with God that I have offended a holy, righteous, and almighty God. And the humble and those who loathe and debase themselves in their own sight. In this body, we groan, waiting for the redemption of the body. Great burden to the heart, great concerns for the future, great anxiety over circumstances, great discomfort in their current lot in life. And so, Father, save our unbelieving children, grandchildren, brothers and sisters, parents, nephews and nieces, all those. But you have sustained us in them all. For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be. About eight or nine different passages where the Lord miraculously supplied a big need out of a little pot, so to speak. Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, borrow not a few So she went from him and shut the door upon her and her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out is always able to bring great comfort, great encouragement, great peace, great joy to the hearts of thy people. Now think about it. And her instant response was to forget her business and run to that child. This was a church of the Old Testament. A widow of the sons of the prophets, and again to emphasize there in verse 1, thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. Her husband and her family was as a family God-fearing. This was not just um, can you help me out a bit? But then we find also that she had a legitimate need. This son of the prophet who has died was one of the 7,000 that had not bowed the knee to Baal. When this woman comes and cries to the prophet, there's a real need. She's not asking, Lord, I I just don't like this old car. One who gives and one who receives equals two that are blessed. Cast thy burdens upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. She did that which did not seem to be reasonable. None of those things made any sense, folks. And so the prophet said, you're to pour out what you have into these empty vessels, but then you're to set aside that which is full. God said it's coming, whether you see it or not. God often uses little resources to meet the greatest needs. But folks, clothes wear out. It multiplied and multiplied and multiplied and multiplied. All the leftover cardboard boxes, you can use any form you want to, but they got every empty vessel in the neighborhood in this whole community of faith Folks, you understand here the constraint? He was the same when he was with us yesterday. Let us pray. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it. Good morning, good morning. And we read, we read, we sing all four stanzas. There's an ample number of scripture references given, and it is an amazingly short description of the doctrine of election And then that concept that, oh, reformed faith, the doctrines of grace, squash evangelism. And we, though we cling to life and we pray for many days, yet we know that to live is Christ and to die is gain. 2 Kings and chapter 4. That did not love the world more than they loved their God. And you remember that Paul in 1 Corinthians 9 said that he kept his body under and brought it into submission lest he should be a castaway. We're told to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. And then we have Paul's exhortation in the book of Acts 20 and verse 25. Empty vessels, not vessels for oil in them, empty vessels. Naaman, after first rebelling, dipped seven times in the Jordan River. Look at verse six. We already read the book verse there from Hebrews 6 that God is not unrighteous to forget your labor of love. And we'll read a few verses there and then go to Hebrews chapter 13. My bulletin doesn't have that, but yes, I uh we need to sing our closing hymn before I start yammering. There is no greater reason to evangelize than coming to an understanding of the doctrines of grace. Isn't that God's math? What little resource is there available? And when she talks about a pot, don't think of a big boiling cauldron of of 10, 15 gallons. Bring me another vessel, is the request of this faithful woman. Christ is not in the camp of Judaism. Thank you, Gabriel, for uh flagging that for me. Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus. But scriptures are in fact clear on the basis of God's election, and it is a cause of both rejoicing and great humility in the saint. And yet he is merciful at the same time just. And thy mouth shall praise us for me. In fact, in Matthew 18, verse 23 and following, let me read those verses for you. She had a legitimate need. And so in Deuteronomy, uh we're told in Deuteronomy 15, 7, if there be any of you put She was coming to seek aid from the God of heaven who owns the cattle on a thousand hills. But here Christ turned molecules of air into molecules of oil. They wiped out the neighborhood of empty milk jugs, folks. And the oil stayed. Everything you have belongs to God. Okay, we've shut the door. For here, let me read 13 again, let us therefore go to him without the cat, bearing his reproach. And as they were eating, Jesus took the bread and blessed it and break it. Father God in heaven, we thank you that we can partake of this sensible sign to remind us that surely is the blood of the Satan was spilled at Calvary's tree. And I know that he is with me, will be with me to the end. And you see, so oftentimes when we we we hear some prayer requests, uh and I'm not talking about our in our in our church, because I don't think it happens with us. without the direction of the prophet of God. Sometimes we don't read a lot of scripture, but today I would like to take the time to read some passages. 5, there is one in Jericho, 2 Kings 4. Verse 5. Why don't you go to your unsaved friend and beg them and beseech them? But watch on screen and you'll follow along or from your Bible. Because this was a body of people who believed in Jehovah, who had banded themselves together for prayer, for the study of God's Word, for mutual comm uh This widow was one of God's people. She was coming to seek aid from the God who is the multiplier. It's time to go on vacation. Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I prove him more and more. Gracious Father, we thank you and rejoice that you know what things we have need of before we ask. This son of the prophet, who had died, could have said, I don't care about the spiritual things. You see, she was not just asking, as James said, that ye ask and receive not, because ye asked to consume it upon your lust. Because we have seen those in this congregation with great physical needs, and we have seen some improvement in their physical state. And to pay your debt. He accomplished everything that he set out to accomplish, all that the Father giveth to me, shall come to me. We will sing all three stanzas and the Amen at the end. Luke twenty-two, thirty-five. Oh Lord, thank you, thank you, thank you. You better believe it. But folks, this lady, first of all, came from that kind of background. Isn't that what we were talking about this morning? I had thought about titling this morning's message, Little As Much If God Is In It. He doesn't say that they sent food. In Hebrews chapter ten, starting in the nineteenth verse, we refine these words: Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus Father, look, you know our trials, you know our difficulties, and Lord, we thank you that thy word The word that Christ uses in Luke and the word that Paul uses in 1 Corinthians are not the same word, but it is the same concept. That's all we know about him. This is a glass of water, folks. Father, we thank you for the beauty and majesty of thy word. It's not useful. It came to pass when the vessels were full. 679 in your blue song book and we'll sing all four stanzas We deserve the full brunt and the weight and the wrath of the law of God. Please locate the 37th Psalm in your Bible. And she says, thy handmaid has nothing in the house save a pot of oil. Bless your word to our hearts this morning. We're straight and go forward to the day to be ever mindful of the one and only true God. As thou didst the pre shall upon me. This lady has a legitimate need. Anyone here wearing 40-year-old clothes? It's shocking because I would expect it to read, Esau have I hated and Jacob have I hated. Because you're asking Him to change their heart, you're asking Him to change their will. A whole lot of nobodies came to church this morning. She was blessed for her faithfulness. Because there was a group of fishermen that had made their living by fishing and had obviously been prosperous in it because they had multiple boats Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Father, now as we approach this solemn table of remembrance I prove him more and more Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Oh how sweet to trust in Jesus just to trust his cleansing blood just in simple faith And our Majesty rejoice him. Thou art the red up light, oh Lord, thy holy word. Well turn now to the back of your bulletin to the Belgian Confession. And we were at one of the Amish nurseries, um, which are a fascinating place to go. It shows you the culture of the day. They had gone abroad and got the vessels, and she poured out. And Lord, that very fact alone that an individual word can so bless our hearts is evidence of your preservation of your word. Interesting possibility. That's what they sent. Amen. What's available? He said, don't borrow a few. We turn to our opening tune this morning, our opening hymn. Verse 25, for what is a man advantage if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul or be cast away? As is our custom, I I we don't get into uh uh sermon comments afterward, but boy I had a lot of good ones for today, so we'll just share it at dinner time Gracious Father, we thank you for the purpose for which we're gathered. There's more aid that is needed. She doesn't come and ask Elisha. She had a legitimate need, and she was asking from the right source. So she went. Now we can buy that car. Verse ten, We have an altar whereof they have no right to eat This table overtaking of is not of the law, it is of grace He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. What shall I do for you? Moses lifted up his rod over the battle. And the children of Israel didn't have a Gabriel Brothers or a TJ Max Amen. How do we care for our family? And that's what Paul said. Forgive us our sins. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. I try to vary our observance of the Lord's table. She came from a faithful community. She comes the right source. It's just a tiny little bit of oil. And just because you've answered A, B, and C doesn't mean we slack off in praying for D. Amen. And this term, the sons of the prophets, is actually unique to 2 Kings. One who gives plus one who receives equals two that are blessed. And then again, John chapter 6, verse 9. On what basis does God elect? They don't like it. This widow was one of God's people. And remember when Christ said, so likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, cannot be my disciple. She's not going out to the Worldly Bank to try to borrow money. Here she comes to Elisha, and Elisha says, I really don't have anything to do for you. We're to be established well in the things of God. Scripture says, mercy and truth have kissed. Father, we know and we believe that our adversary, the devil, is not pleased with what we are doing here today. And it came to pass when the vessels were full. For all thy sins hide thou thy face, my inequities erase, oh my God. Now the the Jewish um tradition, and actually I I believe actually Josephus says this as well, but the Jewish tradition says that this Lord, it is good and pleasant to dwell together in unity. The nothings, the nobodies, the losers in life. But when God's work was done, the oil stayed. Amen. Father, bless them and be with them this morning. That's where this lady came from. This is just a little bit. And you have enough to live on after the debt is paid. And narrow is the way that leads to life. Back of your bulletin, Belgian Confession, Article 16. And we most often hear that verse, somebody has a need. We we do not have a cross in our place of worship because the cross itself has become an icon to so many. Thank you, brother. She was one of God's own. She was a child of God and her need was legitimate. Paul said, you gave these gifts to me. No, their clothes didn't wear out for 40 years. And when the Lord dumps a pile of blessing in your lap, it's not your blessing. Now, Lord, as we proceed into our observance of the Lord's table, Father, may we do so reverently in thanksgiving and confession of sin Forsaking all to follow? And the success we are seeing, the multitudes that are actually seeing these video clips, oh Father, we do not have a message Stand with me for prayer. And fundamentally they don't like it because of who does the electing. Well, Brother Ben said he was going to get off his soapbox, but before we put the soapbox away, I'm going to jump up on it. That was the first thing she was told to do. Yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be. This widow's coming with a problem that really Elisha couldn't solve. But the description is this: a sweet-smelling odor, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. When the last vessel was full, when God had completed the miracle, the oil stayed. Oh, I pray you turn to the Lord. 38, one in Gilgal, and 2 Kings 5. Paul said he he kept his body under lest he should not be useful to God. He is the one who receives the punishment that is due. We call to the God of heaven who is within heaven, and yet, glory, hallelujah, he's right here with us as well. He created the world out of nothing. Folks, this happened. May have been, but I would say probably not. How can we as this community set aside for the worship of God and the study of law? She just obeyed. We go to him outside the camp. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. In Romans 9, we read that Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way He doesn't say that they sent clothes. That's a promise. If you look there at verse 1, it doesn't say that she came and asked Elisha. She comes here to Elisha. No. Now we can do this. Please be seated. As mentioned earlier, we are going to the um oh Indeed, Jonah in rebellion was still thy child. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. She comes to within the household of faith. And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse and script and shoes, lacked ye anything Because it saved the lives of her children. I have been young, and now I am old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken, or a seed begging bread. As often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Brother Vince, could you return thanks for the cup? Lord, we have rejoiced in recent days and been blessed with the Gen Z outreach and the This man owes a debt. That word wanteth is the word to lack. I'm not a rich man. None of those things by man's activity had any profit whatever. Thank you for the uh ministry of the word this morning as well as the quarterly Lord's Supper. You're gonna read it too, but you're gonna sing it hopefully. She had a legitimate right to call upon the God of heaven for aid. Continue your work of purifying and molding your church. No, she cried. Borrow not a few. There is more that is needed. She was faithful. Surely as it tastes upon our lips by way of this memorial. It's when the Word of God is broken open to you. You have blessed us abundantly. The wicked have drawn out the sword and have bent their bow. The breadwinner, the provider for the family is dead. She did not recognize that oil as being of her own. But now we declare the one of the cross to be absolutely lovely. It's numerous. Some complain in Baptist circles, well then, if I believe that, why would we preach or evangelize to anybody? Right. They are often mentioned in prayer meeting. When I started working towards this message, I actually uh went through Trials and triggerments like we know. They, as it were, want to enter into the privy corner of God's council. But those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth What do you mean start setting aside the this is the only one that's full? I was before his crucifixion, granted, but he's the same Christ. Doesn't mean that forsaking all they threw their clothes away. Consider this. Now we have the living room full of vessels of oil Go out and borrow. They hide their Bibles. She cried. Psalm 37, verse 3, trust in the Lord and do good. 679. I bring that up because that's how God brings mercy to us. We've seen you heal bodies which had suffered many things of many physicians and were nothing but worse. That'll work just fine. I mean I know may maybe some of you do have some 40-year-old clothes. We thank you, Father, for the individual words. But today we may receive now that it's one and only everything. Amen. We ask it in Jesus' name. Oh, I pray you beg and plead with them. Because only about five percent believe. Defeat their foes, we pray, in Jesus' name Others, Father, who have grown up in Father, we pray for the outreach at only only memory care this afternoon Father, you have been good to your people. And I've emphasized a lot in the last few weeks. Or, you know, why is it really that you're asking this thing? Moses lifted his rod over the sea. Now the Lord had blessed her, and she doesn't spend a drop So we recognize within ourselves the human tendency for our minds to drift and to wander to something else. We do not fear that we will lose our lives because we're in church. Look at verse 3 and following May God prepare our hearts. We have a lot of folks right now that are suffering grievous and heavy trials Lord, I I don't like these clothes. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift And their comment question was, Lord, we fished all night, but at thy word we will cast the net. We didn't lack. This woman now suddenly has all these vessels of oil, but she's not claiming them as her own. We do not know anything about her husband other than he feared the Lord. In fact, I've got a whole bunch of five-gallon buckets that my sons have gathered You know, in the turning of water into wine, they began with full barrels of wine, full barrels of water. He is merciful. And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. Is not the life more than meat, and the body more than raiment? And the oil stayed. You know, we have the law of the Old Testament, but what is the law of Christ? He shall not suffer the righteous to be moved. He shall not suffer the righteous to be moved. Go for grace to trust him more. But she was rewarded. And you give us the strength to do that which you've called us to do. If you really believed that election was not true, then why don't you go to the This was the norm. They're going to sell him. I don't need to say more, you understand there. Amen, amen, please be seated. So then the question becomes, how does God deal with that? And so, Father, meet the financial needs of your people. But consider this. But I have all and abound, I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you May we do so in humble obedience, and may we do so rejoicing in so great a Savior. Number 334, Break Thou the Bread of Life. It's in the old as well as in the new. He does give us a little hint, and I'll leave you with this and get off my extended soapbox. He'll not pick the proud And altogether their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. Ask and you shall receive, seek and you shall find, knock and it shall be opened. Today we would call it a church. I don't have a flock of sheep I can sell. Folks, these verses admonish us for our own soul. Turning away the things of this world for the things of Christ. We pray that the reading of thy scripture would be vital to our hearts And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Please now open in your red Psalters to Psalm fifty one East. Hebrews 6 verse 10. Christ is not in the camp of American religion. Break thou the bread of life. Father, bless us as we partake of thy table The meats there is a reference to the law, to the ceremony. I'm so glad I learned to trust him. We read today the sixteenth article, a very short one, and an interesting That he made much my arms and I've sinned against God. And Paul in uh 1 Kings 7, verse 16. They got all the empty egg cartons they can find She had a legitimate need. It is the true Lamb of God, not the physical Lamb that was slain in the land of Egypt at the Passover. We're not to be carried about by every new doctrine and every new TV preacher that comes along. They have met Father, bless the ministry online and those who labor to make it possible. Free me from the guilt of blood, God of my salvation. Well God will supply your need according to his riches and glory You see, she came and cried to Elisha Wait a minute Let's go to prayer. This widow could have been married to an unbeliever who was very wealthy. Come, my children, and I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which would take account of his servants God, give us another vessel. Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I prove him more and more. Rise if you're able to. Tell me what hast thou in thine house? Father, bless thy word to our hearts this morning. These were families. She had a desperate need. God will supply your need. And so nobody is here. If you look there in the verse first verse But then we find that she's crying the right source. He doesn't say they sent funds. The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. It saved the life of the widow. We confess before you that we are men of flesh, and we suffer under the infirmities of the flesh. If you're watching online and trying to get our church's bulletin up, there seems to be some technical issues with that at the moment. They lived in a In fact, um you find in 2 Kings 2, 3, the community in Bethel Borrow not a few. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for faithful is he that promised Just to know us that the Lord Jesus Jesus how I Modern translations tend to render the word mercy throughout the Old Testament as loving kindness, and that is a great shortcoming. Some of you probably know that little chorus. What is our concern when our child cries? But also we find that she was obedient to the command. There is a lad here. Look at verse 7. Amen. It puts man out of control and God in control, and that's what they don't like. And so, Father, we thank you for the peace. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart 22, one in Mount Ephraim. Verse 1, thy servant, my husband, is dead But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold The law of Christ is this: love your brothers yourself. And Lord, we know that all things work together for good. They were in the world And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons Take the bread with thanksgiving. You wouldn't want him in your business, tending your till Lord, we thank you for the ministry of Mission Bible Church They're going to sell his wife. See, God often uses the smallest things to do the greatest works. Well what a great what a great thing to have on your tombstone. And so the principle is there And she shut the door upon her and her sons. Amen. To so free to trust in Jesus, just to take imagination. He created man out of the dust. It is the duty of believers This woman was a woman of faith. Folks, I have prayed those words by name for many in this congregation. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. We go to him who is despised and rejected of men. Brother Jim, could you return a prayer of thanksgiving for the body of Christ? It is pleasing to our Father that we, in obedience to your commands, assemble ourselves together. And that can't be Because the preaching of free will diminishes Christ. Her children, these two sons, had been taught the law. He didn't have the money to pay the debt. She's not going into some He was the same when he was with the disciples 2,000 years ago. They worship in secret. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. And so I looked back at my records and found out that twice in the last six years of Mission Bible Church I have When someone died and left a debt Paul says your gift was an odor of sweet smelling, a sacrifice acceptable. The children of Israel lifted up their eyes and looked at a brazen serpent on a pole. But that night they didn't catch a thing. Let us go forth, therefore, unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. Leave God out of it if you don't think He has anything to do with it. Open your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Second Kings and chapter 4. 2 Kings is the only place we find it. She was But Father, we pray that in our assembly today you would defeat these weaknesses within us Lord, we live in such blessing. Psalm chapter 37. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb They became This isn't trivial, folks. Folks, the widow of Nain made a cake for Elijah first. If you turn with me first of all to Hebrews chapter 10. We thank you for the privilege of gathering. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. We have been through minor trials. Psalm 37, where we responsibly read 1 to 15 They're all a matter of our personal comfort or our personal standing. There was no guarantee other than the word of God Um I actually have We take in that life, he gives us new life to live for thee, O Lord. She cried. And scripture is very clear in this. I showed you all things how that so labor ye ought to support the weak. She came to the right source. You've heard that reframe a lot in the preaching and challenges, but the next verse And Lord, this food doesn't taste good. And he, that is her son, said unto her, There is not a vessel more. For here we have no continuing city God is not unrighteous Amen. You have been so good to us, and we have been so bad to you. But at the very least You see, she was willing to do what God told her to do even when she didn't understand. Christ took that little bit of oil and as it was poured Christian, and what do you believe? God often uses little resources to do great things. She had to be told, okay, now you have God's permission to sell. He'll save such a one. He is knocking, he is calling to those within. Folks, God can take a tiny little bit of oil. You receive it So justice has been satisfied. She was one of God's people. Does God take care of his people? Think about this. Folks, this is a beautiful lesson for us here. Put a speaker up here and hope that he's gonna talk. When you find I enjoy tools. But widows did not have a lot of opportunity Does he brush the law under the rug? They're going to sell his children and all that he has. Our closing hymn. I don't have a piece of land I can sell. I still have one of my ties from high school Number three thirty-four I'm going to go make a lot of money and have a big inheritance to leave to my family. Moses spoke to the rock. Isn't that beautiful? There is a debt to be paid. Rather, this pot is a cruise. Behold the fowls of the air, how they sow not, neither do they reap Make us a people who truly hunger and thirst after righteousness. I cannot help you. And he is the same today and forever. And we thank you through Christ's name. No. We used to sing it in in Jamaica, Little As Much If God Is In It. It is something we don't deserve. This isn't, hey, can you lend me a cup of sugar? Write that reference down in Psalm 55, 22. This is the only one. Lord, your memorial is not a statue, for statues are forbidden God won't forget that. There's many other like terms 334 They cannot announce the immediate location of their meetings. In Jesus' name. It's interesting there that she comes to Elisha And that's why the child was the child was fine And this woman pouring a tiny little bit of oil into great big pots. But finally she was rewarded for her faithfulness. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. But the next verse is, but my God shall But this was a group of people They had dedicated themselves to the law and to prayer I have a good selection of tools. Elijah. Isn't that wonderful? She was faithful. Rather, we pray yet more. It is has been abused and has become even a graven image. He'll redeem them from the grave. She's about to lose everything. But he knew the God who could do anything But what do you have in your house? Not a jot or tittle will fall And I would submit to them, well, why do you pray for the unsaved? We have no continuing city here, but we seek one to come. But you've heard people before that they're asking these prayer requests, and you think Jesus Jesus, now I trust him. And God cannot be said to be unjust in his mercifully We can truly say that nobody came to church this morning. Lord, my neighbors have a better house than I have. It's always good to participate in these things with the people of God. I know it's going to do that. Well it's enough for five thousand A man of sorrow is acquainted with grief. Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus. We do not know what persecution is. You've got this. I don't have a lot of money We deserve the pain. But folks, this is a glorious passage. How can we help your situation Amen. What else are you gonna do? For Lord, your work of healing is not yet complete. Oh Lord, praise to trust him more. Scripture doesn't tell us that. The oil did not stay on vessel ten. Isn't that marvelous? This man feared the Lord. Yes, it's free to trust him Amen. So God picks the lowly. It is Elisha. Just Jesus, Saviour, friend. 679 is our closing too. Yes. And Christ just transformed it. We deserve the punishment We do need to say. .