Turn in your Bibles with me to the book of Micah. I do hope you enjoyed that uh psalm. I used to sing that many years ago. with a group of about 20 men singing an a cappello in four-part harmony and a marvelous, marvelous psalm to sing unto the Lord. The book of Micah, if you have trouble finding Micah, find Matthew and then go backwards a few pages, those minor prophets. Not minor in message, but minor in the length of the of the message. If you find Matthew and then go backwards a few pages, it's the easiest way to find those more difficult, smaller books in the Old Testament. Micah chapter 6. And your book, I think, says, reading the whole chapter, I'm actually just going to read the first eight verses. Uh sometimes I cut too big of a piece of pie and then have to cut it a little bit smaller to fit into the time that we have have available. Micah chapter 6, and I'll begin reading with verse 1 through verse 8. And pay close attention to verse 8 because it is the key verse of our passage this morning. If you have your place now in the book of Micah, chapter 6, verse 1, hear ye now what the Lord saith Arise, contend now before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. Hear ye, O mountains. The Lord's controversy, and ye strong foundations of the earth, for the Lord hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel. O my people, what have I done unto thee? And wherein have I wearied thee? Testify against me. For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of servants, and sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. Oh my people. Remember how the now what Balak, king of Moab, consulted, and what Balan, the son of Beor, answered him in from Shitum to Gilgal That ye may know the righteousness of the Lord. Wherewith shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body, for the sin of my soul? He has showed thee, O man, what is good. And what doth the Lord require of thee? But to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God. Let us bow for prayer this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word and your truth. Lord, we thank you for the beauty and the majesty of thy word. Father, we thank you that Any given chapter of thy word, even the begats of the books of chronicles, any given chapter of thy word can be opened and expounded. And Lord expounded from a dozen different angles and knew aspects of it can be seen like the the glittering surfaces of a diamond And Lord, as we look into this glorious passage today, may you shine the light of thy countenance upon thy word and cause it to glow and sparkle like a diamond. And Lord, may your people seeing the reflections of thy truth and the glories of thy son in this passage May we rejoice in thee. May we be convicted of our lack of love and devotion for Thee. May we be encouraged to live in righteousness before Thee May you make us better men, better fathers, better believers. Through thy word we pray. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. How many of you have ever had a court summons? See a few hands. Ever been sued? Ever been taken to court? Ever been charged with a crime and had to answer for your crime? Well, that's the aspect from which I want to look at this passage this morning Because in these first eight verses of this chapter, God takes his people to court. You may notice that one of the titles we have in the bulletin this morning is God Be His People. God takes his people to court. You see, God's people broke his covenantal law. God gave his people the perfect law Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, honor thy father and thy mother. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet And God's people agreed to the law. In Exodus chapter 24, verse 3: And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord. and all the judgments. And the people answered with him with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord has said, we will do God's people heard the law word and they said, We will do it. This is what we will do. We will keep. And it says there, they answer with one voice. We will do it. And then again in Exodus 24 and verse 7, and he took the book of the covenant And read in the audience of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has said, we will do and be obedient. God gave the law, and the people said we'll obey it. I won't ask you to raise your hands on this one. But how many of you have been stopped for speeding and said, but I thought But I thought it was a sixty-five mile an hour zone, and that's why I was going seventy-eight. The people can claim no ignorance of the law. Because they have declared before God, after the reading of the law, we hear with one voice will do, we will Obey. Our brother brought a verse from Micah chapter 3 during the Sunday school lesson this morning. Micah is a book of God's people's rebellion against the law. God's people's disobedience to the law. And so in this sixth chapter, we find that God calls his people to cook court. And if you look at the verse first verse ver first verse, Chapter six verse one Hear ye now what the Lord saith. Hear ye, hear ye. All rise For the courts in session. Hear ye now what the Lord saith. Arise, contend before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, because he at the point of the day in the which he will judge the world in righteousness, and before him shall be gathered all nations. All people will give account to God, every man, woman, and child ever born. As the children of God, we are exempt from that judgment. But we are not exempt from standing before God and giving account of the things done in the body. We must all appear and give account. Now, Christ has taken our judgment. But here we find God's people called to account for the broken law. The charges are read in verse 2. Hear, O mountains, the Lord's controversy, and ye strong foundations of the earth For the Lord hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel. This is beautiful, folks, because God has chosen the jury. And the jury that he's chosen are the mountains of the foundations of the earth. The heavens declare the glory of God. You see, there's not one mountain that's broken God's law. There's not one river or stream that has broken the law of God. There's not even an animal that has broken God's law, and men are not animals, by the way. The evolutionists try to say that man is just the cheapest of the animals. No, we are not animals. The animals were not created in the image of God, but the animals have kept the law of God. And it is man that has willfully broken God's law. And so God calls the mountains and the foundations of the earth as his jury come and hear the controversy that I have with my people. And thus this is very fitting, for God had warned the children of Israel of this very thing In Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 26, God says, I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day that ye shall sh shall soon utterly perish off the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it Ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall be utterly destroyed. God says, I'm going to call heaven and earth to witness against you And again in Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 19, I call heaven and earth to record this day against you that I have set before you the way of life and death. Blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life that both ye and thy seed may live. God had told the children of Israel that He would call heaven and earth to witness against them And that's exactly what's taking place here in Malachi. Heaven and earth are called to witness against God's people. In 1 Chronicles 16, verses 32 and 33, we read these words: Let the sea roar in the fullness thereof. Let the fields rejoice in all that is therein. Then shall the trees of the woods sing out of the presence of the Lord because he cometh to judge the earth. And so the jury is now seated, and the charges are being read. God states the evidence against his people in verse 3. God speaks, O my people, what have I done unto thee? And wherein have I wearied thee? Testify against me. God gave Adam and Eve one simple law. You may eat of the trees of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. One law. And they violated that law. You come down through the centuries and you bypass Enoch, who walked with God and Noah, to the time that man's wickedness had become so great that God destroys the world with a flood, and God establishes this covenant again with Noah And then you come forward through more centuries and God establishes his covenant with Abraham. And then you come through the time in Egypt and God again brings forth a Moses to bring forth his people out of bondage. And God gives them the ten words, what we call the Ten Commandment. God gives them his righteous law. Now, from our New Testament perspective, looking back, we realize that the law was only a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. But that aside, they violated it. They could not keep it. And so as the charges are read, God says to his people, what have I done to you? Have you ever heard of a court case where where where someone says, you know, why would this person break into my house and steal something from me? I'm I'm a older person. I I don't have much. Why would they take this? Why would somebody commit such a horrible crime against me? What did I do to them? Well that's what God is saying here. God has loved his people. God has delivered his people from bondage. What have I done to weary you? That God's people had wearied God, and they had become weary of him. In Isaiah 43, verse 22. But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob, but thou hast been weary of me. Not only had God's people wearied God, they had become weary of him. It continues, Thou hast not brought the small cattle of the burnt offerings, neither hast thou honored me with thy sacrifices I have not caused thee to serve with an offering, nor wearied thee with incense. Thou hast brought me no sweet cane with money. Neither hast thou filled me with fat of thy sacrifices, but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins. Thou hast wearied me with thy iniquities. So God says, I haven't wearied you, but why have you wearied me? Testify against me. Answer to these charges. Bring the evidence of why you think you're innocent. Bring the evidence of why you are justified in your crime. You see, in the American system of jurisprudence, there is the assumption of innocence. It's not always given if you had the wrong last name. Or or if you happen to be in the wrong place politically, but we'll set that aside. In American jurisprudence we have the assumption of innocence. You know what? Before the sub before before the throne of God there is no assumption of innocence. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of us comes before the throne of God, we come before his judgment seat, and there is no question we're guilty. guilty. And so God says, bring your evidence that ye have not wearied me. God continues. He says, I redeemed you from bondage, verse 4. I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt and redeemed thee out of the house of thy serv of servants. And I set before thee Moses and Aaron and Miriam. God says, I redeemed you from bondage. And we know that the redemption from Egypt looked forward to the redemption from sin. Today, hallelujah, God has delivered us from bondage. Be not entangled again Paul told us, in the yoke of bondage. You see, we can look back at Israel and find them in this courtroom and say, Yeah, them, but not me And yet we are as guilty as they are of breaking God's holy law. It says, I redeemed you from bondage. I gave you spiritual guidance. Look at verse 4. This is very interesting. I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of servants, and sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. Okay, these three three brothers and a si- two brothers and a sister, three siblings, Moses. God gave them leadership and the lawgiver Aaron, Aaron was the priest, the intercessor with God. And Miriam, Miriam was the psalmist of her day. We find the songs that Miriam sang. And she was the instructor of the women. Wasn't God gracious to give them such glorious leadership? And they are mentioned here in this verse that He gave them Moses, He gave them Aaron, and He gave them Miriam And he protected them along the way. Look at verse 5. O my people, remember now what Balak, king of Moab, consulted. And what Balaam, son of Beor, answered him from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteousness of the Lord. Well, what do we know about Shitham? Well, it was the last stop in the wilderness. It was the last place that the children of Israel stopped before they crossed over into the promised land. And what do we know about Gilgal? It was the first stop in the Promised Land. God says, I brought you across the Jordan. I led through through the wilderness and brought you across the Jordan Balak comes to Balaam, and Balak asks Balaam to curse the people of God. And Balaam says, I can't go curse the people curse the people of God because God has blessed him. And Balak says, but I'll give you houses full of treasure. And Balaam says, Well, let me see. Let me talk. See the Lord, let me do this. And the Lord says, okay, go with him, but only what I say will you say. And we all know the story. Balaam is riding his donkey to go curse Israel, and he meets an angel in the way, and the donkey uh stops and falls down under him. And he's going away further and the-and the donkey crushes his foot against the wall and finally God opens the donkey's mouth. When Balaam goes, rather than per cursing Israel as Balak had requested, rather Balaam pours on them a great blessing. I saw Israel upon the Mountains. God is reminding his people that have wearied him. I have protected you. I have delivered you. I have given you guidance. I've given you my word. Moses, the law came through Moses. And I have brought you blessings rather than cursings. But ye have wearied me. Ye have wearied me. And so God's people realizing that they have no hope of claiming innocence That they must claim, yes, they must plead guilty, and their only hope is to plead for mercy. And so in verse 6, we find God's people throwing themselves at the mercy of the court. And here again, we have a beautiful The picture of the grace of God and of Christ Himself. Verse 6 God's people speak, Wherewith shall I come before the Lord? and bow myself before the high God. Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? What's the fine I can pay? How can I make this right? I'm guilty. I did it. My only hope is that somehow I can fix this. Can I fix this before the court if I pay the fine of bringing of bowing myself of true true humility before the court? And shall I bring a burnt offering? Talves of a year old. Will that do it? Is that enough fine to pay? Verse 7. Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams? First of all, it was just a co- a single calf. But what if I bring a thousand rams? Will that pay for my guilt? What about ten thousand barrels, ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn? Remember when Abraham was tested before God and what it was that God demanded of him Well, sacrifice thy son, thine only son, Isaac. And so here God's people say, would that be enough? That's what you ask of Abraham. Would that be enough? Shall I give fathers on Father's Day? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression? The fruit of my body for my sin. Or for the sin of my soul. And folks, we know from history that multitudes of pagan Nations have done this very thing. In Hawaii, part of our own nation, they would throw newborn sons into the volcano. To try to appease the gods. In scripture we find uh the the king's name slips me at the moment, but he sacrificed his son who would be king upon the wall to try to appease God. My own sons could not pay for the guilt of my sin. And so what is said here before the court of God is: if I give all my possessions, a calf of a year old or thousands of rams. If I give all my produce a thousand rivers of oil, that's not enough. If I give my own son, I still can't pay this debt before the court. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. My son could not pay my debt, but God's son could and did And so here in this court case, we find Jesus Christ, who paid the price of our sins. God, who is the judge, responds in mercy. Verse eight. He hath showed thee, O man. What is good? What doth the Lord require of thee? But to do justly To love mercy, to walk humbly with thy God. You see God showed us what is good. God has declared to us his covenant God has declared to us his law. Interesting words here in this verse. That word, O man, he has showed thee, O man. That word man there is the same word in Genesis Adam. He showed thee, O Adam. He showed thee from the beginning of the transgression. He showed thee, O mankind. It's the name, the surname Adam, that's translated man in this verse. He showed thee, O man, what is good What is good? The word good there is the same word good that we find in Genesis 1. And God saw all that he had made, and behold, it was very good. What do we know about God's good creation? It was sinless. There was no sin there. He showed thee what is sinless. He showed thee the right way It's also the same word, good, that we find in Psalm 23, 6. Surely goodness And mercy shall follow thee all the days of thy life, all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. But to do justly, that word justly is the word judgments. It is the same word that we find in Genesis 18, verse 19. When God was talking about Abraham and why God was showing mercy and grace to Abraham, God said, For I know him that he will command his children and his household after him. And he shall keep the way of the Lord and do justice and judgments that the Lord may bring him. May bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. To do justly. What does it mean to do justly? Does it mean that suddenly I'm going to be good? Does it mean that I'm going to clean up my act? Does it mean that I am somehow going to now never sin again? Well it'd be wonderful if we could, but we know that We're born in trespasses and sins. You see, my friend, when it says he showed you what is good and what the Lord requires to do justly is to plunge into Christ. That's what he really don't give out here. Can I give my son? No, but I'll give mine Can I give my son, God, for the sins of my soul? No, but God says, I'll give my son. Do justly, looking unto him the just one Remember what it was that Luke said of Christ, you killed the just one to do justly. In Exodus chapter 20, the law of God is given. And in Genesis 21 begins a commentary on the broken law. Now, these are the judgments that thou shalt set before thee, and it's that same word: justice. We talk about the Ten Commandments and keeping the Ten folks. Christ is the law. He has fulfilled the law of righteousness on our behalf. We are saved by Christ, who has kept the law. He is the law of righteousness. To everyone that believeth. The Lord has shown thee what is good, what is the pathway of surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And it is Christ. I showed thee what is the good, but to do justice and to love mercy. Well folks, the love of mercy is the love of the one who is merciful. The love of mercy is the love of the one who has given us mercy. You see, the world doesn't love mercy. The love world loves their sins. But I flee to Christ. For there is mercy, and I love him, and the love of Christ constraineth us. To love mercy. And that word, mercy, is the same word that we find in uh thinking of fathers this morning in Psalm thirty-seven, twenty-five, and twenty-six, I have been young and now I'm old. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread He is ever merciful. The righteousness is ever filled with mercy and lendeth, and his seed is blessed. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. And that's what And so the Lord has showed thee what is good to do justly. To love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God, for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. You see If we are to do justly, we begin by admitting that we have not done justly to God. We have wearied God. Now we must do justly to God. Lord, I'm a sinner, and I throw myself on the mercy of the court. I throw myself before thee. to do justly before God. And what is it to do justly before God? But to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we find the people of God brought into the court, brought before the judgment seat of Christ. And we find them throwing themselves on the court for mercy, for he alone can save. And so he showed us what's good. He showed us the way to be released from the court. And that way is found in Jesus Christ. For the fruit of my body could not pay for my sins. But God gave his own son for me. And so where do you stand before the judgment seat of Christ? Well, you stand guilty. What defense will you make? There is no defense to make because the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork, and it testifies against us, God's Father. Holy creatures. What is your hope? Well find justice in Christ. Love him who is merciful There is the only hope we have. Walk humbly with God. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth, and pray, Lord, that you would apply your truth to our hearts this morning. Father, help us to look on the Jesus, the altar and finisher of our faith. In Jesus' name. Amen.