Turn in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the book of Hebrews and the seventh chapter. The seventh chapter of Hebrews. And I'll be reading verses twenty-two through twenty-seven of Hebrews chapter seven. Hebrews the seventh chapter, beginning with the twenty second verse. Hebrews 72 By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them For such a high priest became us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. Who needeth not daily as those priests to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the peoples For this he did once when he offered up himself. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach Thy Word, Father, may the entrance to thy word give light May we be instructed and taught this morning. Father, may we be encouraged by that which our God is able to do. Our Father, we feel ourselves battered and beaten about by the cares of this world, by the environment in which we live. by the oppression of evil men, by the circumstances of this age. But Father, we thank you You have placed us in this time. You have placed us in this age. You have placed us in these circumstances. Lord, you have done it all and you have done it well. And so, Father, may we look to thy word, and through the entrance of thy word, may we find light, O Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. As has been mentioned, today is the day that we refer to as Palm Sunday. It is the Sunday on which we remember the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem. When he in fulfillment of the Old Testament scriptures sat on a donkey's colt that had never been ridden before And on that colt he entered into the city. And they cut down branches. They threw their coats. before the donkey. And they cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of David. Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And a few days later that same multitude cried, Crucify him, crucify him. We have no king but Caesar, his blood be upon us. and our children. The next study is the Resurrection Sunday. He died on that cross for our sins. Not by an accident. Not because the Romans crucified him, not because the Jews delivered him to the Romans. For he declared, No man taketh my life from me. I have the power to lay it down, and I have the power to take it up again. This I perceive. The key verse which I want us to consider this morning is that 25th verse. And to read it again, Hebrews 7, verse 24. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost. That come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. Last week for our scripture reading, I read an entire chapter. And at the conclusion of that chapter, I made the covet, that's the message. That's the sermon. And folks, we can say the same about this one glorious verse. It is the sermon. We find there certain key words I would like us to consider. The first key word is that word able. Wherefore he is able And we're actually going to follow that word able through multiple scriptures this morning to see the things where God is able. And when we begin to talk about the things where God is able We really need to talk about it all because there's nothing that he is not able to do. But Scripture gives us certain glorious text and certain glorious promises. of that which God declares Himself to be able. This word able is the word dunami. It is a verb in this instance. It means to have power. The noun form is dunamis. And I'm sure you've heard this before, but it is the Greek word from which our English word dynamite comes. Also our word dynamic. come from this Greek word, dunamis, dunami, the verb and the noun forms of the word. It is a word that indicates an absolute power. When dynamite was cons was developed, it was an absolute power. Today we have nuclear and all these other things. But God has more power than any of them. The second great word I would have us to consider is that word save. Wherefore he is able to save. And this is the Greek word so-zo. And we most often think of it in terms of the salvation of the soul And that is certainly an application of the word, but it's more frequently used in terms of a temporal salvation than it is of eternal salvation. When Peter is walking on the water and he begins to sink and he cries, Lord, save me! He uses the same word. And we're going to see to jump way ahead of my outline, but we're going to see that uh the woman who was afflicted with sickness When it says she was made whole, it's the same word, so-zo, she was saved. Her body had all the ki infirmity removed from it And that is exactly what Christ does in the salvation of the soul. He saves. And so we find that he is able. To save, not just the saving of the soul, yes, he does that, but he's able to save every aspect of our lives. And he's able to do it to the uttermost. And that's the third word that I have us to consider. This is the word tantales Pantalus. It's only found two times in Scripture, and this is one of them. And you may hear that prefix pan in pantalus. And we talk about a pantheum. That which includes everything you can imagine, he is able to save to the uttermost. I cannot do anything to the othermost. But there's nothing that God does part way. There's nothing that he does halfway. When he does it, it is complete. It is entire It is fully done. And that's what that word means. It means a perfection of completeness. It means an irrevocably done. When he does it, it's done. It cannot be undone. He does his work entirely. Now you notice that he is able to save to the uttermost them that come unto him by God. And there too we find a glorious truth and a glorious promise. Because no man can come unto me except my Father which has sent me, draw him. And we have come to God, but it wasn't because we made the right decision. It wasn't because we were persuaded by some man's argument that we should do this thing. But rather, we have come unto God by Him. We have come unto the Father by the Son. Because all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. Now take that little piece of text and then bring back the first part of the verse where it says he's able to save to the uttermost. Then they come unto God by faith. And why is it that he has this ability? Well, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name. What's the wherefore? Well, because he gave his life a ransom for many he was buried. And he rose again. God has given him a name that is above every name. And so as we have that basic exposition of this verse, I would like to take this idea of God being able, and we're going to see this word able, we're going to see the word saved, then we're going to find the other use of the word uttermost. in our Bibles this morning. I'd like you to turn with me to the book of Luke in chapter 3. Luke chapter 3. And here we find not Christ speaking, but we find John the Baptist speaking. But we're going to find this word able in the preaching of John the Baptist. In Luke chapter 3 and verse 7, John the Baptist is preaching. Then said he, that's John the Baptist, to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruit worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you that God is able, God has dunamis God has power. God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. Now we're talking about God saving to the uttermost. And folks, who are the stones being spoken of here? It's the Gentiles. You're children of Abraham. But God can take these dead stones around you, and He can raise up of them children of Abraham. And then we come to the triumphal entry, which we celebrate today. Flip over to Luke 19. And Luke 19, the text is 37 to 40, but I'll just read verses 39 and 40. The first two verses are in coming nigh the descend of the Mount of Olives. Blessed is the kingdom that cometh in the name of the Lord, verse 39 of Luke 19. And some of the Pharisees, any Gentile Pharisees? No, they're all Jews. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples, any Gentiles among the disciples No, they're all Jews as well. And he answered and said to them, I tell you that of these, if the disciples, these Jews, should hold their peace, the stones would cry out Immediately. You see, he came into his own, and his own received him not, but as many Jew and Gentile alike that received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believed on his name. This one is able to save to the uttermost Those that come unto God by Him. And so the first ability that we recognize of God, He's able to save. He's able to save a stone like me. And remember in the book of Ezekiel, where God is rebuking his own people, the Jews, and he says, I'll take away the stony heart from you and give you a heart of flesh that ye might be able to believe. Folks, that's saving to the uttermost. And you know what? He did a good job of it. He finished the work. There's nothing that I can add to it, and there's nothing that Satan nor man can take away from Hallelujah. He's able. He has the power to save to the uttermost. But then we find that Jesus has the power to judge for all eternity. Turn over to Matthew, excuse me, to Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28. Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28. And there Jesus speaking now. It was was John the Baptist giving testimony in Luke 3, our previous pastor passage, but now we find Jesus himself giving testimony. And Jesus says in Matthew chapter 10, verse 28, Fear not them which kill the body. But are not able, there's our word dunamis, they don't have any power, are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able To destroy both soul and body in hell. Remember when Christ came to the garden with his disciples And the soldiers come from the chief priest, and we find there in Matthew 26, 56, and all the disciples forsook him and fled. Why did they run? Because they're afraid of man. Why did they forsake him? Why did Peter deny him beside the enemy's fire? Because he was afraid. You see, these disciples were afraid of being jailed. They were afraid of being persecuted. Today, believers are being jailed for preaching. They're being jailed for opposing evil. They're being jailed for speaking out against evil. They're being jailed for refuting evil. They're being jailed for Condemning evil And folks, we're not here about current events, but we all know that our our president and his his uh Spokesperson and even the governor of the state of Maryland has basically said that for transgenders to shoot believers, to shoot ch Christian children, is a just thing. That's what they said in so many words. Now scripture tells us that the day will come when they shall kill you and say they're doing a good work. Folks, if we want to be afraid, there's plenty in this world to make us afraid. Brother Vince was mentioning uh last week. uh about uh people being jailed, their houses being raided early in the morning simply because they were standing outside of an abortion clinic praying. Fear not them which kill the body, but have no power to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Now, our point is God is able to judge eternally. Because believers throughout the ages have been drugged into man's courts and have been judged as being evil and have frequently been put to death. Just as Christ was judged as being evil and was put to death. But God is able to cast both body and soul into hell. In other words, there's one who has the power of eternal judgment, and that's the one with a fear. You see, the fear of man bringeth a snare. But the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so, folks, our God is able to judge eternally. Many of our brethren have spent the majority of their lives in Soviet prison camps. For preaching the gospel of Christ. Isn't that tragic, their entire life spent in bondage? What is this life that's but a vapor? But appeared for a little while. You see, folks, we as American Christians are the exception. We have been blessed in ways that our brethren, that the martyrs have not known. How many of you still have a head on your shoulder this morning? Well the souls of the mortars under the throne, under the altar, cry, How long, O Lord, just and true. And so folks, I'll be honest with you. I hear what's going on and it makes me tremble and there are times when you say, boy, should I actually say that from the pulpit? Because it's all recorded, it's out there, and you you know, it once it's out there, it's out there. We are not to deliberately give offense. We're not to try to be nasty and offensive That's not the point. But we stand on the Word of God, what the Word of God says is true, and we do not hesitate to proclaim truth, because it doesn't matter if they kill this body. We fear him who can cast both body and soul into hell because he's able. He's able to judge rightly. He's able to make it all right. Psalm 98, 8 and 9, let the floods clap their hands and the hills be joyful together before the Lord, for he cometh to judge the earth with righteousness. shall he judge the world and the people with equity. And Moses, in his Song of Jehovah, in Deuteronomy thirty four thirty two, Moses said, He is the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are Judgment. And so God is able to save the uttermost, and God is able to judge for all eternity. For as it is written, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow And every tongue shall confess. Thirdly, Jesus is able to keep his promises. How many broken promises does this world have? Every advertisement is a broken promise. What what product of this world ever lives up to expectations Oh, but it has a lifetime guarantee. I I I saw one this week. Um they were all excited about these fifty year shingles. Folks, no roof is gonna last fifty years. And they know that ninety-five percent, ninety point five point three percent Are the people that get those 50 years on their shingles, 50 roo shingles on their roof, are not going to get that roof replaced. You know, because they're either gonna die or they're gonna forget about it 49 years later or whatever. They might as well say hundred-year shingles You see, all the promises of this world fail. And this world is not able to make a sure promise, and neither are you. You may promise something to your children, and you have every intention You promise it in honesty, but there are circumstances which come along which force you to break that promise. When my children were young, I always tried to keep my promises. If I said daddy's going to take you for ice cream, daddy took him for ice cream. But there were times When something would happen that was beyond my control, whatever happens, that's beyond God's control. Is there a promise that he can make that he cannot keep And so we find in Second Timothy chapter one and verse twelve. Where Paul says, For the which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against That day. He is able when no man is able. And Paul talking about the promise made to Abraham. that of his own body and of Sarah, not of Hagar, but of Sarah, God would give a ninety-nine year old and a one hundred year old a child. And Paul says there in Romans 4 and verse 19 through 21, but I'll just read 21. and being fully persuaded that he had pro that had promised, he was able to perform. And being fully persuaded that that which he had promised, he was able to perform. He had the dunami. He had the power. You see, God had made man out of the dust of earth and taken Eve out of a rib of Adam. Certainly he was able to make A 100-year-old and a 99-year-old have a child. And so, if God can keep that promise, what promise will He ever make? In Numbers 23, verse 19, we read, God is not a man that he should lie, neither the Son of Man that he should repent. Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? And so God is able to keep his promises. No promise of this earth is sure But God's promises are sure. Number four, God is able to make all grace abound. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 8. And here again we find this word dunami to have the power. 2 Corinthians 9 and verse 8. I'll give you a moment because actually this verse is another one of those sermon verses, and we're going to actually pull uh four or five applications out of this verse. But here we find that God is able to make all grace avound. The verse says in 2 Corinthians 9 verse 8 And God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. You notice the the qualifiers there. He's able to make all grace abound, that ye having all sufficiency in some things. No, in all things may abound to some good works. No may abound to every good work You see what he's saying here? God gives me grace unto every good work. Folks, how many times do we say, oh Lord, it's just too hard? Lord, the mountain's too high. Lord, I can't endure this one. Lord, this one's just it's just the trial, Lord. Lord, get me out of here. Well, God is able. To make all grace abound toward you, that ye having all sufficiency, but my grace is sufficient, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. And all things may abound unto every good work, for it is God that worketh in you both the will and the do of His good pleasure. God supplies all grace to equip his servants to suffer all trials and to enjoy all pleasures that he ordained. And so to make further application, we find that God makes all grace to abound for our supply. Look, it says having all sufficiency in all things. He supplies our needs. Do we really believe Psalm 23, 1? The Lord is my shepherd, I hope I've got it. And forgive me folks for for twisting scripture that way. I I I I think sometimes it rebukes us to see the difference between what Scripture says and the way we apply it to our hearts. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall. Not want. I shall not want. God has promised to provide for his people. It doesn't mean that God's people were never hungry. I would imagine that Elisha got pretty hungry before the ravens showed up. But God sent the ravens. And the widow of Nain that God sent her to had two sticks and had enough meal for one little cake for her and her son, and her testimony was we're going to eat it and die. But God provided their need. Doesn't mean that the children of God are going to eat bee and cavear. I wouldn't want the stuff anyway. But it doesn't mean that we're going to have everything we want and that we're going to eat high on the hall because they expressed. But God will meet our need And indeed, to live is Christ and to die is gain. And so the young lions do lack and suffer hunger. You know, the young lions are more capable of providing for themselves than we are. I couldn't go out there and tear apart a cow and eat it. Probably couldn't catch a pig. They're pretty fast. The young lions, they may lack and suffer hunger. But they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. That verse was up on a little three with five card. on the mirror in the bedroom that I moved into when my oldest brother moved out of the house. And it stayed there, I guess, until my mom remodeled the moo room after I moved out of the house. God provides for his people. And he declares he's able. So why do we act like he's not? Why do we worry and fret like God's not able God you know God's not able to handle this? God is able to make all grace abound for our supply. God is able to make all grace abound for our sickness. And I I um mentioned that we would find that word uttermost. It's only used two times. God is uh Saved to the uttermost. The second time we find that word used is in Luke chapter 13. Go ahead and turn there with me. God is able to make all grace abound for our deform for our sicknesses. In Luke 13, we find a woman with a deformed spine. Luke 13, verse 10. Luke 13, 10. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity 18 years. and was bowed together and could in no wise lift herself up. And that word in no wise says the other time we find the word uttermost. Oh anyway, she was bent over to the uttermost. Her spine was deformed to the uttermost. She could in no wise lift herself up And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto him, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God. She was bent over to the uttermost until the great physician who made her spine healed it. You see, his grace abounds to our sickness. And then flip over to Matthew chapter 9, verses 20 and 20 through 21. Matthew chapter 9. And I alluded to this in our introduction. Matthew chapter 9, verse 20. And behold a woman which had disease with an issue of blood twelve years came behind him and touched the hem of his garment. For she said within herself, if I may touch his garment, I shall be made whole. And that word whole is so and so. I shall be saved. She wasn't talking about the saving of her soul. She was talking about the healing of her sickness The saving of her sickness. I shall be made whole. But when Jesus turned about and and when he saw her, he said unto her, daughter, be of good comfort thy faith hath made thee whole thy faith hath saved thee. It's the word so so again. And the woman was made whole from that hour, from that hour to the uttermost. Never again. She was healed. And so the woman with an incurable was made whole by Christ. He saves to the uttermost. God is able. But not only is God able for supply and God able for our sickness, God is able for all of our sorrows. And here I won't have you turn for the sake of time, but in 2 Corinthians 1 verses 3 and 4, if you're scribbling down notes, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we might be able to comfort them that are in trouble. God comforts us, He's able to comfort us, and He comforts us that we might be able to comfort one another And then God is able for our safety. And I mentioned already that uh when Christ was in the boat and he was asleep in the back and the storm came and they woke up and said, Lord, save us It's that same so-so. He's able. God is able to exceed our expectations. This is Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20 and 21. Now unto him that is able, that has the power to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. And again, what in this world ever exceeds expectations? You know, that one of the business slogans, and I I don't have the exact slogan, but but you always uh deliver more than you promise in business if you want to want to stay in business. You know you you um underpromise and overperform, I believe is the the the way it actually is underpromise and overperform But the world never really does that. But God does. God does. He is able to exceed our expectations. Has salvation disappointed you? Or has it been far more than you could ever imagine? He's able. He has the power. God is able to secure or to comfort those that are tempted, tested, and tried. This is Hebrews seventeen verses or Hebrews two verses seventeen and eighteen. Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God To make reconciliation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to secure or to succour them that are tempted. He is able to comfort his people because he was tempted like as all points he was attempted in all points, like as we are yet with. out sin. He's able. He's able to comfort. He's able to keep us from falling. Now into him that is able, same words. He has the power to keep us from falling. Now him that is of power, this is Romans Romans 16, 25. Now to him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel and The preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret from before the world began. He's able to establish But then finally, and this one to my heart has been a constant blessing and reminder, he's able to subdue all of our iniquities He's able. Paul, oh wretched man that I am, who should deliver me from the body of this death? And I believe every believer has looked to themselves and said, God, what's wrong with me? The good that I would, I do not. The evil that I would not, that I do. Lord, why did I do that? Why did I mess up in that way? Lord, how am I ever, ever going to truly be What you deserve me to be. Who shall change our vile bodies? This is Philippians 3. 21. Who shall change our vile bodies? that it might be fashion like unto his own glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things to himself. He will subdue my iniquities. Luke 5, 21. And the scribes and Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemy? Who can forgive sins? And that who can is our word dunamis. Who has the power? Who can forgive sins? Who has the power to forgive sins? He does. And he allows us. He will turn us again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities, and thou shalt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. Micah 7, 19. And so, folks, may we rejoice today that He's able. He has the power. He has the dunymus. He's the dynamite. That can do all things. He's able to save. Oh, he saves the soul, but he saves the life from destruction. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction? with tender m with kindness and mercies. And he does it perfectly. He saves to the uttermost. Let us pray, and then we're going to proceed into our observance of the Lord's table today. Shall we pray? Gracious Father. Oh Lord, you know the world we live in. For Lord, you ordained us for this day and this hour. And Lord, we pray that you would give us grace to always remember in all of our troubles that you are able. That you have the power. Bless these truths to our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.