We are finally getting into a new book in Sunday school, this time the book of Hebrews. And I've just really been overwhelmed by how to even approach this incredible book. So what um I'd like to do is to turn you to the bulletin and go to the insert because I've got a diagram there. So if you grab your bulletin and look at the diagram, You'll find this little overview of the opening two verses. God spake by his son. If you were to take the book of Hebrews and just strip down a lot of the language that is I would call flowery, but that's not to dismiss the Word of God. But to try to get at the thrust of what the sentence is saying in these first, it's even half a sentence in these first two verses, you have this outline. You have God You know, people will talk about who is the author of the book of Hebrews. Well there it is in your first word, God. We really needn't struggle past that. I know what they mean. They mean who's the penman, but we'll get to that topic later. That actually will be addressed in the second chapter. God spake. That's an incredible thing. God spake. Our God speaks. He doesn't grunt, he doesn't moan, he doesn't whine. He actually speaks. He can communicate with us and we with him. He spake in time past by the prophets unto the fathers, half in these last days, spoken unto us by his son. And I've got that little breakdown there. And then it speaks about the Son. It says, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by also whom He made the worlds, and I put the phrase created the worlds. We'll talk a little bit about that. But in that little overview, that breakdown I've given to you, what are your observations of that? I very carefully laid it out that way It's chronologically at the bottom and sequentially from top to bottom as it's presented to us. What are your observations about that layout? Because really it's making an observation about those first two verses To speak is more than just shadows. It's communication. Okay. Precise communication. All right. What else do you get from this layout here? It covers eternal truth that centers on God's Son. Okay, yeah, you see an eternal truth, all right. What about how it's unfolded here in front of us? How it unfolds You mentioned the word eternal. From creation to Yeah, you've got this first reference to time past, and then you have something called last days. So time passed behind us, last days ahead of us and then you have um it it's focusing on his son and then it speaks of the son who is heir of all things, so that's occurs outside of time at the end of time, but he created all things before time. Do you see how it's blossoming to larger and larger scope Let me try to give another illustration of this manner of introduction here that we have. It would be somewhat uh like uh me saying Brother John wrote a book and this book came about from seasons of studies in the past, but lately from a research project here. And he's publishing it with the publishing company that he created, and he will take all the proceeds of the book from the publishing company and do some good things with it. So you're building up the credentials of the individual by showing not only is he the speaker, but then it underscores why you should pay attention to that speaker He made the publishing company, oh that's a little bit tougher to do than just a regular author, and he's going to do something very significant with all the proceeds. So it draws you into it, it makes you very interested in what this is about. So we're going to walk our way through this little diagram, and I see I've failed right off the bat to actually just patiently read the text to us here. So let's turn to Hebrews 1. and the first two verses, and then we'll walk our way through this breakdown of this introductory t pair of verses here. God who at sundry times, uh Pali Meros, in a diverse manner, Pali I forget the other Pali from the Greek, spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, and by whom also he made the world I had hoped to actually cover a whole lot more from the opening portion of this section of Hebrews, at least the first sentence, but I was really struck with the first two verses, because there's a lot going on here. There's a tremendous amount. of teaching that's happening here. The first we have is God speaking. I don't know about you, but personally I find it very fascinating to think about in scripturation. Just how did scripture come to us? How did we actually get this marvelous book? It's very clear that God is the central figure in it. Was this something that men came up with? Were they uh uh struck with an interesting idea and said, hmm, I'll pen this down? Well, um no, we can't go that path for several reasons. Because the book itself through and through insists that God is the author. It just consistently underscores that. He's the owner of his word That kind of makes sense, right? Even we today speak about copyright laws. He's the ultimate author of all scripture. And um, you know, the um when he says God's fake here And of course I'm jumping past the sundry times in diverse manners, but fundamentally it's God spake, and I want to talk about that some more. It says God spake. It doesn't say God wrote, which is interesting. Now God has written. Ask na ask Belshazzar, writing on the wall. Ask Moses, Table of Commandments, right? He certainly knows how to write But he chooses more often than not to speak, and he speaks through or by individuals. In your Bulletin on the inside, you'll see our first couple of verses that we see some insight into this business and then scripturation, how we get the Word of God conveyed to us. David at the end of his life, the sweet psalmist of Israel. gives us this insight. He says, the Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. I find that a very fascinating bit of insight. Other prophets have made similar statements. His word was in me as a burning fire. I could not hold back. I couldn't shut up. Uh others that uh are uh that there's an account in the book of Numbers where the seventy elders of Israel who were called to go to see the God of Israel And uh when the Spirit of the Lord rested upon them, they prophesied. When the Spirit rested, they prophesied. So there is this sense in which it's the Spirit of God coming in the individual and how do we form words anyway? Well we have some thoughts, we have some ideas Our spirit produces some ideas and then we formulate them and out they come. Here the Spirit of God came upon the individual so powerfully as to It says that he spake by me, he rested on them. It was a a a supernatural infusion of God the Holy Spirit in the individual So that the thoughts that were coming out were not those of the penman, not those of the individual. It's coming through the the the person, they are just a uh uh a conveyor, uh the the garden hose I've used. When we talk about inspiration, we don't mean inspiration in the sense of motivation. You know, there's these motivational speakers that come around and you get real motivated and you get pumped up. Zig Ziggler for years was on the circuit. power of positive thinking. And uh and I'm sure he had some interesting things to say and and some of which is probably useful. But it was not scriptural. It wasn't divine. It's not inerrant. It's not infallible. The word of God is because the author is, because his word is, because his character is, because he himself is. He cannot speak error. It's impossible for him to do that. So it's not an inspirational speaker when we say the Word of God is inspired. It's an organic inspiration. That is, you can certainly see the character of the individual. I refer to it as the color of the pen. Angela and I, when we were courting, had a long-distance relationship and we frequently communicated through beepers. She had a beeper, didn't have texts. We had certain codes we could use through letters, through email, and when she wrote the letter, she would use a different pen. Now I really didn't pay much attention at all to the color of the pen. It could have been a red pen, blue pen, black pen, could have been pencil. Didn't matter. It could have been typed. Mine were frequently typed, but not always. That didn't matter. The paper on which it was written didn't matter. I knew who the author was, pushing that pen across the paper, even so it is with Holy Writ. Too often ministers will stand up and speak about, oh, um Paul says this, John says this, Mark says this. Well Yes, they were the pen that was used, but that would be somewhat like me saying when I got a oh look, red pen wrote to me the a letter in the mail today. Well black pen says this, no blue pen says that, and to be talking about the color of the pen more than the author. And so it's right to say God said such and such. And you're reading in the book of uh uh Timothy. God says, and you can say through the Apostle Paul, but it's God speaking. God spake, and that's very much a point that we want to continue to underscore. Don't get focused on the penman. Second Peter uses this language here is David describes it. The Spirit of the Lord spake by him. And in Second Peter says, holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. That word moved is the same word used that you would use to describe the sail of a sailboat. how the wind catches that sail, and that wind catches the sail and it moves the boat. Holy men of God spake as they were moved. So their speech was not as um uh Wayne Grudom puts in his book uh Systematic Theology, he basically stole or plagiarized most of what uh Burkhoff wrote in his systematic theology, but changed crucial portions of it to allow for a charismatic view of things. And in his charismatic view, there's a diagram which shows that the word of God came into the the the speaker. The speaker figured out a better way to say it, and the speaker is the one that spit it out And so it's actually the words of the speaker, and that is his view of inspiration. Of course, by having that view, that opens up the door for tongues and charismatic. They're not really speaking God's word. They're just inspired, but that's what he means by inspiration. No, they were moved. It wasn't David's words. In fact, Saul, they said, is not Saul among the prophets? And uh we read this in the book of Samuel and uh uh as Samuel had gone to anoint him to make him king, he says, You'll become a different man. The Spirit of the Lord will come upon you And indeed, a company of prophets met him, and he very much seemed to be a different individual, because now all of a sudden he was speaking divine truth. And there was a proverb that went about, is not Saul also among the prophets? I stumbled across that verse late last night, didn't have time to update my notes, but it's in the early chapters of the book of Samuel So it was clear that these men were being moved by God to say exactly what God wanted them to say. There wasn't a degree of freedom left in their tongue to utter something that God would not have them speak. Uh you even read about that uh in uh uh one of the false prophets says, I cannot go beyond what the word of the Lord is. Um even though he was a false prophet, he still understood the the boundary lines uh that that occurred there. God spake. That's our first observation. The second is in sundry times and diverse manners in time past. You know, the Bible was written over a period of 1600 years, just shy of 1600 years, by some 40 different penmen. And it's interesting to consider the various ways that God used. If you look at your diagram, what do you see different here between time past and last days, the the little denotation I have underneath those boxes? What's different? Yeah, in time past you had many different uh individuals that were responsible for giving the word of God. You had all these different penmen. You had Amos, who was a herdsman among the shepherds of Tacola. uh uh uh uh Moses uh who was trained in the house of Egypt, Joshua. You had various individuals with differing skills and capabilities, probably the most uh significant would be Paul, of course, he'd been trained as a as a Hebrew, but you had a wide range of individuals. One has stopped, the other continues. Time's past can never come back. That's done. But today he still speaks through his word. Okay. Um yes, he does. He's the canon's closed, of course. Right, yeah, time right, there's nothing more to be added. But what he what we have still speaks. Okay. Uh it certain certainly it does. Time pass but the last days. Yeah. Uh the the um um so under time pass you'll notice that you have multiple arrows meaning you have many different people. And they're speaking by the prophets, but their target was to the fathers. So it was many different speakers, but they had one target audience. Which I think is interesting. It came to the fathers. It doesn't say it came to the mothers. It was to the fathers. There might have been a discussion between Manoah's wife and the angel of God. I mean there was undoubtedly a discussion, but the point of it was to go to the father. It was speaking to the fathers. They were the carriers of the message. They were the responsible ones to bring it forward. What are the various ways that God used? Well, and it says in these sundry times and diverse manners, is that word sundry, an old English word, sometimes rendered in a s in a different uh grammatical form is asunder shall cut him asunder. It means in in pieces, in in in in various pieces of time in the past. Diverse you could say diverse times, diverse manners Well, God did it through dreams and visions. You see there in your handout 1 Samuel 9. Before time in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God Thus he spake. Come let us go to the seer, for he that is now called a prophet was before time called a seer. He was called a seer because he could see the message of God. He could see the ideas, the thoughts, the very word of God. He was a seer. And we use that same concept today, having the eyes of your understanding enlightened, it says in the book of Hebrews. You've been enlightened to spiritual things. Of course we know about Daniel. He had dreams and visions. You see that in Daniel 7. I like the description that the Lord himself gives in Numbers chapter 12 In Numbers 12, verse 6, he says, If there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. This is how God says in old time and time past, he would make himself known. Others who had dreams and visions, you had Jacob Uh he was um uh one who uh uh as he slept on the rock and he saw the visions of the angels ascending and descending upon the ladder, obviously Joseph, that's what got him into trouble. He kept telling everybody his dreams. Solomon um in a dream, uh as he had prayed for wisdom, God granted to him. Isaiah, Ezekiel, and Amos, all of them speak about God visiting them in dreams and visions. And we know they had a dream and a vision because they wrote it down, because God intended that to be written down. That was one of the manners. He also did it through an audible voice. We read that in Numbers 12, 7. God says in in verse 6, he'll make him known in a vision or a dream, but in verse 7 he says, my servant Moses is not so Who is faithful in all my house, with him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently and not in dark speeches. Isn't that interesting? There's a commentary on dreams and visions. They're very dark They're hard to understand. They're uh veiled. It says in Corinthians, even now we see through a glass darkly, which means an enigma, in a riddle. That's it it's a veiled thing. The Apostle Peter says of Paul writing in them some things hard to be understood. There are parts of the Bible that frankly are very difficult to understand. That's correct. God says it's a dark speech. It's hard to understand. Let the plain things be the main things and you can be on safer ground. Others who heard God speak. Obviously Noah did. Noah heard God speak. Abraham did. God spoke plainly with him. I've already mentioned Manoah and his wife uh Joshua, Samuel, Jeremiah, Hosea, Zechariah, they all heard God speak with an audible voice. They heard that. Through writing God does occasionally write. Moses received the Ten Commandments, and we've already mentioned Belshazzar with the writing on the wall. So there were a variety of ways that God used in time past. Let me ask a um Well, let me point one more thing out here, where he says by the prophets, plural. By the prophets. I like this passage. Mark Leakey quotes a lot, that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. uh the true prophets of God always were saying something about the nature of Jesus Christ. And uh uh we do get to uh yes we Yeah later when we talk about spoken to us by his son we're gonna comment a little further on the prophets. So there are many prophets. You certainly know about them. We call them the larger and the shorter prophets or the major prophets and the minor prophets. I'd rather say larger and shorter because they're not minor, because they wrote less, their words are just as weighty They were quoted in the New Testament. There was no issue with the length of what they wrote. You see here from this diagram that you've got many different prophets And the one target audience is the fathers. Now, question, why might God have delivered his prophecies? his word through different means and different men. What would be either a consequence of doing that or a purpose of doing that? Just any ideas as to why would God do it that way I wonder if one of the reasons is to not uh um put too much glory through man in a certain way. Um like if it was all through one individual. They might be puffed up in themselves. Yeah, uh certainly if it's uh through one individual it people would really begin to think that individual is something. How how long would that individual have to live You'd have to live sixteen hundred years, yeah, okay. That's what I was gonna mention. Hebrews talks about the priest um their ministry ceasing because they died. But he has an everla Christ has an everlasting priesthood. And it was the same with the prophets. You know, they they prophesied for their time to their generation, but they did not have an eternal Oh. Yeah, what is they their life was not eternal though their word was. Uh-huh. What are some other consequences of that happen when you've got through different people? one of the things that always strikes me is as we look back, all these people and all these times, and yet how beautifully it all fits together. That it is one message and it kind of then goes to support and prove the fact that it is the word of one God, not of a whole bunch of individual men that he used. Yeah, isn't that interesting because if you're If you've got one individual, say Muhammad, and he comes along and he basically utters something that's captured in a book, uh, these are the words of Muhammad, well how do we know? They claim that this is the Word of God. How do we know that that's the Word of God? Because what Muhammad says is out of sync with all the other prophets, out of sync with Moses, out of sync with Isaiah, certainly out of sync with Jesus Christ. How do we know? You also uh have the idea that no one prophet's getting the whole picture. No one prophet got the whole picture. It was all the fragmentary learning. Look at 1 Peter 110 in section 3. Have your hand out. Speaking of the prophets, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come to you. Isn't that interesting? It says all these prophets had a central message about the grace of God to come to you, and that grace would be through Jesus Christ. Verse 11, searching what or what manner of time, the Spirit of Christ which was in them. So once again we see how inscription inscripturation occurs, how the Word of God came to us. God the Spirit in the individual, they spoke, that makes him a prophet. What the Spirit of Christ in them did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow So, yes, you see that there were different prophets that were used. Alright, so we then pivot from God spoke how he spoke in the past by prophets. And certainly the book is to the book of uh is to the Hebrews, so this would be a Hebrew audience. They wouldn't debate that assertion. They knew that. They often would say, Well, we know Moses spake, but as for this fellow referring to Jesus Christ, you know, we don't know about him They were rejecting the Messiah. They would claim to hold on to Moses and Elijah and all the prophets, but they would reject Jesus. So you could see that there's kind of a start on a little bit of common ground. Yes, God spoke through the prophets. They would not disagree with that. And he continues that he says, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. Now I'm actually going to spend a little bit of time here now talking about this phrase, the last days. You see, there is a contrast with time past, Old Testament, and something called these last days, which is the New Testament period. Our dispensation right now is known as the last days. This will help you as you go through the Bible, as you understand God's method of reckoning time. God has a calendar in the Bible, and he uses that calendar tied to the patriarchs at that time. So there were the days of Adam, and there were the days of Seth. Canaan, Mahalil, etc. , they were the days of, meaning they were the patriarch, they were the reference mark for that calendar time, for that system. You've got the days of Noah, the Lord Jesus says, as it was in the days of Noah. That's referencing a point in time that when that patriarch lived, God is using that as a calendar system. There were the days of David, and then David passes as the days of Solomon. So God is using the the patriarch as a calendar. They are the indicators of time. And they were all waiting for, and they all pointed to the anointed one to come. They were all pointing to someone to come. And in fact, the um uh our entire calendar system is based on BC before Christ and AD Anodomini the year of our Lord So our whole calendar system is centered, our Gregorian calendar system is centered around Jesus Christ and how his Very birth is central to the calendar. So the our our ancient forefathers understood this. They got that. That's simply the language the Bible uses. However, we are in something that is now called the last days, and it's kind of a technical phrase It's not just a general arm waving. It really is very specific because there were the days of Noah, but there would be others to come. But we are in something called the last days. There will be a last of the last days, but right now it's the last time. Micah four one in your handout it says But in the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established. It shall be exalted above the hills, the people shall flow into it. prophetic language pointing to the time we have now. That mountain is the mountain of God, the the house of God in heaven. The Gentiles are flowing into that house. They are going into that. We see in Acts 2 a Joel has a similar bit of language with uh the last days in Acts two by Peter. Uh illustrates that Force Acts two sixteen, this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my spirit upon all flesh. That is, all believers have the earnest of the Spirit poured into them, not limited to the prophets. Not that we can prophetically utter anything, but there's a different form, as it were, a uh uh a earnest, the down payment of God. uh in the believers. He says, in these last days. Jesus often spoke about this phrase in the last days. And there's four times five times in the book of John, John chapter six. He says, this is the Father's John 6. 39. This is the Father's will which hath set me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. That very phrase, I'll raise it up again at the last day, it's in verse 40. It's in verse 44. It's in verse 54. He keeps saying that same phrase again, I will raise it up at the last day. There's the last of the last days. We're not there yet. We are in, our time is the last days. So the point here is that time is running out. We were not looking for anybody else to come. The prophets spoke of Jesus Christ coming and he came. And yeah, I guess you could say we are looking for someone to come, but it's going to be Jesus again, his second coming. That's what we're looking for. And it says, He's spoken unto us by his son. This phrase now spoken unto us by his son. So in that last days, you'll look at my diagram, there's one big arrow, and it's his son. It's the message of the sun. He is there showing all things have been fulfilled. The prophets signified salvation to come Things that were going to come, what the Messiah would look like, what he would do, Christ came, fulfilled those things, demonstrated that they were true and spoke to us. You have heard it said of old time. But I say unto you, you know, the Sermon on the Mount, Blessed are the poor in spirit He would be bringing forth a New Testament series of doctrine based on the fulfillment of his work. That's a single person. And notice now he's not speaking to the fathers It's going to a broader audience. It's unto us. So this message now spans out to a much broader number of people, a very big difference compared to what it was before. It was through many prophets, but to one target audience, the fathers, now, from one source, the Son, and to many different people, to us. Alright, so spoken unto us by his son. And who better than that prophet, the ultimate one to come, who should be the last messenger of his word? This is really a big point from Hebrews There's all these prophets that have come. But heads up, folks, the sun has come. Don't look for any other. This is the final word. Hear ye him. That is the point. And in fact, this is what God himself said about Jesus Christ. Look at in your handout in section number five in Matthew 17, 1. This is when Jesus took Peter, James, and John, his brother, brought them up to a high mountain. And you know the account. They were overshadowed by a cloud. And it says, verse 3, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias. See if the boy turns around because he heard his name. No, he didn't. Moses and Elijah appeared on the mount. Alright? Isn't that interesting? So we see that these individuals' identities continue. They were prophets. They went to be with God. And they lo and behold reappeared in the mountain. Peter wants to make them some tents. He wants to make give them a little tabernacle, a place to st uh to stay, hang out. Wouldn't that be a great conference, Lord? You, Moses, and Elijah, we could have a great conference. But it says uh in the account I don't have it here, that they spake concerning his death at Jerusalem. Moses, the law, Eliah, the prophets, the law and the prophets all declared and spoke about Jesus' death that would occur at Jerusalem. They're all talking about the cross. That's what's going to occur occur secure salvation and bring the grace of God to you. And then verse five we have at this magnificent uh uh mountaintop experience it says they behold a voice came out of the cloud which said this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased and notice these lastly words here Ye him. That's pretty interesting. He doesn't say here Moses or here Elias. In other words, that was time past. The Son has come. Hear, ye, him. If there is some evidence in the New Testament that more plainly More clearly explain something. Don't go digging up something from the Old Testament and try to appeal to that. God says, hear him. He's spoken unto us in these last days by his son. Hear him. There is greater weight in the New Testament because we have the fulfillment of the promise. Don't go digging up some eschatological view from a few obscure Old Testament passages. Use the clear, plain teaching of the New Testament to explain and understand those things. You don't need to say, well, I know what Jesus said, but I'm going to go back to Moses and Elijah and hear what they had to say. Or Ezekiel said this. God Himself said on the mountain to the apostles, who with Moses and Elijah standing right there next to them, they didn't raise their hand, uh Lord, what about us? He said, Hear the sun. He didn't say eject Moses and Elijah. They're there, they're important foundational parts Obviously, they're declaring the prophecy so that you would know when the Messiah comes, he's the fulfillment of it, but you hear the Son. And he said so in the Old Testament as well, in Deuteronomy 18, the next verse in section 5 in your handout It's the insert of the bulletin. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth And he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. And it shall come to pass that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him So yes, God the Father has made a very big deal out of what God the Son says in person. He makes a big deal about it. We ought to treat it as a big deal. Why should we treat it as a big deal? Well, we get to six and seven. It's a big deal because he says he's appointed him heir of all things. Oh. Okay. You know what Romans 8 says, that we are joint heirs with Christ. What What is an air? Let me drop this down to first gear here, folks. What is an air? I'm not talking about the stuff we breathe. What's an heir? Elias, do you know what an heir is? I'm looking at one. You're an heir. See? That boy is an heir. He looks pretty impressive, doesn't he? Right? He's ready to run the house, huh Anton? Just hand him the keys. And you can you can go sleep Peacefully at night. What can possibly go wrong? Not yet. Yeah. What's an error? He's the inheritor of all things, and he bears the likeness of those from whom he inherits. Okay, well Jesus is the heir of all things, and Jesus is certainly the one that bears the likeness. The heir. Yeah, the beneficiary of a covenant or of a will. When does the heir get the stuff? When does Elias get the stuff? When his dad dies, and probably mom too, or when mom or dad put something in writing it says, according to this document, this is when you get the stuff. Some wealthy people bequeath their riches early to their children. Some like Bill Gates says, nah, I made my money on my own. You go get your own. Give me anything. You know, it's it's when there's a document written, typically a will, and there's typically an event that triggers it, usually death, and then upon the death of the test feeder the one who made the testament, they inherit stuff, whatever's in there. Well, Jesus Christ, likewise, is the heir. Upon his death God the Father made a covenant with God the Son that if he would secure a people for himself upon the cross, that by his death not only would their sins be paid for, but that he effectuates, he turns on. That document that had been testified by the Old Testament prophets is now made effectual. And he now inherits all things. Alright. That's what an heir is What would you feel like if you were an heir? If you were to discover that, let me speak after the manner of men, you had a relatively wealthy uncle. Uncle Bubba. Uncle Bubba struck it rich in the oil patch. Happened to be like uh um Beverly Hillbillies where he struck oil underneath his property. And he had tons of oil flowing through it and revenue just pouring in on a regular basis. And he had no children And Uncle Bubba decides to bequeath you because you helped him in the hard days of putting a fence on the property and feeding the animals when he couldn't because his arm hurt and he had a bum leg from the war. But now Uncle Bubba's made his riches. He wants to include you on the will. How would you feel about that? How distressed would you be about things in life that occur to you that are financial? You're shaking your head. No. Why would that be? Can you be at ease? You'd be at ease, why? Because you're you're covered. You're covered Yeah, you've you've got you know that you've got a source of income. You can validate that source of income. You can look, it's in writing, you see it. Are you, what are you troubled about? What are you worried about? What moves you Some of these uh silly YouTube videos I get stuck watching from time to time because I have a uh undisciplined habit of just allowing myself to keep thumb scrolling. But there's these silly ones where a uh little c movie clips of a wealthy individual, maybe it's the store owner, who goes in And they're going to work in their store, maybe a different branch, where they don't know that this person is the owner. And they're just trying to spy out the managers. Are the good bosses or not? And uh some people are very, very good to the boss and they discover that, oh, this was the boss I'd been working alongside. This is the boss I was training as a new hire. And uh I just got a promotion or they were really a lousy employee and they're dismissing the boss and the boss is like, hmm, yeah, we're gonna have to deal with this When you're secure knowing that you inherit all things, the Apostle Paul says, all things are yours. All things are things present or things to come. He says they're all yours. Do you really believe that? Have you stopped and thought about that from time to time That you, like Jesus Christ, are a joint heir with him and you inherit all things. Have you stopped and thought about that? Does that impact your life? Have you considered changes that you might make in your life, like things to worry about. I keep telling Brother Joe, God ain't broke. He really ain't broke. Joe, he really and I know you know that. He really just ain't broke. He's not hurting. God has never needed to take out a loan He's never needed to go to the central bank and ask for money. He's never needed quantitative easing or any of that nonsense. He doesn't need stock market. He doesn't need to do perfect timing on sales or puts or trades or options. He hadn't need that stuff. God ain't broke He owns a cattle in a thousand hills. He says all the gold and the silver is mine. If I were hungry, I wouldn't ask you. God ain't broke. He's given us a job to do. Do you think your Heavenly Father can provide for what you have need of to do your job? And maybe He's given you some things that you're not willing to spend in His service. Does he walk among you and ask the question, what kind of an employee do we have here? You know, you might think about that. It says in John 13, Jesus knowing that the Father, I I've never appreciated John 13 verse 3 as much as I have as when I read this verse. Inside of your bullets in point six John 13, 3. Jesus knowing, knowing, alright, he got his head around this, if I can speak after the manner of men, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands. And that he was come from God. And he went to God. What did he do? He went and found a throne and put a crown on his head? No. He rises from supper, laid aside his garments, and took a towel. Look, I own it all. I've got it all. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter Let me wash some feet. It doesn't matter. I've got it all. Knowing. See, we need to embrace that, don't we? Revelation 21, 7, he that overcometh shall inherit all things. He that overcometh, even as I overcame. Well, he then concludes by whom also he made the worlds. He looks to the future first. He inherits all things. And he kind of puts in as a footnote that, oh, by the way He also made all worlds. And I'm going to be brief in my comments because I want to round it out. And I wish I had a very nice summer little bow tie to put around this and you go, oh, that was a nice message. It ended very cleanly. But I'm actually going to deal with Some doctrinal issues that show up here. Do you see that word made? He made the worlds. Then you go down to verse 4 speaking of Jesus being made so much better than the angels. Ah Ah, the Jehovah's Witnesses say. You see, Jesus was a creature. He was created. He was the first one created, and then he created the worlds. Those are two different words, folks. Those are two different words in the Greek. The first word made in our phrase here by whom he made the worlds is polio. It's not the same as made in verse 4, Ginevai. He created the universe, and then he He became better than the angels. You've heard of the phrase a self-made man. That doesn't mean he created himself from the ground up. He became something big. That's the sense in which we have here. uh in verse four. But in verse two, we're talking about creation. And that word worlds is interesting because it's the word I own. It can also be rendered the ages, eternity. He created all of time. He created all of it. Matter, time, it's all created by him, and he inherits it all. So what do you have in these opening two verses of Hebrews? is a footstoming, is a biographical introduction of the ultimate speaker to whom you must listen to. You go to some Fancy event. Somebody picks up the bio. Our next speaker will be so-and-so, and they read all the list of accomplishments, all the chest pounding that you know the speaker wants them to know about his fame and why you should bother listening to this individual. And here God gives the ultimate introduction to the Son. He created the worlds. He's inherited all things The prophets spoke of him. He came and fulfilled it, securing salvation. God does not make this optional. You have to listen to the Son. It's not an option. Salvation is a must come. It's a right now gospel. It's oh I've got a yoke of ox and I need to go prove them. No, it's a right now gospel. It's uh oh I I I have a uh a new bride, uh I I cannot uh come to the dinner. No, it's a right now gospel You've got to come now. Because God's fascinated about his son. And now you know what the rest of the book of Hebrews is about. It's about the Son. It's about what God says about the sun. It's what the sun says about the sun. It's what he's done. That's what this whole book is about. And he gave it to you in half a sentence. So I hope you appreciate that. Alright, Lord Willing, we'll continue this tradition of putting Sunday school inserts in the bulletin. I've committed to something here. I'm not sure I should have done that because that's just more work, but I trust you find it useful Uh Anton, could you close us in prayer? Yeah. If the last will let you. Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for your word that you've given to us, that you've preserved for us. But yay, all of it is uh relevant and you can learn from all even the the prophets and uh even now in the last days that you've spoken uh through your son Pray indeed that we would hear him. Help us, O Lord, to understand even the weighty matters of the gospel and salvation and eternal life, O Lord. Help us to learn more from the scriptures. Thank you, Lord, for uh even this time considering it, O Lord. Help us to grow in grace and in knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray you bless the upcoming service for it. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.