Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Ezekiel, and the 22nd chapter. Ezekiel chapter twenty two I'm going to start our reading. In the seventeenth verse of the chapter, and I'll be reading down through the end. Ezekiel chapter twenty-two and verse seventeen. Hear now the word of the Lord. And the word of the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, the house of Israel is become dross. All they are brass and tin and iron and lead. In the midst of the furnace, they are even the dross of silver Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, because ye are all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem. As they gather silver and brass and iron and lead and tin into the midst of the furnace to blow the fire upon it, to melt it So will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there and melt you. Yea, I will gather you and blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst thereof. As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof, and ye shall know that I, the Lord, have poured out my fury upon you. And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, say unto her Thou art the land that is not cleansed, not reigned upon in the day of indignation. There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey. They have devoured souls. They have taken the treasures and precious things. They have made her many many widows in the midst thereof. Her priests have violated my law and have profaned my holy things They have put no difference between the holy and the profane, neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the clean. And have hid their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them. Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey to shed blood and to destroy souls to get dishonest gain. And her prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord God. When the Lord hath not spoken. The people of the land have used oppression. And exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy, yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it But I found none. Therefore have I poured out my indignation upon them I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord God. Let us pray. Well, Father, the passage before us this morning is dreadful. The judgments of which we have just read are fearful. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Father, this morning, may you open your word to our hearts. You have promised that your word will not return unto you void, but it will accomplish that which you purpose and prosper in the thing whereunto you send it. And so, Father, this morning, through your word, accomplish your purpose in us, and prosper your truth to our hearts, we pray. O Lord, I will try with failing, stumbling human lips to expound the Word of God. But no human exposition is profitable to the souls of men, except that the Holy Spirit be the true preacher in this place today. Accept that the Holy Spirit speak to hearts, open understanding, bring conviction, and do your perfect work. And so, Father, I pray that the stumbling attempts of a preacher to try to preach your word will not get in the way of your message. Rather, Father, may you protect the congregation from the preacher. May you protect your word from human error. And may you send forth your truth mightily to do that which no man can do, to accomplish in the hearts of your people that which only you can accomplish. Our Father, then truly, our gathering together will be blessed by the Spirit of God. Lord, we pray these solemn prayers in Jesus' name. Amen. The text, which we will consider this morning, is found in that twenty-sixth verse of the chapter. Reading it again, her priests have violated my law. The priests were the guardians of the law. The priests were the administers of the law. If anyone should have been true to the law of God, it should have been the priest. But the priests have violated my law. They have profaned my holy things. The priest in the Old Testament and the priest of Judah and Jerusalem, they had the great privilege of ministering in the temple. Ministry in the tabernacle in the wilderness. And they were in charge of the holy things. And we have all the instructions. as to how the tabernacle of the wilderness was to be transported and who was to handle this and who was to handle that and you were not to do this And you could not put the ark on a cart, and all these rules and regulations, they had the great privilege of handling the precious holy things of God. The priests have profaned my holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and the profane Neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the clean. They have hid their eyes from my Sabbaths. And I am profaned among them. Dear friends, if we did nothing this morning but read that read that verse a hundred times, Our souls must profit. What a rebuke is placed here upon the priest of God and upon all the congregation of God. For when the priest of God fail in the holy things, and when the priest of God put no difference between the holy and the profane, when the priest of God put no difference between the unclean and the unclean and the clean. What is the state of the worshippers? And so I would have us to see, first of all. That Jehovah God is a God of distinction, of difference, and even of discrimination. Where he sets one on the right hand and the other on the left hand, not by any merit within those that are set, but purely of his own discriminating choice. And so for the first section of this message, we're going to take a whirlwind tour through the first several chapters of Genesis. Turn with me to Genesis chapter 1, and we're going to see that Jehovah God is a God of clear distinction and difference. Genesis 1 and verse 3. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light, and God saw the light that it was good, and God divided the light from the darkness. In the very beginning of creation, God said, light over here, darkness over there. He distinguished between the two and he separated them. And then in verse 6, and God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, let it divide the waters from the waters. Waters of the mist in the clouds, waters of the earth down here. This is your place. Verse nine. And God said, let the waters of the earth be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. Seas, you're over here. This is your place. Dry land, you're over here. In the first chapter of the Bible, God is separating. He's making divisions, and he's making them clear. Verse 27. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created him, male And female created he them, and God blessed them, and God said, Be fruitful and multiply. Adam, you are a man. You're not a woman. You're a man. Eve, you are a woman. You are not a man. I have created you in my image, and I have made you two different complementing parts. For the purpose of propagation, be fruitful and multiply. It's been said many times before: God made Adam and Eve. He didn't make Adam and Steve. God, in the very first book of the Bible, at the very beginning of creation, he makes this distinction, male Adam, female, Eve. They don't connect. They don't cross. Chapter 2 and verse 16. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat Verse 17, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat. Okay, God says, look, Adam, here, all these trees eat. This one, no. This one don't eat. Now, why not? It's not yours to ask. But but it's good to the eye and pleasant to make one wise. I said no. Very well. God made a discrimination. Adam, you can eat this, but not that. Chapter 4 and verse 3 In the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel also brought of the first thing of the flock And the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel's offering, but unto Cain and his offering he had not respect And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. God said, This is acceptable! This is unacceptable. This I will receive. This I will not receive And I'm sure that Cain did not bring a bruised apple. I'm sure he did not bring a misshapen tomato. I'm sure he did not bring withered or blasted barley. He brought the very best he had, and God said, not good. God made a distinction. This is what I will accept. This I will not. accept, and I will accept Abel and his offering, but not just to Cain's offering, but to Cain and his offering He had not respect. God is a God of distinctions. Chapter six And verse 5. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thought of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord said, I will destroy man who I have created. From the face of the earth. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. You understand that Noah is in verse 7 and in verse 8. God says in verse 7, I will destroy man. I will destroy them all. They have all sinned. They've all come short of the glory of God. They are all deserving of my judgment. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. God made a distinction there. I'll destroy all men! But no wait. I'll save Noah. I'll say Noah. God made a distinction. Chapter 7 and verse 1. And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark. And of every clean beast thou shalt take unto thee by sevens, the male and his female. And of the beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female. Let me ask you a question. Had God given the law yet? No. Have we been to Sinai yet? Are there tables of stone? Is there a ceremonial law established yet? No. How did Noah know the difference When God said, bring seven clean, clean by sevens, and unclean by twos, Noah doesn't question, and God doesn't explain. You see, Noah already knew the difference between the clean and the unclean. Because he had found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Because he knew right from wrong Because he knew the difference between the holy and the profane. Because he knew the difference, because he served a God that is a God of distinctions and a God of difference all the way from creation. Up under the flood. It's very clear again and again and again in Scripture, there is this which is good, and there is this which is not good, and the two don't meet. There's not a middle ground between them. There's not a gray area in between where you can dwell. It is good or it is evil. It's not almost good or partly evil. It is one or the other. There's no transgender in here. Chapter twelve. Now the Lord said unto Abraham, or to Abram, excuse me. We need to be very careful there. The Lord said unto Abram In 12. 1. Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee And I will make of thee a great nation, verse 3, and I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee. God said, Abraham, I'm separating you from your country. I'm separating you from your family. I'm separating you from all peoples of the earth. You're going to be different. You're going to be mine. I will make of you a great nation. Those that bless you, I will bless, and those that curse you, I will curse. God doesn't halfway bless or halfway curse. It is one or the other. And so the first thing we must consider as we approach this twenty-sixth verse of Ezekiel 22, where the priests profane the holy things, and the priests failed to put a difference between the unclean and the clean. We must understand that it's the very nature of God That they were approaching. Because God's a God of difference. God's a God of distinction. God is a God of separation. He separated light from dark. He separated man from male from female. He separated water from earth. He separated Noah from the rest of the people. He separated Abraham from his own family. And we could go on for another three or four hours just picking out these separations in Scripture. But we have enough now to get the idea, just as Noah didn't have to be told what was clean and unclean. He knew. He understood. And so the second thing that we need to see, first, God is a God of difference and distinction. But secondly, God from the very beginning has demanded difference and distinction among his people. God has demanded that his chosen people, his own elect, be different and distinct from all others. Genesis 17 and verse 1 And when Abram, and it's still Abram there, when Abram was ninety years old and nine The Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God. Walk before me and be thou perfect. Abram. Walk before me and be perfect. Now Abram walk before me and be pretty good. Walk before me and be better than your neighbors. Walk before me and do the best you can. It doesn't say any of those things, does it? God said, Abraham, walk before me and be thou perfect. It's a pretty high standard that God is establishing. God says from the very beginning with his people, all people may be perfect. Verse 9. And God said unto Abraham, In the verses we've skipped there is where God changes his name. He says you're no longer going to be Abram, but you're going to be Abraham. In verse 9, and God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant, therefore Thou and thy seed after thee in their generations. And this is the covenant that thou shalt keep between me and you and thy seed after thee Every man child among you shall be circumcised. God says Abraham, you're going to be different than everyone else in the world. And this is going to be a visible mark of your difference. This is going to be a visible token of your separation from all others. Remember when Moses' wife said, You're a bloody husband? She didn't like the fact. That God had made a difference. That God had made a separation. But we find that God Himself from the very beginning is a God of difference and distinction. And God, from the very beginning of his dealings with his people, has demanded that they too be different and distinct. And it's not just an Old Testament principle. For in Matthew 5, Christ says, Be ye perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven, is perfect. Christ says to the disciples, you are to be different. Not almost, not halfway, be ye perfect. And so we come to the book of Leviticus, and I won't have you turn to these, but I'll read through them very quickly. In Leviticus 11, verse 44 and following. For I am the Lord your God. Ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy, for I am holy. For I am the Lord that brings you up out of the land of Egypt. to be your God, ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. This is the law of the beasts and of the fowls and of every living creature, to make a difference between the clean and the unclean And Leviticus nineteen, speak therefore to all the congregation of the children of Israel and say unto them, Ye shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy And Leviticus twenty, and ye shall be holy unto me, for I am the Lord your God, which have severed you from other people, ye should be mine. And throughout the book of Leviticus and the giving of the ceremonial law, we find all kinds of crazy regulations. All kinds of things that the priest could have said, Well, why can't I have a drink when I want to drink? Well But why do I have to do this and why do I have to wash it in that way? And why do I have to put on these clothes to go into the tabernacle and then bathe again and then put on these clothes and all these rules and regulations? It's all about don'ts and do's and don'ts and do's. And what we find in Ezekiel 22 and verse 26 is that it got to the point the priests said it's all about rules and regulations, and they forgot it was all about the holiness of God. They profaned as holy things. The things which were to teach them the nature of God, the things which had taught Moses or taught Noah the difference between the clean and the unclean. They profaned them They had no respect for the holy and the unholy. They didn't really care about the difference, this is good enough. Remember when when we find Jehovah saying, You brought me the torn and the lame for sacrifice, should I accept this of you? So it we can find in Leviticus ten Nadab and Abaihu. Nadab and Abihu were the sons of Aaron the priest. They were the nephews of Moses and Miriam. They were the grandchildren of Aram and Jacobed. What a godly heritage! Their grandparents, their parents, their aunts and uncles? You realize that God appeared to their uncle? In a flaming bush. My uncle saw that. And God appeared to their father on the mountain. We find in Leviticus 10, and Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censor, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not And there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And Moses said unto Aaron, This is that which the Lord spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh unto me. Let me read that again. And Moses said unto Aaron, This is that the Lord spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh unto me. Therefore all the people, in all the people will I be glorified. And Aaron held his peace. God says, I'll be sanctified in those that come before me. And when Nadab and Abihu came with strange fire, God killed them. In spite of their godly heritage, in spite of their upbringing, they profaned his holy things. They put no difference between the holy and the unholy, between the clean and the unclean. They didn't respect his Sabbaths and his laws. And so we see, first of all, that God from the very beginning has been a God of distinction. And secondly, that God demands a difference and a distinction among his own elect. But then the third thing that we'd see from our text this morning is that failure to maintain a difference between the clean and the unclean will always result in sorrow loss. And destruction. Failure to respect God's law of clean and unclean, of holy and unholy, of righteous and unholy will always result in In loss, sorrow, and destruction. God will be glorified. God will be sanctified in those that approach unto him. At this point, we're going to spend a bit of time going through this 22nd chapter of Ezekiel. I've had you turning to several passages, but turn back now to Ezekiel, and we're going to pull numerous verses out, but I'd like to begin this section by reading again verses 25 through 28 of Ezekiel chapter 22. We read them earlier, but it does us well to read them again. Verse 25 of Ezekiel 22, therefore, or there is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof. Like a roaring lion ravening the prey. They have devoured souls. They have taken the treasures and precious things. They have made her many widows in the midst thereof. Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and the profane. Neither had they showed difference between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my Sabbath, and I am profaned among them Her priests in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey to shed blood, to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. And our prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord God! When the Lord hath not spoken. The priests who were charged with the proclamation of the law The priests who were charged with maintaining the separation between the clean and the unclean, between the profane and the holy. They've daubed them with untempered mortar. I grew up uh on a farm. My my home was not on the farm, but my grandfather's farm was down the road, about a half a mile by the road and about a quarter mile if I cut through the woods to get there And uh we used to play my cousins and I on the farm and we would build things and I had some other friends that we would build forts and we would take our rocks and we'd mix mix up a bunch of mud And we would cement our rocks together with mud. And it looked pretty good until the first rain came. And that is the description that God uses here of what the children of Israel have done. And I actually eliminated two pages of notes by not going into dawd with untempered mortar. Look that phrase up and find it. It's found multiple times in Ezekiel and Scripture, dawbed with untempered mortar. Rather than proclaiming the truth of God, they said, Thus saith the Lord when he hadn't spoken. Rather than building with the solid rock of truth, they use mud and sand. And remember what happened to the man that built his life on the sand. The storms came and the winds blew and the house fell. And so that is the state we find here. The priests have daubed the work of God with untempered mortar. Oh, what a rebuke that is to us. May we be careful. That our mortar is always the mortar of the Word of God and not our own thinking. That we never say, thus spake saith the Lord, when the Lord is not spoken. And that our th that our thus saith the Lord always be in the quoting of his word and not in the exposition of our own hearts. And so we find that those that fail to put a difference between the clean and the unclean, the holy and the unholy, will always suffer loss. sorrow and destruction. Because they failed to put a difference, God will smite his hand against them. We talk about a thunderclap. Look at verse 13 and 14. Behold, therefore, I have smitten my hand at thy dishonest gain which thou hast made, and at the blood which hath been in the midst of thee Can thine heart endure, or can thine hand be strong in the day that I shall deal with thee? I, the Lord, have spoken it and will do it. You have stood up on your own, but can you stand when God says fall? God didn't say be pretty good, he said be perfect. God didn't say be better than your neighbors, he said be perfect. He didn't say, do the best you can. He said, be perfect. The time of their judgment we find was hastened on by their own rebellion. Look at verses 3 through 5 of the chapter. Then say thou, thus saith the Lord God, the city sheddeth blood in the midst of it, that thy time may come. In other words, God says, your wickedness is hastening your own judgment, that your time may come. and maketh idols against herself to defile herself. Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed, and hast defiled thyself with thine idols which thou hast made, and thou hast caused the day to draw near. And art come even unto thy year. Therefore have I made thee a reproach to the heathen and a mocking to all countries. God says you hasten your own destruction. You cause the year to come nigh. I would have withheld my judgment for a time. But God says, I'll withhold it no more. And so because they put no difference between the good and evil, God sm has smitten his hand against them. Because they put no difference between the good and the evil, between the clean and the unclean, God will scatter them among the nations. Look down to verse 15 and 16 And I will scatter thee among the heathen and disperse thee in the countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee. Remember we read earlier about God saying you're tin, your lead, your brass, and I'm going to throw you into Jerusalem and I'm going to burn you there. I'm going to blow upon you. I'm going to melt you. God says, I'm going to burn the filthiness out. I'm going to come with judgment that cleanse us. Verse 16, and thou shalt take thine inheritance. in thyself in the and thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight of the heathen and thou shalt know that I am the Lord God says, because of your sin, I'm going to scatter you among the heathen. I had gathered you together, but I will scatter you. Because they put no difference between truth and error, between good and evil. They are substituted. Let me say it better. Because they put no difference between the clean and the unclean, now they have a substitute of error for truth. Their truth has been taken away. And this again is the untempered mortar. rather than having the solid word of God, rather than having truth, they believe fables. Remember when we read the New Testament? Therefore God shall also send them a strong delusion, that they may believe a lie. When these priests were proclaiming, Thus saith the Lord, and God hadn't spoken, why didn't somebody pick up on that? Why did they say, wait a minute, no no no no no no no no no I know you're a priest, but I've read the law How many churches today are preachers proclaiming, oh, God doesn't mind homosexuality, it's okay. And the congregation sat there and said, oh that's nice. Yeah, we've got to love everybody You see, when the people follow the priest In the untempered mortar, it gets to a point where they no longer know the difference between the clean and the unclean. Remember back to Moses. I keep saying Moses, you know I mean Noah. But God didn't have to tell Noah the difference between the clean and the unclean. He already knew But when people follow evil, the distinction's gone. They don't know the difference anymore. And that is why we have so many churches today that Have a woman for a pastor. I love women. My mother was a woman and I married one. But God didn't give them that responsibility. That's right. God made a difference. Adam, male, Eve, female. But when people fail to keep that distinction, they lose the knowledge of the distinction itself. They are substituted heir for truth. We find also that when people fail to put a difference between the clean and the unclean, God will purify them, but not in mercy. You know, it's a great mercy. It's a great mercy when God convicts us of our sin. It's a great mercy when God purifies us, when he purges us with silver. It's a great mercy. And sometimes the purifying process may be difficult and hard, but it's a great mercy. So, so it's hard for thee to kick against the bricks. Saul had been under conviction when he saw the stoning of Stephen. When he saw Stephen glorifying God as the stones were hitting him and as his life left. He was under conviction and it was a mercy. We find that God There in verses 18 through 22, which we read earlier, behold, I will gather thee in Jerusalem in the midst thereof. And in verse 20, So will I gather you in my anger and my in my fury and I will leave you there and melt you. God says I'm going to melt you down. But God's judgment there in verses 18 through 22 was not a judgment of mercy, but it was a judgment of destruction. And we find ultimately when men fail to put di difference between the clean and the unclean When they fail to discriminate in their own lives and in their own worship that which is holy and that which is profane, there is no limit to the iniquity of which they're capable. The passage talks about killing the widows. It talks about oppressing the poor. It talks about burnings and a multitude of blood. And Ezekiel does not go in detail into what he was prophesying about, but what had happened there in Jerusalem was that the substitutionary atonement had gotten confused because they didn't put difference between the clean and the unclean. You see, God had demanded back at the Passover in Egypt, we're going to celebrate the Lord's table this morning. God demanded the Passover that all the firstborn were his And if they were to put the blood upon the doors of the house, and when he saw the blood, he would pass over, and the firstborn would be spared. But where the firstborn was not atoned for with blood, the firstborn would perish. And throughout the law that was given in the years following, in the law of Sinai, we find the principle of the atonement Where a son is born. And remember when Christ was born, they came to the temple and they brought the turtle doves. A lamb was sacrificed for the son. All the firstborn are mine, God said. And we find throughout the Old Testament, again, again, the substitute, the substitute, the substitute. But rather than bringing a lamb as a substitute for their firstborn son, they brought their firstborn son and sacrificed him. Because they failed to put difference between the clean and the unclean, it came to the point where they were practicing human sacrifice in Jerusalem. They were making their own children to pass through the fire onto Moloch. Then thou shalt say, thus saith the Lord, the city sheddeth blood in the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols against herself to defile herself. Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou sheddest. Thou hast defiled thyself with thine idols that thou hast made. Turn over very briefly. I've already told you what we're going to read, but let me read it to you very briefly to 2 Kings 21. 2 Kings 21 and verse 1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hepsavah Hepsava. And he did that which is evil in the sight of the Lord after the abominations of the heathen. There it is whom the Lord God had cast or whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and it reared up altars for Baal and made a grove, as did Ahab, king of Israel And worshiped all the hosts of heaven and served them. And he built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord said, In Jerusalem will I put my name And he built altars for the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. And he made his son pass through the fire. And he observed times and used enchantments And he dealt with familiar spirits and wizards. He wrought much wickedness in the sight of the Lord to provoke unto evil. And he set up graven images of the grove, and he made in the house which he made in the house of the made in his house, of which the Lord said unto David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of the tribes of Israel, will I put my name there And if you look down to verse 16, moreover, Manasseh shed innocent blood very much till he filled Jerusalem from one end to another. besides his sins wherein he made Judah the sin and g and doing evil in the sight of the Lord. And then for the sake of time I won't read it. But um Jeremiah 7 and verses 30 and 31 again talk about Manasseh and the children of Israel burning their sons and their daughters in the fire. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine such pagan worship in Jerusalem, in the temple? We've seen that from the very beginning God is a God of difference and distinction. We've seen that from the very beginning God has demanded of his people a difference and a distinction. And then thirdly, we see that the consequences not keeping a difference and distinction are sorrow, loss, and destruction. But then we find finally from this passage that because they failed to put a difference between the clean and the unclean. Because they failed to put a difference between the holy and the unholy, they came to a point where there was no repentance If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But you see, a people determined to go on in their wickedness can reach a point where there is no repentance. where the gospel ministry is removed from them, where the preachers are gone, where the faithful prophets are no more, and a people are left with nothing but their wickedness. Look down to verses thirty and thirty-one of the chapter. God says in Ezekiel twenty-two and verse thirty, And I sought for a man among them. That should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it. And I found none. God says, I looked for one man I look for one man to make up the hedge. I look for one man to stand in a gap that I might not destroy them. Oh Lord, if you can find 40 in Sodom. Well, what if you can't find 40? What about 35? What about 30? What about 20? If there's 10. God says of Jerusalem, not Sodom and Gomorrah here. God says of Jerusalem, I sought for one man to stand in the gap and to make up the hedge, and I found none. Therefore, verse 31, have I poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Their own way have I recompense on their heads, saith the Lord God. Because they failed to put a difference between the holy and the profane, between the unclean and the clean. They got to the point where God removed all witness from them. And there wasn't even one man to stand for truth. That God's fury might be withheld. I'm afraid this nation's heading in that way. Or reading scripture, the godlier perished out of the land. Truth has fallen in the streets. You know. For the invisible things from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image like unto corruptible man. They took the sacrifice Which was a picture of the substitution in the For to Christ. And they substituted sacrificing their own children. Like a Nagrappu plan. To birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Romans 1 24, wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through their lust of their own hearts. to dishonor their own bodies among themselves. Doesn't that sound like our day and age? In conclusion, I would like to consider briefly three passages from the New Testament. We've seen that God, from the very beginning, is a God of distinction and difference. God doesn't mix light and darkness We've seen that from the very beginning that God demands this difference and distinction among his people. We've seen that the consequences of failing to maintain that difference and distinction are grave, it's loss and sorrow and destruction. We've seen that a people can reach a point where there's no more witness, where there's no more chance for repentance. God says to his people today, be different. Be different. We're in the world, but we're not of the world. We're to be his people. We're not to be in between We're not to be half and half. We're not to be Christians on Sunday and children of the devil the rest of the week. Be ye holy, for I am the Lord your God. Be ye also separate. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world, and the world passeth away in the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of the Father abideth forever. The world Passeth away and the lust thereof. What God said in Ezekiel to Jerusalem, I'm going to burn you with fire. I'm going to purify you. The world passeth away. God will not destroy this world again with a flood, but He will destroy this world again with fire. James 4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be the friend of the world is the enemy of God. Doesn't say there's a halfway in between, does it? Doesn't say that that you can be the friend of the world some of the time or just just a little just we're not really friends, we're just acquaintances. Yeah. God makes a difference in the New Testament as well, for his people today. James 4, verse 6. But he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nine to God, and he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Double-minded, doesn't that sound like those folks back in Jerusalem? And then one more verse, Ephesians five, verse eleven. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. But rather reprove them. Everyone here today is dressed in nice clothing I don't think anybody's going to go out in your nice clothing this afternoon and roll around in the snow, in the mud and the dirt. Why? Well these are our these are good clothes. But we are going to go out of this place of worship today into a world that's full of mud and slush and dirt. God calls upon his key people to keep themselves unspotted from the world. How can we be perfect? Be ye also perfect. That's what Christ said to the disciples, as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Well, I'll be honest with you folks, I can't do it. I still live in a body of flesh and I will not reach perfection while I'm here. But I know him who is perfect. And day by day it is my goal and responsibility to be more and more conform to his image. And I'm not to let sin reign in my mortal body. I am to shun friendship with the world. I am to shun the world's likeness, and I am to cleave to Christ in all things. For though I am not perfect in myself, I am made perfect in Christ. When we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. May God give us grace day by day to put a difference between the unclean and the clean. Let us stand for prayer. Father, today we thank you for your word and the truth of it. Lord, may you apply it to our hearts. May we believe your word by faith. May we day by day be washed with the water of the Word. May we walk in Thee and walk in the light as He is in the light. May our fellowship be with Christ and not with the world. In Jesus' name. Amen.