Turn in your Bibles once again, please, to that ninety ninetieth Psalm. And I deliberately had the response of reading this morning read the entirety of the psalm because I'm not going to read it all again But I do want to give you by way of introduction a brief outline of the psalm and kind of hit a few highlights So we're going to have two outlines this morning, one for our introduction and then one for our exposition from verses one and two. But of course the psalm begins with God is the dwelling place who sustains the elect in all generations. And that's found in verses 1 and 2. And then secondly, God is the righteous judge who must punish the sins of mankind. And we find this in verse three, thou turnest man to destruction. Verse seven, we are consumed in thy anger, and by thy wrath we are troubled. Verse eight, Thou hast set our iniquities before us Verse 11, who knoweth the power of thine anger? And part of that wrath of God which demands punishment for sin Is indeed the brevity of our years here on earth. Verse 4, a thousand years and thy say there is, but yesterday Verse 5, they are like the grass that groweth up. Verse 6, in the morning it flourisheth and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withereth. We spend our lives as a tale that is told, verse 9. The days of our years are three score and ten, verse number 10. The brevity of life is part of God's curse on sin. And folks, I would suggest to you that it is both a curse and a mercy. Because you look at the wickedness of some men And the amount of wrath that they are able to store up to themselves in seventy years. And if God gave them nine hundred years like some of the patriarchs What evil and iniquity would they commit? For God declares that the iniquity of man shall wax worse and worse. And we find that the wicked sleep not unless they cause some to fall, and they spend their nights imagining some new evil. And so, first of all, God is the dwelling place who sustains the elect in all generations. God is the righteous judge who must punish the sins of mankind And number three, God is the merciful Savior who sovereignly works all things for the salvation of the elect. Verse 3, return, ye children of men. Verse 7, for we are consumed in thine anger And by thy wrath we are troubled. What a profound text that is. By God's wrath, we're troubled. Was it not the fear of God's judgment which first awakened you to your need of a Savior? They used to say a man has to be lost before he can be saved. And God sometimes has to awaken us. You see, Saul was a very righteous man on his way to Damascus. And God had to arrest him to his own sin. And he later testified, these things I did ignorantly. God is the merciful Savior who sovereignly works all things for the salvation of His elect. Verse number 8, thou hast set our iniquities before thee. Our sins are not hid, our secret sins, in the light of thy countenance. But what a glorious thing that for God's people. He says, Here I've set thine iniquities before set our iniquities before thee. But then in Isaiah, speaking to the elect, he says, I've cast your my your sins behind my back. He puts his sins in front of him for judgment. But then because of Christ he casts them behind his back And if you go through the Psalm you'll find in verse eleven, who knoweth the power of his anger, verse tw 12, so teach us to number our days, etc. And so the outline of the whole psalm is God the dwelling place of his people, God the righteous judge, and God the merciful Savior But I want to focus this morning on those first two verses of the Psalm. Lord, Thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. God is the dwelling place of his people in the past, and God is the dwelling place of his people in the present. And God is the dwelling place of his people in the future. What is the meaning of this phrase dwelling place? Thou hast been our dwelling place. Well, we are in a dwelling place today. This is the dwelling place of the Clue family. A dwelling place is where someone abides, where they dwell. But when we talk about God being our dwelling place It is far more than that. This word dwelling place is an indication of a place where there is safety, a place where there is provision. A place where there is correction, we discipline our children within our dwelling place. A place where there is fellowship, we sit around a table. And here The declaration is this, Lord, you have been our dwelling place through all generations. In Deuteronomy 26, 15, Moses said, Lord, look down from your holy habitation. And the testimony of Rahab in Joshua 2. 11 was that he's God in heaven above and in earth beneath And remember the astonishment of Solomon when he was dedicating the temple there in 2 Chronicles 6 and verse 18. Solomon said, But will God verily indeed dwell with men on earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee, how much less this house which I have built. Solomon was astounded by the idea that Jehovah God, maker of heaven and earth, would dwell in the temple that he had built. Now what do we know about Solomon's temple? Well it was grand. It was filled with gold. It was decked with finery. It was the best temple money could buy. But Solomon is astounded that God were ordained to dwell there. And yet, what this text tells us Is that God has been our dwelling place throughout all generations And if Solomon's temple was so grand and so marvelous, but Solomon is still astounded by the idea that the God of the universe would dwell in this temple How much greater is the state of God's people? For He has been our dwelling place. Throughout all generations. But consider this. It says he's been our dwelling place through all generations. Well, Adam was the first generation. Adam was the first created. Adam and Eve dwelt in the Garden of Eden in perfect fellowship. And folks, the dwelling place of God at that time was the Garden of Eden. He dwelt there. He walked in the garden with Adam and Eve. There they found provision. There they found protection. There they found fellowship. And ultimately there they found discipline. And so all the things that we mentioned about a dwelling place were true of the Garden of Eden But thou hast been our dwelling place. The elect have dwelt in God through all generations, but it begins before that. For we find that the verse continues before the mountains were brought forth. In other words, not just Adam, the generations, but before there were generations. Because the earth was created and the mountains were brought forth before Adam and Eve were created And so before the creation of Adam and Eve, thou hast been our dwelling place. And of course, the New Testament confirms this, because we are chosen in him before the foundation of the world. before the mountains were brought forth. Consider also that God was the dwelling place of Moses. Moses is the author. Most of our Psalms are Psalms of David. But but Moses was involved in the pending of this psalm as well as David. And God was the dwelling place of Moses. When Moses was an infant in a basket of bulrushes on the Nile River. Think about that. Moses How many of you would take your newborn baby and put your newborn baby in a basket that you've smeared slime on and put that basket in a river that is known for its crocodiles? You see, the danger of the crocodiles was much less than the danger of Pharaoh. But when Moses was in that basket, God was his dwelling place. His body dwelt the basket. But his soul dwelt with God. Folks, that should teach us a valuable lesson. We spend a lot of our lives on this earth in baskets of bull rushes surrounded by crocodiles. But thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. And there was a whole multitude of individuals that could have found that basket in the bull rushes, but who was it? But Pharaoh's own daughter, the only really one in the country that could have compassion and get away with it. Right? There was not another woman, the the the the midwife spared the babies, but They could not protect if Pharaoh's army came along. The only woman in that country that could have compassion on Moses and get away with it comes along. Why? Because it was a very good basket? Because it was hidden in a very good spot? No. Because God was the dwelling place of Moses. In that basket. But then again, we find this same Moses growing up in the palace of Pharaoh. Surrounded by luxury, every delicious food you can imagine, the best education the world can provide Here is Pharaoh's stepson. Living in the palace. But God was still his dwelling place. Even in the palace, the palace was irrelevant, for he dwelt in the dwelling place of God. Well, he used to sing an old chorus, a house or a cottage, why should I care? Doesn't matter where we live on this earth. But we find that Moses went from that dwelling place of the palace out into the backside of the desert with the ten sheep. But God was still his dwelling place. God was the dwelling place of Israel in the wilderness. He led them by a pillar of fire by night and cloud by day. He gave them water out of the rock, and we find in 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 4 that that rock which followed them was Christ. Christ was always with them. We find when Pharaoh and his army were ready to attack that the pillar of fire goes from in front to behind for their protection. That pillar of fire was their provision, manna, water, quail. That pillar of fire was their fellowship. There they commune with God in the tabernacle. That pillar of fire was their protection and even their discipline. Indeed, God has been our dwelling place in all generations. In Acts chapter 7, verse 37 and 38, it's referred to as the church in the wilderness. And Christ was with them in the church in the wilderness. Folks, they didn't have brick and steeple. It was just the people of God in fellowship with God. God was the dwelling place of Adam and Eve in the garden. Enoch walked with God. Remember Noah and the Ark? God was the dwelling place, even though they were in a boat. Remember Jacob and his ladder in the wilderness. He's sleeping on a stone in the wilderness, but God was the dwelling place. Remember Joseph in Pharaoh's prison? His body was in favor of his prison, but God was his dwelling place. Remember Moses at the burning bush when he dwelt with God there in the wilderness? Joshua dwelt with God beside the wall of Jericho. David, God was his dwelling place, so he went forth to fight Goliath. Shadrach Bish Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. What a glorious presence of God. God was their dwelling place even though their bodies were in the fire. God was Daniel's dwelling place in the lion's den. God was Jeremiah's dwelling place when he sunk down in the mire. O Lord, Jehovah, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. God is indeed the dwelling place of his people in the past. But folks, we come to God is in our dwelling place is our dwelling place in the present, and this obviously is where we want to spend the bulk of our time. If you flip over one page or maybe just look across your leaf to Psalm 91, Psalm 91 continues with this same thread, this same theme. And in verse 1 of the 91st Psalm, he that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him will I trust. Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler. Folks, where do you live? I'm not asking for your address. Where do you live? I'm not asking for a county or a state or a country. Ah, the believer dwells in God. We find in Psalm 34, verse 7, the Lord, the angel of the Lord, encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. I was reading of John Payton, a great missionary to the New Hebrides, and there is an account from his journals, from his diaries, that There was a night when the house was surrounded by men who were trying to break in and very likely killed him. And they spent the night in prayer Years later, many years later, the leader of that tribe was saved. And Peyton asked him one time about that night. Do you remember that night when you were trying to break in and you you all just walked away? What happened? And this man, now a believer, testified that there were two men in shining garments at the door, and we dared not try to enter. And folks again, uh Amy Carmichael, the missionary to India, gives similar accounts where there were were People wanting to do the servant of God harm and those soul men in shining garments. And again, a story I don't have all the details of it, but a missionary doctor who was traveling through the jungle and he had a large sum of medicine and a gang of of Bandits wanted the medicine to sell in the black market. And later those men testified that they did not dare because they said there was 26 armed guards surrounding God's servant. But folks, we don't always see such a dramatic demonstration of what it is to dwell in God. And yet how often have we had a situation and we look back later and said, that was dangerous. We look back upon it and say, you know, that could have gone another way. That could have been a disaster. That could have taken my life Something happened there that I don't understand. That was more than the flip of a coin, or some luck, or some Fate, but rather the hand of the Almighty stood to my behalf and I didn't know it. Behold, there are angels in this or God is in this place, and I knew it not. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. And that includes this generation. Right here. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear what man shall do unto me. And folks, we do not willy-nilly look for Danger. But the angel the Lord does and can't around about them that trust in him First John three twenty-four, he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us by the Spirit which he hath given us First John four, verse twelve and following. No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. And hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he has given us his spirit And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God God dwelleth in him and he in God. And we have known and believed that God has uh th the love that God hath to us God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. Oh folks, we are concerned about economy, we are concerned about personal safety, we are concerned about government issues, we are concerned about a multitude of things But we dwell in God, and God dwells in us. And we abide in his dwelling place. He will protect us. He will provide for us, he will discipline us, and he will shield us. And we know that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. I had a car accident off rock. Friday. And gotta work it out to his glory. All thanks John fifteen, I won't read the passage in it in full, but John fifteen, abide in me, and I in you, as a branch cannot bear fruit in itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. Verse 5, He that abideth in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Verse 7: If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, he shall ask what you will, and it shall be done. Abide in Christ. Isaiah forty one, verse ten. I've got so many verses here Isaiah forty one verse ten Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with my right hand, the right hand of my righteousness 1 Samuel 12, 22, for the Lord will not forsake his people for great his great namesake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Let me read that one again slowly. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. I am with you always, even in the in the world, Matthew 28, 20. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. When Christ was getting ready to leave to go back to heaven, he gave the great promise to the disciples in John 14, I will not leave you comfortless, I will come. To you. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations Including this way. Right. He's our dwelling place in the past. He is our dwelling place in the present. But oh hallelujah, praise to God. He is our dwelling place for all eternity. Turn with me to the twenty-third Psalm I'm sure most of you can quote it. All of you can quote it. But I'd like to see in the 23rd Psalm that we find this dwelling place of God in the past. in the present and in the future, all three in this beloved twenty-third Psalm The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Think about that phrase, the Lord is my shepherd. Do the sheep ever choose a shepherd, or does the shepherd choose the sheep? The sheep don't say, Oh, I think that's a good shepherd, I'll go follow him. No, the the sheep are fearful of the shepherd until they get to know him. A dog is a totally different thing. You go to the pound and uh you'll find a dog who just loves you to death, never met you before. Christ says without our dogs, we're sheep The sheep are by nature wary of the shepherd until they get to know him. Isn't that a beautiful picture? Yeah, who is this Christ? If I follow him, I've got to No, I've got to give uh uh uh But the shepherd comes and finds the sheep. You see, that's the past. The only reason I'm one of his sheep, and I'm not a goat, uh brother Brother uh Keith. Email address has not a goat in it. I'm not a goat, I'm a sheep. The the reason I'm a sheep is because the shepherd came and sought me The sheep are unaware of the shepherd before he chooses them. The sheep become aware of the shepherd as a result of his care. The shepherd begins to tenderly care for the sheep, and suddenly the sheep says, Yes, I will follow him. And Christ declares, My sheep, he might know my voice, and they follow me. Another shepherd they won't follow. A hireling flees. I am the good shepherd of the sheep. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. The Lord is my shepherd demonstrates the believer's dwelling place in Christ and the past. But then look at verse 2. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Ah, what a glorious picture of the believer dwelling in Christ in the present. Here, day by day, Jehovah provides for his elect. And we've seen that all the way through. Here, day by day, he restores the soul of his elect. He cares for us. He shelters us. Here, day by day, he leads his sheep. in paths of righteousness. He keepeth back his servant from presumptuous sins. Why? Why do I have eternal life? Because I'm so righteous that I'm going to keep myself of the faith? No, the roaring lions walking about thinking who may devour The only reason I continue in the faith, the only reason I do not rush into reprobation is the restraining, holding hand of God. No man can pluck them out of my Father's hand. He day by day leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Not for my glory or praise or fame, but for his namesake. Day by day Jehovah prepares a table before me in the presence of Satan who would devour me. That is God's dwelling with his people in the presence of Satan But then look at verse 4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Verse 6, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. That's God's dwelling place for his people in the future. I dwell under his shepherding care today. I have been under his shepherding care from all eternity, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Oh Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place In all generations. I have never been without your protection. I have never been without your provision. I have never been without your presence, and I will never be without your place. For the Lord is her dwelling place. Revelation twenty-one. Let's go to first second Corinthians five first. Second Corinthians five, verse one. For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle, this dwelling place, of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God and house not made with hands, eternal in the heaven. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked. For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that we should be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. And then Revelation 21, verses 1 through 4. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Let's pause there for just a moment. John says he saw the holy city coming down the New Jerusalem Show me a picture of New York City. Will you show me a picture of a group of buildings? Or will you show me a picture of 12 million people? John's not talking about a group of buildings here. John's talking about a group of people. Because New York City is not an accumulation of buildings. New York City is people The buildings are irrelevant. If you take the people out, it's no longer New York City, it's just a bunch of derelict buildings. John sees the church coming down out of heaven As a bride prepared for the groom. And then look at verse 3. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. Isn't that what we've been talking about? The tabernacle of God, the dwelling place of God, is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and he himself shall be with them and be their God And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are past. Away. Folks, it doesn't matter what trouble we face, what hardship we go through, what sorrow we endure, oh God. Thou hast been our dwelling place in the past. You are our dwelling place now, and so shall you be for all eternity. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for such reassurance to fearful sheep. Lord, we are so prone to look at the winds and the waves rather than the Savior. But Father, we thank you that indeed you are our dwelling place today. And Lord, you will protect to provide for your people. Bless thy word to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.