As we begin to examine this second portion of Genesis 18, I would like, by way of very brief introduction, to take us back to chapter 13. Because we have to understand some foundation of Sodom if we're to understand what is taking place here in the 18th chapter. So look back to verse to chapter 13, and there I'm going to read for you verses 10 through 13 of the 13th chapter, just a page or two in your Bibles. Chapter 13, verse 10. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. even as the garden of the Lord, like unto the land of Egypt, as thou cometh unto Zor. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east And they separated themselves one from another, and Abraham dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom, but the men of Sodom were wicked. and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Now this brief passage from chapter 13 lays For us the foundation of the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah. They were wicked before the Lord and sinners exceedingly. We also find that the land around them was pleasant. It was even like the Garden of the Lord. It was like the Garden of Eden, we can say literally, before God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. And we find Lot, who we read in the book of Hebrews, was righteous Lot. He was a righteous man. He vexed his righteous soul with the sin of Sodom. But he was a righteous man, and just as Eve looked upon the forbidden fruit and saw that it was pleasant to the eyes, it was beautiful. So Lot looks on these well-watered plains and he says, Isn't this beautiful? And I would submit to you that if Lot had have remained under the spiritual headship of his uncle Abraham. When the dispute came up between the herdsmen of Abraham and the herdsmen of Lot If Lot had said to his herdsman, Abraham is our spiritual father. Abraham is the one who communicates with God. We must overcome these difficulties. Don't argue with Abraham's herdsman. Let us stay and follow our spiritual guide. There would have been no deliverance needed for Lot from Sodom. When God came to destroy Sodom, there would have been no question, because the righteous man would not have been there in the first place. But Lot chose to forsake the place where he was being spiritually nourished and fed, and chose rather, as Scripture tells us, to pitch his tent towards Sodom. And we know the results. Lot's children married the wicked men of Sodom. His sons-in-laws thought he was as one that mocked when he said, Get out of Sodom, because judgment's coming. And so only two of Lot's daughters left Sodom with him along with his wife. And on the way out, his wife had been so polluted by Sodom that she turned and looked back in violation of God's command, which was just as great a sin as Adam and Eve taking the fruit, she looked back and was turned to a pillar of salt. And we know the sin that took place with Lot's two daughters in the cave of the wilderness. As we begin to consider God's judgment on Sodom, we must understand that Lot should not have been there in the first place. But Lot forsook the nourishing truth of God and substituted for the nourishing truth of God the wickedness of the world. He pitched his head toward Sodom. And so here you find Abraham in love for his nephew, and in love for his nephew's family, pleading with God, because Abraham knew who the righteous were in Sodom. And though we do not know, and maybe I'm speculating here, but but but bear with me just a little bit. It may have been that Lot had a family of 50. He had sons-in-laws. He had his daughters. They very likely had children. And Lot may have been able to add up his family and say, or Abraham may have been able to add up Lot's family and say there's 50 there Lord, if these fifty are righteous, will you spare the city? Oh, but Lord, I know some of Lot's grandchildren. They're what about forty-five? Well well ten, Lord. And Jehovah, notice it's all capitals there, L-O-R-D. Jehovah says, if there's ten, I will not destroy, I will spare. Four came out, one looked back, three survived. And it all goes back to chapter 13, where Abraham or Lot chose with his eyes rather than with his heart. And so there's a great warning here, and that's not the message I would have us considered today, but we can't come to chapter 18 without understanding that foundation, how critical and how vital it is. To stick to the truth. That's right. To stick to righteousness. And no, don't ever follow man I don't ask you to follow me or follow the other leaders of this congregation, but may we follow Christ. May we follow his word, never looking to the well-watered plains, into that which is as beautiful as the Garden of Eden. But is on the doorstep of Sodom. Right. But we find here gloriously that God will graciously spare a wicked people for the presence of the righteous among them. And I often pray for our own nation God, will you spare this nation for the sake of ten righteous? And I believe that God has to this day spared this nation, though this nation is more and more like Sodom every day. We kill our babies, we call good evil, and we call evil good. The thought of our White House decorated in the colors of the rainbow should be caused something which causes us to rejoice Wouldn't it be wonderful? Wouldn't it be wonderful if our White House were decorated in the colors of the rainbow because we had a president that says, God created this world, God destroyed wickedness with a flood, and after the flood, God gave the rainbow. Rainbow to promise us that he would never destroy again with a flood because that's what the Word of God says. And so for that cause the White House were decorated in the rainbow. Wouldn't that be a glorious thing? But sadly, our White House was decorated in the rainbow to celebrate the sin of Sodom. To celebrate the very sin for which God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. God have mercy on us. May God spare for the sake of a few righteous. It is amazing as we look at verses 17 and 18 of chapter 18. The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? God does not have to reveal any truth to us. What truth are we deserving of? It has often been said that there are men and women who are born, they live their entire lives, and they never once hear the name of Jesus Christ. And they die and go into a Christless eternity in hell forever. Eternal judgment And some would say that's not fair, that's not right, they never had a chance, they were never warned. That's not what God says. Rather than that showing a unrighteous, angry God, as they would say, it shows a great mercy For I should have been born and never heard the name of Christ. I should have lived my entire life without him and gone to a Christeless eternity, but God was gracious to show me his truth. And so it's astounding. It's beyond really our ability to comprehend, except by faith, that God says, Shall I hide this thing from Abraham? Or shall I show him what I'm going to do? God says, seeing that Abraham surely shall become a great nation. And all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him, and that's the key phrase of the whole thing. God has ordained that through Abraham's line will come the Messiah. And God says Shall I tell him? Shall I tell him? Because the Messiah is coming through his mind. And what a glorious thing that is. Because God has revealed truth to my heart. God has allowed you to be born, young people, children. To grow up in a place where you're taught the truth of God, don't forsake that truth. Don't turn from that truth because you didn't deserve that truth, but God has graciously revealed to you That Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And there are children your age who have never heard that message. And they may live to old age and still never hurt it. But here God graciously reveals To Abraham, his truth. It's an amazing and a blessed thing that God reveals his word to us And also it's interesting here that God did not need Abraham's advice. God did not have any reason To say Abraham, hey, what you think? Abraham, should I do this? Am I doing the right thing, Abraham? No, no, no. That's not at all what's taking place here. But God allows a man to question Isn't that amazing? That God would be gracious enough to permit Abraham to question. Who hath known the mind of the Lord For who hath been his counselor? God did not need Abraham's advice. And yet he graciously communes with Abraham. Oh, how often. How often we begin to question the sovereignty and providence of God. Something happens and our first response is, why? This isn't right Will the judge of all the earth do right? Are you really going to destroy the whole city of Sodom and Gomorrah? What if we can find 50, Lord? What if we can find 45? Well, how about 40? Maybe 30, 20, 10? But God graciously tolerated Abraham's questions. He graciously tolerates ours as well. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitih them though doesn't fear him, for he knows our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. God reveals his will to those who are his chosen faithful ones. Look at verse 19. God says, For I know him. I know him, I know Abraham, that he will command his children and his household after him, and he shall keep the way of the Lord. God says, I'm going to reveal my will to him, I'm going to show to Abraham what I'm doing, because I know Abraham will be faithful. The Lord knoweth them that are his, and that everyone that nameth the name of God, of Christ, depart from iniquity. Abraham, or God knew that Abraham was faithful. And notice also that it all relates to the covenant. God said, I'm going to reveal my will to Abraham, because I know him that he will order his household well, and in his God reveals his will to his people, and it all relates to his covenant. It all goes back to Christ. And we find many examples of this. Why did God Why did God tell Noah that there was going to be a flood? Did Noah deserve to be delivered? Should Noah have been delivered in the flood? Or should Noah have drowned along with everybody else? Well, God would not have been unjust to destroy Noah. Noah was a sinner. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. That's the covenant of God. It's his eternal promise. Samuel is a young child. Samuel. Samuel? Eli you called me? No, I didn't I didn't call you. Go back to bed. Samuel? Samuel? Samuel? Eli, surely you called me! I didn't call you. A third time, Samuel, Samuel, Eli, you called me. No, I think it's the Lord calling you. Speak, Lord. Why did God speak to a little boy Samuel? Because Eli had forsaken the truth of God. Eli's sons were wicked, and God reveals to this little boy what he's going to do. But it all goes to the covenant. God was restoring his worship. God was restoring the purity of the tabernacle. What was the significance of the tabernacle? It all looked forward to Christ. It's all about the covenant. And so Christ said to the disciples, I call you no more servants, for the servant knoweth not what his master doeth. I call you friends. And so God is gracious to reveal his truth. And we find in verses 20 and 21 that the Lord says that the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, because their sin is very grievous. When God said to Abraham, I will spare Sodom if we can if I can find fifty righteous. Now I used to look at this passage. I I grew up hearing this passage from childhood. I was blessed to grow up in church. And I used to think that it was Abraham saying, Lord, if I, if Abraham can find fifty righteous, but that's not what the passage says at all. Jehovah says, if I can find fifty righteous, if I can find forty-five, if I can find thirty, twenty, or ten. Didn't Jehovah know how many righteous were there? Was Jehovah really saying, Okay Abraham, I'll go check. Hang on. Hold the hold the phone. Let me go see. Not at all. I'm sorry. I probably shouldn't even express it in such a flippant way. God knew exactly how many righteous were there. God was not entertaining Abraham's question because God was second-guessing himself, or somehow God had to go check again because maybe he had missed a few in the count. But rather, God was teaching Abraham of his mercy and his grace. God was teaching Abraham the follies of what Lot had done. Abraham, be careful, because it says there, Abraham will order his house well. It's right there in your context, isn't it? Lot had not. Lot had failed to order his house well. We just spoke of Samuel. Eli had failed to order his house well. And so God is teaching valuable lessons to his children here. But it says there in verse 20 and 21, and this was an interesting thing that I came across in study. Let me read those two verses for you again. Verse 20. And the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great. And because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done according to their cry, the cry of it, which has come up before me, and if not I will know. It's two different words for cry there. Um both words have the same meaning. Both words are a a a cry, a pleading call or a pronouncement But the second one there in verse 21, according to the cry of it, is the same word we find in Exodus, where the cry of the children of God The cry of Israel came up before the Lord. They cried out, their cry came, and God heard their cry. Surely their cry, by reason of their taskmasters, has come up before before me. Exodus 3. That's just that's not really the message, but it interests. with me that that same word, that cry, God hears the cry. What do we learn from the fact that God hears their cry the cry of their wickedness? The eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout all the earth. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. The eyes of the Lord are upon the wicked as well. There is nothing hid from him. God didn't need to go down to examine Sodom. God tolerates the question for the instruction of Abraham, but God knew exactly what they were doing. I would like to gently and kindly ask a woman who's had an abortion, well, where is your baby? Where is your child? That would be a very cutting question and may be considered very cruel to ask such a question. But the soul of that baby is somewhere. The soul of that child exists. It is not hidden from God. It may have been hidden from man. But the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. The cry of the wickedness of Sodom had come up before God, and God said, I had enough. I'm going to destroy them. And I would say that the cry of our own nation comes up before God daily. But we tend to group it, don't we? We tend to say, well, that's them, and this is us. Oh, my friend, the cry of my own sin comes up before the Lord daily. Is it any wonder that Paul would say, O wretched man, that I am? Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? God knows the wickedness of man. God knows our uprisings and our downsettings. And oh my friend, my sin cries out before God for judgment. And the only hope I have is the redeeming blood of Jesus Christ. And so again, it all goes back to the covenant It all goes back to the promise of Christ. Their cry is coming up before me. Their sin is known before God. If you look at it in chapter 19 Just the next chapter over, and verses 12 and 13. And the men said unto Lot, this is when when uh the angels go into Sodom, the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides son-in-law and thy sons and thy? daughters and whosoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place, for we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is wax and great before the face of the Lord. And the Lord has sent us to destroy it. The cry of Sodom It's waxin' great. We know what it means to wax. A candle is dipped and dipped and dipped in the old way they made candles is dipped and dipped again and the candle grows and grows and grows. We talk about the waxing moon as the shadow of the earth is more and more released from the moon, the moon gets larger and larger and larger in our perception. It is waxing great And so the cry of Sodom has waxen great. It has grown so large that God will tolerate it no more. Their cry is great before the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. And so Abraham asks this question, we destroy the righteous with the wicked. So the first thing we see here that God is gracious to God is gracious to spare a people because of a few righteous among them. But the question could also be asked. How many rights this would it have taken? It goes from 50 to 45 to 30 to 20 to 10. How many righteous are in our land that are holding back the wrath of God? How diligent we must be about spiritual things that we may be found righteous before God. They talk about the little Dutch boy that put his finger in the hole in the dike, because if the water began to rush through the hole, the hole would quickly expand and flood the whole city. And so I believe that we as the church of God in this land that has been so blessed have our finger in the dike. That puts great responsibility on us. To stand for truth and to stand for righteousness. And so God will spare for the sake of a few righteous and our our time is rushing by, and there's a lot more I wanted to go into there. I believe that that the men On Jonah's boat boat could not have been harmed as long as Jonah was on the boat, even though Jonah was running from the Lord. And when Jonah was thrown overboard there was the storm ceased. Interesting, isn't it? A sinning righteous man was sparing all that are on the boat. But we find also that God knows the righteous. God will spare a land because of the righteous among them, and God knows who the righteous are God knew that Abraham was righteous, he said in verse 19, for I know him that he will command his household well. Do you ever feel like God doesn't know where we are? Isn't it easy sometimes to feel like we're just being overwhelmed by the iniquity around us and does God even take notice of us? You better believe he does. He knows the number of the hairs of our head. He knows exactly where we are. He knows where the sparrows are as well this morning on the way way to church we were driving past a field that's just across my house and there were Four eagles there in the field, three of them beautiful with bald heads, and then a chick that was still mottled in its fur. We were surprised to see them, but God knew they were there. He saw them before we did. He knows where their nest is. He knows all about them. And so God knows the righteous. God knew, as we said already, how many righteous were in Sodom. God knew that it would only be Lot and his daughters and his wife that would escape, and that even his wife would turn back. Even she would not complete the journey God spared Lot and his family. God knew how many righteous he would find. And God knows us. Thou, Lord, who seest me. God knows where we are. God knows what we're doing. God knows our state. He knows all about his own. And we find also that God preserves the righteous. God preserves his own. Now God does not always ordain to deliver as dramatically as Lot was delivered. We find many times in Scripture that the righteous perish. But we never ever find that the righteous perish with the wicked. There's only one instance in Scripture where we find the righteous perishing in that way with the wicked. Of course you can say, well, Samson died with, but he was doing the Lord's will there. Christ was the one Christ was the one who was crucified with sinners. He was the one who perished for iniquity. The righteous do not perish for iniquity. We are saved. And so here we find that God is able to and will preserve the righteous. Let me flip over, you don't need to turn with me, but I'll read to you from 2 Peter chapter 2. 2 Peter chapter 2 is Peter's commentary on Genesis 18. And the best commentary you'll ever find on Scripture is Scripture itself. But in Peter's commentary He says in 2 Peter 2, verses 6 to 9, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemning them with an overflow, making an example unto those that should after live ungodly. and delivered just rough just lot, vexed with the filthy their filthy communication of the wicked. For that righteous man dwelling among them and seeing and hearing, vexed this righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Excuse me. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. The godly. He knows how to deliver his own. God will preserve the righteous. Now, when Saul, who we better know as Paul, was beheaded. Was he forsaken? No, he was a martyr. He died for the cause of Christ was Stephen when he was stoned, forsaken. No. He saw Christ standing. We used to see Christ sitting. We saw Christ standing at the right hand of the throne of God. God will deliver the righteous. We may suffer loss in this world. But we do not suffer with the unrighteous. We're the servants of the Most High God. God will deliver the righteous. And we find throughout Scripture God delivering his people. We find Joseph sold into slavery. We looked at this several weeks ago. Joseph sold into slavery. What a terrible thing. But Joseph said, you meant this to me for evil. But God meant it for good to save many souls alive. God preserves the righteous. We find Israel. The children of Israel escaping from Egypt. They come to the Red Sea. God opens the Red Sea. They march into the Red Sea. The Red Sea closes again. How many of God's people perish in the sea? How many of the wicked perished in the sea? All of them. God delivered his people. Now, God could have allowed some of the Israelites on the back to be destroyed. But he delivered them. God will not always save our lives, but God will preserve the righteous. God will deliver his people. We find a spider. Protecting David when Saul is chasing him. God delivers his people. We find Daniel in the lion's den. Lions are hungry. We know that because the people thrown in after Daniel, what happened to them? Well, they didn't reach the bottom. Their bones were broken in pieces. But God delivers his people. God preserved Elijah on the wings of rabens. But God may choose to remove the righteous out of danger. God may choose to allow the righteous to die in body, but God will always deliver the righteous. But there's one more thing we need to note here. God will always do right. I believe that Abraham asked this question there in verse 25. In a bit of doubt and in a bit of judgment. Look at verse 25 with me again Here Abraham is conversing with God, and in verse 25, Be that far from thee that do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked. And that the righteous should be as the wicked. Be that far from thee, that's how God delivers. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? Here, Abraham is turning the question back to Jehovah. Will you not do right? And what is the answer? God will always do right. What God does may not seem right in our eyes But God will always do right. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. And you remember last week we looked at that word perfect. It is that same word without blemish, without spot. God's work. God's word is perfect. His way is perfect. And then in conclusion, the verses I read For our call to worship this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 32. Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak. And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth, my doctrine shall drop as rain, my speech shall be still as the dew. As the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass. Because I will publish the name of the Lord. Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. He is the rock His work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity. Just and right is he. God would have spared Sodom for 50, for 45, for 30, for 10. May God give us grace to be righteous and lights in a dark world. God spared Lot. Lot was far from perfect, but God will not permit the righteous to be lost. God will spare us. God may have to take us out of this world to spare us. But the righteous do not suffer with the unrighteous. May we take great confidence in our God. May we grow in grace and faith, and may we occupy till he comes. May we be faithful to that which God has given us. Because we have this glorious example here. of the grace and mercy of God to his own elect body. Let us stand for prayer.