Put in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to Genesis chapter 50, verses 15 through 21. And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. And they sent messengers unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did to man before he died, saying, So shall ye say unto Joseph. Forgive, I pray thee, now the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin. For they did unto thee evil. And now we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servant of God, thy father. And Joseph wept and spake unto them. And his brethren also wept and fell down before his face. And they said, Behold, we be thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. As for you, ye thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. Now therefore fear not. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. Let us bow for prayer. Great God, our glorious Heavenly Father, now as we open your word and we see this glorious testimony of Joseph, Father, may it smite our hearts May it convict us. May it give us great joy. And Father, may we through this account of Joseph come to understand that man does intend evil, but you order it all. And you work all things together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to your purpose. Father, this morning, may we not look at man in this passage. But, oh God, may we look at you. May we see the great and wondrous working of Christ. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Says to his brethren, As for you, ye thought evil, but God meant it for good. Consider This man, Joseph. God knew the life of Joseph and everything that Joseph would face before there was an Adam. Either an atom as in the man atom or an atom, the other word that sounds like the man's name, before there was an atom of this earth created, and an atom. Created on this earth. God knew that. We were chosen in Christ when? Before the foundation of the world. And so we're going to see some of the things that Joseph faced. And Joseph says to his brethren, who he could have killed, who he could have been angry with, who he could have recompensed any manner of evil on, you thought evil, but even the evil that you thought, God meant that for good. God had a time before we begin. Remember that Rachel, Joseph's mother, was barren. There could not be a Joseph Because his mother could not bear. You may have heard the little quick statistics have proven that if your parents didn't have children, it's unlikely that you will either. Joseph had to be born for there to be a Joseph, for any of this to happen, and yet his mother was barren. She could not have children God did a miracle that there would be a Joseph in the first place. He opened the womb of a barren woman. Now, if God knew all the troubles that Joseph was going to have, why would he let him be born? How many times in Scripture do we find someone saying it had been better not to have been born? Here a barren womb bore a son. Why? Because God meant it for good Because there was a purpose before Joseph was ever born, and God knew every problem Joseph would face before he was born. God opened a barren womb. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew the. Consider the name of Joseph. The name Joseph literally means Jehovah shall add. Jehovah shall add. Now that's an interesting name, isn't it? Well, when he was born, Rachel believed by faith that not only would God give her this son, but that God would give her another son, which was Benjamin. God shall add yet another. And yet we read here in the passage that through the life of Joseph, many souls were saved. Many were kept alive. And of course, we know the end of Joseph's life. That the land of Egypt is protected through the ministry of Joseph in the gathering of the crops and the storing up for the years of famine. But more importantly than that, the household of faith, the line of Abraham, is preserved by Joseph going through all these trials. We'll come back to that thought. Keep that in mind. But his name means God shall add. We also see the providence of God and the plan of God working out perpetually in Joseph's life in the two dreams that he dreamed In the first dream, he was in the field and he was harvesting the grain. He didn't have a big old John Deere reaper with the big reel in the front. didn't have a hay tether and all the equipment of the day, but rather they were harvesting the grain with a scythe or a sickle. And they would gather the grain into She's and he built his sheath of grain and his brothers built theirs, and his brothers' she's bowed down to his in his dream. And when he told his brothers his dream, they hated him yet the more we read. And in verse 8 of chapter 37, and you may want to turn to 37. because we're going to be looking at several passages. I'll make reference to them. We won't read all of them, but we'll make reference to several verses in chapter 37. But in the eighth verse of chapter 37, and his brothers said unto him, Shall thou indeed reign over us? Or shall thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him the more for his dream. and for his words. They despised him because of the dream that he dreamed. But then we find a second dream that he read and he dreamed. And this is in verses 9 through 11 of chapter 37. He dreamed that eleven stars and the sun and the moon bowed down before him. You see here Joseph as a six 16, 17-year-old boy, God is revealing the great blessing and the great plan that He has for them. We're delighted to have our children here. And we need to pray that God's plan would be made evident in the lives of our children. That God would reach them with his truth at an early age, that God would protect them from the elements of this world and all the things that can corrupt a young heart and a young mind. That God will preserve them to himself and to his purpose. But here Joseph is dreaming that not just eleven sheaths But he's dreaming that eleven stars and the sun and the moon are bowing down to him. That made his brothers really happy, didn't it? Ah, they love no, they didn't love him for that. And even his father rebukes him there in verse number 10. And says, you know, what are you talking about that I will bow down? But there's something else that's beautifully prophetic here and glorious. Because there are eleven stars Which means that Benjamin is born, which means that Rachel is dead. Because Rachel died in the birth of Benjamin. And yet in this dream there is the sun and the moon, which are bowing down before Joseph. You see the prophetic elements that weave in and out of this story We find that Joseph is a man who was blessed with great favor. If you look at the third verse there in chapter 37 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. Here, Israel loves Joseph more than any other. For God So loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, but whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That John 3. 16, which we quote so often, is so often misused. It tells us that God loved the world, all men of all nations All men of all races, man and woman, red and yellow, black and white, and green with purple spots. It makes no difference to God. He loved them all. That he sent his son for the whosoever among them. And here we find here we find Joseph among his eleven brothers. And I'm sure that the Father loved them all, but there was a special love for one. There was an amazing blessing given to the one Jacob have I loved. And Esau, have I hated? Ah, my friend, this young man Joseph, he is given an abundant blessing and favor from his father, and what a glorious picture It gives to us of the blessing and the favor that we've received from our Heavenly Father. It's not just that I was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world that I am blessed. I was not born in a Muslim country. I was born here, where I would hear the Word of God. I was not born here in a blasphemous family. Today, my family does not care one hoot about football. But the world is all excited about it today. And how many families got their children up early and Got them ready to go to a game or got them ready to have people over to their house for a football game. We got our children up this morning and prepared them to come to this house to worship. That is mercy. That is abundant favor that God has given to us that He has not given to every man, woman, and child. Ah, we see a beautiful picture of this. There are twelve sons. But Joseph is the one that is favored. God had a plan for this young man. And then we find that this one Joseph is given by his father a special garment. And we could spend two or three messages just talking about the implications of the robe, the coat of many colors, and all that that signifies This morning we're basically doing a survey of the life of Joseph. But he was given a special coat that set him apart from the others. And not only this part in Isaiah 61, 10, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God. For he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments And a bride adorneth herself with jewels. This coat that was given to Joseph set him apart. And my friend, there is one thing that sets me apart from the world, and it is the robe of righteousness given to me by Christ. That's right. That alone makes me fit to tread the courts of heaven. Remember when the prodigal son came back, the fali said, Bring a room! Bring a room! This is my son. I accept him. I acknowledge him. He smells like the pigs. Get rid of those filthy clothes. Give him a robe. And oh, we have been blessed with the robe of righteousness. And we find that in the middle of all the trials and troubles that Joseph faced In the worst possible circumstances we could imagine, the blessings were still there. The blessings never left. Look down to verse 2 of chapter 39. Turn over a page there to 39 and verse 2. And the Lord was with Joseph. And he prospered. And he was a speaking of Potiphar, and he was a prosperous man. And he was in his house of his master, the Egyptian. And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. Here's a 17-year-old boy in the house of Potiphar, all alone. Is that what it says? No! It says the Lord was with him twice in those two verses. He was in the house of Potiphar, and he was a the Lord was with him, and everything his hand did prosper. If you look down 21 and 23, you find the same scenario. He's in the prison. And there, the Lord was with him He wasn't in the prison alone. The Lord was with him. And so Joseph was blessed with great favor. And yet going back to chapter 37, we find that he was hated for the favor he received. Look at verse 4, chapter 37. And when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren They hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. If the world hates you know that it hated me before it hated you. Ah, we have received great favor and the world will hate us if we have a testimony of that favor. The world's hatred doesn't negate the favor of God. Being a servant to an Egyptian doesn't negate the favor of God. Being in the prison house doesn't negate the favor of God. Three Hebrew children in the fiery furnace I've mentioned to you before that though I can't prove it, because there's not a verse that says this is exactly what happened But what I believe happened in the fiery furnace is that the same fire that was in the bush that did not burn the bush That same fire entered the fiery furnace and pushed back the fire that would burn with a fire that could not touch the free. Hebrew children. Just as the fire of God in the burning bush did not consume the bush, God pushed aside the seven times hotter fire with his own. And they walked in safety with the Son of God. And so in all these trials, in all the things in which the world feats the child of God, yet we are the recipients of the of divine mercy. David was ha Daniel, excuse me, Daniel was hated for the favor he received Why did they plot against Daniel? Because he was advanced in the kingdom. Why did Daniel advance in the kingdom? Because he was smart. Because he was wise, because he was a good administrator, because he he had been to college and had an an MBA. No. He prospered because the Lord was with him. You find forth that Joseph was betrayed by those who should have been as close as allies. He was betrayed by those who should have been as close as allies. I was blessed to have two older brothers. And some of us have had elder brothers, some of us are elder brothers. What is the typical position of the elder brother regarding the younger siblings? Don't mess with him! That's my little brother! You mess with my little brother, you're gonna mess with me too. Should not the elder brothers be the defender of the younger? Isn't that the typical structure of the family? We don't find that here, do we? We find that he is betrayed by those who should have been his greatest allies. In Matthew 10, verse 36, Christ said a man's foes shall be those of his own household. He was betrayed by those who were of the household of faith. The ones that betrayed him were descendants of Abraham. They were the other sons of Jacob. They were the sons of Israel, the children of Israel. They were the ones who knew the covenant of God They were the ones who had received such abundant blessing. If anybody should have stuck together, it should have been the people of God. And yet he was betrayed by the sons of Jacob, the grandchildren of Abraham. And we find that they conspired against him. Look at verse 18 of 37. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto him, they conspired against him to slay him. Let's kill him. Let's get rid of him. Let's see what will become of this dreamer. I read of Christ in John 11, 53, and then from that day forth they took counsel together to put him to death. Christ came unto his own, and his own received him not. If anyone should have received Christ, it wasn't the Romans, it wasn't the Greeks, it wasn't the Medes and Parthians. and everybody else, it was the children of Israel that should have received him. But he was betrayed by those who should have received him. Who should have been his greatest allies. We find also that Joseph's brothers had no conscience about lying against him. Look down to verses 32 and through verses 31 and 32 of chapter 37. And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of the goats and dipped it in the the dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors and they brought it to their father and said This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's code. Where they find it. And found it on Joseph's back. That's where they found it. Pack of liars. They lied against him. So we find that Joseph is betrayed by those who should have been his closest allies. They tried to stop the will of God, is the next thing we find. We find that Joseph's brothers tried to nullify the promises of God. In chapter 37, verses 19 through 20. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams. We're not going to let God do what God has said. He will do. Those that opposed him tried to nullify the promises of God. They tried to stand in the way of that which God had ordained. And yet we find tragically that their opposition to Joseph was opposition to their own good. God had ordained that Joseph would save many souls alive, and their souls, and their children's souls, and their wives' souls, and their posterity. was to be saved by this one Joseph, and they said, no, we're going to stop the dream eye. Christ coming to Jerusalem and weeping over the city and saying, if thou hast known at the least the things which belong to thy peace, but now they're hid frome. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that stonest the prophets and killest them that are sent unto thee, how oft would I gather thy children together as a hen gather thy chicks? But she would not. The thing which they most needed was the thing which they fought against the hardest. The thing which was most beneficial to their own well-being is the thing that they resisted the most. Jonah said in Jonah chapter two, they that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. And we find that the unfaithfulness of these eleven or ten brothers, not eleven, Benjamin wasn't involved in this. But the unfaithfulness of these brothers was contagious. It spread to others. Look at verse 11 of chapter 37. And his brothers envied him. But his father observed the sayings, and then down to verse 33, and he knew it and said, It is my coat. This is uh Jacob talking about Joseph. An evil beast hath devoured Joseph. Uh sorry An evil beast hath devoured him, Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. So we saw there in verse 11 that when Jacob had rebuked Joseph for his dream, in which the moon and the stars also bowed down to him. He rebuked his son. What are you talking about? And yet he observed it. He took note that Joseph had had this dream from God But then we find when the brothers bring the coat, now Jacob's saying, without doubt, he's scared. The promises of God have failed. God had said that the moon and the stars and the sun would bow down to Joseph. It bothered me when Joseph told me the dream, and yet I observed it. I I've seen the working of God before. You see the This is the man who has seen a ladder stretching to heaven and angels on it. He understood what visions from God meant. And even though the vision of Joseph disturbed him and he didn't understand it, yet he couldn't throw it out. He observed it. God is speaking to my son. But now when the brothers come in with their lies and their grief, even the heart of righteous Jacob. Ah, the promises of God have failed. My son is without doubt rent by You see the destructive nature of one man fighting against the will of God, or ten men fighting against the will of God, it's contagious. It spreads. And even the righteous can be brought to discouragement and to despair. Because here's the bloody garment. It couldn't be anything but what I see. Oh you all by faith and not by sight. How often we look at the bloody coat and say the promises of God have failed when the reality is so different from what the bloody coat says to our eyes. We find that Joseph's brothers tried to remove the blessing of God from him. In verses 24 and 25, or 23 and 24. And it came to pass when Joseph was come unto his brethren That they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors, which was on him And they took him and cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty, and there was no water there. It is not the least bit of an error or a mistake or a redundancy that the coat is mentioned twice in verse 23 and it is mentioned and then the scripture gives commentary on it. Look at 23 again. And it came to pass when Joseph was come unto his brethren that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was on him. Scripture doesn't let us think, well, maybe he was just wearing a field coat. Maybe he was just wearing his outdoor clothes, and he kept the coat of many colors for special occasions. Maybe he only wore that coat when they were having guest over. That was his Sunday suit, but he didn't wear wear that coat to go out and take food to his brother of the sheep But it's very clear in this verse that they stripped off his coat, and then it tells us specifically, this was the coat of the covenant. This was the coat of many colors. This was the coat which we compared earlier to God giving us a special coat, a robe of acceptance, a robe of righteousness. Why did they take off his coat? It was the token of blessing. And they thought in their sin, if we take off his coat, we remove the blessing. Joseph, when he left the coat in the hand of Potiphar's wife, didn't leave the coat of many colors. That was a different coat. Joseph, when he was bound, most likely walking behind a camel without his coat on the way to Egypt. Was not devoid of the significance of the coat. They had taken away the outward symbol of God's blessing. But they had failed to remove the blessing. And what do you imagine Joseph wore in the prison? Well we find that when he was to come before the king, they had to wash him up and give him some clothes. He's been in the prison. In the prison he was devoid of the coat, but God was still with him. The tokens, the outward trappings, all the manifestations of blessings were gone, but the blessing remained. His brothers tried to remove the blessing, but all they could take away was the coat. And the coat was not the blessing of Israel. But then we find also that his brothers sold him outside of the covenant. We find that they sold him to the Ishmaelites. The Midianites. Who were the Ishmaelites or the Midianites? Well, they were the descendants of Ishmael. They were children of Abraham. They had the same blood. But they did not have the promise. In Isaac shall I seed be called. Let's take him and let's let's sell him to the Ishmaelites. They don't follow Jehovah. They're not worshippers of the true God. Let's get him out of the covenant. Remove him from the place of the blessings. will take away the curtain of the blessing and will drive him out of the place of God's blessings. Surely God won't know where he is. Surely, if we take his coat and we run him off, the blessings of God will cease. But no. It was not that the blessings of God ceased, it was the blessings of God abounded. In fact, the blessings of bound God abounded so much that his brothers came begging food and bowed down before him. Not only is he sold into the or sold to the Ishmaelites, the Ishmaelites take him down to Egypt and they sell him into the house of Potiphar. They sell him to be a slave in Egypt outside of the family of God. The Israelites, when someone was fallen into poverty, There is a command they were not to sell them outside of Israel. In other words, if an Israelite fell into poverty Yes, they would go into servitude, but their servitude was restricted to be within the covenant family. It was restricted to be within the family of Israel But here, his master is an Egyptian. His master is an idolater. His master is outside the covenant of faith. Then we have to move along till we find that Joseph is falsely accused and he suffers the consequences of lies. Potiphar's wife is no doubt jealous of Joseph. Joseph is given the rule over the whole house. Joseph's position in the house is higher than the wife. Oh, you have sent this Hebrew here to mock us. And we know the story How the lie is told. And as a result of Potiphar's wife's lie against Joseph, he is thrown into the prison. Consider this. Joseph is left in the prison two years longer than he, quote, should have been. Two years. The king's butler and the king's baker both dream dreams. God reveals the interpretation of the dreams to Joseph. In three days the butler will be restored to his place, and he will once again bring the cup to the king In three days the baker's head will be lifted up off his shoulders, and he's done. He's dead But we find in Genesis chapter 40. Turn over there with me. Genesis chapter 40. That Joseph pleads with the butler. Remember me! Remember the kindness that I have shown to you, and remember me and your kindness, because I've been stolen from my own country, and even in this country I've done no wrong Even in this country I have been righteous in my doings. But in Genesis 40 and verse 23, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him 41 verse 1, and it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed the dream and said, Behold, he stood by the river. When Joseph interpreted the dreams, he probably thought, thank you, Lord. It's over. The trial's done. I've had all I can take. As Elijah, take down my life from me, for I'm no better than my father's. Thank you, Lord. Glad that's done. I'm getting out now. The butler forgot. And two more years. And it doesn't just say two years. What's it say? Two Full years. It wasn't twenty-three and a half months. Two full years. Joseph stayed in the prison for nothing. And oh how I would have said, God, this is not fair. This is not right. I have been righteous. I have done everything I should do. Why am I still here? Lord, the trial's more than I can take, and it's going on for two more years longer than it should have. Why am I here? The baker or the butler forgot, but God did not. God knew exactly where Joseph was. Let's now make some application. We read in verse 20 of chapter 50, as for you, you meant this to me for evil, but God meant it for good. Let's take that apart. Let's unpack what we've learned about Joseph. Joseph's brothers wanted to kill him, but Reuben saved his life. Think about that. It's nine to one, folks. It's not very good odds. It wasn't a matter of luck. There is no such thing. It was providence. The brothers wanted to kill him. Reuben says, no, no, let's not kill him. And Reuben actually wanted to deliver him. But Ruben never got the chance. Ruben never got the chance to deliver him. Ruben comes back to deliver his brother and he's it's already too late. Did God make a mistake? Was that an error? No. It was in Providence. Joseph could have been sold to merchants going anywhere in the world. He could have been sold to merchants going anywhere in the world. But God needed him in Egypt. And so he was sold to merchants who took him to Egypt. When Joseph got to Egypt, he could have been sold to anyone in Egypt. We read that Potiphar was a great man, that Potiphar was the chief of the captain's guard, chief of Pharaoh's guards. Joseph could have been sold to go work in a mine. The children of Israel ended up quarrying stone, making bricks, and probably building the pyramids. Very likely that the pyramids were built by Hebrew slaves. Joseph could have been sold to anybody in Egypt. But he was sold to Potter. Because he was sold to a wealthy man, he worked in a position where he learned administration. He was seventeen years old. He never administered anything. He's going to be administering all the corn in Egypt eventually. He's in junior college right now. He's learning business administration Because he was the servant of Potiphar, he was not thrown into a common jail. He was thrown into the jail of Pharaoh, and there was no other place where he'd meet the king's baker and the king's butler. If he had not been sold to Egypt, he would never have been the servant of Potiphar. When he got to Potiphar, he could have been the servant of any man, but he was the servant of Potiphar. Because he was the servant of Potiphar When he was lied against, he was put in the king's jail, and in the king's jail he'd meet the king's baker and the butler. Do you see any mistakes there anywhere along the way? Do you see any chances Do you see anything there that is not the hand of Providence leading step by step by step? And so he interprets the baker's dream and he interprets the butler's dream. And the butler forgets about him. Until two years later the butt- the king has a nightmare. There was no other time. If the king's butler had to come in and say, Oh, by the way, when I was in the jail there, there was a Hebrew guy who was stolen from his home And he hasn't done anything wrong, but he's in the jail. Pharaoh would have said, Who cares? My jails are full of people just like him. What is that to me? But it took a nightmare. Two years later, for Pharaoh to care about a Hebrew that could interpret dreams. You see, if God had delivered him two years earlier, he wouldn't have been delivered at all. Pharaoh wouldn't have cared one bit. But in God's perfect time, suddenly the king's butler says, now I remember my transgression. I remember I forgot about that guy back there. King, you've had a nightmare, but there's a Hebrew in your jail that can help you. Because the Spirit of God is with him. What is the mistake anywhere in the story of Joseph? You meant this for evil. God meant it for good. God was working every step of the way to fulfill his perfect purpose and his perfect plan. Brethren, it's far more rich than that. Because Joseph was there to save many people alive. Look at Genesis 45, verse 5 and verse 7. Now therefore be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve your life. Verse 7. And God sent me before you to preserve your posterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. What is significant there? Don't turn, but I'll read to you. Genesis 22, verse 15. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time and said, By myself I have sworn unto the Lord. For because thou hast done this thing and hast not withheld thy son, thy only son, that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the the heaven, and as the sands which are upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of his enemies, and in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed Because thou hast done this thing. If God had not allowed Joseph to be sold sold to Egypt, if God had not allowed Joseph to be in the house of Potiphar If God had not ordained through Potiphar that Joseph be in the prison of Pharaoh, if Joseph in the prison of Pharaoh had not met the king's butler, if the king's butler had not forgotten for two years, Joseph would never have been brought to the attention of Pharaoh. Joseph's family would never have come to Egypt to be spared, and Christ would not have been born. Because God sent Joseph to save their posterity alive. And the posterity that was saved alive was the family of Jesus Christ. For you. You meant this for evil But God meant it for good to save many souls alive. And my friend My soul before God is saved alive. I shall not die, but I shall live. Because a seventeen year old boy was sold into slavery by his brothers. Brethren, it's glorious. It's beautiful. Ah how we grumble and complain. How we fret at our circumstances. How we in our flesh say to God, this isn't right. This isn't the way it's supposed to be. Now, God minute for good. And in the last part of Genesis 50, the verses we did not read, we find that Joseph took a pledge When he was dying, that when the children of Israel went up from Egypt, they would take his bones. Don't leave my bones here. I desire a city, even a heavenly, Hebrews 11. Brethren, it doesn't matter what happens in this life. There are no mistakes. There are no errors. Man may mean evil upon us, but God meant it. For God. Let us stand as we pray.