First Samuel chapter four We'll begin reading chapter four, the second sentence in that verse actually. 1 Samuel chapter 4, beginning the second portion of verse 1. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle and pitched beside Ebenezer. And the Philistines pitched in Aphak. And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel. And when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines, or beaten And they slew of the army of the of Israel in the field about four thousand men that Israel lost. And when the people were coming to the camp, the elders of Israel said Wherefore hath the Lord smitten us today before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the cover of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us that when it cometh among us it may save us out of the hand of our enemies. So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of the Lord of hosts which dwelleth between the cherubims. And the two sons of Eli, Hophne and Phineas, were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. And when the ark of the come of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again or echoed or reverberated with their shouting. And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of the Lord was come into the camp. And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God has come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! For there hath not been such a thing heretofore. Woe unto us, who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness Be strong and conduct yourself, or quit yourself like men, O ye Philistines, that you be not servants onto the Hebrews as they have been to you. Quit yourself or conduct yourself like men and fight. And although we won't be talking about verse 10 today, they fight and Israel loses 30,000 men and are beaten by the Philistines again, although the Ark of the Covenant is with them. The Philistines cried out, God is in the camp, and and that's what the Israelites felt the same thing. God is between the cherubim on the Ark of the Covenant. He dwells there above the Mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant between the cherubim. That's where God dwells. If we bring the Ark of the Covenant in the camp, then God is in the camp. And so the title of the message this morning, God is in the camp, or maybe a better title would have been God is in the camp? Question mark. We read here in verse 1 how Israel went out against the Philistines to battle pitched beside Ebenezer, and the Philistines pitched in Aphak. And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel, and when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines. They slew the army in the field four thousand men. When the first thing you want to note here is that the Philistines have been oppressing Israel for a long time. It was just twenty years earlier that Samson had been out there uh doing battle against the Philistines and had killed a large number of them But they were still under suppression of the Philistines. But in this particular case, Israel's had it and and they are they're the aggressor here. They're going they leave Shiloh, they go west of Shiloh twenty, thirty miles Near the border will the Philistines live in Apech, and they're attacking the Philistines. They've had it. And so they're the aggressor here, and they attack. They're in re they're in rebellion really against their oppressors. The Philistines are ruling them much like the Medes and the Persians did and the Romans did. And so they're rebelling against their oppressors at this point. And the thing we we note here, and the thing that is so important for us all to learn, we learn from history, so that we are careful not to repeat it. That you do not rebel against your oppressors if first your rebellion isn't preceded by a revival by a regeneration, by a by a a born-again experience of that nation. We had that in America. We had the great awakening uh under the preaching of of of men like Whitfield and Edwards and Witherspoon and and we had this great awakening. before the rebellion against England. To try to go against your oppressors when there's no revival will fail dismally I know some people think about rebelling even today. There's no revival in America. This country's not prepared. Its people are not prepared. To go against their oppressors. We need God. And Israel here needed God too. Without a spiritual revival to precede the rebellion, they were sure to fail. And that's just what happens here with Israel You will note as we're reading here and as we're reading for the next several chapters that Samuel took no part in the struggle. They didn't come to him for advice. He wasn't there in the camp. He didn't say it's a great idea. Let's do it. Samuel had no part in the struggle. His name, it's called the book of Samuel. We're in chapter four. We won't see Samuel's name mentioned until for three more chapters They they're the people of Israel are not the word of God came onto Samuel, but they don't care. And they've set Samuel aside. They had this idea to go out and rebel against their oppressors, and Samuel's no part of the struggle. His name isn't mentioned for three chapters And when it's finally mentioned, he rebukes Israel. He rebukes them for their activity, saying, Return on the Lord with all your hearts, 1 Samuel 7 and verse 3. The first time he's mentioned is he's rebuking Israel. He's not saying, I'm really sorry about the loss of life here. He rebukes them for their sins. Israel is attacking the Philistines not while God is in their camp. Israel is attacking the Philistines while sin is in their camp. When we go out against our enemy and we have sin in our heart or sin in our camp, we are given as they gave here, when they had sin in the camp, they had sin in their hearts. Israel gave Phil the Philistines all the spiritual advantage they could ever want. You go into battle and you're not right with God, your enemy's got all the spiritual advantage you could ever want. And it's the same with us. If sin occupies a portion of our heart then Satan's crowd has all the advantage they could ever hope for against us if sin is in our heart Israel was like that so many times. What happened to them with Babylon? They lost. What happened with Rome? They lost. What happened with the Medes and the Persians? They lost. When sin is in our hearts, we are going to lose the battles of life. And so the people have lost this first battle here. We read they lost 4,000 men in one battle. It's been a long time since America's had a war. We lost 4,000 men in one day. We didn't lose that many men in and Desert Storm One or Desert Storm II. It took years for the the numbers to mount up that high And so here in verse 3, when the people were coming to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore had God smitten us today before the Philistines? They were so blind, they didn't realize wherefore why hadn't God smitten you sooner? There's sin in the camp, there's sin in the heart, there's sin in the nation of Israel, and they're not and the people of Israel aren't dealing with their sins. They're actually worshiping Baal. They're Baal worshippers at this time and other gods like Astaroth They turned their back on God, and yet they're saying, Why has God smitten us? What did we do? It's what what did you do? And then he said, Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us. That when it cometh among us Look at this verse verse 3 real close. That when they bring the ark, they bring it in among us, that it may save us Out of the hands of our enemies. May say them? You know what I like about the Lord Jesus Christ? I said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. There's no, and you may be saved, you know. There's no and you may be saved. Acts 16 and 31 says, You shall be saved. I want a guarantee I don't want you know you talk to some of these people believe they lose your salvation, get it back, lose it again. I don't want that kind of religion, I don't want that kind of God. I want someone that says you shall be saved. And you're the let's bring the ark and we we may be saved Their worship was so polluted with Baal worshiping and the worship of Astaroth and other. In fact, Samuel says in 1 Samuel 7:3, all these strange gods you're worshiping, and you want to be blessed They just didn't understand that God isn't going to support them in battle, regardless of what their elders say. They weren't right with the Lord, and so the Lord had smitten them. Four thousand men lay dead and decaying out there on the battlefield. And the elders don't say, you know what? Let's go back to Shiloh and let's talk to high priest Eli and have him pray for us. They don't say, let's go back to Shiloh. And let's find the prophet Samuel and see what he might advise us to do. Maybe he could show a scripture or verse that would guide us and lead us and and maybe he could tell us what's just happening. We've got four thousand people that Let's let's find we they they were right about one thing, these elders. He said, God has smitten us, he sure had. You know, so often people want to blame God for the earthquakes, the tsunamis, uh, you know, f for all the things that go on in life, the tragedy. Oh, we can't blame God. God always does good things. There's sometimes when God's smitten smites even his own people. And they they knew that, they recognized that, but they don't go to Eli, they don't go to Samuel. Uh there maybe they don't really know the truth. Samuel would have certainly made it clear to them, would he not? He'd have told them what their sin was, he'd have given them the reason for their defeat. But by ignoring what God would say to them or what God's men would say to them, we find here that they don't say, let's go to prayer, let's go to fasting, let's go, let's repent of our sins. But instead they reason, let's just bring the Ark of the Covenant from Shiloh out here into the battlefield. It you know, God it says and Psalms 80 and verse 1, God dwelleth between the cherubim. So we just grab the Ark of the Covenant with the mercy seat in the cherubim and we drag it with us. We're dragging God with us, and God will be in the camp Listen to the Philistines. They even think God's in our camp. See, we got God in our camp. So often those who are strangers to God, who have removed themselves from reading the Bible and going to church regularly and and praying, so often uh they They're not close to the Lord, but boy, they they really grasp at certain rituals and certain ceremonies. You'll see it sometimes They'll say, I've been to church years, but I'm going Sunday. Well well uh my my nephew's getting baptized, you know, or something like that. Oh the ceremony gotta be there for that Or well, we don't go to church. We go to Christmas time, we go to Christmas time. We wouldn't miss Christmas for nothing, the Christmas Eve service. We wouldn't miss the uh the Easter service for nothing. They relike ritual, they really like ceremonies, and then the rest of the year they don't care. And that's the way these were. They they didn't want to fast, they didn't want to pray, they weren't in the it wasn't in the hearts of repent, but they were very very ritualistic. Let's bring the Ark of the Covenant, you know, like a rabbit's foot, a celestial rabbit's foot, as it were They brought the ark, they thought they were bringing God. And there's some people they feel that the same way. They they feel that uh if they're wearing a cross, God God's right there, you know. If they're carrying a Bible in their purse or in your coat, God's right there. They heard the bus driver Tim was talking about it, it's been all over the news The the guys three guys jump with a knife and a gun and shoot him twice in the chest and the bullets enter the Bible that he was carrying in his pocket right over his heart. He wrestles the gun away and he takes the gun and starts shooting at them and they take off And I imagine that Bible sitting on a mantle somewhere for the rest of his life and you tell me God was right there. And that man that Bible's on the mantle with the two bullets in it, and God is still there. carried the Bible around or the cross around and the God. I hope God is with that bus driver. Because I'll tell you, I don't think we've heard the end of it yet. There's gonna be some smart ACLU lawyer out there and you always gonna find out that that man didn't ever permit to have that gun that he was shooting at those guys after he took the gun away from them. He he was shooting the gun within the city limits. That would be wrong too. Didn't ever permit to carry it you know, uh reckless endangerment of other lives, I can just see it. The guy might go to jail, who knows, in this day and age. But we so often think that if we if we're wearing a cross, we got a Bible in our purse, we got a T shirt with a Bible verse on it Uh that somehow that's gonna save us. Or at least we're hoping so. That's what they said or maybe maybe it will save us I hope you're depending on more than just a Bible verse or a bumper sticker on your car or a crosshanger on your neck. You need Christ in your heart. I run to people all the time and say, oh, am I a Christian? Are you kidding me? Are you a Christian? Are you kidding? My grandfather was a Baptist preacher. Oh yeah, he was. My father was a Presbyterian preacher. Oh man. Oh my my they they think their genealogy or their bloodline or something, you know It all comes down to you, friend. Is do you have the Lord Jesus Christ in your heart? Do you have the scriptures in your heart? That's that's where it is. It's not how big how big a cross you got hanging around your neck or how big a Bible you got stuffed in your in your purse. Or that you've got the ark from Shiloh and you've got it in your camp. Wow That's what our reformers I I love the Reformation time. Talk about the reformers, you know, Calvin and Luther and and uh all these great guys, you know, Zwingli and and they they they look around the people and you know what they're coming to church, you know why? Because that church has got the nails of Christ in it, and this has got the wood from the cross in it, and this has got the hay from the manger of Jesus in it, and this has got the feathers from Gabriel in it, and they think God is there or something God's not in the Ark of the Covenant, He's not in the feathers of Gabriel, He's not in the Have of the Manger, He's in the Word of God. And he's in your heart if you're saved. But the elders said, let's get the ark. So they sent, it says in verse 4, the people sent to Shiloh that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of the Lord of hosts. Who dwelleth between these two cherubims? You know what would have brought God into camp that day? I mean Shiloh's twenty to thirty miles away. That's a long ways to go. You know, they're fighting in Aphak, right along the border of the Palestinians, near the Mediterranean Sea, and they've got to go east about 20, 30 miles, get the ark And then carried back to the mountains and all it's a sixty, fifty, sixty-mile round trip to bring God into the camp. And you know what brought God into camp? Repentance of their sins. sins, turning to the Word of God, calling on to forgive them. It would have saved you a 60-mile trip. It wouldn't have taken hours and hours and hours. It was just taking you dropping to your knees and asking God to forgive you. Do you want the Lord in your heart? You don't have to make some trip to the Lord's. You know, you don't have to make some some special pilgrimage to Jerusalem. All you gotta do is walk into your prayer closet, drop to your knees. You ever done that? Ask God to forgive you. I say I know there's people here who are saved. You've done that. In fact, you talk to saved people, here they'll tell you, have I done it I've done it two, three, I don't know, maybe twenty times. Every time I think maybe I'm not saved, I'd better pray again or get down on my knees again. Or I I did some horrible thing. I've been saved for ten years. I did something just terrible last week And I drop them and say, oh God, I thought I was saved. How could I do that? And I get down on my knees and I pray again, oh Lord, save me if I'm not saved, if I'm acting like an unsaved man like David And some of you would say, I've never done that even once. Wow. That's all they had to do here. Repentance would have brought God into camp. So they sent for the Ark of the Covenant. And do you realize here comes the ark? And the people looking. Envision this. If you've been with me the last couple weeks, who's carrying the ark towards them? Hopni and Phineas, the two biggest adultery, stieving priests that Israel has ever known. And they think God's going to be coming with them into the camp? I mean we we read a couple weeks ago as we were studying this hot yeah finish It said they were seducing and laying with the women in the court and they were stealing from the sacrifice of God. I mean they're they're thieves. They're like Malachi said they steal from God. And they're committing adultery right there at the door of the congregation of the Lord. They're not just they're not out ten miles away or five. Committing adultery at the doorway of the congregation of the Lord. Not not 30 foot from the Ark of the Covenant. They're committing adultery. And these are the two that they stand for, and these are the two that are bringing the Ark of the Covenant into the battlefield. And they think God is with them? Yikes Well is that just my opinion? Hmm. You go back to Deuteronomy twelve, verses five through eleven, you go back to Joshua eighteen and one. And you know what you discover? God says in Deuteronomy, I will appoint you a place to set the Ark of the Covenant. And in Joshua, they said, Set it in Shiloh. And there God says Leave it. They're not only have Hofney and Venice bring in the ark. You know, when you when you look at something, you read the verse of verse, oh okay, well yeah, I probably shouldn't have done that. You start reading it closely, look at it more in detail, and you realize, my goodness They were supposed. They had no authority above and beyond the Word of God. They were adding to the Word of God. Well, we're going to remove the Ark of the Covenant. They had no authority to remove the Ark of the Covenant. None whatsoever. Even if Eli the high priest had said move it. They couldn't. God told us in Deuteronomy and Joshua, that's where my ark will set, and that's where I will abide between the cherubim. And so they're breaking the word of God and hop the infine is that's okay with them. Look, it says Deuteronomy is supposed to stay here. Uh Joshua supposed to say that's what it's supposed to set, that's where God Oh that's okay. We're committing adultery. We're stealing God. We don't mind we don't care what Deuteronomy twelve and five says. We don't care what Joshua eighteen one says, Hey, let's take it out. This a this could be a good old time. And and all the men are cheering us as we're walking up there towards the camp Well they're looking at the Ark of the Covenant, what they're looking at, but they're but here's Hot and Phineas, and they're hearing the roar of the crowd and the roar of the battle and the roar of the men. It's a high moment for us, isn't it? Israel's army. They think they're going to be saved by lifting up the ark of God by the hands of Hopni and Phineas. They they must think that God's if you know, if had had they brought the ark to cover it in the sa you know, we I said you read verse ten, they lose again. This you know, this time it's 30,000 dead Israelite soldiers. But can you imagine if they had won the battle? What would that have said? If Hopni and Phineas, they bring in the ark and they go into and they beat the Philistines, you know what I mean what would that have said to the world? It would have said that God doesn't really care about adultery. It was that God doesn't really care about thievery. It was said that God doesn't really care about Deuteronomy, doesn't care about Joshua, God doesn't really care about his word. God doesn't care about his commandments. God doesn't care about his covenant. God doesn't care about his promises. God doesn't care about his holiness. God doesn't care about righteousness. That's what we're said. But the elders think it'll work. Well the elders say it may work. Hey, may work is good enough for most people, right You say, are you saved? Well I don't know. I I think what I'm doing might work, you know. I think w we're what uh what I'm the the religion I'm following it it may be it may be one of the ones that will work, you know. I it may, it may, it may And so they have this idea, we can remove it, the Ark of the Covenant, we can remove it. Oh, we're not through with this yet, folks. We can remove it and we can look upon it, and we expect it to maybe it'll save us. They thought that the Ark of the Covenant would save them when they had no interest in the Word of God that was inside that Ark. That ark was not just an ark. It encapsulated in gold God's word. And to to to think to think that this is going to save them when they they have no interest in the word of God. They've already broken the commandments of God to bring it there. With dirty, filthy sinner hands, hop the infinius, they've removed it, they've looked upon it, they expected to save them when they have no interest in God's word that is inside of it. I carry a Bible in my purse, I carry a Bible in my coat, I carry a Bible in my car, I got one in my glove compartment, I've got five or six fibers, I got one in every room of my house, and you think that's gonna save you? Not if you don't believe it, not if you don't read it, not if you don't love it. Not if it's not it can be in your house, it can be in your car, it can be in your purse, but it's just not in your heart It was bizarre. They had no interest in the word of God that was in the Ark of the Covenant, but they thought the Ark of the Covenant just being there would save them. My word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin again see. Isn't that where it's supposed to be? There are a lot of people that and it maybe there's someone here today, is there someone here you have no heartfelt interest in the gospel? You know the gospel. Uh you you you could you could tell everybody the gospel. You know we're sinners. Christ came, he died for sinners, sinners won the cross. His blood cleanses our sins, his resurrection proves it. You know, we can know the gospel. But is there a heartfelt interest in the gospel? Are you here this morning? You have no heartfelt interest in the gospel, but you still expect Christ to bail you out whenever you use his name. I mean they had no heartfelt interest in the word of God that was in the Ark of the Covenant, but they thought, hey, we're in a tough spot here. Uh let's bring up the Ark of the Covenant. We'll use Elohim's name, Jehovah, and he'll bail us out. Why do you think God's going to bail you out when you have no heartfelt interest in his son? That's where they were, and that's where some people are today And if you think I'm done with the Ark of the Covenant, I'm not done with it yet. I want you to see every everything that was wrong. So you always say, oh well they brought the Ark of the Covenant, and some of them weren't believers, some in the camp probably were believers The believers in the camp, what should they have done? They should have said, whoa, whoa, whoa, you can't remove the ark. The ark's supposed to stay in shadow. God said it. It's been sitting there for over 300 years Nobody dared remove the ark. God put it there in the days of Joshua. It's been there for over 300 years. It's been there for 300 years. It stays there. God has said it there. Who who gives you the right? Who gives anyone the right? No one's ever felt that they had the right to remove the ark. Until now. There should have been some of the believers who say, no, don't do that. You'll just bring God's curse upon us even more. But the ark, verse 5, of the covenant of God came into the camp. And remember, it's hoping the amphibious bringing in the camp. And inside the Ark of Covenant is the Word of God being lifted up to a bunch of Baal worshipping mediocrity Israelites who could care less about the Old Testament and the books that are inside of it. And the ark comes in and it says they shouted and I guess they're rejoicing and Boy, they're convinced that this is it, that this may save them. In fact, this is going to save them. This is fantastic. They're all excited and they're just shouting and shouting. And the Philistines can hear them over the next mountain. And They should have received the Ark of the Covenant coming to presence with tears and confession and repentance and awe. Why do I say that? With awe. Because the ark had never been moved in three hundred and almost fifty years. It wasn't supposed to be moved. And they come in there shouting for joy and their screen, there's hot and finishing. And the people, they should have received it with awe. They should have been dropping down their knees, they're shouting, they're ready to do battle. They should have been on their knees repenting and in tears and confessing their sins. And they should have been received with awe. Because no one alive in that day and age had ever seen the Ark of the Covenant before. Ever. In fact, you go back and you look at the scriptures in Leviticus and go into the New Testament in Hebrews. And only one person had seen the Ark of the Covenant, the high priest Eli had seen the Ark of the Covenant, but knowing that battlefield ever seen before, knowing that battlefield had any relatives that had seen it before The scripture tells us in Leviticus and again in Hebrews 9 that the Ark of the Covenant and the mercy seat, only the high priest was allowed to see the Ark of the Covenant. And he was only allowed to see it when he was alone, and he was only allowed to see it once a year, and when he was ready to see it before he went in, he burned incense and there was a fog or a cloud of it. It says it it says in Hebrews 9, I'll just read exactly. The Ark of the Covenant, the mercy seat, the high priest alone, once every year, and not without blood. Hebrews 9, 4 through 7 He immediately came into the presence of the Ark and he sprinkled upon their mercy seat seven times the blood, and it was covered in a cloud of incense. And so only the priests had ever seen the Ark of the Cloud. Only the high priest, not just any priest Only the high priest had ever seen it. He only saw it once a year, and when he walked into the presence of the Ark of the Covenant, it was already filled with incense cloud. He couldn't even see it clearly And he sprinkled blood upon it immediately, seven times. Oh, well let's just bring it out and show it to the people. Well, we don't need any incense cloud. We're not gonna do this once a year. We're gonna bring it out to you and sit there for a couple days and we're gonna look at it and and it's not gonna be covered with an incense cloud, we're not gonna sprinkle blood on it. We don't even have the high priest with us. We've just gone into the Holy of Holies, grabbed the architect on it, and walked out. Hopney and Phineas had never seen it until that day. How dare they go behind the Holy of Holies? Do you see now how sinful this thing was and expected God was going to bless them for dishonoring I said Deuteronomy, I said Joshua, now Slovedicus 6, they're dishonoring the scriptures totally in so many ways And now they think that they can defeat the Philistines by simply carrying the ark and its contents, God's word, into battle. Carrying God's word is not the same as carrying God's word in your heart, is it? And obviously any man who was carrying God's word in his heart would not have followed that ark into battle, would not have looked upon that ark You you think I'm being too rich about that? Even Hollywood knows that. They did a movie. I can't remember the name what's the name? Someone knows the movie. Raiders of lost art. Wonder how they would say. Oh you can't look at it. They know the scriptures. They know the scriptures better than these guys. People look at them and they die. They came up with emeralds and boils and so forth. I mean Surprising they would think they could defeat the Philistines in the midst of a fresh sin, a horrendous sin. You can have a Bible and you can carry it. It might stop two bullets. But if you don't have the Word of God in your heart, it will not stop the fiery darts. of the wicked one mentioned in Ephesians six and sixteen, Satan. How are you going to stand against the wiles of the devil? Ephesians six eleven Are you standing against a roaring line in 1 Peter 5a? Who goeth about seeking who he might devour if the word of God is not in your heart? We walk out here today and we all feel pretty safe. Does everybody here think that next Sunday we'll all be back here again, healthy and alive? I never think that way. I always wonder who's here for the last time. Remember Mr. Newman, not here anymore. Mrs. Wright? Aunt Jane? Mr. Lane Joy? Lynn Everett? Lynn Henderson? I'd go on. We're not a big church. They're not here anymore. And you're sitting this morning thinking, oh, we'll be here next week. You don't know that. Well, I'm young. Stella was 22 years old. If you're not following the Lord, whoa. You're not ready to meet the lion. And by the way, he's going about like a roaring lion seeking him out of devour, and you're not ready. We know it you know, if a news came out today and it advertised your had your radio on uh that in Parkville or Cub Hill or or Howdy Kingston there's a lion running loose. Keep your doors locked. Don't go outside, you know. Well I'm here to tell you, there was a lion running loose I don't know how you dare walk out the doors of God's house and sanctuary without Christ in your heart, the lion of Judah, who can take on the devil. Who's a wimp of a line in comparison? But how do you walk out into the world without Christ in your heart? Without Christ in your camp. Verses 6 and 7, the Philistines, they heard the noise and the shout. Well, I guess they did. What meaneth the noise is great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? Well they've got their spies, and it says well they soon understood that the ark of the Lord was coming to the camp, and the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is coming to the camp. They're both wrong. Israel says, oh, God is coming to the camp. Thank you, Hopi. Thank you, Phineas. And the Philistines say, God is coming to their camp. They were both wrong. I mean, they're all wrong. The majority is often all wrong. It's the majority that says, crucify him, crucify him, right? Well everybody's doing it. When everybody's doing it, you all think, oh, I better not do that. Because when everybody's doing it, it's usually wrong And so the Philistines they agree with the Israelites, oh, God is in the camp and they were afraid. They said, and they said, Woe unto us! I'll tell you what, if God was to come back today, the Lord Jesus Christ was to come back today And and he could, he may, I hope he does. Some of you wouldn't be excited about that. What won't you when God is in the camp? What won't you when God is in the camp if you're not saved? I know somebody said, well, I I I want Jesus to come back too, but I I want to finish college first and I want to get married and want to have a couple kids and I want to take a trip to Europe You know what you know everybody talks about they've got a bucket list, right? Things they want to do before they die, or things they want to do before Christ comes back. You know what's in my bucket list that I want to do before Christ comes back? Nothing. There's nothing. Come right now. I've got nothing in my bucket list. I want to get done before the Lord comes back. If you say you're a Christian, you love the Lord, but you've got a bucket list of things you want to do before Jesus comes back. Friend, I wonder if you're saved. And the Philistines here they thought that God was in the camp and they weren't saved. And he It's not just my word, but even the Philistines. The Philistines were afraid, for they said, God has come in the camp and they said, Woe unto us, for there hath not been such a thing heretofore. The Philistines says, Whoa The Ark of the Covenant, they brought it out of Shiloh, they brought it out into the camp, they brought it into battle. The Philistines said, That's never been done before. They knew that the Ark of the Covenant always sat in Shiloh. They knew it had been here for 350 years, ever since Joshua put it there. They knew it had never been brought off before. Isn't it amazing that sometimes the ungodly people they know the Bible They know some verse they believe some of the verses, right? And the Philistines they knew about the Ark of the Covenant. They knew that God would sit between the cherubim. They knew that the Ark of the Covenant had never been brought out or shia. He said it's never been here done here to four. But they were wrong to believe that God was in the ark, that God was in the cap. There was moved contrary to Scripture. When you're doing things contrary to Scripture, oh you Israelites, don't you even believe that God is in your camp? Let me rephrase that. When you're doing things, pilgrims, It is contrary to the word of God. Don't you even think that God is in your camp, that God is on your side. In fact, you might question whether God is in your heart. When you willingly, openly, flagrantly with and with just all kinds of verses of scripture telling you you shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do this, you and you still do it. Question whether God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is in your heart, that that He has set up camp in your heart You you you just you just can't believe that way. You the Philistines, they were wrong. These Israelites here, they were wrong If you're doing things contrary to Scripture, think again And I'm not saying we don't sin, and I'm not saying we don't fall, and I'm not saying we don't flounder sometimes. But when you are habitually, you've got this habit that you can't break, you don't want to break, you've got these sins you love, when you are habitually doing these things, you've got to think again whether you're already saved. I mean they're coming out of Shiloh, pop me and finish, and they're saying, Never been done before, never been done before, an adulterer A thief I've got the Ark of the Covenant, I'm carrying God and bringing God with me. Never been done before three hundred and fifty years never been done before. You've got to think after a while before you make the whole 30-mile trek that you shouldn't be doing this now then either. And so if you're doing things that are contrary to the word of God, you've got to think again, are you saved? Are you ready for Christ to come into this world, into your camp? Well, how do you know when God is in the camp? How do you know when God is in your heart? Okay. If God's in your heart, Christ is in your heart. If you're in God's camp, if God is set up If Christ has set up his camp, he's camping up in your heart, here's some ways you'll know. There is a reverence for every jot. untitled in the holy book, in the scriptures. You have a reverence for every jot until Matthew five and eighteen. A reverence for every scripture. And there's a hunger and thirst after righteousness, Matthew five and six. And there's a conviction of sin and souls are saved and saints are fearless and the devil will flee. James 4 and 7. If Christ is in your heart, he's in the camp. There's no fight left in Satan when he runs up against a Christian. Who believes that God's word is infallible and inerrant and holy and righteous and perfect, every jot and every tittle, he'll go looking for a fight somewhere else But the Philistines they believed some of the Bible Never been done before. Never took a never took the Ark of Covenant out. I mean that's God's word. I mean they they knew that Joshua, they knew that you'll find they knew a whole lot more in just a moment here. They understood a lot of the Bible. But it says, in fact in verse 8 they say, Woe unto us! In verse 7 they said, Woe unto us! In verse 8 they said, woe unto us! You know, it seems like the Philistines are almost starting to get it. They don't, but it seems like it at first. You run to people like that, they start u expounding things about the Bible that they believe and they say, Well, I think he's getting saved. He's on his way. Well, it's woe unto us, woe unto us, who should deliver us? Well the Lord Jesus Christ could have Deliver them, but he's not he doesn't hear. Woe unto us, who shall deliver us there? Now you here see this They haven't got all the truth. There's only one God that smote the Egyptians, but they think gods. You know, they haven't they haven't got it down. You know what they need a copy of their own Bible to read it so they don't have their doctrines a little messed up So that the the Philistines it's been corrupted what they're what they believe and what they've heard. They think that the Israelites had lots of gods, and those gods they sent the plagues, but they were right about one thing. It was Israel's God That sent the plagues. The Philistines acknowledged among themselves that Israel's God was greater than their God's woe unto us. Their God is greater. Woe unto us. He's the God of Moses. He's the God that sent the plagues. In fact, it said there these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues. There were ten of them. How many did the Philistines believe that God had done? All the plagues. Isn't that great? They don't pick and choose what parts of Moses' writings they believe or not they believe. They believed what Moses said about all ten of the plagues, all the God sent all the plagues. They believed that part right. They believed a lot about the Bible All the plagues that smote Egypt. And that was hundreds of years ago, and they heard about it and they still believed it. And yet the Philistines were willing to fight with the God of Moses. Whoa! They say, conduct yourself, or quit yourselves like men, and fight. So somebody here this morning that you believe some of God's word, you're like a Philistine. You believe some of God's word, but you still want to fight with God over parts of it. Let me say that again. You believe some of God's word? Are you here this morning? You believe some of God's word? Like God will bless you, and God will forgive you and God will be good to you. And God is merciful and God is gracious. I don't believe the part about being a judge. I don't believe the part about the hell. I don't believe about the part about paying for my sins. I don't believe about the part that I gotta repent, I don't believe about the Ten Canam, the whole thing they're gonna give up Those things, the Ten Commandments. Some people say the Ten Commandments, that's in my bucket list of things to do. So they you believe some of the Bible, like the Philistines, but you don't believe all of it. In fact, you're willing to fight over some of it that you don't believe. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa won't you If you don't believe all of it. Every jot, every tittle. Woe. Woe unto you. Let's pray. Oh Lord. 4,000 dead. And in another verse, another 30,000 dead because they didn't believe. The scriptures, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Leviticus. They didn't believe, and Christ often said it, You believe not Moses and the prophets, you'll believe not if one rose from the dead. And Lord, that's our problem today in America. There are people that believe parts of it, but they don't believe all of it. And Lord, may we consider this morning that we have no right to pick and choose what parts We either accept all of what God has to say to us, or we will be shouting, woe unto us, when he comes back and sets up his camp on this planet. So Lord, we just ask you to move on hearts today. Put it in our hearts to set aside rationale and man's reasoning and just set accept God's word and follow it. Repent when we haven't and when we don't. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Ask your pardon.