It's always good to be with you. Always appreciate your warm welcome and always look forward to the opportunity to open the word together. You have a song in your hymnal that we don't find in many hymnals anymore. Uh it's 178 in the blue one. You don't need to turn to it. You'll probably recognize it. I just want to read a few words of it. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted mid the raging storms of time. Its pages burn with the truth eternal, and they glow with a light sublime. The Bible stands like a mountain towering far above the works of men. Its truth by none ever was refuted. And destroy it, they never can. Praise God that that is true. Well, this morning, I'd like to focus our attention on those thoughts, actually. I'd like to focus our attention on a particular aspect of the sovereignty of God, and that is God's sovereignty over his word. And so I invite you to turn with me to, I'm sure, familiar words for most of us, the words we find in Psalm 119 beginning at verse 89. Psalm 119 beginning at verse 89. This is the word of God. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Thy faithfulness is unto all generations. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth They continue this day, according to thine ordinances, for all are thy servants. Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction. I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou hast quickened me. I am thine, save me. For I have sought thy precepts. The wicked have waited for me to destroy me, but I will consider thy testimonies. I have seen an end of all perfection. But thy commandment is exceeding broad. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Let's look to the Lord again in prayer. Father. We are grateful that as we come together as your people, we stand upon your word. Your word which stands forever, which lives and abides forever. The grass withers, the flower fades, but your word. endures forever. We thank you that we can be sure of every word of it, every fact, every promise. Nothing to be doubted. And we pray that as we look into your word this morning, that you would encourage us in confidence in your word. Perhaps in ways that we hadn't thought of before, Father. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, as I was studying this passage in recent weeks, I was preparing for two things. I was preparing for uh a trip to Brazil that I returned from two weeks ago and I want to mention a bit about that in a few minutes, but I was studying this passage, one that I've looked at often over the years. uh as I'm sure many of us have. And I became aware that the psalmist is here speaking of the Word of God in a way that is much more comprehensive than we might think at first. Well When the psalmist is speaking of the Word of God in these verses, he's speaking not merely of the first five books of the Mosaic Law. He's not speaking merely of the books of the Bible that had been penned up to that time, the time this psalm was written. He's in fact speaking of the Word of God as the written embodiment and the declaration of God's decree, God's eternal decree. And there are a number of things in the language of this passage that that give evidence of this for us First of all, in verse 1 we find the the Hebrew word that is here translated forever. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. This is a word that doesn't merely indicate a forward look or a future view. The word indicates actually three things. It indicates antiquity, futurity, and perpetuity. All three things in one word. The psalmist is speaking not merely of a word given to Moses and others in written form as the Holy Spirit moved them. That's certainly in view here. But what's more broadly in view here is the fact that the Word of God is as eternal as the God of the Word is eternal. And the second indication we have here of a far greater scope of meaning comes as the psalmist addresses God as, O Lord, he's using the covenant name of God, Jehovah. And third, an indication of the greater scope of meaning here comes in the in the the juxtaposition of heaven and earth in verses 89 through 91. Now the word that's translated in heaven in verse 89, that's a word that can indicate the boat the abode of God. It can indicate the the place outside of this created universe where his throne abides. But this word can also be used to denote the heavens of the created universe. And that's the way this word is most often used in the Old Testament. Two other things in this passage tell us that it is in this sense that the word heaven is being used here. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Thy faithfulness is unto all generations. Thou established the earth, and it abideth. Notice the next word. They Heaven and earth, the two elements of the created order, they continue this day according to thine ordinances. For all are thy servants. And we have a further indication in verse 91, they continue according to thine ordinances. Ordinances. And the word that's used here is used only in this particular form in this one passage in the entire Old Testament. And it indicates, very interestingly, a plan enacted by a decree. A plan enacted by a decree. We're talking about the decree of God here. What we find as we find an exposition of that doctrine in the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 3. What do we read there? God, from all eternity, did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. Although God knows whatsoever may or can come to pass upon all supposed conditions, yet hath He not decreed anything because He foresaw it as future as that which would come to pass upon such conditions. In other words, God's not controlled by the future. He's the controller of the future. And of course, we find virtually identical wording in the London Baptist Confession decades later and also in some others. And we have one further indication of the scope of the words in this section of the Psalm when we come to verse 96. The psalmist says, I have seen an end. In other words, a limit. of all perfection. But thy commandment is exceeding broad. Thy commandment is exceeding broad. And the original the the word order is actually exceedingly thy commandment is broad. The word translated broad in our Bibles Indicates vastness, extensiveness, comprehensiveness, and that's what we have as we Find an exposition of this in the confession. God from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. And John Calvin wrote about this. He wrote a comment on Psalm 119, verse 96. He said this And I think it's interesting he starts out by saying the prophet he calls the psalmist here a prophet. The prophet here asserts that there is nothing under heaven, nothing in this created order so perfect and stable or so complete in all respects as to not have an end. And that the divine word alone possesses such amplitude as to surpass all bounds and limits. It is termed broad to denote that though a man may mount above the heavens, or descend into the lower steps, or traverse the whole of space from the right hand to the left hand, yet he will not reach further. Then the truth of God conducts us. Powerful, powerful exposition of that passage. The inescapable conclusion that we must draw as we look at the language of this passage is this, that God's written word is a written declaration of his eternal decree. It's an integral part of his eternal decree. It is a declaration of the whatsoever that God has decreed. It's a central element of the whatsoever that God has decreed. God is sovereign over his word because it is the written embodiment of his sovereign decree. Well This leads us to a further vital conclusion. If the written word is the embodiment of God's eternal decree, forever settled, forever standing. then it is inevitable that we will find that God has preserved his word as he originally gave it by the Holy Spirit through holy men of God, not one bit lost or adulterated. God would not be God. God would not be sovereign if he did not maintain absolute control over the text of his written decree. In all generations. And that's precisely the promise that we find in the pages of Scripture. Let me just cite some that I'm sure are familiar to us. 1 Chronicles 16, beginning at verse 13, O ye seed of Israel, his servant, ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones, he is the Lord our God, his judgments. And the word more literally there is his ordinances are in all the earth. Be ye mindful always of his covenant, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations. And we have the words of Jesus Himself, Matthew 5, verse 18: Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. And here again we have the use of the terms for the created order as we find them in Psalm 119, till heaven and earth pass. One yacht or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. And furthermore, we have God's commands concerning our handling of his word. The embodiment of his eternal decree in Deuteronomy chapter 4, Moses told the children of Israel is this, ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye diminish aught from it. that ye may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. And then again in Deuteronomy chapter twelve Moses said, What thing soever I command you? And he's speaking on behalf of the Lord God. Whatsoever thing I command you observe to do it. Thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it. In Proverbs chapter 30, verses 5 and 6. Every word of the Lord is pure He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar. And then Revelation 22, the very end of the canon of Scripture. And let us not forget that these are the words of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book. If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. And if any man shall take away from the words of the prop book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city and from the things that are written in this book. These are the words we're told there of Jesus, the root and offspring of David, the bright and morning star. If God has not preserved every jot and tittle of his word down to the present day, and if he will not preserve it for all eternity, then God is not sovereign over his word He's not omnipotent. He's been defeated. And we know that is simply not true. Furthermore If God has not preserved every jot and tittle of his word down to the present day and will not preserve it for eternity, he could be called a liar. We would have no grounds for believing His Word. We would have no reason for obeying His Word. No reason for believing that he has ordained all things by his divine decree. If God's not sovereign over his word, we're doomed. We might as well pack up and go home. But dear friends, that's what growing numbers of evangelical preachers and scholars are telling us today. I think I mentioned this In a Sunday school hour when I was here once before, but I I want to mention it again because it leads into some other things that I'd like to share with you. Dr. Daniel Wallace of Dallas Seminary. He's one of the leading New Testament Greek scholars of our time. He identifies himself as an evangelical. But Dr. Wallace wrote The foreword to a book titled Myths and Mistakes and New Testament Textual Criticism. Listen carefully to what he said. I'm quoting Daniel Wallace, leading evangelical Greek scholar. He said this, I'm quoting. We do not have now in our critical Greek text or any translation. Exactly what the authors of the New Testament wrote. Even if we did, we would not know it There are many, many places in which the text of the New Testament is uncertain. The new generation of evangelical scholars is far more comfortable with ambiguity and uncertainty. than previous generations. They know the difference between core beliefs and those that are more peripheral. In other words, we can pick and choose. They recognize that even if we embrace the concept of absolute truth, absolute certainty about it is a different matter. That's nonsense. But this kind of thinking is increasingly typical among self-identified evangelical scholars and pastors. This is an open denial of an authentic, authoritative word of God. It is a d denial that God is sovereign over his word. And this kind of thinking builds on a threefold false foundation. It builds on a false foundation of worldly philosophy. It makes man the arbiter of the authenticity of Scripture. It also builds on legalism by establishing a set of man-made text criticism rules or paradigms. that effectively sit on top of Scripture, supersede Scripture. And thirdly, this kind of thinking institutes man-made doctrines by falsely telling us that there can be absolute truth without absolute certainty about what is true It's utter nonsense. Late last night actually one or two o'clock this morning, I happened to see something online which pertained very much to what we're talking about today. The survey of evangelical Christians just released by the Family Research Council And one of their findings was this: that among evangelical Christians, this was in the Washington Times. Only 68% of respondents said that God is the all-powerful, all-knowing, perfect, and just creator of the universe who rules that universe today. Only 68% of self-described evangelicals. And it said, other responses range from everyone is a god to nobody really knows This is among evangelical Christians. The church is embracing nonsense. Christian academia is embracing this nonsense. Let me give you just one example among literally thousands that I could cite. Dr. John MacArthur Over the course of his ministry, he preached through the entire New Testament, chapter by chapter, verse by verse. Dr. MacArthur's in his 80s now. His last message in that decades-long series on the New Testament was on the last chapter of the Gospel of Mark. John MacArthur asserted that the last eleven verses of the book of Mark, verses 9 through 20, are not original. He asserted that they do not belong in the Bible He asserted that it is completely appropriate that the Gospel of Mark should end with verse 8, which reads And they went out quickly and fled from the sepulchre, for they trembled and were amazed, neither said they anything to any man, for they were afraid. End of the Gospel of Mark Well, Dr. MacArthur and many others assert that the Gospel of Mark ends on a note of fear and uncertainty. That's exactly what Daniel Wallace described, isn't it? Ambiguity, uncertainty. He said the new generation of evangelical scholars is far more comfortable with ambiguity and uncertainty than previous generations. Well, I submit to you that there's only one way that anybody could possibly be comfortable with that. Yeah. And that is That they cannot, they do not believe that God is sovereign over His Word. They simply cannot. Well, two weeks ago, uh Andrew Ubel, our video producer, and I had the privilege, the great privilege, of spending a week in Brazil with Dr. Wilbur Pickering. Who I've mentioned to you before, uh Dr. Pickering is without a doubt far and away the leading living expert on the manuscripts of the New Testament. In fact, I don't believe there's anyone in the entire history of the church, actually. I believe this is a true statement I don't believe there's anyone in the entire history of the church who has ever studied the New Testament manuscripts in the way and to the extent that Dr. Pickering has over the last 26 years. He he has a bachelor's degree in mathematics, a master's degree in theology, another master's degree in linguistics, a PhD in linguistics, and by the way, his master's in theology is from Dallas Seminary and He and Daniel Wallace are like this. After retiring from his work in Bible translation, Dr. Pickering and his wife and daughters spent years in the jungle in the north of Brazil. involved in Bible translation. But he spent he spent the last 26 years gathering and collating and comparing thousands of new man New Testament manuscripts from every every part of the world. Uh when he was eighty, he climbed up, and I've got pictures of it that they shared with me. When he was eighty with two suitcases, he climbed up a Roughly 20-story incline, rock incline that you had to go up to get to a monastery on the top of a cliff. where a lot of Greek manuscripts are stored. And those manuscripts are actually stored several levels down in the rock. in a in a in a uh uh uh in a cavern in a in a well protected place. Uh but he did that when he was eighty. Uh He spent, for example, over two years just looking at the manuscript evidence on the book of Acts alone. Just the book of Acts. He's now 89 years old. We uh we found out when we got there that ten weeks earlier he had had a pretty significant stroke. Uh and almost the Lord he he said he said I looked up and said Lord I commend my spirit to you. He said I thought it was the time. But the Lord said no And he's recovered remarkably well. Uh one day while we were there, I went on his afternoon walk with him. Uh we walked about a kilometer and he set a real good pace. But uh I praise the Lord that that's the case. But uh we're we we recorded over fourteen hours of video interviews with Dr. Pickering. Uh and we started from nineteen thirty-four when he was born and we worked forward decade by decade over the hours. And we also went into his study, we set up cameras, we set up overhead cameras that would look down on what he was doing. in addition to cameras from the sides, so that we could document his methodology. How has he done what he's done, which I think is very important. He has uh When we left, we left way overweight on baggage. We actually had to buy an additional suitcase. Uh we came back with over between print and digital over forty-two thousand five hundred pages of manuscript evidence. demonstrating beyond a shadow of a doubt that God is sovereign over his word, that the Bible has objective authority, that God has preserved the text. And he's given us, he's given Teaching Word Ministries, the Authentic Scripture Foundation, full and free rights to use and enhance all that he's written over his whole lifetime of work. Uh so we have become the stewards of a great treasure. Well, let me read to you what Dr. Pickering has written about those who would claim that the church must be satisfied with uncertainty and ambiguity about the Word of God. He writes this. It's a fairly extensive quotation, but I think it's important. He says, the Holy Spirit inspired Mark's gospel. And why would he do something like that? Evidently, God wanted subsequent generations to have an official biography of Jesus Christ. A description of his life, death, and resurrection, whose accuracy was guaranteed and whose content was sufficient for his purpose. The fact that there are four official biographies written from different perspectives does not damage the integrity of each one individually. I find it inconceivable that an official biography commissioned by God and written subject to his quality control should omit proofs of the resurrection, should exclude all post-resurrection appearances, and should end with the clause because they were afraid. But most modern critics assure us that such is the case. That the genuine text ends at verse 8. So where was God all this time? If the critic's assessment is correct, we seem to be between a rock and a hard place. Mark's gospel, as it stands, is mutilated if it ends at verse 8, the original ending having apparently disappeared without a trace. But in that event, what about God's purpose in commissioning this biography? Are we to say that God was unable to protect the end of Mark or that he just could not be bothered? Either option would be fatal to the claim that Mark's gospel is God-breathed. If God tried but was powerless to prevent the mutilation of Mark in this way How can we be sure that the book has not been mutilated in other ways and places, or even systematically? For that matter, how can we be sure that other New Testament books have not been mutilated too? Or maybe even all of them Anyway, the degree of mutilation would no longer be an issue because if God was powerless to protect his word, then he would not really be God. And it would not make all that much difference what he says. The Bible would lose its authority and consequently its importance. And he continues, what about the other option? That God could have protected Mark, but chose not to? Of what value would quality control be if it extended only to the writing, to the original? If God permitted the original ending of Mark to be lost before any copies were made, when the then the biography was published in a seriously incomplete form. And it becomes decidedly awkward to speak of the verbal plenary inspiration of Scripture. If God would permit a mutilation of such magnitude, then what assurance do we have that He would not permit any number of further mutilations? Again, the problem extends to the other New Testament books. Quality control would be gone out the window, and we would be left whistling in the dark. If God is not going to protect his text, will not the purpose of inspiration be frustrated? 1 Chronicles 16, 15 speaks of the word which he commanded for a thousand generations, and there have been fewer than three hundred since Adam. Well Andrew and I left Brazil 1. 45 in the morning two weeks ago And we landed in Panama for a connecting flight to Washington. We landed at dawn. And we had a three-hour layover in the airport. And during that layover, the Lord in his providence gave me the opportunity for a long conversation with a young lady We were both using one of those charging stations, charging up our iPhones, you know, uh and and trying to get their charging stations to work when they wouldn't. But we're there and had a conversation with this young lady. She said she's an evangelical Christian. She's a member of a non-denominational church in Idaho. And she and her sister and her parents are all medical professionals, and they were on their way to Ecuador to look into an opportunity to be involved in medical missions there. And she asked about our travels. I told her what we'd been doing in Brazil. And her reaction was Precious, it really was. She said that for many years I've been told by my pastors That I need to accept the ideas of uncertainty about the Bible She put it this way, she said, I feel like my pastors have been putting themselves in authority over the Bible instead of submitting to the authority of the Bible. She gets it. She gets it. That's the great problem of so much of the church today. It's the great problem of so much of Christian academia today. If God's not sovereign over his word, we have nothing, we have no God, we have no Savior, we have no hope. The Bible has no inherent objective authority And really, there's no such thing as truth. Yep. Well, during our visit to Brazil, we spent many hours in the home of Horacio Vieta, who is the pastor of the church that Dr. Pickering attends, and Dr. Pickering actually lives in what he calls his prophets' quarters. A little apartment all by itself on an upper level, uh on a corner of the house. He can go in and out through the house or he has an outside entrance he can get in and out uh without having to disturb anyone. Well, uh Horacio has been a pastor for about 30 years. He's in his early 60s now. And he told me what happened when the Portuguese translation of the New International Version of the Bible came into Brazil a little over 20 years ago. He said there had been a revival among some of the evangelical churches in Brazil, and there was a clear moving of the spirit. People were being saved and some Christians were realizing in a in a deeper way than they had before the need for sanctified living, sanctified thinking. But He said, Satan came to steal the seed of the authentic word. And he told me, he said, he said, I and most other pastors, we'd been using a faithful translation of the scriptures during all the years of our ministries. And now, and by the way, Horacio is a converted Roman Catholic, and he said, now here's this new translation that's sweeping sweeping its way through Brazilian evangelical churches. It's missing entire passages. There are thousands of omitted words, many additions, changes of wording that change the meaning, and our people Our congregations were asking hard questions. Mainly one, which is the truth. The Bible we've been using all our lives are this new one. And Horacio told me, he said, now, this is 20 years ago. He said, I had only been in the ministry about 10 years at that point. He said, I was asking those questions too. I was having a crisis of faith. What am I supposed to preach? What is actually the truth? And then he said a newer edition of the Portuguese NIV came. And there were more changes, more revisions, more words and phrases and whole passages in brackets indicating that they're not supposedly in the original text. And so he said, you know, it really took some time and some study before I understood that this new Bible translation was based on corrupted texts, and that I, as a pastor, had to reject it And that I had to tell my people that they needed to reject it and that they could do so confidently. But he said many other pastors were confused, remained confused. Some left the ministry. Some are still preaching from a corrupted Bible. They're leading their people astray. He talked about, for example, He said, just you know, one among thousands. Romans chapter eight verse one. There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. That's where it ends in the corrupted translations. The words, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit are missing. And people were saying, does this mean that it really doesn't matter how I live? That God's grace is such What they were actually saying was, is God's grace chief grace? That's really what they were asking. So he said, I thank the Lord, he said, that he preserved me from all of that. And he said One of the main reasons was the influence of Dr. Pickering and he said, so we've held workshops for pastors to explain all of this. They've had as many as seventy pastors at a time. Their church has a a a camp facility, a retreat facility about uh an hour's drive away from the church. And he said, we've had as many as seventy pastors at a time come for these meetings. And he said once we had a Greek professor from one of the Protestant seminaries in Brazil and He came once and then he got in touch. He's uh we said we were having another workshop and he said, Well, I want to come again. Uh reserve a spot for me and Horacio said, well I told him uh it's gonna be the same thing you heard last year. It's not not a different program. It's identical. He said, I want to hear it again I want to hear it again. And afterward he went to Dr. Picker and he s he said, You've restored my faith in the text. You've restored my faith in the text. Well, in the opening verses of 2 Corinthians chapter 4, the Apostle Paul spoke of the fact that even in those early days of the church, early days of the New Testament church, where there were already those who were adulterating the written word of God. That's literally what he means when he spoke of those who handle the Word of God deceitfully. The word there is they're adulterating it. Changing it. And why were men doing that in Paul's day? And why are people doing it in our day? They're sowing the seeds of doubt and confusion because they take a naturalistic view of the Bible, a naturalistic view. They don't understand and acknowledge the supernatural character of this book. Some are deceivers, some are one of Dr. Pickering's frequently used phrases, some of them are among Satan's choicest servants Others are simply being deceived. But their thinking is not gripped by the fact that this is the only supernatural book, that it's God breathed, that holy men of God wrote. as they were driven to write the actual words by God the Holy Spirit, and God has promised to supernaturally, supernaturally preserve his supernatural word in all ages. Well All of this being said, and thinking of our passage forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. What are some of the implications of this kind of debased thinking about God's word, about God's sovereignty over his word? Well Let's start with this. How can there possibly be today what the Apostle Paul spoke of as a plain and forthright disclosure of revealed truth? That's a literal translation of a phrase that he uses there in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. How can there be a plain and forthright disclosure of revealed truth if God has not faithfully preserved his revealed truth? In the original languages for us. How can the people of God possibly obey God's commandments about not adding to or taking away from His Word if we're not sure what the Word of God actually is? How can we possibly know when we're adding to or taking away from his word? And how can a holy God judge us for such a thing? unless there is an inherent standard existing in our time and in all times. How can we possibly know if we're turning even to the slightest degree to the right hand or the left hand doctrinally? If we don't have an absolutely reliable compass, pointing to true north. How can we know when someone is handling the Word of God deceitfully, adulterating the pure Word of God, unless the pure Word of God exists? And furthermore, how can we trust God the Holy Spirit, the author of all scripture, to aid and to guide us in the interpretation of his word, as Jesus promised he would If we cannot trust the same God to have preserved his word intact and free from error Well, the answer is God can and does make such a promise to his people in all ages. He's not to be found a liar. He has providentially and supernaturally preserved his word. God is sovereign over his word. The only way that God could command such things of us and of his people in all ages, the only way he could command such things of His ministers is because authentic holy scripture in the original languages is still available absolutely free from error in all ages, just as he promised not one jot or two passing away. Well, Dr. Pickering's work has empirically demonstrated beyond the shadow of a doubt that this is the case. And God willing, we're hoping to make that work more accessible and understandable to a worldwide audience. The the first thing we're doing, uh and we would appreciate your prayer about this, uh there are biographies of Erasmus, Luther, Beza, Scrivner, John Burgon, all the others in in the line of those who have been concerned with the identity of the text and the preservation of the text. There's there's not a biography of Wilbur Pickering. And uh The Lord willing, it's my intention over the coming months to write that biography. Uh the Lord willing, I'm going to be meeting with his two daughters and his extended family. One daughter lives in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The other one's in Wichita, Kansas. Looks like we're all gonna get together in Kansas and and children, grandchildren Uh and uh they're going to share their experiences growing up. as as h his children and and their experiences with him as a as a grandfather, their observations, uh had the opportunity to preach on a Friday night to uh to part of Horacio's congregation uh in a in a home meeting. And several people said to Andrew and me, uh The two of you coming as an answer to prayer. We wondered what was going to happen when Dr. Pickering passes from the scene. We wondered what was going to happen to the work. We wondered what was going to happen to his testimony. We've been praying about it, and one man in particular is actually Horacio's son. He said, he said, I've been praying about this and I've been wondering if I should do something. And he said, I just had this sense from the Lord. I've got it taken care of. And he said, then you two show up. And you're the here's here's the visible evidence, God willing, that he's got this taken care of. So that's what we're going to be working on. We're also going to be working on uh doing a video documentary of his life and work. We've got we've got literally about forty-two forty-two hours of video. Uh with Horacio's son Alessandro was a tremendous help to us. He he was film crew all week. And uh he uh he he's he's thirty-six but he took the week off to help us. Uh and uh so we actually shot video f from four different cameras at once. and had two different audio pickups going at once. So we've got a lot of material to work with. We also interviewed Alessandro and Horacio. for their testimonies of what the Lord has done. And we hope to incorporate those things as well. But we'll appreciate your prayers for wisdom as we do that going forward. Uh the sovereign creator exists. The sovereign creator is sovereign over his word. He's addressed a written revelation to our race. He's preserved that revelation intact to this day to the extent that we can know what it is based on objective evidence. The original wording was never lost. Its transmission down through the centuries was basically normal. It was recognized by believers as inspired scripture from the beginning. That was not something that came later. And it was handled accordingly throughout the generations. God is indeed sovereign over his word. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. And therefore we can encourage one another. We as ministers can encourage God's people with the words, I love the words of the writer to the Hebrews, chapter 10, verse 35. Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. Our Father. As we sang at the beginning of this service of your great faithfulness We thank you that above all that faithfulness extends to faithfulness in the preservation and the propagation of your word. We pray, Father, that you would encourage our hearts and our minds to Trust your authentic word for every need, for every situation, everything in life, Father. And especially for eternity. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.