Turn with me to the book of Malachi this morning. We're going to start a new series, and I had not intended this actually to be a series at all, but the verse I read for our call to worship this morning There in chapter 3, verse 6, I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore you sons of Jacob are not consumed. I actually set out a few weeks ago to preach that at some time in the future And began reading the four chapters of Malachi at a sitting, and I would encourage you to do that this week. It does not take long to read the entire book. And just felt impressed that there's so much here. So we're going to start into a series of Malachi, and as we've often done with series, we're not going to necessarily go every Sunday in Malachi. We'll be in the book one Sunday and then maybe take a Sunday break or two. Sometimes do two messages in a row, but I'd like us to work through this Old Testament book. Brother Vince rightly pointed out I believe last week or the week before, when I referred to the minor prophets. We call them minor prophets, but there's nothing minor about them That is a term that has been given to the quote-unquote minor prophets by theologians for generations before us. And they call them minor because they are short in quantity As opposed to Isaiah and Jeremiah, the longer books. But they're not short on content. They are short little books, but packed with information. So I'm going to have our scripture read this morning, and your bulletin probably says through verse 14, I've kind of truncated that down, just the first five verses. this morning. So let me get begin reading in Malachi chapter 1 and verse 1. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord? Yet I have loved Jacob and hated Esau. and laid his mountain and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down. They shall call them the border of wickedness, and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, the Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. Let us pray. Well, Father, now may you, by the promise of your Spirit, open your word to our understanding. May we rejoice in thy great truth this day. Father, may your spirit protect all that we say and consider in thy word. May we be careful that the Word of God be rightly divided, not in words after man's wisdom, but in that which your Spirit directs to our hearts through the Word. Bless us this day, O Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. The burden of the word of the Lord. I'm not going to do a long introduction to the book of Malachi this morning. But just to highlight a few things about this book as we begin. The author is Malachi himself. The name Malachi means messenger. And some commentators have suggested that maybe this was not actually his name. That maybe he just uses this title rather than listing his name. Some have suggested that Ezra was actually the author of this book. But my Bible says Malachi. And so I'm going to take it at its word and believe that the book of Malachi was written by an actual man. Who was named Malachi? He was the messenger. Because God knew from the foundation of the world that he would have Malachi be the man who would pin these words. And there's an old saying, if the plain sense makes sense, seek no other sense. And so we believe in the plain sense of the Word of God. We believe in the verbal plenary inspiration of the Word of God, and we believe that God has preserved His Word to us And so it was written by a man named Malachi, and his very name means messenger. Someone who is coming with pertinent information for the people of God. And interestingly, his name actually appears in the book. For if you look across the page to chapter 3 and verse 1, Here, referring to John the Baptist, it says, Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come in his temple. And that word messenger, behold, I send my messenger, referring to John the Baptist, is Malachi. It is the name of the prophet. And John the Baptist, we know, was a messenger whose birth was foretold, and he was the forerunner of Christ. The book was written somewhere around 400 years before Christ. We don't know the exact date, but we know pretty precisely that it was give or take 400 years, maybe a few more, maybe a few less, but probably not, probably a few more. uh years before the coming of Christ. The significance of this book is that this is the last time that God will give his inspired revelation to his people. until the coming of John the Baptist. Four hundred years of silence. Where there is no vision, the people perish. And we read in the days of Samuel, when Samuel was a young child, that the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. And when you first read there of the childhood of Samuel, the word of God was precious. That sounds good in our English. But what it actually means is it was very rare. It was precious. God's word was very sparsely given. Now we are blessed today to have the word of God. But this message of Malachi is coming before 400 years of silence. You ever have somebody that you love that won't talk to you? I think most of us have before And we might go a couple hours and it come on honey, forgive me. I'm not talking about my wife, by the way. But we we wr oh talk to me. I want to hear from you. Maybe you have children that live at a distance and maybe they'll call today. I want to hear from him. 400 years God is going to withdraw his message from his people. Well now we t we put a lot of weight on the last words that someone speaks. What was his last words? This is the last word God's going to give his people. And so it's significant in that it precedes the silence. So you better listen close. But then this book is significant because it contains marvelous, overwhelming prophecies of the one who's coming in 400 years. And so for 400 years, from the prophecy of Malachi to the coming of John the Baptist, there's going to be silence. John the Baptist's birth was Foretold by the angel Gabriel, but that was just to Zechariah. It wasn't a general revelation. And then the birth of Christ was told again by the angel of Gabriel, but that was only to Mary. And then an angel appears to Joseph, most likely Gabriel again, but that was just the Joseph. But then John the Baptist comes, and he is the herald of Christ. He's coming, he's coming, he's coming. And we just read that John the Baptist is foretold in chapter 3 and verse 1. Three key verses, and then we'll jump into the book itself. Verse chapter 1 verse 6 is a key verse. A son honoreth his father and a servant his master If I then be a father, where is mine honor? If I then be a master, where is my fear? Saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests that despise my name, and say, Wherein have we despised thy name? And then chapter 3, verse 6 is one of the key verses, For I am the Lord, I change not, therefore ye sons of Jacob, are not consumed. And then again, chapter 4 and verse 2, but unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings. And ye shall go forth and grow up as calves of the stall. And it's all I can do not to preach chapter four, verse two, right now. It's marvelous But let's go back. Let's go back now to chapter one and the first verse the burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi The prophet begins by saying that this word from Jehovah is a burden. I spoke earlier. of wanting to hear from a loved one or a friend and being delighted when they called, and their call is joyous to us. But Malachi says this word's a burden. This is a heavy, weighty word. It is a word of import. It is a word of prophecy, and that word pro uh burden actually is the same word prophecy. It's the same word that's used in Proverbs 31, verse 1, the words of King Lemiel, the prophecy his mother taught him. This is a heavy word. In other words, wake up and pay attention, folks. What is about to be said is important. This isn't common gossip. This isn't sports talk. This isn't the concerns of foolishness. It is a heavy word. And we notice also that the word here is addressed to Israel. And that is very significant. Because by the time that Malachi is writing this message Israel, the northern kingdom, has been overtaken by the Assyrians 300 years ago. There is no Israel left. They have gone into captivity. They exist, but they have no national identity. Judah, the southern kingdom, is le is left. And when Christ comes, we talk about the Jews. The Jews are not all Israel. The Jews are the descendants of Judah. That's where Jew comes from. Judah and part of Benjamin. are left to King David and his family, but by this time the ten tribes, they're gone. We can't find them. And yet God ordains the message not to be addressed to Judah, but to Israel. And that's important. It is important for this reason. He's addressing all the people of God at all ages. You see, for though Christ was coming through the seed of Judah And though the remnant is left, yet there are still those of the northern kingdom who are his elect. And by addressing this book not just to Judah, but to Israel, it includes the northern kingdom, it includes the southern kingdom, and it includes the kingdom to come. Which is indeed the church. And so it is addressed to Judah. And we find this in the text itself. I'm not just making this up. Look down at verse 11 of chapter 1. From the rising of the sun, even unto the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. And in every place, incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering. For my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord And so here Israel includes all the descendants of Abraham, whether they be of the northern kingdom or of the southern kingdom, or if they be the children of Abraham by faith. as we find in the New Testament. For we find in Galatians 3, starting in verse 6, even as Abraham believed God and it was accounted unto him for righteousness, know ye therefore. That they which are of faith the same are the children of Abraham. And so we are children of Abraham by faith. So then they which are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Remember when the Jews, unbelieving Jews who opposed Christ, said, We have Abraham to our fathers, our father. And what was Christ's response? I can make of these stones, children of Abraham. That's in Luke 3, verse 8, if you want to put it in your notes. I can make of these stones, children of Abraham. We were dead as stones, folks. We were dead rocks till Christ came. And just as he could have commanded stones to be made bread He commanded my stony heart to be flesh that I might believe. And so it's very significant. It's not an insignificant word. That this book begins by saying it's the burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by the messenger. But there's yet more in these first verses. Let me go ahead and give you the outline because the we're going to overlap the outline all the way through. The outline, first of all, is we see God's Definition of his love to the church. God's definition of his love to the church. Secondly, we're going to see God's exposition of his election of the church. So God's definition of his love for the church, God's exposition of his election of the church, and then finally we'll see God's self-magnification through the church or in the church. God's definition of his love for the church. Look with me at verses two and three I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord. Yet I loved Jacob. And hated Esau and laid his mountain and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. God declares his love for the church. I have loved you. Look at it here in the passage, this discourse that's going on. In verse 2, I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet ye say, wherein hast thou loved us? Isn't that astonishing? God says I've loved you. And as people say, prove it. God says I've loved you. And as people say, No, you haven't. God says I've loved you. And he said, what do you mean you've loved us? Wherein hast thou loved us? And we're going to see this back and forth throughout this book. It comes up multiple times. And God says, was not Jacob Esau's brother, or Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord of hosts, Yet I love Jacob. He says, There I hated Jacob and made his wilderness heritage wilderness. Look at verse 4. Whereas Edom saith, The children of Esau, this is what they say. Edom saith, We are impoverished. But we will return and build the desolate places. Thus saith the Lord. You see the back and forth? Edom says, look, we're going to fix our problems ourselves. We're going to return. We're going to build Remember Esau, who sought the birthright with tears, and he was denied. They say we're going to build, the Lord saith. I lost one my my my eyes there. Where wherefore Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and rebuild. Build a verse. Thus saith the Lord of God of hosts, the Lord of hosts, they shall build, but I will throw down And then at the end of the verse, the people against whom they shall call them. There it is, they shall say again. They shall call them the people against whom the Lord hath indignation for ever. Verse 5, Your eyes shall see it, and ye shall say it. I think I've probably just thoroughly confused you there. But you see, we have this back and forth where God says this, and the people say, Oh no, but this. Okay. So the first thing we find here, under the heading of God's definition of his love for the church God declares I love you. He declares his love. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet you say, Where is I love me? Remember God's words to Jeremiah, which were really his words to all of his people? I have loved you with an everlasting love. Why do I believe in Jesus Christ? And why do my neighbors not believe in Jesus Christ? Because he loved me. He loved me. And so God defines his love. As a declared love. This is what it is. I've loved you, and this is how I've loved you. I loved Jacob and I hated Esau. Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. In that passage where God declares his love to Jeremiah, he mentions the Gentiles. You realize that God says there in Jeremiah 3 31, verse 3, The Lord has appeared to me of old, saying, I have loved thee with an everlasting love, therefore in loving kindness have I drawn thee. But verse six says For there shall be a day that the watchman upon Mount Ephraim shall cry, Arise and let us go up into Zion unto the Lord. our God. For the Lord, thus saith the Lord, sing with gladness for Jacob, shout for joy among the chief nations. Shall for joy among the chief nations publicly praise the Lord. O Lord, save thy people. Even there in the promise of Jeremiah, it mentions the nations, and so it includes us all. How have you loved me? God declares his love, but then God discriminates his love. Jacob have I loved. Esau have I hated. Jacob have I loved. Esau have I hated. Let me ask you this question. Was Jacob better than Esau? No. If we were to look at it and pick one, would we pick Esau or Jacob? Well, Jacob didn't lie to his father. Esau didn't lie to his father. Jacob goes in with fur on his hands and wearing his brother's clothes and carrying a meal that he didn't make, his mother had made it. And he says, I'm Esau. Did God choose the good one? No. God chose the bad one. And so here the people of God who are in affliction and in difficulties And God's about ready to say nothing to them for the next 400 years. God says, I have loved you, but you say, prove it. God says, here's the proof. I loved the unlovable. I loved the bad guy. And the self-righteous one, I've hated him. Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. And when we consider Romans 9, you can turn there if you'd like, Romans 9, and starting in verse 6. I'll give you just a moment because we're going to be in Romans 9 a little bit here for a while. Romans chapter 9 and verse 6. Not as though the word of God had taken none effect, for they are not all Israel, which are of Israel. Neither because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children. But in Isaac shall thy seed be called. That is, they which are the children of faith, these are not the children of God, but the children of promise are counted for seed. And then drop down to verse 13 of Romans 9. As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid. For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. So then it is not of him that willeth or of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy. For the scripture said unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised thee Up, that I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth Therefore he hath mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will, he pardoneth. Pardoneth. Whom he will, he pardoneth. You see, God did not choose the good man. God chose the bad man. And Jacob's very name means surplanter. But God will change his name there on the plain of Penil. And Jacob will be called Israel, a prince with God, or one who contends with God, one who has power with God. As a prince, thou hast power with God And so God declares his love for his people, and he demonstrates that his love is a discerning, a discriminating love. He defines his love in this way. And when Christ was talking to the scribes and Pharisees, he said, Ye serpents, yeah generation of vipers How can ye escape the damnation of hell? There was no escape for them, because they were not of his elect. And then again John the Baptist said to the scribes and Pharisees, again, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath of God? And so the first thing we find here in this passage is the definition of God's love for the church. It's a discriminating, exclusive love that He has declared to us. I have loved ye. You say, wherein hast thou loved thee? But then we find an exposition of his election of the church. God goes even further. Look with me in verses 3 and 4 again. And I hated Esau, and laid his mountain and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Wherefore Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, they shall build, but I will throw down. They shall call them the border of wickedness. and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. Going back to Romans 9 and considering verses eleven and twelve, if you still have your place there. For the children being not yet born, neither having done good or evil. Remember we said one was good and one was bad? Before they've done good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works, but of him that calleth. It was said unto her, the elder shall serve the younger. Rebecca was barren. She had no children. And Isaac cries out to God for his wife And God grants her conception. And she's having twins. And she finds that the twins are fighting in the womb. And she cries to God, why is it thus? And God tells her, there's two nations, and the elder shall serve the younger. God hated Esau and laid his mountain and his heritage waste for the dragons. God here expounds on his election of the church. I have chosen this and I have rejected that. And is there unrighteousness with God? No, not at all. For God should not have chosen either. God did not choose either because they were good. God did not choose either because there is some merit in them. God did not save me because he thought he could do something good with me. God did not save me because he saw any value in me. God simply saved me because he chose to do so. He set his love upon me. And so here God expounds on his election. God withheld blessing from Esau. Esau was not the recipient of the law. God gave his law. God gave his law to the descendants of Jacob. They're the ones that received the Ten Commandments. But Esau's command children they did not have the command, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. And they served all manner of other gods. Why? Because God withheld from them his law. And God withheld from them his love. Oh, how blessed we are that we have the Word of God. Before the invention of the printing press The Word of God was hand copied, and copies were exceeding rare. And even after the inventing of the printing press Printed Bibles were a rarity. And often there would be one at the church, and it was chained down, and in some cases even kept in a box So no one could see it until the priest would open the box and take it out. And we've seen the pictures in synagogues where they would have the scroll and they would carry it in with great reverence. There are millions and billions of people who have been born on this earth They have lived their entire lives and they've never heard a single word of God's word. They have died and no one ever told them Of the grace of Jesus Christ. How can we say we're in a so lovely? For God says, I've loved Jacob, and I've hated Esau God withheld from Esau the very thing that was needful for salvation, for faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. God defines his election. It is all of his mercy and all of his grace. But God commended his love toward us in that while we were the most righteous people on earth, Christ died for us. And probably I shouldn't do that. I have a have a habit of doing that, of taking a verse and turning it on its heels. And maybe I shouldn't do that. But you understand what it says in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But not only do we find that God withheld his blessing from Esau, God withheld his blessing from Esau's children. It says he laid his mountain and his heritage waste to the dragons. His heritage is his children God withheld his blessing from his heritage. His heritage was laid waste. And it is not impossible for there to be a descendant of Esau who is saved. For God will choose one here and one there, from here and there, from all nations, but by and large the people of Esau, the Edomites Went into perdition. They went away from God. And where are they today? You can't even find them And it's very significant that God uses the word mountain here. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. He laid his mountain waste. Micah 4 and verse 2. And many nations shall come and say, Let us go up into the mountain of the Lord. And to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us his ways. And we will walk in his paths. For the law of God shall go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. But Esau And the Edomites had no part in the mountain of the Lord. They had no part in Jerusalem, Jerusalem Salem. The peace that God gives. God withheld His Blessing from Esau. God withheld his blessing from Esau's children, and God even withheld his blessing from Esau's land. For we find that he hated Esau and laid his mountain and his heritage waste for the dragons. And oh how I love that! Because the dragons here are dinosaurs that walked with man. Job knew about them. He told us about them. He saw them with his own eyes. These are dinosaurs 2,400 years ago that were walking through the land of Edom. And they were fearful. They were indeed terrible lizards. They were dreadful. And they laid the land waste. They made it uninhabitable. And so when someone tells you that the dinosaurs became extinct millions and millions of years ago, nonsense. Nonsense. They didn't even become extinct at the flood. And they were on the Ark with Noah. God preserved them. Marco Polo saw them. In the thirteenth century and fourteenth century we find tales of dragons. And I believe that some may even exist in some deep lakes of the earth today. There's there are pictures from the s of the Civil War of what looks like a pterodactyl that was shot. We don't know. I believe in Bigfoot, folks. That's right. My wife shakes her head. We don't know what's in this earth. We cannot we cannot see the corners of the earth. The deeper they go in the ocean, the more they find creatures that we knew nothing about. And how frequently we've heard of some extinct creature that uh oh, we found one. God sent the dinosaurs into Edom's land to lay his heritage waste. But God promised those peoples their land would be fruitful. That would spring forth as a garden that God would bless. And so God withheld his blessing from them. They may profit to some extent, the children of Edom. But what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? And so the children of Edom, look what they say. Verse 4. God says in verse 3, I hated them and laid their mountain and their heritage waste for dragon dragons. Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we can fix this. Doesn't that sound like the unelect? I'm not so bad. Yeah, yeah, I I do this and I do that, but I'm better than so-and-so. Yeah, we're impoverished. Oh, I know I'm not as righteous as somebody, but I'm not as bad as somebody else. I can fix my sin. I'll just be good. I'll be kind. I'll be generous. Edom says, we're impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places. We'll build a tower of Babel to heaven We will create for ourselves a God. We'll sacrifice to a golden calf. You see, man, unconverted, unelect, tries all kinds of ways And all of our righteousness are as filthy rags. So Edom says, We're impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places, the places where God has sent the dragons. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, they shall build, but I will throw down. They shall call them, they shall call them. That's the people of Edom. They shall call themselves, we could say, they shall call them the border of wickedness, and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. Remember what God said to us through Jeremiah? I have loved thee with what kind of love? Everlasting love. But these are the people against whom the Lord hath indignation everlasting. Hath indignation forever. And so God defines his election of the church. And it is a very distinct difference. And distinct definition. Everything about the children of God prospers. I'm not talking about finances, folks. I'm not talking about the things of this world. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where neither moth doth corrupt. Moth and rust doth corrupt th the seeds do not break through and steal For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And so God makes this glorious distinction between Esau and Edom. But notice there again at the end of verse four, and they shall call them, they shall call themselves, the border of wickedness. and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. And with that in your mind, go to verse 5. For verse 5 begins to show us God's self-magnification in the church. We see God's definition of his love, God's exposition of his election And God's magnification through the church. Verse five, Your eyes shall see Your eyes shall see. God lays the heritage of Edom waste for the dragons, and your eyes shall see. And ye shall say, these are the people that said, Wherein hast thou love me? And ye shall say, The Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. Okay. We see that the Edomites are the border of wickedness. You see the connection there? Verse 4, the Edomites will say, We're the border of wickedness, but from the border of Israel The Lord will be magnified. And who is Israel in this book? Is it the Northern Kingdom? Well, there may be a few from the northern kingdom, but no, it's not the northern kingdom. Is it the southern kingdom of Judah? Well, they're the ones that God's not going to talk to for 400 years. Israel here is the church. That's right. Israel here is the people of God elect before the foundation of the world. It is the children of God throughout ages, red and yellow, black and white and green with purple spots, of every tongue, of every nation, the remnant of God, the chosen of God. They are the border. They are the border of Israel. And look what verse 5 says. Your eyes shall see And ye shall say, The Lord be magnified from the border of Israel. Christ magnified throughout all the earth, every people, tongue, and nation. Christ glorified, Christ exalted, Christ seen, and how is Christ exalted? Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden And I will give thee rest. Saul, Saul, it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks, for Saul was heavy laden with the guilt of his sin. And so Christ is magnified through his church. He defines his love for the church. He expounds his election of the church. And he magnifies himself in the church. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Turn with me. to John 17, and we'll begin to wrap up for this morning. John 17 records Christ's prayer for his church. Christ's prayer for his church as he's getting ready to go away. There have been 400 years of silence Now the revelation has come in abundance, for the word was made flesh and beheld and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and full of truth, full of his word. John 17, these words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify. That's what we're talking about, the glory of Christ. The hour has come from the border of Israel, the border of the church. Glorify thy son, that thy son may also glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, the Son, whom thou hast sent. What was one of the things withheld from Edom? Well, the word of God, faith comes by hearing Verse 4, I have glorified thee on earth, I have finished the work that thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me, thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested my name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. He didn't manifest his name to the Pharisees. He didn't manifest his name to everybody in the world. He manifests his name to those that were given to him out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee, for I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them. and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are mine. For they are thine. Verse 20, drop down a bit. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their words, from the border of Israel, the word going forth. That they may all be one, as thou father art, as thou father art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. And the glory which thou gavest me have I given them? What is it that goes out from the border of the church? It is the glory of Christ, which is reflected from us. The glory which thou gavest me, I have given them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them, and thou in me. that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me and hast loved me. as thou hast loved and hast loved them. Let me read that last verse again. I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know That thou hast sent me and hast loved them as thou hast loved me. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? And so as we begin in this book of Malachi, we find that God declares his love to his people, and his people say, Wherein have you loved us? They contradict him to his face. God says, I love Jacob, and I hated Esau. Oh, how we must treasure the Word of God. Oh, how must we we must throw forth the glory of God. For God has loved his church. He has loved his people. He has called us out from the world. He has delivered us from the dragons. and made us his own dear children. And so we're going to pick up again, not next Sunday, but uh in a few weeks with verse six. A Son honoreth at all times. If I be a father, where is my honor? Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you this morning for your word. I thank you for the great promise that your word will not return into you void, but it will accomplish that which you purpose, and it will prosper in the thing wherein you send it. Father, I thank you that you have chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And Lord, we have this treasure in earthen vessels. And though, Lord, we may not be able to expound or explain your word in clarity, yet there is perfect clarity in the Spirit of God. And so, Father, may you bless your word to the hearts of your people this morning for their edification. And may you bless your word for the glory of Christ. Indeed, may the glory of Christ shine forth from the borders of the church. Father, we thank you that we are not of the borders of wickedness You have delivered us from the curse of Esau and made us the children of God. In Jesus' name. Amen.