Gracious Father, it is indeed a great privilege. to gather in thy presence, and yea, even to live in the presence of the Lord. We thank you that the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Father, we pray with the psalmist, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. And Lord, it is indeed our earnest desire this morning. That you would search us and know us. Lord, show us our failing before Thee. Show us our lack of devotion. Show us, Lord, the pathway of thy choosing. Guide us in the way everlasting. Forgive us our sins, O Lord. And Father, this day may your Spirit have liberty to work and move in our hearts May we regard no iniquity within us, and may we hunger and thirst after righteousness. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is selected verses from the 97th Psalm The Lord reigneth, let the earth rejoice, let the multitude of the isles be glad thereof, the heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. Ye that love the Lord hate evil. He preserveth the soul of his saints. He delivereth him out of the hand of the wicked. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous, and give thanks at the remembrance of His holiness. And I invite you to turn with me in your hymnals this morning in the blue songbook, The Trinity, to number two hundred and fifty-six as we sing Break Thou the Bread of Life. 256 In the Trinity himself. Make thou red up life in or to me as thou didst break the loose meet thigh. I seek the Lord my spirit. Red times for the To me as thou didst bless the bread thy shall of One Hope is all And I shall find my peace by all his Do you hear? Teach me to love my truth for now. Oh send my spirit. Show me those concealed within thy work and in thy forever. Thank you, you made me see them. Morning. Morning, morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we're reading from Article 24 again, this third portion of it, regarding man's sanctification and good works from the Belgic Confession. Christian, in what do you believe? Therefore, we do good works, but not to merit by them For what can we merit? Nay, we are beholden to God for the good works we do, and not he to us. Since it is he which worketh in us, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Let us therefore attend to what is written. When ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you Say we are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. If you've been paying attention from the recent articles, the teaching of the first portions of the twenty-fourth article regarding good works. You'll have learned and understood that good works are a fruit of regeneration, something that comes as a result of God's Spirit working within you, giving you that new heart. But these good works never earn us salvation, nor do they give us any extra credit with the Lord, as if now he owes us something, because we did so valiantly. Because we've done so well that God would just be impressed with with what what what we've done, that there should be some glory that's apart from the Lord that Now we should just glorify man. You never see that happening. That's never the case with good works. They never surprise God and it never puts him in a place where he owes us something. He's now indebted to us. We can't tell God, well, I made a profit for you, Lord, now you owe me. Because I've done this thing. I've done something special above and apart from you. If it's true that you've done well before God, it's only because he stirred you up from the beginning to do it. He had to give you a clean heart, a new heart to do it to begin with. And then he actually had to work in you to perform that which is good. Mm-hmm. Pointing all the glory back to him. And that's really the essence of Philippians two thirteen, where we read, For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. By our fallen nature, that default condition that man has You could only do evil. Sure, you have free will. You can do you have a lot of choices of what kind of evil you can partake in, and you freely choose lots of evil things. But it was God that had to actually give you a right desire, a right will, as as we read in Philippians. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure He had to give you a right desire, through a new heart, to actually serve him, to do that which is good. It wasn't something that originated from yourself or because you were so wise to think to do it. No, it was something it was a desire that God had to put on your heart. It was him that worked in you to will, but also to do, in order to be able to actually go through with it, and not be fallen because of your flesh that you still have with you. It was God who had to perform that thing through you. As it says, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure Therefore, in the end, we declare, as it says in the Scripture, we're unprofitable servants, only doing that which was our duty to do, that which God commanded us and that which He worked in us to do It's the Lord that had to stir us up for it. And you know, think of the most faithful believer that you know of, or the most faithful or sacrificial act that you've seen. We can quickly fall into the error of praising the individual, of saying, wow, what an amazing individual, what an amazing thing they did. Wow, how could they do such a thing. When we ought to praise the Lord instead for working in them. It was the Lord that did it. And you know, one uh missionary stands out to me, William Carey, that I really like, he was a missionary to India and he overcame many hurdles even to uh convince the missionary board to support him and all of that. There was much he had to do there. And then even when he went out there, he suffered many trials It he didn't just have a easy flight to go through there. He had a ship that he had to voyage on, a lengthy ship with a family. He even lost some of his children out there on the mission field. Much sacrifice there And it was even encouraging when uh there was a fire that destroyed uh his work, translating the Bible into a different language and a lot of his writings. He was uh stirred up to he w once he saw that fire destroy his work, he just picked up and uh continued where he left off. He began to translate again. He he wasn't so discouraged to just toss in the towel. That was a very encouraging thing. But it would be a flaw to say, well, look how great that man is. No, but instead we look to what that man did and say, how great his God is. what his God has done for him, how his God has stirred him up, has moved him. And uh the last thing I want to leave you with are the words of the Apostle Paul from the Scripture. He acknowledged that his own labor was more diligent than any of the other apostles, and yet at the same time he said that this labor wasn't of himself at all. But rather he gave the praise to the Lord. He said it was of the Lord's grace. So I'll leave you with 1 Corinthians 15 10 where we read, But by the grace of God I am what I am And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. It is indeed of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, they are new every morning, great is thy faithfulness. Let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Our great God and Heavenly Father, we indeed enter into thy courts with thanksgiving, into thy gates with praise. We thank you, Lord, that we are drawn by thy Spirit to gather with thy people for worship. Lord, we thank you for those of our congregation, O Father, that are spread abroad where they cannot find a faithful outpost with which to join in person. But Lord, they are able to join with us online. And Father, we pray for them in particular today that thy Spirit would be very rich and full to their hearts. And Father, we think of the Apostle Paul in his inspired writings where he expressed his heart's yearning and desire for believers that were scattered abroad. And Father, you have blessed our small little fellowship to know that same love and fellowship together. As the old hymn says, those sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat And Lord, our brother just mentioned a missionary, and uh we we knew the days when we were far separated from believers that we loved And yet, Lord, we knew fellowship with them because we meet around one common mercy seat. And that mercy seat is not a golden-covered ark with cherubims above it. But rather the common mercy seat around which we meet today is indeed Jesus Christ, who has become our righteousness. He has become our mercy seat. And so we come before the God of heaven this morning, and we come praying through Jesus Christ, and praying in the name of Jesus Christ. and praying only on the merits of Jesus Christ. We approach the very throne of the King of heaven And we bring before you this morning the needs of thy people. We do not come to inform our God of our needs, but rather in obedience. We repeat again and again as one whose friend has come at midnight. We repeat before God the needs of your people. And so, Father, you know that we are a people that are deeply desirous to be fed with the bread of heaven. We are deeply desirous to learn of thee. And Lord, that is our most important prayer. Oh God, that you would meet the needs of our souls, that we would not be spiritually impoverished or spiritually malnourished. But that by your Spirit, through the instrument of thy servant, you would open your word to the hearts of your people. And Father, even equally important, open the hearts of your people to receive thy word. Remove from us the stumbling blocks of our flesh. Remove from us the distractions of the world around us, that we might receive Heavenly truth from the inspired and preserved Book of God. Blessed these ends. Father, you know the physical needs of our congregation. And Father, they are many. And we are blessed to have a congregation with a wide age range. We are blessed to have children in our midst, and we are blessed to have godly saints in their advanced years. We are blessed to have those that boast not themselves of tomorrow. For Lord, we know not what a day may bring forth. And yet, Lord, you have preserved these to our midst by thy hand. And it is a great blessing to our heart every time we see them physically in the service. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to give health and strength and vigor. For Lord, indeed, as iron sharpens iron, So the countenance of a friend, and we need these godly examples in our midst. We need their input during the Sunday school hour We need their thoughts and reflections in the consideration of the sermon that comes after the message is completed. And so, Father, may you preserve these to us. For Lord, what a great blessing to the young children in our midst. To hear these that are seasoned in thy truth, expounding upon the Word of God. And what a blessing to our young adults to hear their voice. And Father, even those of us who are not yet old and yet are no longer young, we benefit from our brethren. And so, Father, may you continue to bless this congregation with their ability to be here in our midst. Father, we pray for those that are not with us today because of the infirmities of the flesh. We know our dear Pastor Emeritus and his sweet wife desire to be here. And yet, Lord, though all plans were made, they were not able to attend. He was not able to attend today. Father, be with them. Bless them in their place of worship. We can safely assume that they are with us online. Bless them. Strengthen them. Maintain their presence in our midst for the edification of the body. Father, we pray for our dear brother who has recently had hand surgery and is dealing with some blood clots, and his sweet, precious wife, who is such a blessing to us all. who has suffered a stroke and they are unable to be here today. O Father, visit them with thy blessing Visit them with freedom from pain. Visit them with renewed health and strength. Be with their extended family. Their children are so oft on our lips in prayer. Their son-in-law is suffering greatly. Their grandchildren are a burden to their heart for their salvation. Father, we pray that you would bless that entire household to the uttermost. Father, we uh thank you for two of our uh older ladies that are ate with us this morning. Suffer in the flesh, suffer with sciatica, suffer with back pain. And we thank you for some recent improvements and pray, Lord, that that we continue. Lord, we pray for their unsaved children that you would bring them to faith in Christ. Father, we pray for the Lady of our house, our gracious host. Lord, that you would continue to work and bless her body, that you would strengthen her, that you would encourage her, Lord, that you would grant her many years of faithful service to this body. And many years of faithful testimony to the saving grace of Jesus Christ. Bless her to these ends. Bless her, Lord, as she helps and supports in this ministry and has a vital role. But I pray for my own wife, who is uh those that are in ministry understand the Blessing of a faithful wife that stands beside and is a constant encouragement and blessing in the work of the Lord. Father, we pray for our young families. O Father, may you bless them. We thank you for the children you have given them, and O Lord, may you continue to bless with children. For we find in thy word that children are a heritage of the Lord. Lord, may the quivers be filled, we pray. Father, we pray for the Social needs of our young singles. Oh Father, that you would prepare for them godly mates. We pray, Lord, for the employment needs that several have. Father, that you would meet these needs, O Lord, that you would provide jobs and better employment. Lord, not that we desire to lay up treasures on earth. But Lord, you have promised to supply our daily bread. And Lord, it is the desire of this congregation that we might be blessed of thee, that we might be a blessing, both here through diaconal funds. And abroad through supporting missions and supporting our brother with the with uh teaching the word and the authentic scriptures foundation. Father, bless in these things. Lord, we thank you that that our our young sister who was able to go on a missions trip, partly through the financial aid of this congregation, will be able to share with us the blessings that she has received and that she has been. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to bless that family as well. Father, we know that there are grave physical concerns with our extended congregation. And Lord, we pray for our dear brother in Texas who has served our country and suffers physically as results of that service. Father, may you bless him, Lord. I pray for the recent MRI that it will reveal exactly what is needed for his physical comfort We thank you for his glorious salvation, indeed, snatched as a brand from the burning and the evidence of a new creature. Father bless he and his dear wife Be with the extended family there, Lord. Visit them with thy salvation. Continue to give comfort at the loss of a mother, we pray. Father, we thank you for the miraculous work that you've done in the body of our sister in Wisconsin. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to perfect protect her from infection and from rejection. And O Father, may you you bless the extended family there as well and our dear brother in our midst Lord, encourage and bless and strengthen, we pray. Father, you know the financial needs of the congregation. Lord, they are not hidden from thee. We know that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. We know that the righteous are never so forsaken, and the seed of the righteous never beg bread. And so, Father, We do not pray to be a wealthy congregation. We do not pray to lay up treasures on earth. But we do pray, O Lord, give us this day our daily bread. The Father, the heart of the King is in the hand of the Lord, and certainly the hearts of those unbelievers that engage in business can be drawn to your people to spend their funds, that those funds may flow forth through the ministry of this congregation. That the financial needs may be met, that financial wrongs may be corrected. Oh Lord, we pray that you would work in these things. Father, we thank you for Mission Bible Church. Lord, as the old hymn says, through many trials, I have already come. And Lord, we were established through great affliction. And yet, Lord, we can say, and I, being in the way, the Lord led me. We thank you and rejoice for that which we have. May we jealously protect it from the evil one. May we jealously protect it from error. May we adamantly defend the truth. Even though the so-called church at large has departed from thee and is basing its entire foundation on the sands of errant scriptures. May you enable us to stand and having done all to stand. Finally, O Lord, we pray for our poor nation. We are deserving of great judgment and wrath before thee, for we are as Sodom. And yet, Father, we believe that we may indeed be a Nineveh. We have seen the turning back of some evil. The LGBTQ crowd has been pushed out of the military. And has been pushed out of some areas of government. And the reestablishment of male and female as God created has been voiced. Lord, these things have come not from believers but from vile men. But O Lord, could these things indeed in thy grace be the spark of revival? Might you truly turn us from a Nineveh into a Jerusalem? Father, we pray for our leaders. We rejoice that there are some who are speaking out against corruption and treason. And oh Lord, we believe that their very lives may be in peril. And so, Father, we pray that you would protect them. That you would protect them for the sake of thine own elect, thy remnant that dwells within this Sodom. O Lord, may our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father, which is in heaven. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Job chapter one in your Bibles for a responsive reading. Once you've located Job one in your Bibles, please rise. We will responsibly read all twenty-two verses of Job chapter one. There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and has chewed evil. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep and three thousand camels and five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred sheasses, and a very great household, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day, and said and called their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings, according to the number of them all For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job that there is none like him in the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And then there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeded beside them, and the Sabians fell upon them, and took them away. Yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The fire of God has fallen from heaven and it burned up the sheep. And the servants, and consume them, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone, to tell thee While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness. and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped, and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord, and altogether in all this Job sin not, nor charged God foolishly. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Remain standing if you were able for our psalm before our message. Number 348, 348. in the Trinity hymnal. And of course, if you're unable to stand, that is fine. Number 348, let us sing together and we will sing the Amen at the end. Oh, bless our God with God. And die And praise him with all your heart. Lift up your hands in prayer. Until it is thank you, let me know. As his beyond him with blessing. At this time, Brother Brent Dents is going to bring her message Thank you, Pastor. You know, amongst all the canon Of Holy Scripture, the book of Job stands unique. It's a most unusual record of history. Here you have a very wealthy man with a large family, called the greatest of all the East, very rich, but he's God-fearing. That's an oddity. Wealthy men tend to not be that way. You know, the account is easy to follow, but frankly, it's very painful to consider. You have a righteous man. He is sharply rebuked by his wife. Curse God and die. He's sharply rebuked by his three close friends. A younger fellow comes along, piles on top of that, and then God himself appears and gives him a 42-question quiz. which he cannot answer. The reader, the opening chapter, seems to have all the insight and yet struggles to make sense of all the back and forth arguments as you read through the book. All the speakers are theologically accurate. Some are quoted in the Proverbs by Solomon, some are quoted in Hebrews, who were not Job. And yet at the end God says otherwise that they have not spoken of him aright. And there's only one way I have found where the book of Job actually makes sense When a Christian experiences, now track with me here, when a Christian experiences deep pain and suffering. That's when the book of Job resonates. You people who are musicians know what a tuning fork is. You have a tuning fork, and when you strike that middle C, the tuning fork resonates with it. The book of Job is not a middle C. It's a very deep bass note. And the fork, if I were to paint a picture of it, would be the size of the Twin Towers in New York City. And when you have a deep soul-wrenching event hit you, then those massive volumes through the book of Job, those words begin to sound out deep deep messages to your soul. Then and only then does this book come alive. You know, personally I have had two times when such has happened to me, and both times I found comfort from the book of Job. The first one is in 1998. My dear precious firstborn child is 30 hours old. I was in the store getting some groceries, awaiting for their imminent arrival home, and my wife in a panic calls and says, they have taken her to children's hospital in San Diego. Well, that's not good. That's a promotion to another institution that can give better care to your ailing newborn. I was deeply distraught. Here my wife's in one hospital, my daughter's in another. Not a great way for the newborn family to start. It took two to three months for me to recover, and I got a lot of comfort out of the book of Job, chapter 10, verse 16. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion, and yet you show yourself marvelous to me. The next time came some seventeen years later in the year twenty fifteen. We had a wonderful church plan Room full of committed young believers. It was the funnest time of my life. Brother Gill, I've never had such fun as when these young people come pouring through the door Most of them were half my age and they brought with them that youthful energy and enthusiasm. They didn't complain about, oh my back, oh my elbow, you know, they were full of life and zeal and everything was just wonderful and there was no pain and It was laughs and giggles, and we were just having a grand time. And the devil's messenger showed up in the form of the planted pastor And began to question the Word of God and began to drive people away, and Angela and I had good conscience could not support that. Somebody who denies the canon of scripture. It was an explosion and there's no other way to put it. I felt like it was a combination of a divorce and an abortion at the same time. The spiritual children lost. And those whom you had yoked arms with over the years you could no longer be with. It was devastating. I Can't think of any physical analogy other than those two. It took seven years to mostly recover. Job 5. 21 was helpful. And there was, to be perfectly honest, A little tiny piece that only until this message recently, which is the impetus for this lesson today There was a little tiny piece still outstanding that I couldn't resolve. But bless my soul, God brought something to mind from the book of Job that cleared it away. So I can say I'm a little more healed. And I want to share that with you. This is not a common Brother Vince kind of message. We're not going to be looking at a lot of theologically profound passages, but it's an insight that I have, and it's really kind of more personal and pastoral than it is insightful, though I trust you will gain from the inside. Our text actually is not the book of Job. Keep your hand there. We're going to be walking through it. But my issue was in the book of James. In the fifth chapter and verse 11. It's printed in your bulletin. You can look at it. It's right at the head. It's James 5. 11. It's a commentary from James, the brother of the Lord Jesus, one of the early writers of Holy Writ. And to encourage people in a time of suffering writes this. Behold, we count them happy, could also be rendered blessed, but we'll go with happy, which endure. You have heard of the patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. Folks, I had a problem with that verse. What do you mean? Pitiful and of tender mercy. I didn't see it. Oh, but Joe got a bunch of stuff. Who cares? He lost all ten of his children at one time. The same day. They were fully grown. Oh, but the Lord's very pitiful and tender. What, Job's asking for a child upgrade? I didn't like these kids, Lord. Give me ten new ones What? What am I to do with that? That doesn't give me a lot of comfort Let me ask you, which of your children would you care to have die right now and have replaced? Name one in your mind. Now Name all of your children. You know, Lord, I'd like a child upgrade. Well, I'm not trying to be blasphemous here. I'm being real. That's what the passage says And it directs you back to Job. And I was having great difficulty finding comfort from James 5. 11. This is the first you've ever heard me voice this. I've never voiced it in private. I have no other reservations about anything else in Scripture. And then, Joe, bless my soul. God brought a verse of scripture to my mind The Lord accepted Job. That's it. That's it. That was the key to unlock the dilemma for me. And I began to pull that thread. And Marissa, I found comfort. I found a lot of comfort. Now I understood. James is right. He's absolutely right. So we're gonna look at James' commentary on Job, which frankly Because a passage like me, I think some find to be self-defeating. And you know, I hope there are some unbelievers watching this out there You too may stumble across a passage of scripture that you don't find comfort from. It strikes you as counterintuitive. This doesn't make sense. One of the most common accusations, and I get it Yes, Lord, that's not fair. The whole story of Job is that's not fair. He's a righteous man. We know the opening chapter. Job didn't. We know what was at stake. Job didn't. Nor his kids, nor his wife, nor anybody. God alone knew what was at stake. So I'm going to discuss this in three parts. The dilemma. I think I've already covered that. The solution and three insights from that one phrase of scripture that I began to unpack. To explain to you why the solution works. The dilemma, of course, as I've already indicated, is that A child upgrade just to me just doesn't sound like a solution. And again, I've used that phrase a few times Some will take exception to my statement. I'm not seeking to be blasphemous. I am seeking to be transparent The solution is this. The only satisfactory answer to the question of Job and his children, and of the Lord's tender and pitiful mercy. is that all ten of those children are in heaven that they are in fact saved. That's the only satisfactory solution. I would find no comfort. Woohoo, they're all in hell. They're dead There's one of two locations at death. I find one, and only one gives comfort. Well that's nice, but do we have scriptural support for such a conclusion? Or is it simply wishful thinking? Do we have scriptural support? I believe we do. And I'd like you to turn with me now to that opening chapter of the book of Job. you will want to have your Bible handy because I'm going to look at about half a dozen verses to support my point. And I hope you benefit from it because you may not have appreciated certain passages and verses from it To help inform your thinking about this conclusion, Job chapter 1 begins with our introduction to the man. That there was a man in the land of us. Verse 1, whose name was Joe. Notice the scripture says he was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eskewed evil. This is not some man's assessment. This is God's assessment. Later he prodded the devil and said, Have you considered my servant Job? And gave that exact same report. So number one, let it not be said That Job was an unrighteous man. Let it not be said that Job was a nominal twice-a-year Easter and Christmas Christian. He was a committed, devout, God-fearing individual. Then we have the note about his children. The number of his substance and his business, the sheep, the camels, the oxen, the sheasses. He was the greatest of all the of the East. There is no indication of what his business was per se, whether he sold camels milk, whether he sold sheep meat or the wool We can speculate, but nothing firm is given about that. But there are some specific details about Job's life that are given, that are very instructive for the purpose of our question. It says, when the days of their feasting were gone about, this is his children, they were together, they enjoyed being with each other. It says Job sent and sanctified them. He rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, now this is the counsel of his heart, which God is repeating to us. It may be that my sons have sinned. And cursed God in their hearts. It could be. It could be. He didn't say he knew they did He wasn't asking as the father of the prodigal, oh, that they may return. It was a concern of his. That their sons not come under the wrath of God, because he's a God-fearing man Thus did Job occasionally? Thus did Job as needed? No. Continually What we find here is that Job is the accepted priest. Observe his priestly prayer. He's sent. He's sanctified. He's rising early. He's offering burnt offerings. Folks, this is before the giving of the Ten Commandments, before the giving of the law Job lived in the days of the patriarchs, and I'm not at liberty, well I do at liberty, but I don't have the time to get into why Job is an older book I'll give you a thumbnail sketch reason why he lived to be 140 some odd years of age, which thing didn't happen in the days of Moses And number two, the covenantal name of God, Jehovah, is not used in the book of Job, at least in the account where Job is speaking. And we know when God revealed that name, and so Job would have been before that. Hence why men say Job is the oldest book in the Bible, or at least the record. He's acting like a priest. He's behaving as a priest for his household He appears to have a great fear of any harm that might come to his children. He's not praying for the servants over the camels. He's not praying for his business. He's not asking that he can go to such and such a city and buy and sell and get gain there for a year. His concern is for his children. He has a fear for the life of his children. And in fact, we know that to be true because you can flip ahead to Job chapter 3 and verse 25. In Job 3. 25, he makes this statement. He says, For the thing which I greatly feared has come upon me. And that which I was afraid of is come unto me. Folks, the thing he was greatly afraid of was the loss of his children. You know that from his prayer. God's telling you what he prayed. And in Job chapter 6 and verse 8, you can flip ahead to that one as well. Job says, Oh, that I might have my request! And that God would grant me the thing that I long for. Again, I believe it's a prayer for his children. And further in that context, it appears to also be a prayer that he would die. He would rather die than face their loss. What's interesting is that the Lord in fact did honor Job's request, just not in the way. Job of God. His priestly prayers were heard. Jump ahead to Job 42 and verses 7 and 9. In Job 42 and verse 7, we read this. It was so that after the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, The Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee and against thy two friends, for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right as my servant Job hath. Therefore now take unto you seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to what? My servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering. And My servant Job shall pray for you. For him will I accept. Lest I deal with you after your folly, for you have not spoken to me the thing which is right as my servant Job. So Eliphaz, the Temanite, Bildad, the Shuhite, and so far the Namathite went and did according as the Lord commanded them. The Lord also accepted Job. I emphasized a certain phrase in there. Did you catch it? Four times, my servant, Job. He didn't just earn that. That phrase was back in the very first chapter when God turned to the devil and said, Have you considered my servant Job? Job remained the servant of God through that whole ordeal God was in fact not angry with him. Furthermore, we find that God tells his three friends, you need to go to Job. You need to go to my priest. You need to take offerings because I will accept him. Folks, that is such a phenomenal statement. Because when God accepts the priest, and when God accepts the offering, God grants the request. When did God accept Job? Before the three friends even came. Job was accepted by God before this whole ordeal even occurred. Therefore, I believe that we have confidence because God says, this is my servant Job. And I have accepted him that you need to go to him And therefore I believe, with biblical warrant, that God did answer Job's intercessory prayers on behalf of his children. If God accepted him before the trial, if God accepted him after the trial, after the 42-question quiz, which he flunked, in his own estimation. If God accepted them all through that, absolutely God accepted his request on behalf of his children. Yes, God would be wrong to not do that. Job is behaving like a priest. He offers prayers and offerings continually. He's called a perfect and upright man. God accepts him. When God accepts the priest, his request is granted. That's proof number one. Because that's what Holy Writ points out. Yes, yes. Number two. The second proof of this solution that Job's children were in fact saved. is the the testimony of Job's ignorant comforters. We just read in verse 427 God's wrath against Elipha as the Temenite. He says, you haven't spoken of me that which is right. Now, some have gone a little too far with that, to say that everything Eliphaz the Temanite said is wrong, but Eliphaz the Temanite said things that are quoted in the book of Hebrews. There are a lot of spiritual truths. In fact, I think the safest way to understand the book of Job is to understand that his three friends had the truth, but they misapplied it to Job. Job, these things are coming upon you because this is what God does to wicked people. You had this come upon you, ergo ipso facto, you or your children are wicked. That's up. That's in a nutshell. what his three friends say. And God says, You haven't spoken that which is right. In other words, God says, no, I have other reasons for doing what I'm doing. It doesn't have to do with that. Job's ignorant comforters, it turns out, and I missed this in all these years, but all three of them condemn his children to hell. For instance, Eliphaz, go back to Job chapter 4. Job chapter 4 and verse 7. I'm going to walk you through each one of them. Job chapter 4, verse 7. This is Eliphaz speaking, the Temenite. He's counseling Job, and he says, Remember, I pray thee, whoever perished being innocent. Or where were the righteous cut off? Now, that's not so subtle speech. Who is it that died in this whole episode, his children? He's saying they're not innocent. God cut them off. They're not innocent. They have been cut off. He's condemning them to hell. They're wicked. God's cut them off. There in hell. Job chapter 5, verse 4. He continues. He seems to want to double down on this point. He says, verse 3, I've seen the foolish taking root. Suddenly I cursed his habitation. His children are far from safety. They're crushed in the gate. Neither is there any to deliver them. Oh my! Ouch! That kind of hurts. There's none to deliver them? Well, none would kind of discount God's deliverance. A life as is condemning his children to hell. Job keenly feels the sting of this horrible explanation for what's gone wrong. And in fact, in chapter 6 and verse 27, he points it out. Job says in 6. 27, yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless. Ye dig a pit for your friend. The pit is a failed reference to hell. You're digging a pit for your friend. Build adds no better. Go to chapter 8 and verse 3. Chapter 8 and verse 3. He says, Job, you're coming back with all this business. Are you saying we should totally turn the whole system of justice upside down? Do we need to spin the planet on your behalf? Verse 3, doth God pervert judgment, or doth the Almighty pervert justice? If thy children have sinned against him, And he, that is God, have cast them away for their transgressions. And he continues. I'm not going to go for the rest of the sentence because I just want to focus on that sentence. He says Your children have sinned against God because God doesn't pervert justice and he has cast them away. Casting away is not a good statement. To be a castaway is to be doomed to hell. That's where his friends, Eliphaz and Bildad, are placing him. Maybe so far it's better. Let's look at Job 20 and verse 4. when he finally appears. Job twenty and verse four. And his input is this in verse 4 through 9. He says, Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon the earth? That the triumphing of the wicked, oh yes, your house is triumphant, the triumphing of the wicked is short. And the joy of the hypocrite That's what you and your family are, hypocrites, but for a moment, though his excellency mount up to the heavens and his head reaches under the cloud, just like you, Job, yet he shall perish forever To perish forever is eternal damnation. Like his own dumb, they which have seen him Shall say, Where is he? He shall fly away as a dream and shall not be found. That's a description of hell. Yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. That's the very same kind of language that you find. In Psalm 73, when Asa moans about his estate. All of these are direct hits on his children. The only one who's vanished from Job's house are his children. Animals are not in view. And God comes along and says in chapter 42 and verse 7. That you have not spoken of me a thing that is right. I assert that one of the things they have not spoken which is right is they're condemning his children to hell, and God says, I haven't done that I've not done that. That's not right for you to conclude that. As it were, Job's children are in heaven. You see If Job's friends are incorrect about his children going to hell, it strongly implies that God had not in fact sent them to hell for any sin. Because unbeknownst to Job's three friends, God was actually placing Job's character on display. To prove to the world, to the devil, and to you and I that Job was a real God-fearing man, a true believer. The death of his children, folks, was Satan's device, not God's. Thus, in order for his friends to be incorrect, all ten children Would have to have been taken to glory before their time, so to speak. And so I believe I can find warrant from God's assessment of what they said against his children. The third point I want to make, and I think this is a strong one, is Job's reward. Go to Job 42 Job's reward. James holds out Job as a comfort which we can obviously see. And The end of Job we read about in the last chapter of Job 42. And I want you to pay close attention to Job 42. 10. We read this. The Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Also, the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. Did you notice that? The Lord gave Job twice as much as what he had before. Alright 2. This is not complicated math here, folks. And then to make sure we understand what 2 times something is, the Author of Holy Writ here goes through and lists it out. You see the camels. He had, excuse me, 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 1,000 yoke of oxen, a thousand she asks us. All of those numbers are doubled. from what you saw in the first chapter. That was twice. Great. And then it continues. Verse 13. He had also seven sons and three daughters. Well that adds up to ten. How is that twice as much? It is twice as much if the other ten are still alive and in heaven. Right. Amen. It is twice as much. That's the only way it can ma it can mathematically work. They're still around. Job's prayers were answered. Maybe not the way he expected, but they were answered. And that would be the only comfort that I could see that Job would have. You know, God had indeed blessed his latter end more than the beginning, for now he has twenty living children, ten on earth and ten in heaven, and that's the only way to do justice to the word twice in 4210. So That's the insight that I had. And if I'm correct about that, and I strongly suspect I am, I have a number of applications for what we've just considered. First is this You know, scriptures will yield her fruit with patience, with faith, either by personal study, meditation, or attendance to hear God's message and God's messenger. Folks, don't Don't let your mind go down the path that says, well, this has got to be wrong. It's not helpful. Don't go down the path of saying, well, there's actually errors in the Bible. No, there's not. You don't want to go down that path. There are conundrums in the Bible. There are some real head-twisting things and things that come to us as backwards, because frankly From the world's perspective, the way up is actually down, is how scripture presents it. You've got to come down, you've got to be abased, to be exalted. It presents a very different view But don't ascribe error to scriptures. Don't let your mind go there. You may not understand it in a year. You may do all the study. The commentaries may fail. Meditate. Think about it. And you may say, Lord, I don't understand this. I don't get it. But wait. We sang a song this morning that talks about the hidden treasures of Scripture. Indeed, they're hidden. You have to search for them like gold. Number two Though believing parents have a good hope for their children, yet they must faithfully pray for their souls. And I address this point to the men. It was primarily Job who was noted as daily beseeching the Lord in prayer, not in life. All too often I have found in too many spiritual households that it's the woman who is the more spiritually minded. It needs to be the man. If the man is not diligent in spiritual things in his house, if he's not watching over his home, the devil's looking. He's looking for an inroad. He's looking to put a little voice in the ear And the men need to be there, and they need to be praying, and they need to be diligent and faithful in prayer for their household. Third application. God answers our prayers. But give him room to answer it very differently than you might imagine. You can't dictate to God how he will answer it. He's God. He's got a lot of tools In his shed, and he can answer them in very interesting ways. All of them are designed to cause you and I to glorify his name and marvel at what he does. Fourth point, for every stroke of the rod he heals with double the blessing. Hosea 6 says this, come, let us return unto the Lord, for he hath torn and he will heal us. He has smitten, and he will bind us up. Saints, there are some times that you will find your life is in such a conundrum. Such a quandary, such a a messed up situation. You're looking for answers And you you'd play out this option and you open up the doors and uh this door's got barbed wires and uh like you open up this door, this answer or this has got fire, uh it's not an answer in there. You open up this door and you got a bunch of rats. and other stuff coming out of it. I don't like any of these answers. None of them are helping. That kind of has the fingerprint of a divinely ordained trial God knows how to box you in. He's got a pretty good way of boxing us in because he's teaching us something. You know you're going to live forever, right, as a Christian? You're really not going to die. This is all just a passing vanity. This is just a brief season of pain That little bit of pain you're feeling right now, without drugs, it's going to be a lot worse than hell for an eternity with no relief, no doctors, no narcotics, and God Himself and the angels dishing out the pain. That little bit you feel now just really ain't that big of a deal, all things compared. God's teaching us. And the fifth point is this. I'm going to preempt the question that inevitably will come up, and that is the death of infants. I am not untouched with the sadness of the death of infants. One of the most difficult sermons I've ever preached was at my wife's best friend's newborn baby boy's funeral. It's rough standing there in front of a casket that's this big. You can't put much in a casket that's 18 inches long. What do you say? There's a grieving mother, she's just trying to recover from childbirth The umbilical cord was too fragile and fell apart and the child choked and died. She had to go through the whole delivery to have a stillborn infant. Beautiful child. Beautiful, beautiful baby boy. The Westminster Confession of Faith and The canons of Dort both address the very challenging question of the fate of infants who die. And I'm going to give you a brief breakdown of what they say because I believe both are very helpful and instructive to Christians. Who have lost infants in childbirth. Chapter 10, paragraph 3 of the Westminster Confession states this: elect infants dying in infancy are regenerated. and saved by Christ through the Spirit, who worketh when and where and how he pleaseth So also are all other elect persons who are incapable of being outwardly called by the ministry of the word. And I like those key points, and I think that's very well stated. It specifically uses the term elect infants, indicating the salvation of these infants of which we speak is tied to God's eternal decree of election It does not explicitly state that all infants who die are saved, but rather focuses on those who are elect. It gets into how. They have to be regenerated. They have to be saved by Christ the Spirit. There's not two separate plans of salvation for different categories of people. The words of Jesus remain true. You've got to be born again. There's got to be a second birth. That's just got to happen. And regenerated they are. We know of Jeremiah, who was saved in the womb. God can save an infant in the womb. He doesn't need a preacher. He can do that. And it affirms that they are indeed regenerate and saved, and it's accomplished by Christ, the work of the Spirit. And it emphasizes the sovereignty of the Spirit who worketh how, when, and where he pleases. God's method of regeneration is not limited to outward means like hearing the preached word in these cases, but it's also Doesn't mean that parents can't cite scriptures, sing to them when they're in the womb, in hopes that that word will begin to affect it. Oh, but they don't understand. There's plenty of unsaved ministers in the pulpit who don't understand either. Mental capacity is not what's needed, regeneration is. And so I like the fact that it includes others who are incapable of an outward call. That implies those with severe mental incapacities That as a consistent application of the sovereign grace of God for those who can't demonstrate the fruit of the new birth, a young child can become saved, may die. What does faith look like in a five-year-old? I don't expect them to be theologians. I don't expect them to explain the depths and the glories of Apostle Paul. Well, what does that look like? God knows. There's got to be some fruit, as small as it might be. But if God accepts it, who am I to say no? Judge nothing before the time. Canons of Dort first had Article 17, and I'll close with this point. It does focus here on the comfort and the assurance of believing parents regarding their children who die in infancy. First head article 17 says this. Since we are to judge the will of God from his word, which testifies that the believer, that the children of believers are holy, not by nature. But in virtue of God's gracious covenant, in which they, together with the parents, are comprehended, godly parents ought not to doubt The election and salvation of their children, whom it pleases God to call out of this life in their infancy. It emphasizes the understanding of what God's will is has to come from his word. God's not Santa Claus Uh God doesn't have two separate plans of salvation where the age of accountability kicks in at infancy twelve, age thirteen, pretty soon they'll move it up to age of accountability, age twenty-six. That's ridiculous. But it's pointing out that the children of believers are holy not by their nature, but in virtue of the gracious covenant. You get that from 1 Corinthians 7. 14. Where you have one believing spouse, one unbelieving, it says the children are sanctified. That is a positional statement with respect to the covenant of God. They have an interest in it. They have an inclusion in it, and there is a special relationship with God and His promises. I love the comfort that it gives that godly parents ought not to doubt That's a crucial point. So a lot of pastoral comfort there. You can hang on to that. You can say that for godly parents, this is not to unbelieving parents, but godly parents, like a job who's praying, diligently seeking God's will, they ought not to doubt. They can look and get comfort from Job and say, yes, God can in fact save that child. And I have good assurances that they are That's a strong statement of assurance. And the basis is the covenant of grace. Well, though neither document explicitly declares All infants are saved, they provide strong reason for hope and comfort for believing parents. 1 Thessalonians 4. 14 says this: if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus. will God bring with him. God brings with him those who sleep in Jesus. They've got to be in Jesus. And in Jesus those are. So that's my meditation. I was excited to share it with you because it resolved a long-standing issue for me. And I pray in trust and hope that that would be a special blessing to you. Join me in closing prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, Lord there are faithful sheep, both abroad and in our midst. Who, like Job, suffer deep affliction. Please heal their hearts. Please comfort them with thy testimony of thy servant Job Though they be confused as to why such calamities have overwhelmed them and may even feel as though you've abandoned them, please grant their faith would fail not. Enlighten their minds to learn more of Christ from these perils, to agree with the Apostle Paul, who prayed that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death, O Father. Let us know of Christ's pain that we may fully partake of His resurrection, His glory, His kingdom, even as you rewarded Job with a rich token of many blessings yet to come. Thank you, Father, that your word fails not, even when we do. Thank you that you never forget your covenant, even when we do. Thank you for the fruits of the Spirit which strengthen And establish thy people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you, brother, for the word this morning. Turn with me in your hymn books, please, to number 551-551. And let us stand together as we sing hiding in thee, number 551 in the Trinity Hymnal 551. It's to the night. I soul in its conflicts and star. Or said we could I be doubtful. As well, I'm in me, I All of the instructors for now in times when temptation has all For me is high in the temphead of life, or it's why he things be have I can In the conflict when pressed by the foe have I fled to my reputation and freedom. Out by woe I want them with trials like sea. Have I You may be seated. Think