Your Bible's with me again this morning to Psalm eighty, the eightieth Psalm. I uh had not intended or set out, I guess is the better way to to put it, to do a long series in the 80th Psalm. I was anticipating one message. And uh it became very clear the Sunday morning that I was going to preach the first message from Psalm 80 that it would have to be at least two And then it became clear that it would be three. And this will be our last message from Psalm 80 for now. But I definitely do want to come back at a later date and do more with the vine. We're going to touch on the vine a bit today. I believe we'll take a break from this psalm for a few weeks, and we're looking forward to celebrating Thanksgiving together. And we'll be considering something from Scripture more on that theme very soon. But I'm going to read the entirety of Psalm 80 again as we Consider it this morning. Psalm 80 beginning in verse 1. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up thy strength, and come and save us. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Thou feedest them with bread of tears, and givest them tears to drink in great measure. Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine And we shall be saved. Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt. Thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it Thou preparest room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered with the shadow of it And the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars. She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river. Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they that pass by the way do pluck her The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beasts of the field doth devour it. Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven and behold and visit this vine, the vine which thy right hand has planted, and the branch which thou madeest strong for thyself. It is burned with fire. It is cut down. They perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the Son of Man whom thou madeest strong for thyself. So will we so will we not go back from thee. Quicken us. And we will call upon thy name. Turn us again, O Lord, God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall Let us bow for prayer, beseeching God to open his word to our understanding. Today. Heavenly Father, we thank you that the book before us is the very inspired and preserved Word of God. We thank you that it is authoritative. We thank you, Lord, that it is yea and amen. Father, we find in your word that the natural man, that is the man outside of Christ, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them. Because they're spiritually discerned. And yet, Father, we do not come to your word this morning as natural men, but we come as supernatural men. We come as those who have been arrested by grace and transformed and made into new creatures. And yet even so, Lord, we realize that we do not understand your word by what some commentator has said about us We do not understand your word because of our own human intellect. We do not understand your word because we are just smarter than someone else Father, the only way that we will receive edification and blessing and understanding in your word today is if your Holy Spirit, the Comforter, is our guide and our instructor And so, Father, as we gather around your word today, I pray that you would protect this congregation gathered from my human frailties. Protect them from Father, we pray today that your Spirit would guide my thoughts and my lips as I expound them From your word, and if your spirit would work and move in each heart, that we might be corrected by thee. Lord, this passage is a passage of prayer and repentance It is a passage in which your people cry out to be turned again to you. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This psalm is indeed a prayer. And uh It is interesting and a blessing to look at the various requests that we find in the Psalm. In verse 1, there is the request that God would give ear and that he would shine forth. In verse 2, the request, stir up thy strength and come and save us. In verse 3, turn us again, O God, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Verse 7: Turn us again, O God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Verse 14, return. We beseech thee, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven. And behold, and visit the vine. Verse 17, let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand. In other words, may Jehovah's hand be upon the Messiah, upon Christ, who is the man of God's right hand, for our benefit. And then verse 19, turn us again, O Lord, God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. And the thing that strikes us immediately is that repetition in verses 3, 7, and 19 of this call to God Turn us again, O God, cause thy face to shine and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O God of hosts, cause thy face to shine and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O L In other words, Jehovah, Elohim of the hosts, Elohim of the armies, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. And we notice that the passage does not say, Lord, cause us to turn. It doesn't say, Lord, help me to turn, but rather it says, God, turn me. Turn us again. For if God does not turn us, we will not be turned. Turn. Uh people talk about turning over a new leaf. God doesn't call us to turn over a new leaf. God takes us all and makes us all a paw. And yet, as we observed a few weeks ago, it is turn us again. This passage is written to those who have once been turned, and it is not that they have lost their salvation, that phrase, and we shall be saved, is not talking about regeneration Rather, that word saved is a word which means delivered. For we God's people, though we have been turned to God, we live in bodies of flesh. And as Paul said, I die daily. And so As Christians, as believers, as the redeemed, as the elect living in this world, we are constantly subject to the influences of this world, to the weaknesses of our own faith, to the weaknesses of our own devotion, to our own failing in the study of God's Word, to our own failing in prayer, we are subject to turning. away. And so God has to take the dial of our lives and turn us back again to center. And that is what this prayer is for. Turn us again, O God. Turn us again, oh Lord God. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, and we shall be saved. We shall be delivered from our failings. We shall be delivered from our wandering. And uh three weeks ago we sang that hymn, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and seal it. You see, there has been one perfect man, the man, Christ Jesus. Adam was created in perfection But he said he fell from his perfection in sin. And so the day will come, hallelujah, when I will be perfect in righteousness. But that day won't come while this heart beats. That day will not come while I am in this flesh. And yet it is incumbent upon the believer to daily be returned back to Christ. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. What? Shall we continue in sin? Because we're not under the law, we're under grace. God forbid. God forbid We are called to live in righteousness. We are called to live in holiness. My background theologically is with the Methodists and with the what we we refer to as the Whitfield Methodists, the the Reformed Methodist faith. The name Methodist Was given to the Whitfield and the Wesleys as a name of derision. They are Methodists. They're methodical in their life. And they were accused of thinking they were holier than other people because they had a club called the Holy Club. They were accused of thinking they were holier than others because they were so rigid in their lives. And it wasn't that they thought they were holier than others they realized that they were of all men most miserable. They realized that they were wicked. Redeemed, but living in flesh. And so it was a group of young men who cried out to God, God Make us methodical in our lives for you. Make us holy. And that should be the heartbeat of every believer, O God. I am redeemed. I am your child. And I know that in Christ I stand, in the righteousness of Christ. And yet, Lord, daily I say with Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death, turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. Paul's I face to shame And we shall be saved. Deliver me from the daily filth of this world that I so easily easily accumulate to myself. And I mentioned last week that this this cry reminds me of the cry of Daniel. In Daniel 9, verses 18 and 19, O my God, incline thy ear and hear. Open thine eyes and behold our desolation. In the city which is called by thy name, for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great mercies. O Lord God, hear O Lord, forgive. O Lord, hearken and do. Do not defer not for thine own sake, O my God. For the city and the people are We do not present ourselves before God for our righteousness' sake. But rather we present ourselves ourselves before God and we call upon for His mercy sake and for the righteousness of Christ. Now this morning I want to take a little bit of a different approach to this passage. And I'm trying not to be redundant because we've we've covered the first part well where the cry is to the shepherd of Israel. We've talked about the fact that that Joseph is mentioned as opposed to Israel, which is the typical way that uh these type passages are addressed. And Ephraim of Manasseh. We dealt with verse 3, turns to Yeno God of coasts. And we talked about that word shining forth and that word saved. But this morning what I would like us to do is consider the graciousness of God in answering this prayer. We find four judgments in this passage. We find four elements in which the people of God are in great distress. And yet, my friends, the judgment of God to the believer is mercy. The judgment of God to the child of God is not in wrath, it is mercy. We do not discipline our children because we ate them. We discipline our children because we love them. God pours wrath upon his enemies. Because God is angry with the wicked every day, and he hates iniquity. But God will sometimes pour his wrath and his displeasure on his own children. In order that we might be returned again to him and be saved. And so I would like us to look at these four judgments, and yet I've entitled them the gracious means that God uses to turn us again. And the first one is actually found in verse 4 of this Psalm. O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Well that seems totally opposite, doesn't it? God should rejoice in our prayer. And we read in Revelation that the prayers of the saints rise up with the incense. And the prayers of God's people is a sweet savor to God. Our prayers should be God's delight. But here we find God is angry with our prayers. And yet that is itself a great mercy. What does it mean that God is angry with our prayers? Well, that word angry that we find there in verse 4 literally is the word to smoke. God smokes against our prayer. It's the same word that was used when there was the smoke on the mountain, when the law was given. And that's why I make the reference to incense, because our prayers are to be that sweet smoke, and yet God smokes against our prayers. God is angry with the prayers of his people. Why would God be angry with our prayers? Well Lost my place in my notes here, but I'll find it. Gotten ahead of myself. Okay. The true child of God will be chastened. The true child of God will be disciplined. Let's touch on that first, and then we'll come back to where to where it was. In Hebrews chapter 12 And verses 6 and 8, very familiar verses, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chasting, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, Ye are where of all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. And that passage in Hebrews 12 we saw back several weeks ago actually comes from Deuteronomy chapter 8 which was the chapter where God had talked, where they're reminded of how God delivered them from Egypt and he humbled them in the wilderness. And he proved them. And so God will discipline the two true child of God, and the true child of God will cry out for mercy. Remember David, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. I'm sure all of us know people who live in gross iniquity You might work with them, you might live beside them, and they never seem to have any ounce of conviction. They can do whatever they want to do without any conviction But the true child of God will be convicted. And that conviction is itself a mercy. That conviction is itself. God's blessing. And so when God is angry against the prayers of his people, when God will not hear his people's prayer, It's a mercy. Have you ever prayed and felt like your prayers were bouncing off the ceiling? Isn't that a feeling that is not comfortable? That is frustrating? And how we want to cry out, where are you, God? And yet that is the time when we most need to cry out, where are you, God? And it's not that God has left us, but like the child in the grocery store that wanders around the aisle and suddenly can't see mommy and now is fearful, the child starts looking And it's not that the mother has abandoned the child, but the child has wandered and needs to return. And so when God smokes against our prayer When God is angry with the prayer of his people, it is a great mercy. And so why are the reasons God will be angry against our prayer? Well, first of all. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. You see, it is very easy for us to have our little pet sin in our little corner. that is more important to us than our fellowship with God. That We try to excuse, well, it's you know it's just a little thing. It doesn't really matter. God doesn't care about that. You know, I know a lot of other Christians that do that Well, you know, this is not no, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me And as we grow in the Lord and become more sensitive to truth, there may be things that another brother can do that you can't do anymore. And it's not that you're more holy than him or more wise than him, but just The Spirit of God is working in your heart on something. And so we need to be very sensitive. God will be angry with our sin. God will be angry with our prayers, I'm sorry, if we are holding sin. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. But then God is also angry with unthoughtful. prayers. Have you ever been praying? Don't raise your hand Because I'm sure we all have been praying and suddenly realize you're still quote-unquote praying, but your mind is a million miles away. You've drifted off. And your y half of your brain is repeating what your brain has repeated before, and your heart is saying nothing, and the other half of your brain is off someplace. Prayers that are not thought. Prayers that are not from the heart. And the example I would give you of that is Matthew chapter 20 in verse 21. Where James, the mother of James and John, comes to Jesus and she she says, When you come in your kingdom, can my son send on your right hand and your left hand? And Christ rebukes her for it. What are you asking for? It's an unthoughtful prayer. It's a prayer that has no meaning and no purpose. And this can go into to many areas. It can go into prayers that are minds wandering and prayers about nonsense. Oh, Lord, help help the ravens to win today. But there are people that pray these things. Is the God of heaven impressed? With a group of men and eighty thousand people that that abuse his Sabbath? No, those are not things for him. It's thoughtless Prayers. It's prayers. God's angry with that kind of prayers in his people. And then repetitious prayers. Christ told us in Matthew 6. 6 not to pray with vain repetition. God is angry with proud prayers. Luke 18, verse 11, I thank God that I'm not as other men. I fast thrice in the week, I'm not as this Publican. God will smoke against those prayers. God is angry with drifting prayers. Matthew twenty-six forty. What? Could you not watch with me? one hour. Do you ever fall asleep in prayer meeting? Um when I was in college we had a prayer room set aside in the dormitory. And it was sadly not uncommon to go down to the prayer meeting or early in the morning and there'd be somebody over in the corner just just snoring away. Just solid lumber. I fell asleep in prayer, and yet how susceptible we are. But Christ is was was not pleased with the disciples, and he's not pleased with those. Prayers not for his glory, ye ask not, ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss that you might consume it upon your own life. James 4, verse 3. And so when God does not answer our prayers because our prayers are not right, or because our heart is not right God is withdrawing that blessing. God is disciplining his children. And yes, it's a great mercy. Because if God just answered every prayer, regardless of our heart, regardless of our attitude regardless of our service, regardless of our lifestyle, would we not become like the spoiled brat? Doesn't matter if he sasses his mother, he gets whatever he wants. Doesn't matter if he's obedient or disobedient. He gets whatever he wants. Doesn't matter if he does his chores, he gets whatever he wants. And the child grows up a spoiled brat without discipline. And I tell you, my friends, without law Because every son that he loves, he disciplines. And so the first great mercy that we find here is that it is a great mercy that God Will be angry against the prayers of his people. Because you see, if God was not angry against the prayers of his people, the psalmist would have not cried out, How long, O Lord, will you be angry angry against the prayers of your people. That prayer would never be prayed if God was not angry. his people. And yet the heart of the Psalm is, Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, and we shall be saved. And so the first great mercy that God uses, the first gracious mean that God uses to turn his people is that God will be angry against the prayers of his people. And the second mercy that we find that God uses to turn his people is in verse 5. Thou feedest them with the bread of tears. And give us them tears to drink in great measure. Have you ever tasted your tears? I think most of us have. Have you ever wept until the tears are running down your cheeks and they run into the corners of your mouth? Weeping before God? Weeping over circumstances? Weeping for whatever reason. Tears are salty, they're briny, they have a bitter taste to them, they're bitter to the soul. God sometimes has to feed his people with tears. You know, if everything we ever faced were the bed of roses that some people expect We wouldn't cry out to God. We wouldn't seek his face. Do you pray more when things are going good or when things are going bad? Do you pray more when you're in health or in sickness? You see, God sometimes has to feed his people with tears. If everything was easy, we would not have caused to cry out to God. We would begin to trust in ourselves. We would begin to have confidence in ourselves. And we would say, look at all the things I have done. This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater. But you see, we drift constantly And so three times the psalmist cries out to be turned, God feeds his people with adversity at times That we might be turned. Just as the athlete does not walk onto the track and run the hundred meters faster than anyone else Running for the first time. But rather his muscles and his lungs have been put through the pain and the adversity. His heart has raced as he has trained and prepared and been strengthened. And when the day of the race comes, he's swift. He's strong. He's able for the battle. And it is the same with our Christian life. Because if that dial is to be turned to where it should be, God sometimes has to train us with adversity. God has to train us with pain and suffering. Yea, he even feeds us. with tears. Turn with me back a few pages in your Bibles to Psalm 42 Psalm 42. And this is a well-known psalm and a psalm that has been written into a chorus that the young people sing in a very apt and scriptural chorus. But Psalm 142 and the first three verses, as the heart, or as the deer, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? Now, why does the heart pant after the water brooks? Because he's been standing in a calm meadow? Because everything has been comfortable and well? No, the heart, the deer, pants for the water brooks when he's been running. When the wolves have been on his heels, when the hunter has pursued, when it has not been a time of peace and comfort, but rather a time of great fleeing. O Lord, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, but the deer does not pant, unless the deer is running. And here, what the psalmist is saying is my heart's panting for you. I'm in trouble, Lord, and I flee to you. I pant for you just as the deer pants for the water brooks. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. My tears have been my meat day and night. I've been Feeding on tears. I've been in trouble. I'm in difficulty. But God uses the tears of his people to cause us to return. And I would point out to you further But it doesn't just say tears, it says tears in great measure. Look at the last word there, verse five. Thou feedest them with tears. Now give us some tears to drink in great measure. And here it have us to turn to Psalm 134 or 37. Psalm 137 finds the children of Israel in Babylon in captivity because of their sin, because of their unfaithfulness to God. They are in captivity. And there in Psalm 137 and the first verse, by the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down. Yea, we wept. When we remembered Zion. We hanged up our hearts upon the willows in the midst thereof. For there they that carried us away required of us a song And they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing unto us one of the songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? Here are the children of Israel. Because they failed to be turned. Because of their rebellion, they have been sent into Babylon. They are in captivity. And there the enemies of God, the Babylonians, are being used for the judgment of Israel. And there finally they say, how can we How can we lift up our voices? Yay! We're being fed with tears. We sat down by the rivers of Babylon and wept Wept and wept because we knew the judgment of God And yet we find the glorious promise, the glorious truth, that God will forgive. He will not always chive Neither will he keep his chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. His anger endureth for a moment, but his favor a life. Weeping may endure for a night Psalm 30, verse 5. But joy cometh in the morning. Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth iniquity and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of thy heritage? Because he delights in mercy, he will turn again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities, and thou wilt cast all their sins into the death. Of the sea, who is a God like unto thee? And so we find that God will feed his people with great adversities, with tears in great measure. But that too is a mercy, because those tears are sometimes God's means of turning his people. Back to him. We find in those verses also a hint of the next thing that we're going to look at Because there in Psalm 142, the last part of verse 3, we find that the wicked are saying to God's people, Where's your God? Why has God forsaken you? The Babylonians that required of Israel a song when they hanged up their harps on the trees, sing us one of your happy songs Where's your God? You know what? Sometimes in trials, God's people start to say the same thing. Where is God in the midst of all this? Oh, he has not left me, but I have left him. And so the third thing that we find that God uses to turn his people is that God Will make his people a strife unto their enemies. Look at verse 6. Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. God will sometimes use the mocking of those around us. God will remove our peace from us. Remember Lot, just Lot and Sodom. He was at peace with those around him He was living comfortably in a wicked city until the angels came. And the angels Angels are now in his house and the people, the men are banging at his door, let us in, let us in, let us have them. You're a visitor here. You came to dwell among us. And instantly he became a strife to his neighbors. And yet it was all in God's mercy to deliver just Lot, to drag him out of the city. You see, sometimes God may make us a strike to our neighbors. God may make us a mockery to those around us. That he might turn Turn us to himself. The verse I mentioned earlier there in Psalm 142, verse 3, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they say continually unto me, Where is your God? Where is thy God? He trusted in God. Let him deliver him if God will have him, they said of Christ. Was Christ forsaken of God? Well, Christ was the only one forsaken of God. But Christ was forsaken of God that we might be turned. He will never leave us or forsake us. He's always there. But God God makes us a reproach for enemies. And Psalm 102, verses 8 and 9, mine enemies reproach me all the day. And they that are mad against me are sworn against me, for I have eaten ashes like bread and mingled my drink with weeping. Because of thine indignation and thy wrath, for thou hast lifted me up, and thou hast cast me down. And God had warned God had warned Israel of this danger of turning. Turn over with me to 1 Kings chapter 9. In 1 Kings chapter 9, we have the dedication of the temple. And there's a warning here that God's people would become a reproach, that they'd be mocked by those around them. If they turn from following God. First Kings chapter 9, verse 6. Again, the the context here, we won't read the whole c whole chapter, of course, but the context is the dedication of the temple and the the warning there. Verse 6 of 1 Kings 9, but if ye at all turn from following me, ye or your children, and will not obey my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you but go and serve other gods and worship them, then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given unto them, and this house, that is the temple Which I have hallowed for my name, will I cast out of myself, and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all people. You'll be a mockery. You'll be a proverb. Huh. There's another church that closed down. There's another one that's split wide open. Look at that. Look at God's people. That God uses these things to purify his people, to turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. Excuse me. But there's one more that I'd like us to look here at briefly. Look at verse twelve. Of chapter 80 or Psalm 80. Psalm 80 and verse 12. Why hast thou broken down her hedges? So that all they which pass by the way do pluck her. Why have you broken down the hedges? Remember when Satan came to the presence of God, and God says to Satan Have you seen my servant Job? And Satan says, Does he love you for naught? Thou hast hedged him about And often when we're praying for the work of God, we pray, Lord, set a hedge about us, protect us. He giveth his angels charge over his people. He gave his angels charge over Christ, lest he dash his foot against a stone. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him. There is a hedge of protection. But because of our sin, because of our Disobedience. Because of our lack of devotion, God will sometimes break down the hedge until the day when we cry, turn us again. O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. That is a great mercy. It is a judgment, yes. But it is a mercy that God breaks down the hedge because if he never breaks down the hedge, we become complacent. And we don't cry out to him. But look what it says there. Why hast thou broken down her hedges, so that they which pass by the way do pluck at her? And in verse thirteen The boar out of the woods doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it. What are we called to do as believers? Go and bring forth fruit. We're going to bring forth fruit. What was the purpose of the hedge? Well, it was to protect the vineyard. But here when the hedge is broken down, those that walk by, they plug out the They can't get the fruit before it's ripe and it's no good. They cast it away. The boar out of the woods, it comes and steals the fruit. You see, we are to bring forth fruit to God. And God hedges us about that we might bring forth fruit. But when God's people turn from him and need to be returned, he will at times break down the hedges. And we become unfruitful to him. But the purpose is always mercy, that we might cry out to him And so we come to verse seven, which is the second time that we find this this this prayer. And it says, Turn us again, O God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And then go down to verse 17. Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, and upon the Son of Man whom thou madeest strong for thyself. How is it that we are to be turned Well, we are turned again to God because Christ has borne our iniquity. If he had not borne our iniquity, there would be no turn. But here the prayer is, let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand. And in the first instance, it's referring most likely to David in the flesh. But here is a clear picture of Christ, who is the man made strong on behalf of God the Father. And it says upon the Son of Man whom thou madeest strong for thyself. Did you realize that the Son of Man is the most frequently titled given to Christ? Seventy-one times in our world Christ is referred to as the Son of Man. And also the Son of Man is the most frequent requ uh appellation or name that Christ applies to himself. He calls himself the Son of Man. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. Let thy hand be upon Christ. and upon the Son of Man, for he has borne our iniquities, and it's because of him that we wandering children can be turned Again. And when God the Father is blessing us through the hand of Christ, and we are turned again, verse 18, so will we not go back from thee Do I discipline my son that he not be my son anymore? Do I discipline him to drive him from me? No, I discipline him to draw him to me. And when God is angry against our prayers, and when God feeds us with tears, and when God makes us a reproach to those around us And when God breaks down the hedges, those things do not drive us from him, but they drive us to him. You see, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And so we will not go back from thee. We cannot be lost. That's another one of the reasons that that saved is not referring to redemption, but rather deliverance from evil. We will not go back from thee. Quicken us, make us alive. And we will call upon thy name. You see, this prayer that talks about God being angry with our prayers, angry against our prayers, includes a prayer that God's not angry against. And that prayer is, turn us again, O God. Turn us again, O Lord God, turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And we And so the middle portion of this psalm, which talks about these four judgments, yes, they are judgments Judgments indeed. But oh, what great mercy is found in the judgments of God, because God uses gracious means to turn us again. To refine us, to make us what I ought to be. Hallelujah, what a savior. Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth? Iniquity. Let us stand for prayer. Gracious God, we thank you that you are a merciful God, that you are a loving Father. And Lord, sometimes you put us through the hardest of adversities. We can look back and see great, great times of difficulty. And though not every difficulty is a judgment for sin, certainly not. And yet, Lord, you use times of great difficulty and times of great trials, whether they be for sin or simply for your will, Lord, you are a gracious God and you use all these things to refine us, to make us us more like Christ to turn us again to you. O Lord, let us not wander, but Father, keep us close to Thee. Do your perfect work within us. Mold us to the image of Christ. And use us for your glory, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.