Open your Bibles with me this morning, please, to Deuteronomy chapter 8. The hymns that we sang this morning and the responsive reading that we had uh all were designed To direct us to this eighth chapter of Deuteronomy. And that is the way our singing should be. We sing unto the Lord. And we pray unto the Lord, and yet uh everything we do in our service from the beginning to the end should all funnel into God's glory, funnel into God's glory, and into the Word of God God. It should prepare our hearts to seek the Lord. So I'm going to read this eighth chapter of Deuteronomy, and then I'm excited to preach this morning Uh glorious passage and I pray that that you will get a little bit of blessing from this chapter that has been divine heart. Deuteronomy 8, verse 1. All the commandments which I command thee this day, ye shall observe to do. That ye may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swear unto your fathers. And thou shalt remember all the way in which the Lord thy God led thee forty years in the wilderness to humble thee. And to prove thee, and to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no. And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know that ye that he might make thee to know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God doth man live Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee. Neither did thy foot swell these forty years. Thou shalt also consider in thine heart that as a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord thy God chasteneth thee. Therefore, thou shalt keep the commandment of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains, and depths that spring out of the valleys and hills. A land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of oil, olive, and honey, a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness Thou shalt not lack anything in it, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass. When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which he hath given thee. Beware! Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God, in not keeping his commandments and his judgments and his statutes. which I command thee this day, lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses and dwelt therein And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied. Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of thy bondage, who led thee, who led thee through that great and terrible wilderness, wherein were fiery serpents And scorpions and drought, where there was no water, who broughtest thee forth water out of the rock of flint Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, that he might prove thee. To do thee good at thy latter end. And now say in thine heart, my power And the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God. For it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant, which he swear unto thy fathers as it is this day. And it shall be if thou shalt, if thou do at all forget the Lord thy God, and walk after other gods, and serve them and worship them, I testify against you this day. that ye shall surely perish. As the nations with the Lord destroyed before your face, so shall ye perish, because ye would not be obedient under the voice of God. The Lord your God. Great Father. Lord God, your word is sharp and powerful It is sharper than any two-edged sword. Lord, we thank you for your word. This day may it pierce the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joint May your word have great effect in our hearts. May we be transformed, cleansed, and purified through your word today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Keep your Bibles open there. Because I want to go back through the chapter again. I'm not going to read it again. But I want to highlight certain words. First of all, notice in this glorious chapter the words of obligation. Or the action words. Verse 1. I command you this day, these commandments which I command you this day, ye shall observe Verse one, observe. Verse two, thou shalt remember. Verse five, thou shalt also consider. Verse 6, thou shalt keep, thou shalt walk, and fear. Verse 11, beware. Verse 18. Thou shalt remember. All of these words place responsibilities and obligations on the people. Consider this. Remember this. Take heed. Walk. Remember, be careful. But then notice also the words of commandment in this chapter. Verse 1, all the commandments. Verse 2, the last part, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments. Or no. Verse 3, that thou might know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Verse 6, therefore thou shalt keep the commandments Verse 11, beware that you forget not the Lord in not keeping his commandments. The word of God, the commandments of God are throughout this chapter. They are prevalent, they are prominent. And so we see first of all words of obligation to man, his obligation to God, but then words of God Himself, His commandments But then notice also the words of humility in this chapter. Look at verse 2. The Lord led thee these forty years to humble thee. Verse 3, and he humbled thee. Verse number 14, let not thine heart be lifted up, which is the opposite of humility. Verse 17, let thou say in thy heart, My power and my might, the might of my hand. hath gotten me this wealth. Humility before God. The man who is disobedient to God, the man who fails in the obligations word The man who fails to keep God's commandment, what is it? It is pride. Pride goeth before a fall and a haughty look before destruction. God resisteth the proud. Giveth grace to the humble. What was the first failing before the righteousness of God? It was that of Lucifer, who said, I will be like God. He failed in pride. And what was it with which he tempted Adam and Eve? You will be like God And why is it that we fail to humble ourselves before God? Because we're proud creatures. It has sinned. But then a fourth theme that we find in these 20 verses is the theme of our Father. Look at verse 1 again. The last part, and go in and possess the land which the Lord thy God swear to your fathers. Look at verse 3. Which thou knewest not, the manner which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers. Look at verse 5. As a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord chasteneth thee. Look at verse sixteen, who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not. Verse 18, the covenant which I swear unto thy fathers at as it is. This day. We're not talking about orphans. We're not talking about the fatherless. We're not talking about bastards. That's right. We're not talking about those that are of illegitimate birth. But rather, these glorious promises are to the children of God. Right. And so glorious words that are repeated over and over again in this Now, we read for our responsive reading from Psalm 73. Psalm 73 is the Psalm of Aseth. And there in verses 3 through 5, Aseth says, For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked, there are no bands in their death. But their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men. Neither are they plagued as other men. As Brother Vince rightly pointed out, that psalm is a sermon in itself. It doesn't need a preacher to expound it. It preaches itself Last week we considered the twenty-second Psalm where David in the voice of Christ said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We all face trouble, we all face trials, and it is our human nature to say why. God Why did that happen? Why did it happen this way? And you know what that is? It's pride. It is a failure to obey the commandments. It is a failure to keep these action words. Beware, consider, remember. And it's rebellion against our Father. It is common in our world to hear the phrase: why do bad things happen to good people? There's none righteous, no not one. There's none that seeketh after God. There is none that doeth good, no not one. The question itself is ridiculous. Because there are no good people for bad things to happen. There are no good people. Why do bad things happen to good people? No, no, no, no, no. Why does a good thing ever happen to us bad people? For by grace are you saved through faith in that knot of yourselves it, the very faith by which we're saved, is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast which is the opposite of humility. See the last And so here we find the children of Israel in the first Four chapters of Deuteronomy, Moses recounts the various locations they traveled through in the wilderness. In chapter 5, the law is reinstated once again. And in chapter 6 and 7, there are some warnings, and then we come to chapter 8, and God doesn't leave them to wonder why they had trouble. God doesn't lead them to wonder why they wandered in the wilderness. Rather, we read there in the first three verses of this chapter All the commandments which I command thee this day, thou shalt observe to do, that they might mayest live and multiply and go in and possess the land which I swear to thy fathers And thou shalt remember all the way in which the Lord thy God led thee in these forty years in the wilderness, and then he tells them exactly why he did it. To humble thee. To prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no Here's the answer. Why do we have troubles? Why do we face affliction? Because God is one of us Working on us. Because God's at work in our lives. And God has to humble us. God has to prove us. God has to know what is in our heart, whether we're going to keep his commandments or no. And so we have the glorious promises of God. We know that He is true. We know that in Him all the promises are yea and amen. And yet how often are faith grows weak. Look with me closely at verse 1 now as we go into an exposition of the passage. All the commandments which I command you this day, ye shall observe to do. God requires of his people to keep his commandments. Why? Why did the children of Israel in the first instance wander in the wilderness? God said, go in and conquer the land. They said, but there's giants in the land. God said, go in and conquer the land everywhere that Moses, or everywhere that Abraham's foot has been, I'm going to give it to you. They didn't believe. They didn't believe. That disobeyed his commandments. But look at the blessings that God has for them. In verse 1. All the commandments which I command you this day, ye shall observe to do that ye may live. And multiply, and go in, and possess the land which the Lord swear unto thy fathers, that ye may live. What happened To the parents of all these people. They died. Now, Moses, you've got three people surviving: Joshua, Caleb, and Moses. Aaron's dead. They all died in the wilderness. Moses himself isn't going to get to go in because of his own disobedience. Look, folks, the generation before you is dead. Now you go in. You observe the commandments. You obey that you may live. Because your fathers are dead. And then you may multi multiply. What is it to multiply? Well, it's the people that It's to be blessed. We're going to see the the warning later on. When your flocks multiply, you say, Well, my hand did this. When you dwell in houses that that you say, Well, look, my might, my power has done this. But God says, you'll live, you'll multiply, you'll be blessed, and that you may inherit the land, that you may receive the end of the promises. Because your parents disobeyed, they never saw the end of the promises. They died in the wilderness. Their carcasses, we read, fell in the wilderness. their sins. And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years. No I've read various places, and I don't know if it's an absolute fact, but I've read various places that they estimate that the children of Israel should have been able to make the journey from Egypt to Canaan in about 40 days But instead they wandered forty years, a year for a day, because of their disobedience. You remember the way in which the Lord led thee these 40 years in the wilderness to humble thee. To prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldst keep his commandments or no. First of all, why does God lead us into the wilderness? Why do bad things happen to us bad people? Well, first of all, God's gotta humble us. God has gotta knock us off our self-reliance. Why is it that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God? Well Lest any man should boast. Lest we be lifted up in our pride. And why is it that man says, I'm not so bad? I'm pretty good. Certainly God wouldn't send me to hell because I'm good. What is that? It's pride. Lord. Look at my fruits. I know, I know, Abel brought a lamb, but look how good my apples are Look at this fruit that I have worked so hard. I have killed the ground. I have sown in the soil that you made, and benefited from the rain that you gave, and planted the seeds that you created. But look what I've done with it, Lord. I'm not so bad. It's a point that the man wants to die. God had to leave them Through the wilderness to humble them. And look what it says there in verse 3. And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and left them to starve. My Bible doesn't say that, does it? Your Bible better not say that. He humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger And fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know, that he might make thee to know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God doth man live. You see, when we are strong and healthy And we've got a secure job, and we've got a good vehicle to get us to our job, and we've got a pension. and a retirement plan and health insurance and the electric bills paid and the mortgage is up to date and everything is going along well, we say I'm doing pretty well. Mm-hmm. How you doing? Well I'm doing pretty good. You know, I got a raise last month and um cars doing well and kids are all healthy and everything is doing good. Until you get laid off. Until you get sick. Until the stock market crashes. Until any number of things come along, and then what do we do? Oh God, help me! Oh God! Oh no! I'm in trouble, Lord, help me! Didn't need you last week, but oh how I need you now! You see, God had to take them out of Egypt. And remember they looked back to the leeks and garlics and all the good foods He had to take them out into a wilderness full of scorpions and fiery serpents and take away their food and suffer them to hunger. But then he fed them in the wilderness with food that their fathers had never seen. Their fathers saw all the food In Egypt. But he gave them something their fathers had never seen. He gave them manna from heaven. And the Psalms read, and men did eat angels' food. And I guarantee it was better than angel food cake. I like angel food cake. But this was better, folks. You see, when they had all the leeks and garlics in Egypt, they didn't look to the Lord because they didn't need him. But oh, when he put them in a time of need, they realized how much they needed them And so he fed them miraculously with the manna from heaven. But he wasn't teaching them about the belly. Right He was teaching them about the heart. You see, they had to go through being hungry in the belly to make them hungry in the soul. They had to go through the trial yet knocked off their confidence and knocked out of their comfort. He had to humble them. He had to bring them to their knees. They might learn that man doth not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. He had to humble them. And oh, what a glorious picture we have of this in the New Testament. Where Satan Satan is tempting our Lord. And he says, make these stones and the bread. Show your power Show your might. But Christ, who humbled himself and became obedient unto death, responds: Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. That proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And so God had to knock them off their high horse. God had to bring them down. He had to place them in a place where there was no water that he might bring water out of the flinty stone, that Moses might strike the rock and the water gush forth. And again, it's a glorious picture of our salvation. For Jesus Christ, the rock of our salvation, is the smitten rock from whom the water of life gushes forth. He took them into a place of drought to teach them the most valuable spiritual lesson they could ever have. And oh my friend, why do good things or bad things happen to good people? There are no good people. We're all bad. But there's nothing bad that ever happens to me. Ultimately. Because all things work together for good. To them who love God, to them who are the cult. According to his purpose. Look at verse 16. Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not That he might humble thee, that he might prove thee to do thee good at thy last End. Oh, it was all in God's purpose. Lord, there are scorpions out here. Lord, the fiery serpents are biting us! Look and live! A glorious picture of salvation Lord, there's no food out here. I'll give you manna. Lord, there's no water out here. The water of life flows from Christ. And so God had to humble them. Ultimately, God was not teaching them about the belly, but God was teaching them. about himself. Verse 3, that he might make thee to know. Middle phrase of the verse. That he might make thee to know. Do you know humble dependence upon God? Do you know that everything is a blessing from Him? Or do you still think you're paying for it yourself? Do you still think that that you're just so smart that you were able to get this job That you're just so skilled that you can do this better than everybody else that applied. No, if we have that kind of pride, God is going to have to make us to know that man doth not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And yet there is an amazing warning, dead smack in the middle of this glorious chapter. Look at verse 7. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks and water, fountains and depths that spring out of the valleys. There's no lack of water there Yeah, they're in a wilderness where where there's they're wondering about water and m water has to come out of the rock and they have to throw the pine tree in the water to to make the water sweet and all the different ways that God miraculously gave them water in the wilderness. Verse 8, a land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of oil, olive, and honey. You know what that sounds like? Sounds like a place that's better than the leaks and garlic so left in Egypt. It sounds like a place where there's an abundance of food. In fact the next verse says, verse 9, wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness. You know what? You never appreciate a good meal until you've been hungry. I remember in Jamaica, Hurricane Gilbert came through and took the roof off of her house. You could stand you could stand in the living room and uh or the other end of the house and look up at the sky because there was nothing there. We had a little bit of roof left over one part of our living area because the porch which was as big as this room, actually twice the size of this room, the porch, the roof had come off the porch, swirled around in the air, and then landed on top of the rest of the house So when you went up on the roof it was rafters sticking up and you were walking on the ceiling because because there was a roof on top of a roof upside down. So it still leaked because they'd been hit so hard, but at least it didn't come off because the one roof weighted the other roof and kept it there. Had to replace the whole thing, but that's that's a different story. But this one I'm getting to. No electricity for about four months. We drank Luke warm water. Ninety-five degree temperature and the water was luke lukewarm Nothing cold. No refrigeration. Nothing cold. And after about two weeks or so I was able to get into one of the towns. We had a four-wheel drive. We'd get around the trees that were down the road and so on. And I found a store in town that had a generator And they were able to run a freezer with this generator. And we had these little things they call box juices. It was basically Kool-Aid, but they had a bunch of them frozen. And I got some of them and I rushed back home to Penny. After weeks of lukewarm I can't ex Expressed to you what a joy it was to have something cold. How refreshing, how sweet to the tongue. You know what? I had never really appreciated a You see, sometimes God has to make us hungry to appreciate the next meal. If you know where your next meal is coming from, you don't think much about it, do you? But if you're not sure, then you're humble. Then to trust in God. And so he says there in verse 10, 9, that he's leading them in the land Whether it have bread without scatter scan scarceness, thou shalt lack nothing in any of it, a land whose stones are iron. Look at verse eleven. Beware. You know what? I don't long for a cold drink like I used to. Why? Because I've kind of forgotten the day when we didn't have it. You see what happens if we have this cycle of blessing and departure. Blessing. And you find it throughout the history of Israel that there'll be a judge that leads them righteously, and then a generation will grow up that forgot about God, and we're seeing in our own nation today, this is the people that forgot God. Why do bad things happen to good people? Nonsense. Verse 14 And thou be lifted up. In other words, will you forget to get into your good houses and your land with all of its plenty? Then your heart's lifted up, and what happens? The pride has all come rushing right back. God had to lead them through the wilderness that he might humble them. Their raiment wax not old upon their their, I won't ask that question. I was going to ask how many of you are wearing a piece of clothes today you had ten years ago And I don't want to embarrass anybody. Um uh I mean uh actually this suits more than that that that age, but you know, we we our clothes tend to last, but but here forty years in the wilderness without Maytag or Whirlpool Their clothes didn't waxle. Their feet didn't swell. God taught them in the wilderness. Don't worry about it, folks. I'll take care of you. He had to humble them. But then we find a second reason there in verse 2 that God led them through the wilderness. Verse 2 of Deuteronomy 8, and thou shalt remember all the way in which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee and to prove thee. To prove thee. I like uh firearms and knives, uh, and so I'm very familiar with the term case-hardened steel Well that term comes from the case company that made the knives. They learned how to harden the outside metal without making the inner metal brittle. And so it came out with a knife blade that would stay very sharp. It didn't dull easily. And yet a knife blade that to a large extent you could pry sideways on without snapping. Without being too brittle. It was case hardened steel. And we use that term today because the case company developed it. It takes a lot of heat. It takes a lot of heat. the case hardened steel. And then we have what is called proof steel. And actually the Winchester Company was the one that that um developed the proof steel for making firearms. And the proof steel To proof steel or to harden that steel, they have to take the steel and they heat it very, very slowly. Over a long period of time, the steel gets hotter and hotter and hotter. And the fire is getting hotter and hotter, and that's why the steel is getting hotter. And the steel is in the fire, and it starts to get a little bit of a little bit of color to it, and then it gets starts to glow. And then eventually the The steel is red, red hot and it's burning hot and the smoke is coming off the steel. It's a very difficult process. And then suddenly that steel shh They quench the steel very rapidly in water or in oil or in salt brine. And the result is that steel is made very, very Now, it's called proof steel. You know what? Sometimes God lays our lives on the cold. And it gets hotter and hotter. And oh we start to glow a little bit. And then we start to get A little bit red. And then the steam starts to come off, and the fire gets hotter and hotter and hotter and hotter and hotter into the time when God finally takes us out of the fire and quenches the fire, and we're hard for it. And I don't mean hard of heart. I mean hard for the work. Steeling spot. Because that steel that has been proof hardened is now a very steel strong steel. It's a steel that has been through the fire is proof. But there are other other metals that we do that with Gold is an ore. And it's full of impurities. And yet the gold is put in the fire. gotten hotter and hotter and hotter until finally the impurities begin to blow off and bubble and they rise to the top just like silver, the dross comes to the top And after the fire you have the pure gold. You have the pure silver. It's interesting that in The blessings God talks about here are there are are rocks that you can get iron out of. Well how do they get iron out of the rocks? They have to melt it down. have brass. God had to prove Israel in the wilderness. Proof steel goes through a very difficult Painful hot process. But the in product is good. Mm-hmm And so, why do bad things happen to good people? No. God's providence happens to us bad people. To make us into what we ought to be. The fire of God's word burns within our souls to burn out the impurities. If you gave your wife an uncut diamond, she would say thank you. If you give your wife a beautifully cut and set stone. She'll love you. You see, the uncut diamond is doesn't have the sparkle and the glow. It's just another one Rock. It has a lot of potential, but it's another rock. That's not to say that we even had potential to God. That is not part of our theology in any way. God did not save us because he saw good in us. God saved us because we were bad. And he had to make us a totally new creature. And yet God led the children of Israel through a land where there was no water A land where there was no food, a land with scorpions and fiery serpents, that he might prove them. That he might prove And by the time they got to cross the Jordan and go against Jericho, you know what Israel was? It was a group of young men that had grown up in tough times. It was a group of people that had been walking and walking and walking. They weren't weaklings. It was a group of young men that had been strengthened through the fire of affliction. And though they did not conquer Canaan in their own might They were prepared for battle. You see, sometimes God has to lead us through the wilderness to prepare us for battle. God has to lead us through the wilderness, lead us through great trials, that we might be proof steel, that we might be unbending. In the service of our God, that we might be purified from the impurities which are going to prevent us from serving the great King. And so God took them through the wilderness to prove them. And the greatest illustration we have of God proving a man is found there in Genesis 22. And I won't have you turn there for the sake of time, but in verse 1 of Genesis 22, and it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. God sent Abraham to the mountain to sacrifice his son, to prove him, to test him. And God said to Abraham, Because thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, in blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee, and your seed shall be as the stars of heaven and as the sands on the seashore. God says, you've been proved, you've been through the fire. Now I'll fulfill my promises. And so God led the children of Israel into the wilderness to humble them. God led them into the wilderness to prove them. But then going back to verse 2 of chapter 8, and thou shalt remember all the way in which the Lord thy God did lead thee these forty years in the wilderness to humble thee. And to prove thee to know what was in thine heart. To know what was in thine heart. heart. Let's back up a second. Didn't God know what was in their heart? He certainly did. He's omniscient. But they had to know what was in their heart. This was for them. It was for the God already knew what was in their heart. But God had to make them to know. what was in their heart. God had to make them to know that they could rely on their God. God had to put them through the afflictions that they might understand that that which was in their heart was not of themselves, but it was of him. It was his might and his power. God knew what was in their heart, but God was giving them the opportunity to prove themselves what was in their heart. I'm going to read to you from Deuteronomy chapter 29. You can flip over there if you'd like. But if you want to just stay there in Deuteronomy 8, that's fine as well. Deuteronomy chapter 9, 29, and verses 2 through 4. And Moses called unto all Israel and said unto them, Ye have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes. in the land of Egypt unto Pharaoh, and unto his servants, and unto his lands. The great temptations which thine eyes have seen, that temptations there is the the ten plagues, the great temptations which thine eyes have seen The signs and those great miracles, yet the Lord hath not given you an heart to perceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear. Did you catch that? Did you follow that? Verse 4 Verses 2 and 3, God showed you all these miracles, He showed you the temptations, He showed you the plagues. Verse 4, yet the Lord hath not given you in heart to perceive, eyes to hear, and ears to hear into this day Moses is saying to the children of Israel, you've seen all these great miracles, you've seen everything that God's done, but yet you don't see it. You don't get it. You don't have a heart to hear it, to believe it. You don't have ears to hear it or eyes to see it. And where do those things come from for you? Yet the Lord has not given you. Yet the Lord has not given you a heart to perceive, eyes to see, and ears to hear unto this day. That's a tragic thing, folks. They had been so abundantly blessed by the miracles of God, yet they didn't, their heart didn't perceive it, their eyes didn't see it, their ears didn't hear it But God is leading his children through the wilderness to give us a heart, to open our eyes. God says, I'm leading you to the wilderness to see what's in your heart That the truth may grab a hold of your soul, that it may grab a hold of you, that ye will not faint in the day of adversity. For if thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. We read in God's Word. Turn with me to this one. Turn over to Job 23. Job is the great example of godly suffering. Job 23 and I'll start reading at verse number eight. Job twenty three. And verse eight. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there. And backward. But I cannot perceive him. On the left hand, where did he work? I cannot behold him. He hides himself on the right hand. And I cannot see him. My God. My God. Why is thou Do you hear the echo there? Job says, Where is God? My children are dead! My cattle are gone. My sheep are gone? My camels are gone? My wife is saying, curse God and die? I'm sitting in ashes, and my so-called friends are oppressing me. Job is pretty beat up, isn't he? He's pretty damn But look at verse 8. I'm sorry, verse 10. But he knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold, refined in the fire. I shall come forth as gold. My foot hath held his steps. His ways have I kept and not declined. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. What a testimony that is Job went through the fire and he learned what was in the heart That which was in his heart had been proved. God has refined me as gold, and he'll bring me forth. God had to lead the children of Israel into the wilderness to humble them, to prove them, and to know what was in their heart. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of thy lips. Verse 1 eleven. But one more thing, and I know our time is is rushing fast away. One more purpose that God had there in the wilderness. God had to know whether they would keep Look again back to our text verse, verse 2 of Deuteronomy 8. And thou shalt remember all the way in which the Lord thy God doth lead thee these forty years in the wilderness to humble thee. To prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments. Why did the children of Israel, their fathers, perish in the wilderness that didn't obey? They didn't keep his commandments Why do we have the repetition of the Ten Commandments again and again? Chapter 5 of Deuteronomy, God goes through the commandments again. Just in this same discourse when Moses is speaking. He reminds him again of the commandments. God leads us through the wilderness to see whether we'll keep his commandments. You know what? When the money gets scarce, the temptation to dishonesty and to theft increases. When the troubles come and you know that somebody at work is going to give the promotion and somebody is at work is The temptation to a little bit of fudging the truth starts to come in. The temptation to not quite own up to your own mistake. The temptation to start to look to the things of this world instead of to look to God. Oh, all these things they're so easy to keep when everything is good But when the trouble comes, how easy it is to start disobeying the commands of God. God led this generation through the wilderness. As the generation that did not keep his commandments died one after one after one. Well, if you take the out of funeral and said travel. You ever think about that? Or did they even have true funerals? Their carcasses fell in the wilderness. Dying, dying, dying, dy, dying Constantly. And think about think about that. We all think well we want to see our grandchildren grow up We want to see our kids get married. We have these things that we desire to see. And yet think about these children of Israel who have disobeyed God And they know I will never get there. And think about year 37 and 38. and 39. The ones who are not yet old, they were fairly young when they left Egypt. It's coming to an end. I will not live to see year whatever forty-two or forty-three or forty-four And what a rebuke that must have been to the young people that had been born in the wilderness. And the 18-year-old So they come out of Egypt. But they're going to go in. Dad's not going to make it. God led them Through the wilderness to raise up a generation that would keep his commandments. God led them through trial to see if they would stand the test. You see, when Job faced trouble, his wife said, Curse God and die. And oh, it's easy to serve the Lord when it's all going well. But when the troubles come, how quickly we gin. Begin to fail. And so God led the children of Israel through the wilderness, through troubles, to humble them, to prove them, to know what was in their heart, and to see. If they would keep his commandments or no. Look at verse 5. And thou shalt consider in thine heart That as a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord chasteneth thee. We don't chasten our children because we hate them. We chasten them them because we love them. We don't chasten our children because we don't want good for them. We chasten them because we do want good for them. said that wrong. I meant to say we don't chase our children because we want bad for them. We chase our children because we want good for them. We chasten our children that they might have the best possible life. And no chasing for the present is pleasant. Why do bad things happen to good people? No, my friend. Good troubles, good sicknesses Good hungers, good trials happen to God's people. That we might be made more like Christ, that we might be made into the people they would have us to be. I know our time is well gotten away, but look with me again as we close. Verse 16 Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not That he might humble thee, that he might prove thee, to do thee good at the latter. End. At the end of 45 years was the promised land. What is your life? It's even a vapor that appears for a little while and vanished In my father's house or many mansions, if it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. Let not your heart be troubled. Neither. Be afraid. My friend, we all face troubles. Sometimes my troubles are great and your troubles are small. And the next day Your troubles are great and my troubles are small. But God is working in the hearts and lives of his people. Glory be to God. Let us stand for prayer.