What an amazing statement that is. We think of the cleansing that we have from our sins and a right standing before God, an eternity of peace, whereas we would have had an eternity of torment. You can try to find something that's more comforting, less judgmental, less pointing out of your sins, but there's truly no other way to go than through the Lord Jesus Christ. They have corrupted themselves. He made him ride on the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the fields, and he made him to suck honey out of the rock This is the whole of the Abrahamic covenant. I have a promise for you. We don't understand why God would elevate Samson because we see so much wickedness in him. You know, you're not Jacob, folks. And he said, I'm going to go over and see what's going on here. Jacob was the apple of God's eye, just as the church is the apple of God's eye. For I am a sinful man, O Lord. Psalm twenty-two twenty-two, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. And he bare the sins of many, uh and he made intercession for the transgressors. Amen. Our father, what a joy and a pleasure it is to have the Sabbath. And O Father, above all, may we see, as we saw this morning in Sunday school, the wonders of Christ, that He is wonderful, He is full of wonders. May we love you yet more and more. Yeah. He's the King of Kings, He's the Creator, He's the Almighty One, He's the Omniscient One. And we think even of Peter, who after he witnessed Christ's work and understood what manner of man he was, his response was, Depart from me But thankfully he turned to him again. And we do know of Christ, if you've read of him in the scriptures, that he is majestic. It's as we read in the scriptures, to whom shall we go? He's the meek and lowly one. We ought never to seek another. And often what we think we know is totally an error. And yet, Father, we are instructed in thy word to call unto me and I will answer thee. And if any two shall agree as touching these things, they are heard in heaven. That they may be husbands and fathers and grandfathers to their children. And their ministry to this congregation. uh host pastor's wife and has been a faithful host to a small gathering of faithful reformed men He set the bounds of people according to the number of the children of Israel. And those with the kidney wheat. Grace and truth shall work the way where the Lord is home will be if his worth they still are. The firstborn was the inheritor of the Father's name. But Noah found greats in the eyes of the Lord, and Noah was found righteous in his generation. Jacob is about 48 miles that he's traveled now from Beersheba. And he's ten miles north of where Christ will be crucified for the church. Because Peter has so much desire to serve the Lord and be faithful. My Lord, how often the rooster crows, and I have to look at my Lord in shame. Israel was in a time of great distress, but God showed up and said, Look, Samson's coming. Joshua. not abandon it. Right. Two Psalms in succession. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against the stone. The angels that camp around around about them that fear him. And we misuse that word dreadful. And in the New Testament, the Lord's Day, the celebration of the resurrection, is demonstrated for us by the disciples in the early church who came together on the first day of the week. In fact, we're instructed to keep our foot from your Sabbath. May we be enabled by thy spirit to set aside the thoughts of commerce, the thoughts of of family concerns, the thoughts of politics, the thoughts of all the things that distract us. And Father, we thank you that there is indeed a rest for thy people coming. Ought in no wise bright us by his majesty, or cause us to seek another according to our fancy. truly able to do anything with him, all things are possible. sins, he knows all of your thoughts, and so it can rightly be an intimidating thing to turn to him. You know, we would be pleased to have a direct line to a governor in our state, some uh a way of texting them or a way of directly speaking with them to put forth our requests, to put forth our needs. Turn to Christ and we ought not to seek any other is because Christ's burden is light. and uh acquired redemption for his people. We thank you, Lord, that we do have this access, that we can pray directly to God. For Lord, you are omniscient, you are all-knowing. And so, Father, in full faith and obedience, we do that together corporately. For Lord, this very day we have called their names before the throne of heaven and prayed that they would be able to make it out to the worship. And we do not fail to rejoice in your answer and acknowledge it as truth. uh who had surgery for cancer and then they found that they had not gotten all the cancer and now she has had a second surgery She has made sure that we were fed and comfortable there at that congregation. And Father, that land is so dear upon the heart of my family, and now is facing elections, O Lord, on September 3. And so, Father, may you protect them and give them wisdom. and from Texas and from time to time from California and from Arizona and from Alaska But Father, our needs are known unto thee. We'll just be reading a portion, verses 1 through 14 of Deuteronomy 32. Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. which God gave unto Abraham. And he went to Paden Aram, unto Laban, son of Bethuel, the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob and Esau's mother. And the sister of Nebadoth to be his wife. And the God of Isaac, the land whereupon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. And will bring thee again into this land, for I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. of the house of God. The background of this is in chapter 25, where the two children are born. was yes from his father Isaac, but more so it was the blessing of Abraham, his grandfather. brother of uh Jacob's brother Rebekah, Bethuel was the father of Laban, his uncle, and Rebekah, uh his mother. It was the line that came from Abraham on both sides of the family. Righteous to receive his blessing. It is translated company seventeen times and multitude three times, as it is here. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male the first year, ye shall take it out of the sheep and from the goats, and ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month. And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at Eben. For in the New Testament, the altar of Hebrews under divine inspiration, quotes Psalm 2222 For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the church. in and and defeats them. Jacob, pay attention. Ascending and ascending. This is the house of God. But the Lord's here. He doesn't recognize the armed man. presence and his providence and his directing. I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord thy God, even my God, will be with thee. Of my righteousness. He had to run from Egypt. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling, for he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. I'll I'll try to be be quick with this. Thou didst see my substance as yet being imperfect. And he said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. of the dream. and see. Nathanael saith unto him, Whenst knowest thou me? Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee In your blue song book, we'll sing all five stanzas. Speaking lovely to the end. My soul rest may tell me for sail me For there is no creature, either in heaven or on earth, who loves us more than Jesus Christ Saving helping loving Jesus with me to Which access would otherwise be barred against us? to the throne of God. And uh even more so to the President of the United States. Well what an amazing thing we have, what a benefit that we can have access to very to the very God Himself, the one who controls all things, the one who is And for the first reason, it's very simply because there is no other way. And there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus And uh yeah, we we read even in the confession how he humbled himself. And in fact, we're instructed in the word to call no man our Father on earth, for there is one Father, which is the Heavenly Father. And Lord, we do not cease to bring them before you and pray for the healing of the body. Who are struggling with ongoing infirmities of the flesh. The Association of Ministers of the Reformed Faith meeting, which has been such a blessing to my heart on many occasions, has had to be postponed because she is the And how often those elections have become violent in past years. But Lord, they have been placed in these positions of authority by your mercy and your wisdom. We thank you that the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. Lord, we thank you for the multitude of answered prayers that we see again and again and again. Lord, we pray for two individuals and a family of our congregation that are in travel this week. And even Lord from West Virginia, Father, we thank you for word of those that are joining with us online and pray your grace and mercy upon them, O Father. Father, we pray for some that are a part of this congregation, but we do not see them today. Father, we pray for our far-flung congregation. Having had electing love on us from the foundation of the world, may that same electing love be given to our children. We fear the case of the Esau. Lord, I thank you for the beauty and the intricacy of the Word of God. My doctrine shall drop as rain. and oil out of the flinty rock and altogether butter of pine and milk of sheep with the bad lambs and lambs of the breed of the shon Ask thy father, and he will show thee, thy elders, and they will tell thee. Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. And take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people. And give thee the blessings of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger. And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padan Aram. How dreadful is this place! But the name of that city was called Luz at the first. and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. Unto thee. and puts the fur of goats upon his arms, and comes in not with venison, but rather with goat. And he feeds it to his father according to his mother's preparation. The firstborn was made ruler over his brother. just contemplating that word multitude and following it down the rabbit trails. There we're going to come back to in a moment. But that word multitude, the Lord make thee a multitude of people, is a direct reference to the church In the New Testament. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. The Ecclesia will I sing praise unto thee. This word multitude, congregation, assembly, is quoted in the New Testament, but going from the Hebrew to the Greek, the New Testament calls it the church Before the Christians are first called Christians at Antioch, we find that God tells Jacob, Jacob, I'm the blessing upon Jacob is this. It is the church in the wilderness. And went toward Harem. And he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows and lay down to sleep. Jacob didn't like to sleep in the fields. I I just love going back in the middle of the woods, miles from anybody by myself and camping. That word lighted is a word of somewhat happenstance. I'm sorry, that word um certain that word certain is also the word intercession. He was in the middle of the wilderness, but he was also exactly where God wanted him to be. You know, my my family thinks I'm nuts because I I I I enjoy irony. Jacob, this is not a normal dream. In a certain place. We have to seek after them as hid treasure. Not his father's house, small F, but he's leading them to his father's house, capital F, because his father is standing at the top of the ladder. of God's presence. And he wasn't there by accident. Mary. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. I kept you in your mother's tent. I'll keep you in whatever state I'm in, therewith I've learned to be content, said Paul. For I will not leave thee until I've done that which I have spoken to thee of. And sometimes I read them too fast. Fear not, nor be afraid of them. 1 Samuel 12 verse 22. Psalm 46 verse 7, the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge Isaiah 41, verse 10. Joshua 1 verse 5, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the Most High thy habitation. You've left Pharaoh's house because you esteem the reproach of Christ rather than the riches of Egypt, Hebrews. Therefore no evil befall thee. Here we had no permanent dwelling place. And in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. I'm going to let you turn there because you need to see this. Now, Nathaniel was a Jew in whom was no guile. That Nathaniel knew about Jacob's dream. Turn with me to John chapter 1. No man cometh to me, or cometh to the Father, but by me. Jehovah is in this place, and I knew it not. Because God promised that through the seed of Abraham all the nations of the earth would be blessed, and Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of the promise. And I dwell forever in the very house of the Lord. And we too grab hold of Christ and cling to Him. The bell of life shall be with the need of glory, shall be eternally. And so, Father, as we come together today, may we be enabled by thy Spirit to cast all our care upon you, for you care for us. To expound the scriptures to the hearts of thy people. But you know, I think one of the things that's most underrated is this privilege that we have of prayer. And we are not informing thee, but we are calling upon thee in faith. Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? He found him in the desert land, and in the waste and fellow wisdom. Melon D, who should be seen. Then went Esau unto Ishmael and took unto the wives which he had, Mahaloth, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son. And he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows and lay down in that place to sleep. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. And in thee, and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all places where thou goest. But upon the Son of Man. And let us make a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. And so, folks, this ladder is the ladder of God's presence in the middle of all of our problems, in this life with all of its trials, troubles, sickness, joys, and sorrows. It's the ladder of God's presence because Christ has promised I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Those use of control with our banner It was not suffered laws from big treatment And I will give you rest. Stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship. Who therefore became man, having united in one person the divine and human nature, that we then might have access to his divine majesty But you know, we read, we read in this confession this morning about Christ, who is the mediator, he's the one who has granted us access to the Lord. Father, we have three wives of the congregation that are not seated here with us this morning because of physical ailment. And is uh in the recovery process and facing uh radiation and chemo or the That Lord, we believe that you will provide for your people. If not need to be established, remember the days of old. Saved us from the days of home. And I will read in our hearing this morning the 22 verses of the 28th chapter of the book of Genesis. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father. And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places where thou goest. And I knew it not. and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. If God will bring me and keep me, God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go. Esau is born first, but Jacob is born, and he grabs his brother by the heel, and he's given the name Serplanter. To make a new beginning. One more that I would point out to you. And then in the messianic prophecy in Psalm 22 and verse 22, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. Bethel is about ten miles north of where Jerusalem would someday be. Ergonomic pillow. God spoke to him in a dream. But he got there and found out Jehovah had gotten there before him. But they killed him. They're catching nothing. I will keep you in your prosperity. 1 Chronicles 28, verse 20. Psalm 91 does not tell us who wrote it, but Psalm 90 clearly indicates that it was written by Moses. Because the title is given in one and flows through, and many Psalms are series. who left the habitation of his father in heaven and came to this earth. And saith unto him, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and the prophets did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Philip saith unto him, Come and see. But it's not wide enough for the whole world. Go to, let us build a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven. And he saw the angel of God which would bless him ascending and descending. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. This is the same word. About and his preceding. And may our hearts be drawn to thee. Nathaniel answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God. Christian, in what do you believe? And was made like unto his brethren in all things. Father, we do pray for our dear sister, faithful pastor's wife in Greenville, South Carolina. The faithful pastors we know of there, Lord, Pastor Dalbert, Pastor Daly, Pastor Maggie. Father, we pray for our own nation. Lord, I thank you, Lord, that as we prayed already this morning, you own the cattle in a thousand hills, the the Father, provide bread for your people, we pray. that are children, grandchildren, brothers and sisters, parents, in-laws of this congregation that this day do not know Christ. Once you found Deuteronomy thirty-two, please rise. And uh we will sing all six stanzas and the Amen at the end. And that as he blessed him, he gave him charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. And the top of it reached to heaven. And this stone, which I have set out for a pillar, shall be God's house. And we find through the story, the tale of two brothers, when Jacob does that which pleases his father, Esau deliberately does the opposite. He deliberately despises the mercies of God for the blessing of the firstborn, the birthright that Esau despised. You have Abraham and Sarah. So many interesting things we can find in the passage by way of introduction. And make thee fruitful and multiply thee that thou mayest be a multitude of people. And our brother so well this morning expounded to us from the Old Testament again from the story of Samson. You look at your chaos, you look at your disappointments, you look at your heartaches, you look at your losses. God's in control of them, folks. The issue was Jacob's lack of perception of the Lord in his problems. I'll keep you. It was the ladder of God's presence. Jesus himself applies the picture of Jacob's ladder to himself, to Christ. Jesus saw Nathaniel verse 47 coming to him and saith unto him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. That reach to heaven, fully God. 477. Three four hundred and seventy-seven and there we sing all four stanzas. And Lord, this day, may we have our hearts focused on thy word. Good morning. Who, though he was in the form of God, yet made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a man and of a servant for us Bless thy word to our hearts this day we pray. When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paden Aaron to take him a wife from thence. Open our hearts, Thy word. Exalt Jesus Christ. In the first two verses, we find that Jacob blesses, or sorry, Isaac blesses Jacob and sends him away. Esau, the firstborn, despised his birthright. The time comes for Isaac to bless his firstborn. He hated Jehovah. You have Jacob, who marries Leah and Rachel. Abraham was the one that was found to be righteous. Defiled his heritage. It is talking rather about a people that were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. I do have an outline that we're going to get to in a moment, but let me show you one more thing. But behold a ladder set upon the earth. And Jacob could have walked right through the gate of heaven, right past the gate of heaven. And I don't know where they've taken him. He has lived in the palace of Pharaoh and now he's in the back side of the desert. But this ladder was the ladder of God's presence. But Jacob in the greatest trial of his life was in the place of God's presence. This ladder in the wilderness is Christ Himself. He's an Israelite in whom is no guile. Because he had found the gate of heaven. Jesus Christ came to this earth. They were trying to make a ladder that had a foot on the earth and reached to heaven. And it is the ladder of God's presence. My tree wins all the rest. God is great in my God work soul comes. Well, time is over Brother Antonio brings the confessional reading. Father, your word promises that you've never seen the righteous. Genesis the twenty-eighth chapter, beginning with the first verse. It's interesting. Nathaniel answered and said to him, Rabbi, thou art the son of God. Well we dare not trust to go for gospel or these priests for the hundred. This morning we begin looking at this twenty-sixth article that's all about Christ's intercession, the very one that we just sang about. Lord, we thank you for thy word. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up upon the earth Happenstance. God controls your chaos. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. John 14 verse 18, I will not leave thee comfortless, I will come to thee. Presence, it's the ladder of God's promise. Verse 50. Because we read in Genesis eleven and verse four. Upon which the church is built. Born and all in my cry, he has granted me for given his We can, through prayer, speak to the very God who's sovereign over all things, who has control over all things This is likely a new tune to you, the tune of Seymour. And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said unto him He is in the perfect center of God's will. Verse 12. Jacob is in the greatest problem of his life. Jacob, you're not homeless. And I've already mentioned that that Moses esteemed the reproach of Christ greater than the physical riches. His person. This is the way we get in, folks. Man is still trying to find any other way. Because our danger we never want to set up for Jesus will not. And Jacob awake out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place A great multitude is going to come from thee. Esau was the wilderness man. He's alone. He is running for his life. Jacob is alone for the first time in his life. Jacob is alone in the wilderness, but it's the house of God. In shadows, in a mist. But God's truth, God's blessing are often in shadows. And he's going to go and be deceived by his uncle. Wow. When was that first spoken of? And God promised that he would bring him again into the land. Folks, does Jesus Christ know about you? Nathaniel come and see. Jacob laid down to sleep, a picture of death. Any prophet but Jesus, any Messiah but the crucified one, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? He saw Christ, and he saw the Father at the head of the ladder. In love with me to be now received. Economic concerns of this life are not to be the burdens of your people, for Lord, you clothe the lilies and you feed the birds the air. Interesting elements. I he dreamed and behold take note look See, folks, the problem is not the absence of God in our problems. I'm not going to say that this is a reference to crucifixion and then I won't leave you. It was God's ladder, not Jacob's ladder. Let me hide myself in him. Father, we thank you for Mission Bible Church. And so here we find thousands of years before the church comes into existence. I am with you. And he has opened the gates to heaven. What why such incest, as we would call today? Jacob is there exposed to the wild beast. The Lord was here before I got here. I love montages of verses that just just make the point better than any preacher ever could Nathanael saith on him, folks, this is so beautiful. Jesus answered verse 48. And O Lord, we know from your word that it is appointed unto man once to die and after this to judgment. Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put up put for his pillows. That word lighted is also the word intercession in the Old Testament. He's with us to the end. You know, sometimes playing around at home, I will use the word behold. Gracious Father, we thank you for the glorious truth that we do come to you through a mediator. But he was in a certain place. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. The men now serve it against my number to light with danger and strength. And so in verse ten and eleven, and Jacob went out from Beersheba. He's the one that likes the comfortable bed, not the pillow. He's alone all by himself. And when you see him, you'll see the angels of God ascending and descending upon him. Thou my Savior art alone all the day I wait for thee for He's in the back side of the wilderness. And air conditioning. Verse 16. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Behold, Jacob. Now, that brings us to our outline. In her distress, she did not recognize that he was there with him, with her. Mm-hmm. All right. The Lord make thee the New Testament church. It's a place of God's presence. Behold, Jacob, you're in the middle of the wilderness. And behold, the Lord stood at the top of it. This is the place where the church meets with God. The first one tells us who wrote it, the second one doesn't. Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? That word dreadful is the same word we find in Genesis when God came to the garden and Adam said we were afraid and hid ourselves. He's put us in a right standing with the Lord so that we can turn to him at any time. We don't need to flee from Christ or seek any other, as the confession points out. It's the same word that the Old Testament uses as lighted here. It means full of dread. But it is a truth. Amen. He's the one that's ready and able to save repentant sinners Their spot is not the spot of his children. Verse 4, and give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, God, which God gave to Abraham Mary Magdalene. It should cause us to dig. I put right in my notes. Really I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon not a ladder Sarah was Abraham's half-sister. God promised that he would give him the blessing of his grandfather Abraham. Saving helping me think about the Please, Mr. By the way, I don't call it Jacob's ladder. Verse 16 of our text. It is similar, folks, to what happened with Noah. And Jacob awake out of a sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place. And then we come to the New Testament in Matthew 18, verse 20. Lord, I lift my soul to thee. Psalm 91. After seeing what Christ could do, after seeing, yea, verily he has uh divinity within himself. It's not spelled out in all of its details, but God is, or sorry, Isaac is conferring to Jabraham the Abrahamic covenant. And air conditioning. And Jehovah speaks to him out of the bush and says, Take off your shoes, because I'm here. A lot of things in this world make us afraid. I will keep you here in the wilderness. All places where thou goest. And folks, I'll give it away to you before we get into it. We turn to our sermon psalm, number five hundred and eighty-three, near the back of our songbook. Esau did. I sought the Lord, Psalm 34, 4. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. He's seen. Jesus has brought the day for my victorious We ought never to think there's no reason, there's no utility, there's no purpose or point uh to turn to Christ. On a certain place. And he dreamed. The Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. But Jesus was with them. This is the house of God. Good morning, good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin as we this morning read from the twenty-sixth article of the Belgian Confession. Thou hast the words of eternal life. Bless thy word. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. And they see someone on the shore. John chapter 1, verse 45. And O Lord, we cry out to you, save them, O God. Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that field called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. And that rock was in that place. Please turn to Deuteronomy chapter 32 in your Bibles for our responsive reading. In fact, he asks him, are you for us or are you for the enemy? That is a good hope. My speech shall as still as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass. It is the people of God that have been the people of God through their choosing in Christ before the foundation of the world. Gardner, tell me what you've done with him. It was a certain place and God was there. I read these verses in our call to worship this morning, but turn with me to John chapter 1, and starting in verse 45. Thank you, brother. He's been taught the scriptures which were able to make him wise unto salvation from a child like Timothy. And Lord, we we have great financial needs within the congregation. He is the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. You're not having divinely inspired dreams. For the Lord thy God, he it is that goeth with thee, he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. He's all alone. For, oh Lord, all three of them bring great blessing with them when they walk through the door. Isaac instructs Jacob not to pollute the godly line with the wicked Canaanites around them. He marries Mahaloth, and the fruit of that union becomes the Edomites that God cursed. If you look down to verse three, God Almighty bless thee. Jacob is the is the inheritor of all his father's possessions, and he doesn't have a pillow. May our faith in thee be strengthened and encouraged. Turn please in your Bibles with me to the first book of the Old Testament, the book of Genesis, and the twenty-eighth chapter. And so he read that he was to spread to the north and the south and the east and the west. And God was there. Slow down. And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good courage, and do it. They were in caves and dens. You see, folks, Nathaniel was saved on this day, and Jacob was saved on that day But oh Lord, you see the end from the beginning. We thank you for the inspiration of thy word and the preservation of thy word. May we fearfully and wonderfully understand the dreadfulness of But it says he lighted upon a certain place. God is leading Jacob away from his father's house, and God will leave him back again. Genesis chapter 3. This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And Peter falls on his face so often. In fact, folks, we find this over and over again in Scripture. Father, as we go through this world, indeed we are laboring and often heavy laden with the cares of this life and the thoughts of other things. Reading from the first book of the first chapter of the book of John. The truth of scriptures. It would be a very neat thing if we could speak directly to him and tell him of our problems and all of that and see what he could do to help us So may the Lord help us to honor Christ, rejoicing in the access that He's given us to the Lord. This is not because of what you ate for supper. Jacob, you're not alone. And Isaac went away. God fully shows Jacob that he's in control of his chaos. Psalm 91, by the way, most likely was written by Moses In Jesus' name. Let's pray. And no mosquitoes. It should make us hungry for truth Folks, here's the heart of the message. We believe that we have no access unto God, but alone through the only mediator and advocate, Jesus Christ the righteous. Our minds are captive to our human condition. Lord, we thank you for the leaders that you have given us. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it pleased the Lord to make you his people. And remember Jacob's response, this is the gate of heaven. Father, there are many that we pray for with urgency. But then, folks, this is glorious. We do not have much hope at all that any of our leaders, or maybe a few, truly know you. Teach us glorious things out of thy law. I dreamed last night. God could have appeared to Jacob in a visible form as an angel, but God chose a dream. The land we're on Elias. Jesus was a friend for sinners. David said, I've been old and I've been young and now I'm old. Slow down. He had found the house of God. He is the only one that can reach from this earth to heaven. He lighted on a certain place. Weeping in the garden. The gates of hell will not be able to stand before the presence of the church, and what was this place? It means awesome. And thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. His life has come to a sudden calamity. He has lived in the palace. Folks, there was a ladder set up upon earth, fully human A very familiar tune. Let's sing to that King of Israel this morning, number 432 in our song book. He took a upon himself the form of man. Lord, we fear the curse of Cain. In Jesus' name. Behold, Jacob, there's a ladder. Jacob thinks he is alone the first time in his life. The angels are ascending and descending. He has opened the way. Father, bless us this day through the preaching of thy word. It's one you begin to lean on more and more as time passes on. We pray, Father, for those that worship with us from North Carolina. Jacob was not comfortable in the fields. And folks, he was exactly where the Lord wanted him to be. And yet we find that he was unaware He knew the law. And behold, the angels of God ascending and descending upon it. The firstborn was the inheritor of the Father's position, the Father's power, and the Father's possessions. He's not the hunter. Man is still trying to make his own ladder. And Jacob awake out of a sleep and said, Surely Lord, protect your own elect in that land. These were the daughters of Laban, who was the brother of their mother Rebekah. And folks, the best interpreter of the Old Testament is the New Esau was the one that loved the field. This poor man cried and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all of his troubles. Absolutely he did. Thou art the king of Israel. For through Christ alone I ascend in death up the ladder of Christ, and I enter in through the gates of heaven. In Jesus' name. There's no other way to find salvation. All thy mercies benefit, and the mercies from Remember Jacob, he's in the wilderness for the first time. There's only one way. You've given us a day of rest in the Old Testament, the Sabbath of Saturday It all went back to Abraham. God's going to take care of him. It's safe to assume, it's not proof, but it's safe to assume that they were both written by the same author. That is a total misnomer that we teach the kids. Father, we thank you that in a way it was Jacob's ladder because Jacob possessed Christ. You have Rebekah and Isaac. Abraham was the one who was told to leave his father's house. Now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face I'm sorry, Lord. I'm here. Jesus, what a friend of sinners. I will keep you with your uncle Laban, and I will bring you back again. I will keep you in your joys. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. And he was afraid and said It's that same word there. But there's a set of stairs right in front of you. But this mediator, whom the father had appointed between him and us How how we ought to use that privilege that we have, how we ought to indeed pray without ceasing. We thank you, Father, that you have not left us hopeless in this wilderness. When you sent out your disciples without food and raiment, they could gladly report we lacked nothing. For the Lord's portion is his people. Nor do me thy ways make known by me and teach thou me. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying The children strive in the womb. The place La was where he stopped for the night. It's also the word to fall, where someone falls on the enemy Verse 15, and behold, I am with you. First of all, this ladder was a ladder of the presence of God. He sees this ladder. Amen. Nathaniel saith on him, Whence knowest thou me? Nathaniel says to Jesus, how do you know about me? I am the way, the truth, and the life. And so Jacob renames the place from Luz to Bethel, the house of God. Our gracious Father, we thank you for the call of Christ. They are a perverse and crooked generation Is it not me thy father that have bought thee? Consider the years of many generations. Esau, on the other hand, deliberately The Hebrew word multitude is translated congregation 86 times. The disciples have gone back to their nets. And I will bring thee again in this land Listen to these verses, folks. I was here before he got here. This latter is Jesus Christ. And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! Not Jacob's latter, but Christ. You know, we think of the many benefits that the elect have through Christ's mediation and intercession on our behalf. And so, Lord, we agree as touching these requests. That they might be able to continue to sit in their service to you. Esau despised the birthright, but then he also despised Jacob for having received it. Moses, the burning bush. Now, obviously, it's a reference to Jesus Verse 15, I will bring thee again into this land. But for the second reason that we would And Lord, many of these ailments now have been endured for many, many, many years. Lord, I pray your blessing on her this morning. Well God was keeping pure the godly line God was in that place. They're veiled. He is the latter. Come see him for yourself, and you will believe. There is the eternal rest. He knows all things. He led him about, instructed him, and kept him as the apple of his eye, as an eagle stirreth up her nest. It's one I think that you'll pick up. But he lighted. Joshua at the wall of Jerusalem, or Jericho. The problem is our failure to be aware of his presence It's the ladder of God's presence and it's the ladder of God's promise. That this is not a day of labor for us. This is where the believers in Jehovah dwell. Father, bless thy word to our hearts. He is the very Son of God. We thank you for this glorious fellowship. Arise, go to Padan Aram, to the house of Bethuel, thy mother's father. And Isaac sent away Jacob. He was in a place of intercession. I didn't I shouldn't have done that. This ladder was the ladder of God's person. Look at the proof that God gives to Nathaniel. He says, For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. When the Most High divided unto the nations there inherited when he separated the sons of Adam But think about this. He will never see his mother again. God promised that his sea would be innumerable. Christ promised He'd never leave you or forsake you. Folks, Jacob there on the plain of Bethel, the house of God. But O Father, we pray that you would continue to give them strength Lord, watch over them and protect them and bring them back to us very soon. Amen. And behold the angels of God He's never put his head on a rock before. But Moses, most likely reading it, r writing it And folks, there's one more picture that's fulfilled here. They were trying to build a tower. It's the ladder of God's promise. Stand up, stand up for Jesus, the soldiers of the cross. Let us go to prayer together. We are instructed in thy word to bring our cares and our concerns before you. And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haram It was the blessing that came from Jehovah. You did too, whether you remember your dream or not. And here Philip says to him, Nathaniel, we found him. He knew all about it. For you have told us where two or three are gathered in your name, you're in the midst. He could have walked right past the house of God. Time is really rushing here. Now it searched me and tried me. Amen. And Lord, their presence with us this morning in all three cases is an answer to prayer. In the first Passover in Exodus 12, verses five and six This is not because you didn't get a proper sleep the night before So he thinks. And that reminds me of myself. This isn't just a piece of wilderness. Lord, hidden treasures. And Jacob dresses in Esau's clothes Not the stone. A certain place. And they don't recognize him. May we be taught by the Holy Spirit. And Lord, we pray that you would give them safety and return them to us, O Lord. That word multitude And folks, I don't know. And they said We need no priest of earth through whom to pray. And Lord, you have used wicked kings for the blessing of your people. When did Christ finally leave the disciples? Philip findeth Nathaniel. He laid down a lost sinner and woke up a believer in Jesus Christ. Father, now open thy word to our hearts. And that phrase, the whole assembly of the congregation, is this same word, multitude. Notice the use of the word behold. So it's safe to say that Moses probably wrote Psalm 91. Rebekah was the daughter of Bethuel, Isaac's cousin, the granddaughter of Nahor, Abraham's brother. He's not the one who could kill a lion. Behold, Jacob, the angels are here. They're obscured. God's going to give him the ringshackle cattle. And Jacob woke up, a believer. It means fearful. And again God has pulled out one and pulled out his family as his In overwhelming distress. You made the Lord the place you're going to live. He knows all of your May you save their souls, we pray. When Esau realizes that Jacob has supplanted him, he vows to kill his brother. You see, he didn't just say, oh, this looks like a good camping spot. The issue was not the absence of the presence of the Lord in Jacob's problems Matthew 28, 20, and lo, I am with you always, even to the ends of the world. God saw the wickedness of man that it was great on the earth. But Jacob is alone for the first time in his life, folks. I'll keep you in all places. Neither is there salvation in any other. And indeed he does care for us. Sin Lord will free number not for my trust. And so the Old Testament I knew better God was already there. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They're passing back and forth. You can try to find an easier route to the Lord. And so, Lord, you know what things we have need of. Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak, and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. He's ten miles north of where his grandchild David will rule. I will keep you in your bed of afflictions. He sent the Holy Spirit. You've made the Lord your habitation He had seen the angels ascending and descending. 432. And Esau, seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father. Esau was So I'm not going to I'm not going to belabor that when you understand. What can this man, the Lord Jesus Christ, have to do with me? May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this Holy Spirit. Hebrews two, verse eleven and twelve And Jesus says to him as the captain of the Lord's host, I am here. This world's not our home, folks. Jesus Christ The next I'll take to start to give my overcome. Jesus answered and said unto him, And God Almighty bless thee. And Jacob receives the blessing of the firstborn. He wants a pillow, not a rock. Jacob's alone, but folks, God was there before Jacob got there. It was not Jacob's ladder. May our devotion for thee grow greater and greater. And he called the name of that place Bethel He lighted on a certain place. But Jacob did. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst. This shows the extent to which he cares for his elect, for his sheep I've told you before that Peter is my favorite Bible character. Do you ever think about that? Our brother again mentioned Manoa and his wife He's not the hunter. And where we find As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. That's right. Abraham was the friend of God. That's a common word Moses sees a bush burning. I will strengthen thee. Psalm ninety-one, verse nine, and following. Mary. I'm not going to be dogmatic on this, but it occurred to me that that phrase Don't think ladder with rungs, think a stairway In Isaiah 53, 12, he was numbered with transgressors. Lord, it is beyond our comprehension that you know what things we have need of before we ask Yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. And so, Father, may you save our loved ones, we pray. Deuteronomy 31, 6. Jacob, you have a stone for a pillow, but you own it all. Verse 46. But there is indeed a rest for thy people in our own day. That the Lord Jesus Christ has given us access Lord, we have three men present with us in this house this morning, in this room. So the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange God with him How so often the truth of God is is veiled, it is shadowed, it is not clear Amen. Folks, this is not talking about a political state of Israel. Jacob was tied to his mother's apron strings, as we'd say. You know, I'll I'll walk in a room, behold, I'm here. We've already touched on that. Nathaniel just got saved, folks. And O Father, we pray that having had mercy on us My wife doesn't. And Lord, we we just trust in you. This is the gate of heaven. Two disciples on the road to Emmaus. And Rebecca is told, there are two nations in thy womb. Lord, you know my heart. But folks, it's interesting. Jacob thinks he's homeless. And Lord, you have answered that prayer. It's not too terribly hard. It had no meaning to him. Well folks, there's so many lessons and applications we can make there. But his honor did And of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth. Going back to our text there in verse 15 Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. Not the Lord's come to this place. Encourage us, Lord, in our wilderness journey. Amen. In my violence, my cry. He is amazing. Father, we pray for our brethren in Jamaica this morning. Oh my God, I trust my life. They're fishing. They were trying to make their own way. May thy Holy Spirit be the exegete. Jacob, you are in a certain place. Thou art the king of Israel. It was God's ladder. It is not a day to seek our own entertainment We dream when we sleep. God is leading him to his father's house. Verse 14. Behold, I'm at the top of the ladder, and behold, I've got a blessing for you. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Let's close with four hundred and seventy seven on our songbook. Lord, we know a few things, and the few things we know we do not know well. For thy goodness, sake, O Lord. He's the inheritor of all the inheritance, and yet he doesn't even have a pillow. Moses didn't go to the bush because he knew Jehovah was there. But it's Jesus. But folks, the latter is Jesus Christ Himself. But he just got saved, folks. Thou shalt see greater things than thee. He sees the ladder set up upon the earth. Number 432. Five hundred and eighty-three Esau despised the Lord I spent several hours He's the one who would stay home because there is a lion. And yet, folks, in the middle of all those problems, he's exactly where God wants him to be Folks there's no irony in these verses. God reveals Himself to Jacob in a dream. I will help thee. God promised that he would never leave them or forsake them. Before I formed thee the belly, I knew thee. And we thank you. Jacob is in the wilderness Lord thou knowest all things, thou knowest I love thee. I will keep you in your wealth. And Nathaniel said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Folks He's the apron string boy. For this is the Son of God. We thank you that Jesus Christ, there's so many other things, Jesus Christ is the rock. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. She wants a comfortable bed with a And truly it's an underrated thing the whole idea of prayer. And Lord, their sickness is known to thee. Lord, bless and anoint them in their congregations this morning. He wouldn't know a good camping spot from a bad one. He could have continued on his journey, but he stopped. It's the place that it's the ladder of God's John chapter 1, verse 45. He was a frightened and said, Go away from me, Lord God had It's the same word. And may we with it also be fervent in our prayers. Oh Father, we fear the Absalom This is the one that the Old Testament was talking about. God knew all about him. And yet that ought not to push us away He's able to save, and he has saved and It was the gate of heaven. It's translated assembly 17 times. You know our prayer requests before we pray them. Take it away, my Lord. Be strong and of good courage. The angels carry our prayers back and forth. Sometimes failing my strength. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand. You know, just What do we know about Moses? It's being placed here on Jacob. Let us stand for prayer. I've got here before you were He would rename it Bethel. Jesus, what a friend for sinners Jesus loves my I will keep you in your poverty. He saw long before that Now, don't misunderstand me here. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. This is none other than the house of God and the gate of heaven. I'm going to make you the church. After the crucifixion. He would protect Jacob It was the gate of heaven Because I will publish the name of the Lord. Anyway but Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. You better pay attention. And yet how often I disappoint myself. He went there out of curiosity. Save me helping. Jacob was the homebody. We thought he was Messiah. I'll keep it the last Do you think There's the interpretation. Thank you. Folks Amen.