Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of 2 Timothy, and the first chapter. And we're going to read from 2 Timothy, but then we're also going to turn to Acts chapter 16. for an additional brief scripture reading. We'll begin in 2 Timothy chapter 1, and then we'll be turning to Acts chapter 16. The second book, second epistle written to Timothy, the first chapter, and verse one. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my dearly beloved Son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus, our Lord I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with a pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembered thee in my prayers night and day. greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also Wherefore I put thee in remembrance, that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us a spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. And then turn over with me to Acts chapter 16. The sixteenth chapter of Acts. And here we find the Apostle Paul Traveling on his missionary journey, and in Acts chapter 16 and verse 1, then came he to Derby and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed, but his father was a Greek. Which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Mystra and Iconium, him would Paul have to go with him And he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters, for they knew that his father was a Greek. And as they went through the cities, they declared them the decrees for to keep that were ordained of the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem. And so were the churches established in the faith and increased in number daily. Let's bow for prayer as we begin to open God's Word together today. Gracious Father, we thank you now for your holy book, The Word of God. We thank you, Lord, that every word is inspired. We thank you, Lord, that you have promised that not one jot or tittle would pass from the law until all is fulfilled. We thank you, Lord, that though there were numerous human authors in 66 books, yet there is one author, God. And Father, we thank you that you've left us your word for our instruction, for our correction, for our admonition. Teach us this day by your Holy Spirit in the Word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If we were to choose a text from these verses today, of course it would be that fifth verse of the second Timothy chapter 1, when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, that is in Timothy, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice And I am persuaded that in thee also. The influence of a godly mother can never be underestimated It's been said that the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. And there is some truth to that. We find many kings in history whose mothers had great influence on them. And not in any way to mitigate the influence of a godly father. But we find in history and find in the Word of God godly men. Whose names are well known, who were mightily used of God. We find from their earliest days a mother that sang to them and quoted scripture to them when they were on the breast. And from their earliest hearing, they were raised in the fear, the nurture, and the admonition of God. Proverbs 31. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and she shall be praised. Favor is deceitful. Beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Favor is deceitful. It's easy for someone to put on a nice attitude and be friendly and be loving. That's what that word favor means. Someone who's gracious and such a nice person. It's deceitful because we can all pretend to be something we're not. Beauty is vain. Every hair must be in place. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Susannah Wesley Never preached a sermon. In fact, she would be horrified by the very suggestion that a woman should ever attempt to do such. She would be grieved to her heart by much that takes place today. Susanna Wesley was not a missionary that crossed oceans and went to foreign lands and learned other tongues to tell people about Jesus Christ. In fact, we know nothing about any public ministry that she ever had. We don't ever find any record of her teaching. And yet she is known in church history as the mother of Methodism. Unfortunately today, as we know, the mainline Methodism This church is not what it was years ago, but she's known as the mother of Methodism because of John and Charles Wesley. We sing the hymns of Charles Wesley many times. There is a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood. We sing these glorious hymns. You see, she raised two young boys And in the 1730s and 1740s, John and Charles Wesley, along with their best friend George Whitfield, preached across England. They were kicked out of the Anglican church. And they went out into the fields and preached to the coal miners. And there was a great revival that took place in England. And the Methodist Church was started out of that revival, and that revival in the 1730s and 1740s leapt the cross. The ocean and came to the colonies. And John Wesley preached in this land. And George Whitfield, the Calvinist Methodist, preached extensively. All across this country, he preached on the very field where the church my brother pastors is located. And there was a great revival in this country in the 1730s and the 1740s, and the founders of our nation in 1776, many of them Their lives have been transformed as a part of that revival when they were children. A godly woman who never preached a sermon, and yet she had an amazing ministry. And the fruits of our ministry are seen today. The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world? No. The mother who raises a child is remembered in heaven. It's far greater. We have before us today the account of a godly grandmother and a godly mother. Who raised the young boy and all the fruit of their ministry in raising that child. The first thing we would notice about Lois and Eunice is that they were women of faith. Paul says of Timothy, When I called for remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded in thee also. They had unfeigned faith. Now we know what it is to feign. Somebody feigns fainting. They act like they've passed out. Or someone feigns horror. It's to put on. It's to pretend. But their faith was unfeigned faith. It was genuine. It was real. It wasn't a pretense. It wasn't something just a show-off at church. It wasn't something that they had in public but lost in private. But they had true, unfeigned faith. You see, most people would say, Yes, I believe in God. Many would even say, Oh, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. But that's not unfeigned faith. That's simply the acknowledgement of our culture. But these women had true, genuine faith. In Hebrews we read that we're not of those that draw back to perdition. But unto those that believe to the saving of the soul. That's what unfeigned faith is. You see, it's one thing to say, Oh yes, I believe there's a God. Oh, the belt devils believe and tremble, we read Well, yeah, you know, I went to church as a child, and I grew up in America, and we're a Christian country. No, dear lady, dear men as well, do you have unfame faith? Do you have faith that is genuine? Do you have faith that saves the soul? These women were women of unfeigned faith. They were women of genuine faith. And we know what a fake is We've all or most of us probably at some time or another have been to New York and seen three thousand dollar Gucci handbags. I don't know why any handbag would ever be three thousand dollars or ten thousand, whatever they are On the street for twenty bucks. What a bargain. Last time I went to New York City, I looked everywhere for a ten dollar Rolex. And you can't find them anymore because they've stopped them from selling those. I know it's fake. I just thought it'd be fun to have one. And I met a police officer on the street and said, where do you buy fake Rolexes? And he kind of laughed When I was in Jamaica in the market, there were big boxes, I mean almost washing machine sized boxes. of Tommy uh Hilfinger labels. And they were the genuine Tommy labels. I don't know where they'd gotten them, but they were selling them And people would buy, they were all in these long strings, people would buy a 10-foot of labels, and then they would sew them in the shirts and sell them to tourists. Right? We all know what a fake is. Is your faith on faith? Do you have True, genuine, living faith. You see, that was the foundation of everything that Lois and Eunice did. They had faith unpretended, faith unfeigned. But not only that We find that this faith that Lois had was passed on to Eunice. It dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and in thy mother Eunice. And yet, that faith that was passed from Lois to Eunice was not passed on like the birthmark that I have and my son has. You see, Lois could not will faith to Eunice, nor could the blood of Lois infuse faith in Eunice. I had Christian parents. I know a lot of you did not. I was very blessed to be raised in a Christian home And yet it was appointed unto me once to die, and after this the judgment. And the truth, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish, applied to me. The faith of Lois, which was unfeigned, could not be willed to Eunice. The faith of your mother does you no benefit before the throne of God He must be born again. And both of these ladies, we read, had this unfeigned faith Without faith it's impossible to please him. We find also, secondly, that these women, Lois and Eunice, were women of testimony. They had the testimony. The Apostle Paul, in writing here, he's heard of these ladies. He knows they're genuine. He knows about them. Timothy, I know you have unfeigned faith in you, and I know it was in your grandmother. She's a godly lady. And I know it was in your mother as well. And then we read there from the book of Acts. That's Dr. Luke. Dr. Luke had also heard of their testimony. There was this young man named Timothy. He was a disciple, and his mother was a Jewish disciple. That believed. She had acknowledged that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the Savior of mankind. She was a Jewess that believed. But there's even more. Yes, Paul knew of her testimony. Yes, Luke knew of her testimony But where did these words come from? Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. God knew their testimony. It was God that inspired Paul to write. It was God that inspired Luke to write. These two women with unfeigned faith were known to God. They had a testimony before man, and they had a testimony before God. God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. You know, we often think of that verse and we apply it to someone who does great things in the community of the believers, who is a leader in some way. God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. That work and labor of love was demonstrated by Susanna Wesley. Don't devalue what you're doing, ladies. Don't devalue Taking care of your children. There's nothing degrading about being what we call a housewife. It is an honored position. It is a great task. It is vital to the Church of God. Don't let anyone ever tell you any different. These two ladies were not great in their outward works, but they had a testimony people knew. who they were, and knew that these were two godly ladies. In Titus chapter 2, Paul is writing to Titus, and I have often speculated and wondered if maybe Titus or maybe Paul had Lois and Eunice in mind. when Paul wrote to Titus, that the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith and charity and patience, the aged women likewise. That they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. Paul may have been thinking of Lois and Eunice when he wrote those words, because certainly they would fit that description But the last thing that Paul said there to Titus about the ladies was that they be teachers of good things. And that's the other thing we find here about these ladies. They were teachers. Look over to chapter 3 of 2 Timothy. You're just a page away. 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 14. Here Paul is instructing Timothy, and he says, But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of. Knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. You see, Timothy's father was a Greek Timothy's grandfather is not mentioned. Why was it that when Paul was coming through Lystra in Derby, he hears of a young man Who is a disciple who is well versed in the truth of God? Because these two women had taught them. And Paul says to Timothy, Remember who taught you these things? Listen to your mother. Is essentially what Paul's saying. Remember the things that you've been taught. Remember the instruction. Remember where this instruction came from. These two women were teachers. They were instructors in righteousness. They trained up young Timothy. It goes on there in chapter 3 of 2 Timothy. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Do you want your children to believe in Jesus Christ? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Never think a child is too young to hear you read the scriptures aloud. Ladies, when you're having your devotions, I know it's distracting to have a baby on your lap, but read the word of God to them. Let your children hear you pray. Let your children know the value of this book. It does no good to read to your child at night about a little caboose or the engine that could or I don't know what the children's stories are today. I'm thinking the ones years ago But read to them about a little boy who took a sling and slew a giant. Read to them about a little boy who was in the temple and God spoke to him and he said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. Read to them the fascinating stories from the Word of God. Read to them about a baby born in Bethlehem whose name is Emmanuel. Train up a child in the way he should go. And when he's old, he will not depart from it. These two ladies were instructors. They weren't professors in some great college. But they were instructors in the Word of God. They were teachers of truth. And what they were doing is simply following the commands of God. For if you go back to the Old Testament in Deuteronomy six And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thy heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Train up a child in the way should go, Proverbs 22, verse 6. And when he's old he will not depart from it. But you know what? Not only were these ladies instructors and teachers, they were women who knew God's word themselves. They were women of knowledge. Now, how do we know that? I won't ask for a raise of hands. I know most of our families are homeschooled families. But I can guarantee you that every one of our homeschool families can testify that there was something they had in school that they kind of brushed through And didn't really think much about it until the day came when they had to teach their own children that very truth. And this time they learned it. I see some smiles. It's time they learned it. Because when you're a student yourself, you didn't pay that much attention to it. But now you want your children to know this vital truth, which is going to lay a foundation for their education going forward and for their life. And you learned it better yourself by teaching it. You see, in order for these ladies to have instructed young Timothy in the truth of God, they had to be learning along with him. They had to be instructing their own heart. They had to be growing in their own knowledge of God, in their own faith. They were students of the Word of God, because you can never be a teacher of the Word without first being a student of the Word. These women were ladies of knowledge. They had engrossed themselves in the truth of God. They were hungry for the knowledge of God, and they passed that hunger on to a young boy. Named Timotheus. They were students of the word. They were people of knowledge. They had learned the truth of God. Lois and Eunice were not without trials. Wouldn't it be nice? Wouldn't it be wonderful if life never had problems? If we never had a trial, we know that life is not like that. Tim mentioned in Sunday school this morning that um that uh uh The I'm sorry, I totally lost my train of thought. I'll m I'll move on. I'll come back to that. But we our life is never without trials. We run into difficulties and trials. It would be nice if everything was smooth and easy. But it's not that way. Lois and Eunice had trials. Look back to Acts 16, the second text which we read this morning, the sixteenth chapter of Acts. And there we find in verse 1, then came he to Derby and Lystra, and behold, a certain disciple was there named Timotheus. the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess and believed, but his father was a Greek. Now it's just a little tidbit of knowledge that we're given there. It doesn't give us the full picture, but we never hear anything about Lois' husband. He's never mentioned. We can assume that he was probably dead, that he was probably a widower, or she was probably widowed. It is also likely that Timothy's father was dead. At the very best, he was alive and unsaved. But we find nothing more about him. And this is where I was going. My mind slipped me there for a minute. Tim was mentioning in Sunday school this morning that the men controlled everything. The men owned it all. The women, they existed, and they may have an inheritance, but the inheritance didn't come to them, it came to their husband. And he controlled it. And a good illustration of this is Ruth and Naomi. Because we find in Ruth chapter 3 that when Boaz is going to be the kinsman redeemer, there is a nearer kinsman than Boaz. And Boaz says to the nearer kinsman There's this piece of land which is Naomi's because it was uh her husband's, it was Elkanah's. But it doesn't really belong to her or Eliminix. It was it was Elimini Elimelex. Do you want the land? And then your kinsman says, Yes, I'll take it. And Boaz says, Yeah, but there's Ruth as well, and to get the land, you've got to marry Ruth. And he says, Oh no, I I don't want to pollute my own inheritance. So here we find that Naomi, who said, I went out full and came back empty, she had this piece of land. But Ruth is out with the beggars gathering grain. She possessed a piece of land, but she was penniless. Now, here we have Lois, who appears to be living with Eunice, and no man. So you have these two ladies who are basically single parents, probably in financial difficulty. They have all kinds of excuses to say this isn't right, to be bitter, to be resentful, and yet we find that instead they raise a godly young man. We find that the husband of Eunice is a Greek. Why did this Jewess marry a Greek? Could it have been that she basically had no alternative? The men are dead. They've got to have someone to take care of themselves. Now the point is this Everybody has trials and troubles. Sometimes our trials and troubles are of our own making. She may have chosen to marry outside of the family of Israel. They didn't let their problems stop them. They didn't let their difficulties stand in the way. They said, look, our first obligation is to train up this child in the way he should go. All that live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. We're all going to have financial setbacks and griefs and pains in our lives, but our children have to come first. Our children are the most important job that we have. But you know what the last thing is we find here? These two ladies were successful. They were successful. Job. Well done. Well done. Thou good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord. But Lord, you made me a woman I couldn't preach. You made me a woman and I never got to go to the mission field. You made me a woman and I wasn't a teacher. Lord, you I I didn't have great talents and all these things I could do. You raised godly children. You were a mentor to the young. You instructed them in righteousness. Well done, thou good. It's one of the greatest ministries that anyone could ever have. To raise children from birth in the fear and the admonition of the Lord. If you look back to the Acts 16 passage, And verse one it says, then he, that's Paul, Acts sixteen one, I'll give you a moment, sorry. Acts sixteen one, then he Came to Derby and Lystra, and behold a certain, look at the description of Timothy, disciple. What's a disciple? Well, a disciple is a student, a disciple is a learner. He's graduated from primary school and from homeschool. And now he's a disciple. The foundation was laid by godly women, and now he's a disciple. The disciple there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewish and believed, but his father was a Greek, which Timothy, which was well reported among the brethren. Remember what we said about Lois and Eunice? They had a testimony. Now their son has a testimony as well. Job. Well done. Verse 3, him, that's Timothy, him would Paul have to go with him. The Apostle Paul is looking for a fellow laborer. He's looking for someone to stand with him in the gap for souls. And Timothy shines. Timothy is the one that Paul says, yes, if I'm to have an assistant in the ministry of the gospel, that young man Who didn't have a father in the home or didn't have a believing father, but was raised by a godly grandmother and a godly mother, that's the one Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done, Lois and Eunice. You trained up a child in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. In 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 6, Paul speaks of Timothy's spiritual maturity. First Timothy four verse six If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the word of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained Paul says to Timothy, if you train them up and nourish them in the doctrine which you have attained to, that point of spiritual maturity to which you've come, the foundation was laid. And so I mentioned in our introduction that Susanna Wesley is known as the mother of Methodism because she raised two very godly sons. But I didn't mention Samuel Wesley. Samuel Wesley was the grandson. John Charles' father was also Samuel. But Charles Wesley had a son named Samuel. Samu Wesley is known as the Mozart of England. He was an organist, he was a composer, he was a godly man as well. And so, Lois, the grandmother of Timothy, Eunice the mother of Timothy, raised a godly young man. Here we find The truth of God spelled out for us, indeed. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. In Psalm 16, verses 5 and 6, we read these words. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. Thou hast maintained my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. Ladies, we thank you for your service to us. But we urge you in your service to God. We urge you to live before your children that life which becometh the gospel of Jesus Christ. To live that testimony day by day, to speak the words of Christ. to whisper in the ear of your newborn, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Ye must be born again. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for godly motherhood. We thank you for godly mothers now rejoicing at thy throne who raised us and taught us. Lord, I thank you for Sunday school teachers that I had as a child that instructed me in truth and in righteousness. Father, we thank you for our mother's presence today. We thank you, Lord, for the ladies among us that are mentors and instructors to the children. Father, we pray that you would bless them and encourage them in that ministry. Lord, that you would cause them, Father, to be a great witness and a great testimony for you. as they train up the children. Father, we pray for anyone here this morning that does not know Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that the gospel might reach their hearts, that you might break down every barrier, that your people may be willing in the day of your power. Bless us your people. Use us for your truth. In Jesus' name. Amen.