We have certainly been blessed here at Mission Bible Church in the past several Sundays Due to the excused absence of our pastor from the pulpit for a new knee, I've truly been blessed with Dr. Martin as he spoke here. They really enjoyed the extra time our family got to spend with his family, and I can testify of a truth, what a godly family they are. His wife just rolls with scripture. She knew the Word of God very well. And his daughters were well. They were solid. They were familiar with many of the theological points and arguments that we hold up to be true. They were not issues for them. They were like, oh yeah, we know that. They were just such a God glorifying family. And um Reverend McKnight and his dear wife Diane is his Diane correct. Have them here as well. You know, in football you have your first string quarterback, the starter, and then you have if the if he gets injured, you know, then you got your second string that comes in. So you got the third string today. So you'll uh you'll uh bear bear up with the uh infirmity of the servant today. Our message today frankly is about prayer. You know when a uh it's common commonly known, I suppose, among preachers that if you go into another man's pulpit in a different congregation, preach on prayer, because nobody's against prayer, right? That seems to be a safe topic. Uh we're not going to step on any toes there, right? There's no doctrinal divisions or denominational differences we might there. But uh actually today we're going to look at what Jesus teaches about prayer, and I was struck anew in this, that he gives us some examples of good and bad prayer Then that's kind of the spine of our outline. Two examples of bad prayer and uh one example of good prayer. You know, and it's actually worth listening to because he's on the receiving end of this I think he knows something about what prayer is, cause he's the one to whom you're praying, and so it's rather insightful to us as to what he hears. And I my hope is that this is going to fill in some gaps in your understanding. If you're a Christian, you've obviously spent time in prayer. You you know that. And I just really want to I've used this phrase fill in the potholes of your understanding and something. It's helped me to that end. And so I I try these on myself the first before I bring them out to you And so I do hope it sharpens your overall approach to what might be a routine approach to the potentate, sovereign of the universe, the Lord Jesus. If you're going to go talk to the President of the United States, pick your favorite president. How would you appear? How much preparation would you do? If you were to go before a Supreme Court judge, maybe on a case on your behalf. How much preparation would you do? They're nothing compared to our God. He's seen bunches of those come and go. Judges are nothing new to him. Presidents are nothing new to him. He governs the universe You're going before him. Hear what he says. Turn in your Bibles to Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to read verses 5 to 15. Please pay attention to these words The Sermon on the Mount. What we read in the responsive reading was the Sermon on the Plain. Jesus spoke the same thing in multiple locations. This is the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew chapter 6, beginning in verse 5. And when thou prayest Thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father, which is in secret. And thy father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do For they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them. For your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. Amen. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father. Which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven Give us this date our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Thus ends the reading of God's holy word. It seems to me that God hears an awful lot of prayer, and an awful lot of it is bad. The blind man healed by Jesus got it right when he said, We know that God heareth not sinners. Consider these passages, if you will. Proverbs 15, 29. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. Job 35, 13, surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it. Psalm 1841. They cried, but there was none to save, even unto the Lord, but he answered them not. Psalm 35, 14, the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. Proverbs 1, 28 and 30. Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me. For that they hated knowledge. And did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my counsel. They despised all of my reproof. Proverbs 28, 9. He that turneth away his ear from the hearing of the law, I just don't want to hear that, even his prayer shall be an abomination. God has a lot to say about prayer in the Bible. And he hears a lot, and he says most of it is bad. You know, lack of adherence to God impacts our prayer, but so do our deeds. God through the prophets told Israel in Isaiah 1:15, When you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Do we shed blood unrighteously in this nation? One only needs need to think about abortion to consider that fact. Jeremiah 11, 11, Therefore thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon them which they shall not be able to escape. And though they shall cry unto me, I will not hearken unto them. Chapter 14, verse 12. When they fast, I will not hear their cry. And when they offer burnt offering and an oblation, I will not accept them, but I will consume them by the sword and by the famine and by the pestilence. You see, going before the God of heaven is not an idle thing. Because if it falls out the wrong way into you. It falls out really bad. Micah 3. 4, in closing, then shall they cry unto the Lord, but he will not hear them. He will even hide his face from them at that time. as they have behaved themselves ill in their doings. So the point is this, given most people on planet Earth are unsaved, It seems little prayer actually enters into God's ears. Here at the Sermon on the Mount in our text, Jesus addresses two common problems he finds with prayer. Isn't that nice? He boils it down to two common problems. And then he gives us the right way to pray, from which we learn much. Prayer problem number one. Prayer problem number one. Hypocritical prayer. He says in verse 5, and when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites. The implication is hypocrites pray. For they love to pray, standing in the synagogues at the corners of the street, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. And what I like about this is that the word hypocrite is the Greek word for actor. So when some Hollywood actor goes pointing at Christians, saying, Oh, you hypocrites, you can point back to them and say, Well, you should know you're a professional hypocrite. You're an actor! Because that's exactly what the word hypocrite means. Someone pretending to be that something they're not. Although in our Hollywood of today you wonder, are they really acting or are they really that evil? Notice their actions of the hypocrites that the Lord Jesus lays out for us here. They are standing in the synagogue. Now normally synagogues as you've gone through archaeological findings have lots of seats and they're kind of in a U shape because they sit and discuss. They're doctrinally they like to have a lot of doctrinal discussion. But this fellow, his posture, his posture is higher than others. Who are seated. Another place there they're in the street corner. What's a street corner? Well, if you sell real estate, you know a corner of prop corner of real estate has more value. It's got more traffic. In fact, you've got twice the traffic down that road. You can be seen by people going this way, and you can be seen by people going that way. Hey, hey, look at that tall guy standing over there in the corner. He's praying He has a lot of visibility. What's his purpose? To be seen of men. That's why he's out there. And the simple question is really obvious, is prayer meant to be seen? Or is prayer meant to be heard? Street corners are kind of noisy. So their prayer is hypocritical because it's pretending to be prayer, but in fact it's meant to be seen and it's not lost on God. He gets this. Job twenty seven, verses eight and nine says this, What is the hope of the hypocrite? Though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul, will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him? Hypocrites before God don't get anywhere. And Christian, when you pray Are you directing your prayers at another? Speaking for effect? If so, you're only fooling yourself. And this is not a task we should take lightly, but let's consider how Jesus corrects this common problem. In verse 6, he says, but thou When thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray. Now, notice how different this is. No one can see you. You don't even need fancy clothes. You don't need a loudspeaker. You don't need a bullhorn to be heard over the noise. In fact, all of that is shut out. To be sure, Jesus is not against corporate prayer. Don't use this to try to justify that. Prayer is made collectively by the church in the upper room and the opening Chapter of Acts it says these all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. Collective prayer. There's nothing wrong with that. Jesus is not against this. Matthew, Jesus himself said, Again, I say unto you, if two of you shall agree on earth, touching anything that they shall ask That's prayer. It shall be done of my Father. He's assuming there's a couple of believers praying together. He's not against that. Jesus is refuting the hypocrisy which is to be seen But here's the key. Whenever you pray, you must enter into thy closet and you must shut thy door. What's going on here? Well, I think that closet is referring to your mind. A state of mind. Shut out the world. Focus on the Lord. Men may be present, but you're not speaking to them. Pray to thy father, it says, which is in secret. You've got to enter into some closure. Observe, pray to thy father. He doesn't say pray to Mary. He doesn't pray to he doesn't say pray to his mother, who's a picture of the church. Why would you do that? This type of prayer is thus only for watch it now. This prayer is only for born-again believers. They can't pray to their father because they don't have him as their father if they're not born of God. Right. If they're not adopted into the family. It's thy father. The father of the unregenerate is the devil. Next we read, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Now, we would expect this verse to say, thy father which heareth thee in secret, but notice the flip side. They're doing it to be seen of men. And using their mouth, but you're going in secret to be heard, and God says, I see that. I see it that. Of course he does here in secret. He can, he does. Here Jesus is making a contrast to the problem of hypocrisy, scene of men or scene of God. In other words, do you understand who you're showing up before? Do you know who you're showing up to? And to present your petition? You think he can't see? He that formed the eye, can he not see? The result is obvious. God repays the man's ways back upon him. For the righteous he gives beyond our gift. Our prayers in secret, focused on the Lord, we're shutting out the world. We're thinking seriously about what is it I'm going to say to this great God. I don't want to come into this flippantly. And thus our reward is open for others to see. You can declare. I prayed to the Lord and look at how he answered me. Hallelujah. Amen. But for the hypocrite, their prayer is open to men. And so their reward is in secret. What is their reward? Well, with their public speech Their reward is that merely a few people were impressed. Hey, look at that guy over there. Yeah, okay, keep going. That's it. That's it. Problem prayer number two Repetitive and vain prayer. Matthew 6, 7 says, When you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. You know, you've heard of seven, eleven songs, the same seven words eleven times. Well apparently there's seven, eleven prayers, too, the same seven words eleven times. Praying the rosary, the Roman Catholic priest tells him to go over three times. Pray a Hail Mary, five of those. Whoopee! Jesus says, don't do that. You know, consider this from God's presence for the moment. Okay, you're supposed to come to your father. Alright? Imagine your son comes to you reading words off of a printout he got from a website O builder of this house, Lord of my life, provider of my food, grant me chicken tonight. And he repeats it a couple of times Oh, builder of this house, lord of my life. I'd say that's not how my kids talk. Mine would say, hey Dad, how about T-bones tonight? Sounds good, son. That's exactly what I was thinking. Are you praying to your father? Who are you talking to? You have to wonder why do they use vain repetitions? Jesus is basically saying much speech, they think, equals much hearing. Why might they take that approach? Frankly, because they don't believe God's their father. They really don't. Because they won't talk to your father that way. There's no relationship between them and God the Father. They're taking a they're not born again. They're taking a flash mob approach to the kingdom of heaven. They're kind of like the UAW workers picketing on the line. We want more money. We want more money Like that's how they're going because there's no relationship. It's not their father. They're in some other kind of structural relationship. They're repeating some chant to get what they want. Jesus says, Matthew 6, 8 6 8 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things you have need of? Before you ask him, I'm quite sure our brother here and our sister can look at their son as he's squirming and they look at the clock and they say, Yeah, he's going to get hungry in about five minutes. Let me go warm up some food or let's bring it along. They know. They don't have to wait for him to squawk. They know. Amen. Why is this when it says your father knoweth what things you have need of? Why is it we're not like the heathen with a vain repetition? Because your relationship to God is better than you think. He knows what you need. He knows what you need every day. Every week. Every event, major and small events in life. At all times. He's not asleep, he doesn't slumber. You're not going to catch job at an empty desk. You're not going to catch God at an empty desk, I think I said that right. Thank you. He knows long before you showed up he's on top of his game. He's not surprised. He's basically not surprised. And I have a challenge for you. If you have a Roman Catholic co-worker who you happen to be sharing some distressful thing, they say, I'll pray for you. Now I'm not saying you're literally going to be this harsh, but you might want to consider, don't even bother, because God ain't listening to you. You're praying to Mary. That ain't gonna help me. Thank you for that consideration. I appreciate your offer, but don't bother because you you're not born again. You've got to be born again before you can pray to the Father, and your prayer is basically vain I mean, if you want, you can go pray this tree out here. You know, that'll do you about as much good. So speaking of telling the truth, now we need to turn to Jesus' instructions and expectations for prayer. And now we look at the right model. The prayer for us. Our prayer. Some basic observations. Technically this is actually the disciples' prayer, because we read in the responsive reading, the disciples said, Teach us to pray. So this is the prayer for the disciples Jesus' prayer, the Lord's prayer, is in John 17. That's where he's praying to the Father, if I want to be technically correct. But we understand what's meant by the Lord's Prayer. It's the Lord's instruction to us. Some basic observations, and I want to break it down in a hopefully simple manner. Notice how short it is. It's six brief sentences. It's to the punchline. It can be memorized. Notice how Jesus introduces it. He says, after this manner. So this is not a magic formula. It's a template. It's a model. You don't need to repeat exactly these words every time, but it is a model that has components and elements to it. An architect can give a model for a house. And that same architectural blueprint can actually be built many different ways. But fundamentally it complies with that blueprint. Jesus and others in the New Testament will give additional instructions concerning prayer. For instance, in John 14, where he says, the Lord says, if you shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. We close our prayers. In Jesus' name. That's not specifically mentioned here. So there is some additional information that is given in the New Testament. But let's look at this template for the moment. And notice the first is how we address God, which is our Father. Good prayer is addressed directly to our Father, or like manner. It's not to be addressed to the big guy upstairs. It's not addressed to the big man. It's not addressed to Mary. It's not addressed to Mary, Queen of Heaven. It's not addressed to Uncle Harry or Mommy or Daddy or a departed saint or loved one that's gone on before. You don't pray to them. Jesus says, no, you need to pray to our Father. Why? Relationship. You don't say, hey God, if you're there? I think that might be excusable once for the sinner seeking God. But as I recall when the thief on the cross turned, he didn't say that. There wasn't any doubt in his mind. Lord remembers me and thou comest my kingdom. Call him Lord. God is telling his children how to address him. And notice he reminds us that he is in heaven. We are coming before the highest court of the universe. There is no higher court. And he then follows it with, hallowed be thy name. It's no fool's court. He is holy. All of heaven is very well aware of it. Isaiah saw this when he had the vision in Isaiah 6 at the death of King Isaiah, saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the Seraphim's type of angel. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy. Holy is the Lord of hosts. It didn't say faithful, faithful, faithful, though he is faithful. It didn't say merciful, merciful, merciful. The chief characteristic God has is that he is holy. He cannot countenance foolishness. People say God has a sense of humor. No, he does not. The foolish shall not stand in thy sight, God says. He is not a fool. We try to make God out like us. God has a sense of irony because he repays man's ways back upon our own head. And when he does that, we find that to be funny. God's not finding it funny, he shall laugh when their calamity comes upon them. And the point is this, we should really take more thought about how we address God. Yes, he is the Lord God. He is the omnipotent, the sovereign. potentate of this universe, yet he is our father. Consider this, as a parent How would you teach your adopted children, because that's what we are, we are adopted in the family of God, to address you? If Angela and I were to adopt children, we did investigate that at one point, but it became very difficult because most of the agency says, well, if you Adopt this child, you cannot swap them. And we will visit on a regular basis to see if you've used a swatty stick and we'll take the child and private and ask. And we said we can't we can't adopt under those terms and conditions We do discipline our children to instruct them in the right way, not abuse. How would if I were to adopt children, would I tell them to address us as Mr. and Mrs. Cluth? As sovereign homeowner? I am. As the benevolent grocery shopper? You are. As the great giver of wonderful gifts at Christmas time? How would I tell my adopted child to address me? This is mommy and this is daddy. You can speak to us. Though I am in a greater position than I are. Even so he tells us we must address him, Heavenly Father. Now, as a side note, for the theologically minded ones in the midst, we do have the Westminster Confession of Faith and its standards as a substandard in our church. And I will announce that I do take, and I believe we ought to take, a exception to one word in the larger catechisms, question 190 that says Matthew 6, 9 is a petition. I don't believe this is a petition. Hallowed be thy name. I don't think we're asking God to make his name holy. I believe it's a declaration. Hallowed is thy name. So it's really not a petition per se. Their scriptural support behind that concept is biblical. There's nothing wrong with that. But I wouldn't call it a petition. So I do take a little exception with that. Their analysis otherwise is sound. What is the first petition or the first request is this one. Matthew 6. 10. Thy kingdom come. Brethren, this is the point that hit me. This is the most powerful request you could make. Think about it You've got a heavy load on your shoulders. You come to the Lord God and you say, Lord, thy kingdom come. What if He answered the prayer right then and there at that second? Amen. You're good. That's the trillionth time I've heard thy kingdom come, and I need a trillion of those before I usher in the new heaven and new earth. Granted! And the kingdom of God comes. An everlasting kingdom of righteousness. There's no more pain nor suffering, nor tears, nor sorrow, and you have a new resurrected body It never dies. What further problems would you have that you would want to have answered? What further request would you have made of? It's all fixed. Thy kingdom come. What if he answered that right away, right then and there? You know, all the elect would be saved, the fullness of the Gentiles brought in, Satan's kingdom and dominion plundered and put down, the church fully converted, you have a new heaven and new earth, no more sin, no more pain, no sickness, no enemies Death itself is conquered, you're a co-regent with him, new spiritual bodies full of vigor, strength, boundless energy, and you're a son of light. Right there. So my point in the prayer that Jesus is teaching you is get right to it! Don't beat around the bush! Go big! Go big! Because he's your heavenly father and he controls it all. Hallelujah. He can dispense it all. He don't need to go small. You know, Joe goes big when he says, you know, I'm sitting here thinking, well, if we got a few, maybe a hundred thousand, we could get a piece of apartment. Joe's like, no, I want the Lord just to have somebody give us a building. That's going big He's a big God, and it's a light thing for him to delight his children. Go big. Just get right to it. Jump way out in front. You see this in Corinthians. If any man love not the Lord Jesus, let him be anathema, Marinatha. Just cuts him off Revelation 22, surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. You just jump right to it. You can go big with God. I mean really, if you're going to a big I don't want to use a worldly phrase, but a sugar daddy that you know is kind of generous, you can ask for something a little extra. Think big Thy kingdom comes. Second request is the will of God. Second request, Matthew 6. 10, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now, if the kingdom doesn't immediately appear, you might want to pause a little bit when you say thy kingdom come, just kind of wait to hear the crack and a few angel trumpets, because you might hear it But if you don't, the very next best thing is thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. The next best thing is God's heavenly will to be done on earth. Now what might that look like? It's the will of God that's done in heaven that that might be done here on earth. Well Nebuchadnezzar the king learned this when he was greatly humbled. He said, All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven. Among the inhabitants of earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? If God were to fully treat earth as he does heaven, only the righteous would be left standing. He would reign and rule supreme and omnipotent The devil fully cast out, none would be present to complain. What if heaven's status were immediately implemented here on earth? Next best thing. Yet, our God's will for his children on this earth do include a brief season of suffering to refine us, to purify us. Corinthians says our light affliction. He calls it a light affliction. Apostle Paul was thrice beaten with rods and sticks, thirty-nine stripes save one in a shipwreck in the deep, perils of false brethren, perils of all kinds of perils this guy was in. He gives a laundry list of them Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. So the application I would ask is this are we subtly making requests that are along the lines of, My will be done? As opposed to thy will be done. Can you sincerely ask the Father that his will be done? Well you I don't know what his will is. Well you might want to look it up before you go to him in prayer. You might want to prepare a little bit Would you be content with his answer if he says, Yes, I will have my will done in my life? Can you praise the Lord Jesus, not my will but thine be done? Third request, daily dose. Give us this day, our daily bread. You know, God didn't bring us folks into a spiritual kingdom to starve us in the wilderness. That was the complaint of the Mixed multitude that came out of Egypt. You've brought us out here to starve us, and our soul loatheth this light bread. David said, I've been young and now I'm old, but I've not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. It is a light thing for God to physically feed his children. And I submit to you that's not what you're praying for here when he says, give us this day our daily bread. He knows you need physical food. You don't need to ask him for that If you turn now to our responsive reading, keep your finger in Luke 11. Excuse me, Matthew 6, turn to Luke 11 because I want you to observe something. There's a reason I chose that. In addition to being the parallel account, it also has some instructive insights that are helpful to us when we consider this business of God giving us daily bread. Did you notice his emphasis in verses 9 and 10? It was encouraging us to ask, expecting our Father to answer. Luke 11, 9 says, I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek and you shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you, for everyone that asks receives, and he that seeks findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. There's an encouragement there. He says, Yes, there is an answer. You seek, you beg. But notice verse eleven. He says, If a son shall ask, what bread of any of you will he give him a stone? So Jesus is making a simple comparison to a son asking a parent for food. He specifically mentions bread that's not idle. Now pay close attention to Jesus' explanation of his little analogy here in verse 13. He says, if ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts, Bread, egg, fish, good gifts unto your children. How much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? You're asking for spiritual bread, folks. That's what you're asking for. He compares the request for food in context of the prayer daily bread to a request for the Holy Spirit. This is what Jesus would have us request. Food that's appropriate for a born-again individual. It's not the first time Jesus talked like this. John 6, I am the bread of life. He said, He is the living bread which came down from heaven. He said it's the spirit that quickeneth, that gives life. The flesh profits nothing, the words that I speak, and to you, they are spirit and their life. He said in Matthew 4 to the devil, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. That is your life. You live by that. Ask God to open up the bread of life to you today. Because it's a sealed book to many. So we're to ask God to give us his spirit, to illumine our minds to truth in his word, that we may feed our souls richly on what he says. You remember the time when the disciples got in the boat and Jesus said, Beware the leaven of the scribes and Pharisees? And they reasoned among themselves, oh, it's because we haven't taken any bread. And he has a little boatside chat with him and says, fellows, do you remember when I gave the bread, multiplied the loaves and the fishes and how many baskets you took up? How is it that you do not understand that I spake it not unto you concerning bread, but that you should beware the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees? He's talking about doctrine. This is the bread of God. This is how Jesus speaks. Mark says, without a parable, speak he not unto them. So this is what Jesus is talking about. Christian, would you want God to answer that prayer? Does your time of Bible reading seem confusing? Perhaps you might need to ask God for your daily bread, spiritual bread, that he's going to break it down for you. Don't go to some internet preacher. Don't go looking this thing up. If you're preparing a sermon, don't go run to the commentaries. Go to God in prayer. Lord, open this thing up to me. And give him time and give your mind time. Give it time. God will answer it You see, in the same sixth chapter of John, as he's talking about him being the bread of life, he says, it's written in the prophets, they shall all be taught of God. You're taught directly with God. Why? Because he's your father. And he teaches his children. First request, forgiveness. Forgive us our sins as we forgive our debtors. This requires homework before you come to him, because if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. In fact, a few verses earlier in Matthew five, the Lord Jesus says, If thou therefore therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way first, be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer a gift. It requires a bit of homework You've got a little bit of thinking to do. Now Jesus is not teaching unilateral forgiveness here. Just as there are conditions when God won't forgive, say, to lack of true repentance. When someone truly repents and asks our forgiveness, we're to forgive them from the heart, promising not to bring it up again. Luke 17, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him He's not encouraging unilateral forgiveness. You can go to the Father. Lord, somebody has sinned against me grievously. I pray that you might grant that there would be opportunity for him to repent and believe and to turn. Also, I would point out that Jesus doesn't say, pray to his mother to ask me to forgive you. He doesn't give you a different channel. to avail yourself of that request. That would be gender dysphoria. Such idolatry is not found in the house of God. It says if we confess our sins, he, not she, is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. It's a He that forgives sins. Hallelujah. Psalm 32, verse 5, David said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgave us the iniquity of my sin. He prayed to the Lord not to Mary. And by the way, when they talk about the Roman Catholics Mary, they're not talking about the Mary of the Bible. Don't get that confused. Because the Mary that they speak about is somebody totally different that the Bible doesn't recognize. She's not the mother of God. She's not the queen of heaven. She's omnipotent. And the Mary of the Bible is definitely a sinner. Because she's declared it as such. The Mary of the Bible has other children. So the Mary they're talking about ain't the Mary in your book. You might as well call her Beatrice I I know you might like that name, but I'm just picking uh picking uh wait uh uh uh uh Jezebel would be a better name to call her, right? That would be more appropriate. And then we get to our fifth request. Turning back now to Matthew 6. 13. The fifth request. Deliver me. Deliver me. The presumption is that God's people are going to need deliverance. He says, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Don't be surprised if you find yourself in need of deliverance. He says, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom. Now I take this to mean, Lord, please don't get really angry with me. For instance, Jeremiah 11, 11, I will bring evil upon them, though they shall cry unto me, I will not hearken unto them. It was one of the opening verses I read. What does this request look like? Well, I think it can range from, don't let me be a reprobate before your judgment throne. Hebrews has some stern warnings like that. Please pardon my iniquity. Don't bereave me of my children. Basically, don't give me anything I can't handle, I think is what we're praying to the Lord. Because you see, it's appointed unto us. To suffer affliction. It is given unto us on his behalf, not only to believe, but also to suffer for his name's sake. And we're praying to the Lord, oh Lord, don't give me more than I can handle. Please help. The Apostle Paul applied this part of the disciples' prayer to Timothy. In 2 Timothy 4. 17, listen carefully how the apostle applied this. He said in 2 Timothy 4. 17, notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, dot, dot, dot, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory for ever and ever David made these kinds of petitions as well. He said in Psalm 79, 9, Help us, O God, of our salvation, for the glory of thy name, and deliver us, and purge away our sins for thy name's sake. Our sins can lead us into a mighty big batch of trouble. It can put us into a pretty deep hole. Psalm 143, hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear to my supplications, and faithfulness answer me In thy righteousness, and then listen to this, and enter not into judgment with thy servant, for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. O Lord, if thou shouldest mark iniquity, who should stand? There's a respect that we're speaking to the sovereign potentate who also happens to be our father. But you can't lose sight of either role. Jabez, the prayer of Jabez in 1 Chronicles 4:10 has a very similar statement Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, O that thou wouldest bless me indeed, enlarge my coast, that thy hand might be with me, and listen to this. And that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me. And God granted him that which it requested. Give me what I can handle. Give me what I can handle. Even Jesus practiced what he preached. He himself prayed that way in John 17. He says, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Even Jesus himself prayed the Father that way. He told his disciples, pray that you enter not into temptation at the Mount, at the Garden of Gethsemane. When he rose up from prayer, he came to his disciples, found him sleeping for sorrow, and he said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye what? Enter into temptation. There's a prayer. There's a prayer there. It's not wrong to ask God to spare you from great evil. Frankly, we should ask it every day. I have a habit when I pull the car out of the garage in the driveway, I stick it in park. And I pray, Lord, give me a safe passage down the road. Amen. This is as n nutty and crazy as the roads are around here. Little boy gonna jump on his bicycle, go play, oh Lord God, give me a safe trip on this basketball, on the on the on this on this uh bike ride. Mm-hmm. Go play basketball. Go give me a safe trip on uh playing on the court. I mean I could break a leg or something I also routinely pray that God would forgive my family's sins. It's the role of a father. That would bring great uh evil to me if one of my children was caught in a grievous sin decide to fool around with drugs somewhere and then I'll discover as our poor brother in West Virginia discovered. A brother that had a drug problem and happened to get a hold of some laced with just a little too much fentanyl. And took him out. That's grievous. That's grievous. Pray, pray for forgiveness of sins. It concludes with a note of adoration as we wrap it up here. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Prayer isn't always about requests. It's not always about requests. Take the time to praise the Lord for who he is, and we indeed should. We need to remember, hey, I came last time, I asked you for this. Thank you for that answer to prayers. Yes. We don't need to always come with a to do list. We should come back with a prayer praise report as well. Thank you, Lord, for answering this. Wouldn't you want your children to do the same? Hey Dad, thanks for taking care of this other thing. Hey, I want to tack on something else. That's how I teach my kids. You always say thank you to your mother. That's how I teach 'em. Yeah It's interesting to note that this is Jesus' second reference to his kingdom, for thine is the kingdom. The first was thy kingdom come. You know, by mentioning his kingdom again, it nicely bookends the prayer. We start with a request for thy kingdom come and it says, For thine is the kingdom. What does that effect have? I believe it's included so we can depart from this presence. Back into this dark, filthy, confused, sin-cursed catastrophe of a world. With confident knowledge that we are members of His eternal kingdom. This world is not our home. It's no friend to grace. It doesn't know forgiveness. You screw up on the job, you'll never get forgiven. You have one customer write a bad review, they ain't coming back. There's nothing you can do to get them back, practically speaking. You know, this portion of Holy Scripture I would like to observe, straight from the mouth of the Lord Jesus, Is wrenched directly out of modern translations without warrant. It's just not there. What treachery some academic reprobate hath wrought. It comes from the blessing of David to the Lord in 1 Chronicles 29, 10 and 11. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. For all that is in heaven, in the earth is thine, thine is the kingdom, O Lord. Thou art exalted as head above all. And by omitting these God-breathed words, they break God's model prayer. What happens when you mess up a model? When an engineer makes a prototype, a model, a template, others design it around those critical elements. If you break one of those elements, it breaks the model. It will screw up the intended outcome. And I speak to those online. If you're a member of a confessional church which subscribes to the Great Reformed Confessions as their substandard, you will have to note your exception to the following The Westminster Confession, Larger Catechism 196, that point of doctrine, tanked if your Bible doesn't include the conclusion to the Lord's Prayer. Westminster Shorter Catechism No. 107. Remove if you hold a Bible that rejects that part of the Lord's Prayer. Heidelberg Catechism, World's Day 52, Question 128 and 129. Gone if you have a Bible that rejects that part of Scripture. And if you adhere to a counterfeit Bible like the ESV, you have to acknowledge there are in fact doctrinal impacts which arise because of it You can't subtract from the Word of God and not think there's not an impact. Alright, closing. Final application. I know I've gone long here. I tend to go long. All right. Three points. It's good Three closing points. The first is this, you know, we can all use some fine-tuning of our prayers to our Heavenly Father. Teaching people how to pray is something that the church has fallen down on a bit. The expectation is that, well, they know how to pray. Well, maybe they don't Maybe they've been a heathen with vain repetitions. Maybe they don't know how to pray. They might need to be taught how to pray, uh how to pray, and that's a useful thing to teach. Second point is that this template of our Lord strongly suggests that we mentally prepare before going to God our Father. I think it's a bad idea to just randomly pop off at some point, hey, would you close us in prayer? You kind of want to tip them off so they prepare, mentally prepare for it a little bit, even if it's just before the message. Now I've been guilty of that as well. And I don't want to commit that problem today, so I'm going to give the closing prayer today as I'm looking at some candidates that I normally turn to. We ought to mentally prepare before going to prayer and so I don't want to put a brother in harm's way by just, would you say some good words? The brother may be emotionally caught up in the message and just unable to to close. Amen. So that's a fine-tuning point. Point number three is this. I hope you got this much, folks. Treasure. I can't emphasize this enough. Treasure. This ability. To approach the throne of the God of the universe boldly. Telling you millions, millions can't you alone. Have that ability. He doesn't hear down. Follow the fourth point. Onus track. You have a loved one in the hospital, Christian, grandma, saved, saved woman. Let me tell you something about these old folks. What do they do a lot of? They do a lot of praying, don't they? Anna was in the temple, serving God with prayers. Doctor comes up and says, Well, we're going to have to intubate, we're going to have to put this in the throat, and then there's going to be all this lengthy rehab. Yeah, she's on life sustainment and you know, what what kind of quality of life is that gonna be? They go down that path. They're almost trained to read this script. You come back and say, all life is quality. I want her prayers. She needs to pray. She's been before that throne many a time. She knows how to pray. That's nonsense. If it's life, it's quality. Don't pull that plug. It's nonsense. Let's close in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, please grant thy kingdom be greatly expanded today through the ministry of thy most holy word. Bless thy people to that end. In Jesus' name. Amen.