Turn with me this morning to 2 Samuel chapter 17. A couple of weeks ago when we're in 2 Samuel chapter 17 that David had fled Jerusalem. His son Absalon is not content with just Take him the city Jerusalem and and declaring himself the king, but he wants his father dead, his father had fled, and we pick up uh with his father now out in the wilderness. outside of Jerusalem. In chapter seventeen and verse fifteen we have uh some conversation going on inside Jerusalem. Uh David has got some friends within the city walls who've been trying to look out for him and determine what the next plan is and uh what they're gonna do uh how they're gonna approach and kill David And so we find in verse 15 conversation with those who are with David, who love David, and they're inside the walls of Jerusalem. Verse 15. Then Hushai, that was David's Counselor, then Husai said unto Zadok and to Abiathar the priest, thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom And the elders of Israel. And thus and thus have I counseled. And if you go back to those other verses, you'll find out what the thus and thus were. They had two separate plans. Both thought their plan was the best. Verse 16. Now therefore send quickly and tell David, saying, Lodge not this night in the plains of the wilderness But speedily pass over, lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him. Now Jonathan and Hemaz stayed by Enrog And Jonathan and Ahimaraz, they are the sons of the two priests we just mentioned. Hushai is talking to two priests, uh, Zadak and Abyather. And Zadak and Abyather, they have their two sons out outside the walls of Jerusalem and they're they're being watched so they're they're gonna get the message to their two sons and then they're gonna carry it to David. Now Jonathan that's the sons And Ahimeaz, the other son, they stayed by Enrogal, for they might not be seen to come into the city. And a wench went out and told them, and they went and told King David. So the two priests, they can't even be seen talking I mean this is this is very covert stuff going on here. Nobody wants to get caught betraying Absalom or the be the And so the wench came out and she told Jonathan and Ahimez what was going on, and they went to tell King David. Verse 18 Nevertheless a lad saw them. Whether the lad was following the wench or whether he just happened to be there where the wench was telling uh these two sons of the of the priests. Be that as it may, the w The wench somebody was spotted here. And nevertheless the lad saw them and told Absalon, but they went both of them away quickly, and uh came to a man's house in Bahurum, which had a well in his court, with a They went down. They went down inside the well to hide. And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth, and spread ground corn thereon, and the thing was not known And when Absalom's servants came to the woman to the house, they said, Where is Ahimaz and Jonathan? That's the two sons of the priests. that the Hushai had been speaking to. Where are they? Where are they? And the woman said unto them, They'd be gone over the brook of the water, and when they had sought and could not find them, they probably turned the house upside down Looking for him. They could not find him. They returned to Jerusalem. And it came to pass after they were departed that they came up out of the well, and they went and told King David and said unto David, Arise Eyes and pass quickly over the water, for thus hath the Hithophil counseled against you. And then David arose and all the people that were with him, and they passed over Jordan. By the morning light there lacked not one of them that was not gone over the Jordan uh river. And when Ahithael saw that his counsel was not followed. Now this is really the first time we realize what's Counsel was followed. We have Hushai giving counsel not to go after David right away and to wait and gather all of Israel. And we have Hippophil saying, No, go after David right away And even Hushai doesn't know which way they're gonna go. And so Hushai has told uh the two priests, these are the two advices that were given. I don't know which one he's gonna choose. Probably the safest thing is just to get out of Jordan. Get out of Dodge. And so that's what they did. Uh and so when Hithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, now we realize which counsel has been followed, all right Uh Abishai, uh rather uh Absalom is going to follow the counsel of Hushai. But we didn't know that until this verse here. And neither did Hithoph And uh neither does David know. All he knows is that there's that Ahithopel has given counsel and you need to get out of And so he saddled his ass, he arose, and this is a hithophel when he saw his council and verse twenty-three was not followed. He saddled his ass, arose, and he got himself to his house, to his city and put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father. And then David came to Mahana And Absalom passed over Jordan and all the men of Israel with him. So here we got David. He does flee over Jordan. He comes to a city called Mahanaham. And then we find Absalom passes over Jordan in verse 24, and all the men of Israel with him. So he is, this is some time has elapsed. Maybe a couple of weeks later, and he passes over the Jordan. And Absalon made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab, which Amasa was a man's son Now we don't need to know all this stuff, but it's there because there's gonna be some place up Let me just say this that uh Amasah is the cousin to Joab. Alright, they're cousins. what we're finding out here. So David's got Joab as his captain of the host, and Absalom has got his cousin Amasa, or Amahasah as his cousin. So we got Two cousins could be fighting against each other. Verse 26. So Israel and Absalom, they pitched in the land of Gilead. And it came to pass when David was come to Manaha Brought beds, basins, earthen vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parch corn, beans, lentils, and parts plus, and honey and butter and sheep and cheese and So we got a lot of names here, and they're all very important. There is nothing in scripture that's not important. Every name recorded is important. And you're gonna find uh as I said here the two the two captains the captain of the host of Absalon is mentioned here and his relationship and who his mother was and the captain of uh the house uh or that is gonna be uh housing and protecting David is is mentioned here as well. And they're related, they're cousins. All right. Now we have other names here of men and give us a little bit of their background too Who come to David with beans and butter and barley and they're gonna feed him and they're all weary and they're tired and they're hungry. And those names are important too. to some of them as well today. I I titled the message Good Results. And and I have to say, what's the hardest part about putting the message together? I didn't come to up with a title. You know I just trying to find the title and sometimes after I I send it off to uh Bob and Bear for the Bulletin, uh I say that's not a good title. I don't like that title. Or I feel uh I feel uh engaged to try to make the message fits the title. And sometimes it fits it pretty well and sometimes it does not. So anytime you're listening to a message, you say you don't have a good title for that message, really would have been, I will not be insulted. You come and tell me a better title for that message of the message and uh maybe when it goes out on the internet we'll change it and uh or something like that. But title of the message this morning, Good Results. And I think that as we go through life, we're all looking for some good results You know that we see so many bad things happening. We're expecting so many bad things to happen. We really would like to see some good results. And we're gonna see some here today in what it looks like a uh just a horrible situation for David Just a horrible situation for all the people involved. And it's it's often that you read these stories and you go, what good came out of that? So I hope we see some of that this morning. In verses fifteen through sixteen, then said Hushai, that's David's counselor. Remember. And Hushai has gone back into Jerusalem. He's trying to figure out what Absalom's gonna do. He's gonna try to tell Absalom, no, don't do that, do this instead. He's gonna try to uh uh you know advise Absalom And so if I comes and he's already talked to Absalom, he leaves Absalom's presence, and he has heard what Hitham house to say as well And uh Hushai has no idea whether Ahithopel was going to carry the day or whether his advice is going to carry the day. So he goes to the two priests, Zadek and Abiat And he tells him what Ahithophil said, he tells him what he said, and he said, I want you to go and tell David. He said, Tell David what? He said, I don't know. Tell him that Ahithophel said this and I said that. I have no idea what's gonna happen I think the best thing is to tell David to get out of Dodge, get out of town, because who knows? Well, as it turns out, uh Absalom follows the advice of Hushai and Uh David would not have had to have fled that very night in the dark, uh you know, skiddaddle as it were, and uh tripping and stumbling and you know, breaking a toe maybe or falling down on a rock somewhere somewhere. He didn't have to. But he didn't know that at the time. Uh th there there's a there's a fretting about all this stuff. They have no idea. And so he just says to Zadek and Abiathar, I don't know. Tell David both things that I think the best thing is a I'm wrong. It's better to be safe than sorry. Tell him he needs to get out of there. And uh get out of the plains, lest the king be swallowed up and all the people who are with him King David. And so Zadek and Abbeat, they know they're being watched. They are the priests, and generally David was a man after God's own heart. And Absalom's no dummy. He knows that the priests, uh he he knows that the prophets, he he knows that the that the men of God would have David's heart more than Absalom's Absalons. So these guys are being watched. And they know they're being watched. And if there's any doubt, uh any question about a betrayal uh by the priest, uh and it goes back to Hushai, these three guys are gonna die. They're gonna And so uh they're they're very concerned and that the the priest and by the way these two priests if you go back just a couple of chapters back uh you'll you'll find that Zadok and Abiatar, they're really brave, brave men. These are guys of lots of courage. Oh wow, they're taking a chance of getting their heads cut off. No, they're they're bra they're even braver than that. When when you go back and you look at first chronicles fifteen, uh verse eleven and twelve, remember when they were carrying the ark out from the Philistines and they had it underneath New cart and the the the oxen stumbled and the cart started to fall off and and Uzzah jumped up and he he he stopped the ark from hitting the ground and God struck Uzzah down Wow, then nobody wanted to touch the cart. Nobody wanted to touch the ark. I mean, what what's going on here? It was just petrifying what God had done to a priest like Uzzah. And so finally, you know, David comes up, you know, we we should have had it covered with badgers. skins. It should have been carried on priests' shoulders with the poles. But now God is really angry with us and he says, look, we've got to move this ark. And he said No the priest who's is dead and God's really angry with us and and uh who's gonna be the first ones uh pick the ark up and move it again I mean we don't know what gonna happen here. We've got God angry with Israel. And it's Zadek and Abbey Arthar who say, Well we'll be the first ones. And in first chronicles fifteen we find that there's there's eight priests that step forward to do it. But Abbey Aether and Zadek, they're the bravest of the brave. They said, look, if God's gonna strike two more dead, we'll be there. And they Step in. So this is who these fellows are. They're two very, very courageous priests. And in fact, we find here that Zadek is called a mighty man of valor in 1 Chronicles 12 and 20. twenty eight. So they're not just some priests. You know, they're they're not like uh uh uh oh who is that fella used to be on in the mornings uh he was he was a Presbyterian minister, kind of a milk toast kind of a guy uh Mr. Rogers in the neighborhood, remember? Good good morning, Mr. Rogers and you know. They're not like these are these are men. And and very brave men they are at that, you know And uh so here they have it and they're they're gonna get the word out. And they know that they can die for this because they remember when the previous King Saul, when he felt he'd been betrayed By the priest in the city of Nob. He had a man named Dog kill all the priests in the city of Nob. In fact, the only one that would escape from there was the So Abiathar, he knows what kings can do, even to priests. So they're both brave men for stepping up like this. And of course if you remember the story His father and all them priests in the city of Nob were killed because they fed David, and they gave David the sword of Goliath and so forth. Don't you go out feeding David again and helping supply David, or you'll all die as well. No no doubt uh their lives are in jeopardy doing this. And yet Abby Aether, he is willing to die for King David as his father did die for King David. And uh that's I hope that gets you some idea here of Now they're gonna pass this information on what to two other priests or to two other guys who also might get caught and might die. No, they passed the information on to their sons. Wow. It's one thing to say, hey look, I might die, but I'm going to step forward and do this. But I'm going to I'm going to bring my son in on this deadly Mission and and now my sons might die as well, but that's what these two priests do. Zadak and Abiyathar, they're gonna do that. They want to involve their sons in the passing of the information on and it says it in verse seventeen that Jonathan and Hemaz went and told King David. So this is what the fathers do. They invite their sons into this dangerous dangerous Mission. And if caught helping David, they'll trace it back to their fathers, Zadok and Abbey Athert, they'll be killed, they'll trace it back to Hushai, he'll be killed And this is a dangerous mission they're on, and they'll probably kill the Wench as well, who's kind of the go-between here, all right? And uh they don't care if they're Levite priests, they'll be put to death What I want you to see here is the two priests, Zadek and Abbey, they go to Jonathan and him is and say, Look, I got a deadly mission for you. I mean the chances you're getting caught are pretty good. Absalom's got people scattered everywhere. And so you're you're taking your life in your hands, but I want you to do this. And what I want you to see here is that these two sons, what a relationship they must have had with their fathers to say, Dad, if this is that important to you, I'll do it. And if I die doing it, I die doing it. I mean to ob to obey a father Uh in such an order. What a relationship. And I just wonder fathers, uh what kind of relationship uh does your son have with you and and sons and daughters, what kind of relationship do you have with your mama Mom and dad and and you know with y relationships have to really be close or risk your life. And and we find that the uh we find those these relationships sometimes. I think what kind of relationship Isaac have with his father that he's going to lie down on the sacrifice and have his father poised over the night to sacrifice him. You've got to really love and trust your father. And so I asked him Is it that close? That your dad asked you to do something, you would do it? If it endangered your life, would you do it I mean if he has you to wash the car and rake the leaves, you get all bent out of shape, maybe, right? It's not a good relationship with your father. And so you see that Isaac and He had a great relationship with his father. And uh we also find Noah. Noah goes to his sons and he says, Sons, I've got to build this ark. It's gonna take me over a hundred years, and uh we're gonna get a lot of ridicule. You know, people are gonna be graffiti. And spray painting and ridiculing and throwing tomatoes at us. And I I know it's something, it's not going to be for one day. This is going to go on for a long time. Harassment and ridicule. Will you do it, son? And the sons love no. And they said, yeah. Yeah, whatever it costs, I'll do it. They had a great relationship with their father. And again, I said, what kind of relationship do you have uh with your father? Well, you want to talk about a great relationship in scripture with the Father? The Lord Jesus Christ. His Father says, I want you to leave your realm of glory and the angels. And take on a body of sinful flesh. He wasn't a sinner, but he took on this body of flesh that looks like sinful flesh. And and uh is a baby in a manger With diapers and throwing up and uh the things that babies do. And I I want you to be like that. And and and then as you go about Galilee and Judea for your father, I want you to then Be scourged, beaten, and laughed at and punched and crucified. And the Lord Jesus Christ's memories in the garden. He says if it be possible, Lord, let this cup pass from But nevertheless, Father, thy will be done. And again, I ask you, what kind of relationship do you have with your fathers? What kind of relationship do you have with your mothers? Children Children? Adults? We we all got fathers and mothers, some of us still. What what is that relationship? These two young men had a great relationship with their fathers, Zad and And Abby Arthur. And they would have done anything, no matter how serious and how deadly they would. And so, just as a starter for you this morning, Do you listen attentively to what your father has to say? Or attentively to what your mother's had to say? Do we do that? And do we want to be a Do you want to be a part of your mom and dad's life? Or can you hardly wait to get away from home and split up and go and and send a card every Christmas and that's it? You know? What is your relationship with your mom and your dad? Do you want that relationship? Do you want to be a part of their life? And will you do for them when they cannot do for themselves? Zadak And Abiathar could not go and tell David. They couldn't do it. They were being watched from inside the wall. They couldn't do it. But there were sons outside the wall that could do for their fathers what they couldn't do for themselves. And all of us here, as our parents get older, there are times when there's things they can't do for themselves. There there comes a time when maybe they're not allowed to To drive their car anymore. There comes a time when maybe they can't walk anymore. You've got to help them with the walker. And you've got to run errands for them. You've got to take care of their medicinal needs. Are you willing to do things for your father? parents or mother that they can't do for themselves. And that's what these men here were doing. And it was a dangerous thing that they were doing. Taking a stand for the king of Israel, David. And I'll tell you, this is a tough time to take a stand for the king of Israel. I mean this this was really a tough time to take a stand for the king of Israel. You know something? It has always been a tough time to Take a stand for the King of Israel, the King of the Jews. And many of you know right now as we sit here how tough it's getting all around the world To take a stand for the king of Israel. Getting tough, isn't it? Massachusetts, the churches are being told That they cannot preach this gospel anymore. It's offensive. And the churches are suing up in Massachusetts to be allowed to preach what is in the Word of God. Ohio, they're suing. The churches are suing because they've been told the same thing. California Same thing's going on there. Oh, it's only three states and they're so far away. It'll never affect good old conservative state of Maryland, will it? Ah, we're good. Okay. Just stick your head in the sand Come November, watch a lot more states being sued by their churches. It's never been a good time to take a stand for the king of Israel. This was not a good time for John. Jonathan and him as but they take it. We love to read the story of the church and how the reformers and the covenants took a stand For God, and they paid with their lives, and they paid with their house, and they paid with their property. Oh, what a time to be alive, and I'd have been with Locks, and I'd have been with you know these different great Luther, I'd have stood with them. Well, guess what, pilgrim The day has come and you get your chance. This not just this church, but people in here, you're going to get that opportunity. Franklin Gray and they're down there. They're they're suing in north in South Carolina because they're being told they gotta let transgenders in the bathrooms of uh was it Samaritan first? He says, No, you're not He said, Well we'll see about that. That's four states. I forgot there's other states. They're being told in these four states I've just mentioned that transgenders we must allow them In the bathrooms, in the churches. That's not going to happen here We have to we'll place a man at every bathroom in this church. I've already got a plan. Guy comes in dressed in such a manner and he says, Uh where's the ladies' bathroom? I'm gonna say it's full. I'm sorry, you know how ladies are a big long line? Yep, you're gonna have have to check there's a bathroom upstairs that anyone can use, go in that one. Well that one's full. Well we got a bunch of bamboo trees out here. Help yourself It's not gonna happen here. It's always been hard to stand for Christ But we ought to be like Moses. It says he esteemed the approach of Christ. Moses believed the Lord Jesus Christ. Wait a minute. That's the Old Testament. Christ doesn't mention the Old Testament. Well, yeah, they obviously knew that the anointed Messiah Messiah was coming. They just hadn't seen him yet. It says that Moses esteemed the reproach of Christ. That is that people would pick on him because he was a believer in Christ. The anointed one to come. He has seen the reproach of Christ greater riches than all the treasures of Egypt for the recompense of the reward. Moses said, Look, I love this anointed one that's coming This Messiah, I love him, and I esteem that worth more than all the reproach that can come against me. And furthermore, there's a recompense, there's a reward for all this if you stand for the king Of Israel, the king of the Jews. There's there's a reward, there's a recompense for it. Hebrews eleven and verse twenty-six. That is great. But we often don't see the rewards in this lifetime, do we? We oftentimes we take a stand for the Lord Jesus Christ, but we don't see the good results. We take a stand by the King of Israel, the King of the Jews, as as these priests here are going to do, and we don't see the results. Sometimes we do And I want to encourage this morning by the good results that we see here. If you look around, you can connect some of the dots and see some of the good results too. Now what were the good results here? That the that these two young boys, Jonathan and Am Maha Ahimahaz, it's kind of hard to say that name, Ahimahaz. What's the good results? Connect the dots. What have we got here? Well, when you connect the dots, and you go ahead to 1 Kings 1 and 13 39. We see Zadok, oh wow, what a great result he has here. He ends up anointing King Solomon. What a privilege. That's one of the dots that gets connected. And the son of these two kings, Ahimaz, 1 Kings 4. Verse 15. You know what the result is for him? He ends up marrying King Solomon's daughter. And you know why he marries her? You know why King Solomon's daughter wants to marry him as Because she's just taken back by the bravery of this young priest who would risk his life doing what his father wants him to do, and to warn her grandfather David, wow Who's this young priest that his father, the older priest, sent outside the walls of Jerusalem to warn my father to escape? Who's the guy that braved his life And and if he'd been caught, he'd have died, his father would have died, and Hushai would have died, and the windshire Who is this young guy? says Solomon's daughter. I want to meet the guy who saved my grandfather Father's life. And after she met him, she married him. That's connecting the dots. That's the good result that happened when we take a stand for the king of Israel. Good results. She thought highly of him. Have you ever taken a risk for Christ, the King of the Jews, the King of Israel? I tell you, when you take a stand for the king of Israel, people don't want to even stand for Israel today. Wow. But the king of Israel Israel, oh, they're definitely not happy about taking a stand for the king of Israel. And yet when you go through scriptures and you connect the dots, you see some good reasons Results. Uh you you find when you take a stand when you when you risk something for Christ, when you risk something for the King of the Jews, you'll find that it will endear you, it will endear Endear you as Solomon's daughter was endeared to Ahimaz to marry him. You'll find that when you take a stand for the King of Israel, the King of the Jews, for the Lord Jesus Christ, it endears you to some extraordinary people. Endears you to some extraordinary saints. I mean, think about it. Nicodemus takes the stamp of the Lord Jesus Christ and it endears him to John the Beloved. When you look through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, it's only John that talks about Nicodemus. But John is he is just infatuated with what Nicodemus does. One of the first Pharisees Do we judge a man before we heard him? I mean and and John records that on Nicodemus. And Nicodemus takes the stand for the kingdom Of the Jews, the King of Israel, for the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's written down in holy scripts, inspired in error, infallible. I mean, Nicodemus, he's there because he endeared himself to the Apostle John the Beloved So when you take a stand for Christ, it will endear you to some precious saints. That's one of the good results. You want other good results? Joseph of Arimathea. He wants the body of Christ. Take it down off the cross I want to give it a decent burial. Does that endear him to anyone? It certainly does. Matthew talks about it. Mark talks about it. And Luke talks about it. Rather, just Matthew and Mark. Matthew and Mark, they are just infatuated with who this guy is That would do that, provide a beautiful garden grave site for the Lord Jesus Christ. They've done something for Christ and it endears us to some godly saints The apostle Paul takes the stand after having persecuted Christians and put to death and made them blasphemy God's name, and he takes a full swing 180 degrees He becomes a preacher of the gospel of Christ. And who is he endeared to so much? Peter. If you look at the writings of Peter, 2 Peter three, fifteen and sixteen He talks about Paul as his beloved. And he talks about Paul's epistles and Paul's writings. And Peter calls Paul's epistles and Paul's writings scripture. Wow Nobody here has ever written anything that I would ever call Scripture. But Peter calls, Paul is writing scripture. He has done something for Christ. He's taken a position for Christ. He's taken a position that he loves the king of the Jews, the king of Israel, and it endears him to a saint named Peter. So have you taken a Risk for the Lord Jesus Christ, it will endear you to some extraordinary people in this world. You're missing out Ah, but the truth be known in verse 17 and 18. Nevertheless, there was a lad who saw them and told Absalom. Um Yeah, we see these little kids running around sometimes. Oh, aren't they cute? Aren't they adorable? If they're not saved, they lose their cuteness real young You know. They don't have their cuteness re This kid, he goes and tells Absalon, it can be the death of everyone here, Hushai the winch and though the priest. I mean this this kid has lost his cuteness This little lad. He goes and tells them. It reminds me of the of the four, I think it was forty-two lads and the two she-bearers in the days of Elijah that come out and destroy them because they're they're mocking the prophet of God God they're mocking the the taking up of the prophet Elijah. Go up thou bald head, go up thou bald head. Those young kids, those little kids, it says young children, they had lost their acuteness too We need to introduce our children to Christ at a young age so that they stay cute. Okay? So they stay lovable. And this guy This young lad, wow. He saw what was going on and he went and told Absalom. The world is out there and they are observing you They they are not only are they observing you, they are recording you on film, right? I mean there's not much right now that doesn't get by a person's life. The elections right now, oh my goodness, what's coming off the internet? They're finding it. The emails you write and you think you've gotten rid of them, they're someone else, they're they're out there on the cloud somewhere. People are finding and bringing them back and mess. People are recording conversations. I mean it's the and you know something? That's nothing compared to the absorb observation that Satan is making of us. He's better than Absalom's army who sent out the lamb And others to try and catch these guys. Satan, he doesn't miss much at all. And he finds ways of getting it out there to dirty and Sull'ames or to make it look like we should be dirty and sullied and to destroy whatever testimony we might have. He does not want These two young priests, Jonathan and Hemaz, to get the word to David. And Satan does not want us either. He observes us and he does not want us These young priests they've got words for David. And Satan doesn't want us sharing the living words with other people either, who are in the wilderness or who are in the darkness. He doesn't want them to hear the word of God And that's why we got churches suing in four states right now because they are telling them they cannot preach the whole council of God. Even children are watching. This lad was just a child. Even your children are watching you. You profess to be a Christian or a disciple? with Christ, they're watching us. Children are watching us. Your nieces and your nephews and cousins, little kids, they're watching us to see what what's this gospel thing all about? Are we genuine? Are we true? They connect the dots and wonder if it if it's all factual and worth worth being a Christian or not. The only thing that's going to save Jonathan and Himaz with this lad's information and with the observations that have been made, the only thing that's going to save them is the providence of God. You know, if you're sitting this morning and you're saved that God has touched your heart with a Bible verse or a message on the radio or TV or someone witnessed to you or you found a track, in the providence of God God, you've the track was there and you picked it up and you read it. The promise of God, maybe you heard a conversation over an aisle in a grocery store you weren't supposed to hear of someone quoting a Bible verse. And these two men, the Lord's gonna save them, but talk about the promise of God. We're gonna see this in verses 18 and 19. 19. It says that Jonathan and Himaz, they came to a house in Baharam, which had a well, whither they went down inside the well, and the woman spread a covering over the well's mouth, and spread ground corn They're on, and when Absalom's service came, they couldn't find them. First off, I want you to notice the unique places God has of keeping us safe. The unique places God has of protecting us. The unique places God's servants have found safety for one time or another from their enemies I mean lots inside a house surrounded by the sodomites that are beating on the house. And you know what says in Genesis 1911? These sodomites They couldn't find the door. How hard is it to find a door on a house? They couldn't find the door. God had blinded their eyes. God kept locking safe inside his house because they couldn't find the door. Boy, that has to be God. Some of you know some you The sodomites, they couldn't even find the door because God had blind. God has ways of keeping us safe in some of the most unusual places. Ahab couldn't find Elijah. Elijah had said it was gonna be a drought for three years or more, and he said out troops looking for him for three years. He couldn't find them out there in the wilderness. He couldn't find them. God can do that. God has ways to keep them safe in some of the most unusual places. Oh the baby Moses, what can we do to protect the baby Moses The Pharaoh hates him. I mean, where can we hide them? Where can we hide them? They hid the baby Moses in the arms of the Pharaoh's daughter. I mean I mean think about it. And Paul talks about the New Testament that there were the saints and Rome was persecuting the saints, you know, and so forth. And yet there were some of them that were hidden in Caesar's household. Philippians 4 and 2. Wow Innumerable are the repentant sinners who have found safety in odd places, but in the most precious place. And the mercy of Christ the Savior. They found mercy and safety being in Christ the Savior. Charles Spurgeon tells us in his lectures to his students of a man, a priest, a preacher that was fleeing the uh tormentors that wanted Protestantism destroyed. And he was running and he and he ran to a barn they saw him going to the barn and and by the time they got to the barn they didn't know if he went out the other back side of the barn or not so they started thrusting the hay with their bayonets and he was in the hay with the bayonets and they're thrusting it they and they actually pierced the bottom of his foot but dared not yell out at all. And they're thrusting the hay, they're thrusting the hay, they can't find him. And then they decide he must have went out the back. And And they set up camp in the barn. So they can't get rain on. That'd be okay. And they stay there for several days. And the man is inside the hay. No food, no water. This man's gonna dehydrate rate, he's gonna die on these hot days inside this barn under all this hay. Let's connect the dots. Let's see the good results Every day at about the same time, a chicken walked in the barn, past the men looking for the preacher, climbed up in the hay, and laid in Egg right by his hand. And the man got an egg every day, like the raven's bringing meat to Elijah. The chicken brought him an egg And he survived until they broke camp and left the barn and the hay. I mean, do we have a God that can save us no matter what The situation is or not. And have many of us here we can say that we have been a part of God's mercy. The big question is, Pilgrim, are you safely in Christ alone today I know many of you are, but is everyone here that safe? We uh we observe here Providence working in the Saving of these two young priests, Jonathan and Ahimaz. You say, Well, where's the provenance here? Let me let's connect some dots. Okay. They're being pursued. Point one. They noticed they were being pursued. You think that the king's men wanted them to know? No, they're trying to be subtle about it. But they noticed that they were being pursued. Point one. They run to a home in Bahuram And there's somebody home. Wow. Point two. Point three: the person in the home in Bahraam likes King David. Wow, because that's in the area of Kingdom Saul's neighborhood. And Bahraam, remember a few weeks back when the guy came out stoning David, throwing stones, he hated David, cursed David? He's from Bahram The people there don't like King David, but they stumble upon a home of someone who likes King David and their home. And they discover that these people like King David and They believe these two men who say, we're looking for King David, we're rooting for King David. Yeah, right, you are. Nobody around here is looking for King David, except the bad guys. No, no, we're the good guys. And they believe that these two men are the good guys That's point four. They believe that the good guys. And and point five, they had a well. How many homes had a well? And and point six, they had an idea. Go down in the well. We'll cover it up. And point seven, they had something to cover it up with. And point eight, they had corn, not just corn, but ground corn. I mean you throw corn on top of this, they might start kicking the corn off and see what's going on. But if a woman is sitting there on top of the covering with the ground corn and grinding more corn, they say, boy, she's been here a long time Look at all that ground corn. That that that didn't just get there, you know. I mean you just see you just see connecting all these dots. And they had time to get them in the well, to cover it up, to pour the ground corn out, to sit down and keep on grinding I mean, you we've got ten things going on here to make this happen. This isn't a coincidence or an accident. It's a promise of God when we are saved. We just oftentimes don't look back at all the dots that had to be connected To see how God has provided for our safety and our salvation. Good results when things like that fall in place. Obstructing Satan and obstructing Absalom from killing them, from killing their fathers, from killing Hushai, from killing the Wench. I mean they've only got they think these two guys are They think they know their names. They think, and they would then know their fathers. And they think the wench said something to them. But they don't know until they catch these guys just how involved everybody is. And so everybody is saved They don't kill him. And look how Satan and Absalom are stopped. They're stopped by a woman with some ground up corn. I mean I would have thought they'll be saved by spears and swords and arrows and slings and you know It's just it's a woman with some ground of corn. God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. Isn't it foolish that ground corn will save these two men? God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise and the weak things. You know, women are not to preach. Appreciate it. What Vince said this morning in Sunday school class. Women are not to preach, but they can get people saved who will. And they saved these two young preacher boys here And boy, after this story, they got something to talk about and something to preach about and the prominence of God, they certainly will believe in that, won't they? As they preach the gospel of Christ. Now note in verses 21 and 22, after they departed, they went and they told David, and David and all the people passed over the Jordan. Neither Hushai nor David knows that's council So, David, please. And I think pilgrims, sometimes we are so alarmed and we're freted about so many things out there, and we don't realize that the things are going on in our life, Christ has already taken care of them We're in a big panic and it's already been taken care of and David's in a panic. He doesn't know what the what the plans are of Absalom. He flees and I think sometimes we're running away. We're so frightened and we don't know. And so I'm here to tell you this morning that whatever's going on On in your life, trust his word. God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:9 Don't fret about so many things. And I do. I'll admit it. Sometimes I have trouble connecting the dots and seeing the good results. But I know I shouldn't, and I'm here to tell you, don't do as I do, do what the scripture says we're to do. Hithabel, who seeing his counsel was not followed, it says here he put his household in order and hanged himself and died. There are stories of people who commit suicide all the time, and it's bizarre what they do. The woman's gonna commit suicide, so she goes home, she does the dishes, she vacuumes, she gets the household straight and eat, she does her laundry, and then she kills herself. She gets her house in order And I want to say this morning that if you ever contemplated suicide, forget about getting your house in order. Get your soul in order. Forget about the house. Ahithophel was probably scared to death that his plan wasn't followed, and so David's in a win, he's gonna come and destroy Absalom And he's going to come looking for the counselor, Ahithophel, who did what? He consulted Absalom to go and lie with David's concubines and wives. That's not going to make David happy Then he counseled Absalon to go after David and kill him, smite him. And that's not going to make David happy. And so Hithophil says here, I'm done, I'm undone, I'm spent, I'm finished, what am I going to do? So he's going to kill himself. I hit this out. I hit this out. It doesn't have to end like this. I'm talking to anybody here is everybody I don't care what's going on in your life. Ahithe, yes, you counsel them that they should lie that Absalom should lie With the concubines, but why is it? Oh, that's bad. There's no question about that. And you're out there to kill them. No question, that's bad about that. But you all you need to do, Ahithophel. It doesn't have to end like this. Ahithophel, just repent to the king of Israel. Well that wouldn't work. It wouldn't work. No one understands more than David what it's like to take another man's wife and then repent and be forgiven. No one understands better than David what's like the killing is a man like Bathsheba's husband and repent and be forgiven. Ahithophel, if you've got to plead to anyone for forgiveness and repent, it's King of Israel, King David you will find mercy before this man. He has been there, he has done that, he understands. Suicide is not the answer. It doesn't have to end there. But he doesn't. He takes his life. You say here this morning, well I'm in a different situation, what I've done is different. from a hithophil and David's gone is different. Let me tell you something. The King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ, Isaiah 55, 7, he knoweth our frame. He knows what we're made up. He knew us when we're in the womb. He knows our frame. He remembers what we are but dust. Psalm 100. and three and verse fourteen. We're just dust, and he will abundantly pardon us, says Isaiah 55 and 7, and in 1 Peter 1 and 3. Things are never so dark that we can't find our way out through the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. And things were dark here. But look up. Redemption draweth nigh. Luke twenty one, twenty eight, and day David saw the redemption as he's fleeing out and gets out in the wilderness. In verses twenty four through twenty nine it came to pass that Shobi, the son of Nahash, brought beds and basins and barley and beans and butter and sheep for David David and the people to eat. In this bitter dark moment, this dreary disappointments that David was going through, comes a pleasant surprise Shobi. This is a good result because of Shobi. Shobi is the son of Nahash. Do you remember the story? Nahash dies, and David sends his men up there as ambassadors. for the funeral and what happened? Nahash's son, the new king, Hanan, he cuts off their skirts up to their buttocks, he shaves off their beards I mean, they're enemies. David is no longer happy with the Ammonites. And Shobi is the brother of the one who cut off their skirts and cut off their beards. But Shobi, God moves on the heart of Shobi. The son of Nahash, and he comes and says, Hey, my brother was wrong. It's despicable. My brother did. I'm not like my brother. I love the king of Israel. And here, beans and basins and beds and barley. What a pleasant surprise from a most unexpected source And oftentimes our most dreary disappointments are followed by pleasant surprises and and good results. Moses, what a surprise to the people of Israel when they're when Egypt has got them in bondage. Let my people go. Who said that? Moses? The Pharaoh said The son of the Pharaoh's daughter? Matthew the tax collector, what a surprise when he got saved. Matter Mario Hara, her son gets saved and repudiates, removed in the Bible From the public schools. What a surprise. And there's many more surprises. Many of you sitting here have surprised your family when you got saved, when Christ touched your heart. And there are more surprises coming. Oh, yes, there are Maybe there's one even here this morning who's our next surprise. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the history. Your story, Lord. His story. The story of Christ redeeming his people for thousands of years. Forgiving his people For anything and everything. Oh Lord, may we never be so dark, so dreary, so disappointed that we contemplate what Ahithophel has done. There is mercy. There is mercy at the feet of the King of Israel. There's mercy and grace at the hands of our God and King Jesus Christ. Oh Lord. There is always is hope. There's good results ahead. We just need to look up to the face of Christ to get them. It's in his name we pray. Amen.