Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the book of Titus and the second chapter. In our New Testament, we find all the T's together, 1 and 2 Thessalonians. 1st and 2 Timothy, and then Titus. The little book of Titus, only three chapters. And turn with me to chapter number 2. As you're turning, Brother Vince mentioned that 42nd Psalm, Why Art Thou Cast Down, O My Soul? I began this week preparing a message on the soul based out of Psalm 42. And I've got about About 15 pages of notes towards that message, and probably about 20, 25 hours of study into it. And someday you may hear that message. Or that message just may be for my own soul. Because I need to be preached to as well. And I thank you as a congregation for making it possible For me this week to go and simply be preached to. And uh next Sunday we'll have uh one of our other brethren proclaiming the word, so I will not have to be involved in sermon preparation this week and can simply be preached to. So pray for me this week. That the Lord will revive my heart, that I might come back here ready to preach again. If you have your place in Titus chapter 2, I'm going to read verse 11 through 15 of the chapter, Titus chapter 2, beginning with the 11th verse. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation Hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodly and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously And godly in this present world. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Let us bow for prayer as we begin our consideration this morning. Gracious Heavenly Father, I thank you for this. Packed short group of verses. Lord, I thank you for the blessing that this passage of Scripture has been to my own heart, the rebuke that it has brought to my own soul. And Father, I pray today that thy Spirit may indeed be the exegete, that thy Spirit might speak truth to these gathered. Through the stumbling lips of man, but O Lord, not by the lips of man, but by the word of God. Bless your truth to us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to draw five simple points out of this scripture. And we begin with the source of this great grace. If you look at the eleventh verse, it says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation at the pure Where else will we truly find grace? We talk about someone, he is a very graceful person. But the grace that man may extend to man really is transient. It is of little value. We may say that she is a very graceful woman, and we speak about the way she conducts herself or the way that she presents herself. Uh some of you know that one of my great weaknesses is I love old cars. And sometimes an old car is referred to as oh it's it's so graceful What a waste of terminology. There are no graceful men. There are no graceful women. And there are no graceful vehicles. But here we find that the grace of God has appeared to all men. God's the source, folks. If you're looking for grace from anywhere else, you're looking for that which is failing and transient and of no value whatsoever. But the grace of God has appeared to all men. God is the source. Look with me to the previous chapter, the first chapter of this short little book of Titus. And the introduction there in verses 1 and 2. Paul introduces himself, Paul chapter 1, verse 1, a servant of God, an apostle of Jesus Christ. according to the faith of God's elect and acknowledging of the truth, which is after godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God That cannot lie, promised before the world began God's the source there. It's in hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, oh, find a graceful man, and he's a liar. Find a graceful woman, and she's a liar. Find a beautiful car, and it's the worst liar there ever was. They never live up to your expectations. They always break down and leave you stranded. They rust and rot away. But folks, the source is God in hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie. Folks, there's not one of us among us, not one among us that's not a liar. Oh, we don't maybe tell great big ghastly lies. I won't even get into politics. These great, great fabrications But oh, how we lie with our appearance. We make ourselves look like something we are not. How we try to give an impression that's a little bit better than we know it is of our own selves The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? But this grace comes from God who cannot lie I might promise something, knowing that I cannot keep my promise. But this grace comes from God that cannot lie. And he promised before the world began. And we talked a little bit in Sunday school about the eternality of God. We cannot fully comprehend that because we are bound by time. The sun rises and we know it's day, the sun sets, and we know it is night. We all carry timekeepers of some sort. But this grace was promised by God who cannot lie before the foundation. Or f before uh before the world began. And so this grace, its source of s is God, and it's based on the unfailing promise of God. For by grace are you saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For as by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Moreover, the law endered that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace Did much more abound. And so, folks, Jesus Christ, God is the source of this grace Grace is the beginning point of salvation, for by grace we are saved. And grace is the end of our salvation, for by grace we are kept. To all eternity. Saving grace comes through the true and living God and the true and living God alone, for there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. But secondly, what are the blessings? What is the blessing that this grace brings? Well look again at Titus 2 and verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared. And then down to verse 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all iniquity. And purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. Folks, this grace brings salvation. And again to use our illustration from earth, you might find a man that is a very nice man, he's a very kind man, and you may say that man is very graceful, but he cannot save your soul. You might find a woman who is a very good person, but all the good she can do has no merit and no value before the throne of God. We might say she is full of grace, but without the grace of God she has no grace at all. And we won't even bring a vehicle into the illustration. But here, this grace of God brings salvation. It brings the one thing that man needs. You see, I need the grace of God more than I need food. I need the grace of God more than I need oxygen I need the grace of God more than I need clothes or a house or anything of this world because all the things of this world pass away. But the grace of God is the one thing that brings salvation. And folks, if I live to 105 years old on this earth and go to hell, what has it mattered? Or if my life had been snuffed out at birth, what does it matter apart from God's grace? You see, this grace of God brings the one thing you need. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. For by grace you are saved through faith. See, man has a problem. Man's problem is that he is born in trespasses and sins. As an Adam all died. Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, and I am their children, and you are their children. I am their descendants, and you are their descendants, and I inherited their sin, and you inherited their sin. And the grace of God is the only solution to my sin problem, folks. I cannot do anything about my sin by being good. Because there's none righteous, no, not one. I cannot do anything about my sin by giving money because I don't have enough. I can't do anything about my sin by being holy, for I am not holy. I cannot do anything about my sin by helping the poor, because there's just too many of them. But Jesus Christ did everything my soul needed. He made the perfect sacrifice And so this grace brings salvation. But what is salvation? Well, first of all, salvation is salvation from the penalty. The wages of sin is death. Because of Adam's sin, I'm condemned to death. Because of my own sin, I am condemned to death. But Jesus Christ died in my place. He went to the gallows. He hung on the cross. He died for me. And his grace has paid the debt of my sin. Salvation is not only that he died for me, but he removed the sentence of death. He removed the condemnation of death from me. But not only did he die for me and remove the sentence of death, he made me holy again. He made me righteous. He removed my sin so far from me as the East is from the West. Well, sadly, I still live in a body of flesh, and I still sin today. But he continually cleanses me because he paid for all my sins. Past, present, and future. Now we don't have time to go into all the theology there. It doesn't mean we're allowed to go out and sin at will. If we had that attitude, we've never met the grace of God. But he's paid the price. It is all done. But folks, there's more here in this verse than immediately Touches the eye. You know I love word studies and word etymologies. Verse 11 says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. The word salvation here is a very unique unique word. It's only used five times in the New Testament. Now in our in our English New Testament, we find saved and salvation a multitude of times But the Greek word that's translated salvation here is only used five times. And it indicates not the act of saving. But rather indicates the one who does the act. It's talking about Christ, folks. Let me show you some of the other five times that this verse is used, where it is used. In Luke chapter 2 and verse 29 to 32, we find the aged Simeon coming to the temple. And Joseph and Mary come in with the infant child Jesus. And semi in praise in Luke 2. 29. Now, Lord, letest thou thy servant depart in peace. According to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel And that's one of the five times mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Well, Simeon didn't see Christ on the cross. Simeon didn't see any of the ministry of Christ, but he saw the infant child, and he called that child salvation. And so what we're reading here in Titus 2 is so the Lord has made Christ to appear before all men. And then again in Luke chapter 3, where Luke is recording the ministry of John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Christ. And Luke is quoting from the Old Testament in Luke chapter 3 and verse 6. And Luke says, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. And it is again one of these five times that this particular word for salvation is found. All flesh shall see Christ. And then one more, in Luke chapter 28 and verse 28, Luke is recording the message that Paul is preaching. Paul was sent to the Gentiles. And in Luke, Acts 28, verse 28. If I said Luke, I apologize. It's Acts 28, verse 28. Be it known, therefore, unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and they will hear it. The salvation of God. Christ is sent to the Gentiles. And so we find first of all that it is God that brings this grace. And this grace is brought to us. The blessing of this grace is salvation. But the word salvation there is not a reference to the act of saving, but rather it is to the one who saves. And so the grace of God the Father, the grace that comes from God alone, has brought us Jesus Christ for our salvation. And so we see the source of the grace and what the grace actually is. But thirdly, what is the audience that this grace has reached? And look again with me at Titus 2 and verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. The grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Let's get a bit of context. Paul, who was writing this letter to Titus, was the apostle to the Gentiles. Titus, who was the recipient of this letter, was a Gentile. Okay. The grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Let me ask you a question. Has every man, woman, and child born on earth heard of Jesus Christ? No. In Christ's day and the days of the apostles when it said the gospel went throughout all the earth. Does it mean that every person heard the gospel? And so when Paul here is saying that this grace is appeared to all men, Paul the Apostle of the Gentiles And Paul was writing a letter to a Gentile. It is not talking about every single individual, but rather all peoples of all classes. You see, Christ was the Messiah of the Jews. And salvation was of the Jews and was given to and for the Jews. But we read there that uh in Acts twenty-eight and ch verse twenty-eight that Paul says, Now the gospel goes to the Gentiles and they will hear. We have a multitude of races in our congregation. Isn't that wonderful? Isn't that blessed? We have a multitude of ethnic backgrounds. We have a multitude of social work experiences and all different things As children we used to sing the song Jesus loves the little children, all the children of the world, red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the children of the world. Folks, I am very blessed to have about this much Jewish blood in my veins. I have some of Abraham's blood. I rejoice in that. When we realized that as a family, some of my aunts and uncles were horrified. But my branch of the family rejoiced. Hallelujah! But God hath made of one blood all peoples of the earth. And this grace of God Then in the Old Testament was to the Jews and to Arahab here and Ruth there and not Ruth but her daughter-in-law, Naomi there, to to a Gentile here and a Gentile there, a few and far between. But now it has appeared to all men There is no distinction by race. There is no distinction by ethnicity. There is no distinction by country of national origin. God doesn't care if you're blue with purple spots. He sends his gospel to all men. How glorious it is. Paul, writing to young Timothy in 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 6, says this: I exhort therefore, first of all, a supplication and prayers, intercession, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and all who have it who are in authority. Any kings here? No, not today. But that ye may lead quiet and peaceful lives in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God and our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God. And one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. Isn't that glorious? Who will have all men to be saved because there's one God and one mediator between God and men. Well but what about the Hindus? They don't worship Jehovah What about the Brascaverians in Jamaica? They worship Haile Selassie as their Messiah who's going to come for them again. Well, but what about the the people who uh worship the sun or the moon or or some other god that they've created? No, God would have all men to be saved. Those that were born worshiping their ancestors, those that were born worshipping a rock or a stone, those that were born in a place where they were taught. This religion or that religion or the other religion. No, God would have all men to be saved. Why? Because there is one God And there is one mediator between that God and man. And that one mediator is Jesus Christ, who is the one who is called salvation. in the same verse. And so the audience is to all men. There's not one of us here today who picked the family we'd be born in. There's not one of us here today that picked the nation we'd be born in. There's not one of us here today that picked the race we would bear. And we do not have the right to pick and choose our God. For there's one God and one mediator. So we see the source and the blessing and the audience. But fourthly, what is the lesson that grace has taught us? Well look at verse 12. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Folks, this grace is transformative. This grace of God will not leave a man the way it finds him. This grace of God will change you. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And if you are not a new creature, you have not been touched by this grace. That's right. You see, men may try to turn over a new leaf, as we say Men may try to change himself. Do you ever hear the expression? It's like putting lipstick on a pig. You can dress the pig up any way you want to. My mom used to tell me that when she was a little girl she had cats. And she loved to put her baby doll clothes on her cats. The cats didn't love it so much. But putting baby doll clothes on a cat doesn't change the cat one bit. And putting quote-unquote Christian clothes on an unbeliever does not change the believer But folks, the grace of God transforms. This grace that has appeared to all men teaches us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Let's take a few of these words and break them down. First of all, the word teaching This word teaching we find in verse 12 is also translated chastise. The same Greek word is translated teaching and is translated chastise. It's a disciplinary term. We find the word in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 31 and 32. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged But when we are judged, we are chastised of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. That word chastised in 1 Corinthians is the same word taught. We're taught by the Lord. He chastises us. He disciplines us that we should not be condemned. with the world. This grace brings discipline. And what is the root word of the discipline? Well the root word of discipline is the word pupil Okay, a pupil, a disciple. A disciple is a pupil, and a disciple is disciplined. The disciples of Christ were disciplined to the righteousness of Christ. And we as Christians, we as those who have been transformed by grace, are disciplined by the Holy Spirit into discipleship to Christ. He chastises us. He teaches us. People often comment that Christians are different from everyone else. Well, I certainly hope so. Because that they're not. They're not Christians at all. But this grace teaches us that denying ungodly lust we shall live holy and godly in this present world. And again we find this same word to teach or teaching or chastise in Hebrews 12, verses 6 and 7. For whom the law Lord loveth, he chasteneth, that's that same word, and scourgeth every son he receiveth If ye endure chastening, the second chastening, there's a different word in verse 7. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth you as sons, for what son is he whom the Father chastiseth, is our word again, not. What son is he that the father never teaches anything? Right? No, if he's my son, I'm going to teach him I don't want my son to run out on the road and get hit by a car. So when the little boy tries to run on the road, I say, no, no, you don't do that. And when he does it again, I say, no, you don't do that. And when he does it a third time, I have apply something to the seat of his knowledge. That he may learn. Why? Because I hate the child? No, because I love the child. And I want the best for the child. I don't want the child to have any harm. Whom the Lord loveth, he teacheth, he chasteneth. So that's the first where we need to to look there But the second word is denying. We read again in verse twelve, teaching us that denying ungodly lust. This word denying is also found in this chapter again. Look down to verses 15 and 16. The last verse I'm sorry. In in chapter 1. Pardon me. In chapter 1 Verses 15 and 16, the end of the previous chapter. Chapter 1, verse 15 and 16. Under the pure, all things are pure. Does that sound like denying ungodly lust? But unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure, but even their minds and conscience are defiled. They profess that they know God, but in works they deny Him. Being abominable, disobedient, and undo every good work, reprobate. They deny him. Okay, we have this word twice. We're to deny ungodly lust, but those that are involved in ungodly lust, they deny God. You see the contrast here? Either you will be denying the lust or you will be denying the God who says deny the lust. There is no fear of God before their eyes. You can go to a lot of scriptures about that. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. You see, this grace teaches us to deny the lust. And if grace had not taught us to deny the lust, we deny the God instead. You see, there's no middle ground between the two. It is one or the other. But there's more here. Because this word deny is also the word refuse. It's also the same Greek word as refuse. You understand what I'm saying there? In English we have the word translated different ways, but it's the same Greek word in the Greek New Testament In Hebrews 11, verse 24, by faith Moses, when he came to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Ah, Moses said, No, no, that's not for me. I serve Jehovah God. And so we as the children of God are to refuse or to deny. Ungodly lust. And if we do not deny the lust, we deny the God who said deny the lust. It is one or the other. And so to get more specifically, what is it that we're taught to refuse? Well, if we look at the verse again. It says, teaching us that denying ungodly and worldly lust. Or to deny the ungodliness of this world. Folks, it's all around us. We have no part in it. We have no place with it. We have no business being around it. Lot Day by day, vexed his righteous soul in seeing and in hearing. Doesn't say that Lot participated. Just says he saw and he heard and he vexed his soul. Oh folks, if we're truly going to deny ungodly lust, it's not that we don't get involved in them. It's that we have to pass away from them. We have to avoid the appearance of evil. We have to flee also youthful lust. We have to get as far from them as we can, because if we don't, they encroach on the soul. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How they how they that are dead to sin continue Any longer therein. Now the works of the flesh, Galatians 5, 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, lasciviousness, uncleanness. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envies, murders, drunkenness, reviling, and such like Of which I tell you before, as I've also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. Excuse me, quite a list there, isn't it? There's not much that's left out. The ungodly and worldly lust, the fallen, sinful nature that seeks men to fulfill his own pleasures, but the regenerated, the child of God, are not about seeking your own pleasures. but rather were about seeking the pleasure of God. Denying ungodly and worldly lust. But also, it says that the grace of God teaches us that we should live soberly. We're to live soberly in this world. Teaching us that denying ungodly and worldly lust, we should live soberly. That word soberly is another interesting word, and uh I I hope I don't I don't bore you with with all these word etymologies. To me, the the the heart of Scripture and open it up to our hearts and mind. This word soberly is the uh Greek word sophronos or sophronos. Do you hear anything there? Soph Wisdom? Sophomore? Yeah, a sophomore is a wise fool. He he he's a he's got enough learning to be to be stupid, basically, is is what we say about a sophomore Sopha, Sophia, the wisdom, the word wisdom. Well, this word uh lives soberly is sophronos It means live in wisdom. Be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. We're to live soberly. There's a cliff of sin over there. Don't get near it. Again, yeah, you know I love old cars. And I've been in junkyards different times when you walk up to a car and someone has written in the dust on the side window, bees Yeah. Because hornets love to build a nest in an old car. And you open the door of that car, you better run because they're gonna get you. Folks, there are dangers of sin all around us. And this grace of God, which has taught us to deny ungodly lust, also teaches us to live in wisdom. Don't go there. Don't open that link. Don't follow that trail. Don't watch that reel. It's a danger to your soul. It will lead you down a path that you don't want to go down. This grace teaches us to live soberly. The world doesn't have this kind of restraint. But the child of God is given this kind of restraint. See that Ephesians 5, verses 15 and 16, see that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time for the days. or evil. Philippians two, fourteen and fifteen, do all things without murmuring and disputing, that you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke in the midst of a wicked and cru and perverse generation among whom ye shine as lights in the world. This grace also teaches us that we should live righteously and godly. If you look down to verse 14, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify Probably every one of us this week did some laundry. Purify. To get it clean. That he may purify in himself. A peculiar people, zealous of all good works. We think of peculiar as being bad, as being, that's peculiar. We're a peculiar people. We're different. My dad used to hammer into my head, if the world is a round hole, you be a square peg. Don't fit in the world's Whole. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. We are to live godly and righteously. Jesus Christ is purifying to himself a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle that we should be holy and without blemish before him in love. You are the light of the world, the city that is settled in the hill, cannot be hid. The grace of God teaches us that we still live in this present world. Look again at the text. It says, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly. Righteously and godly. When we get to heaven? No! We're to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Right here and now. When we get to heaven, we won't have sin and temptation. But this grace teaches us that we are to live here right now. This is a faithful saying. And these things I will that ye affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. 2 Corinthians 5, 20. Now then are ye the ambassadors of Christ As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to the world. Indeed, we are the light of the world. And so we see that God is the source of this grace. The great blessing of this grace is salvation. We see that message has been given to all men of all peoples, tongues, nations, and races. We see that this grace teaches us that you're in or you're out. You deny the world or you deny Christ. One of the two. But finally I would show you the anticipation that this grace assures. Look again at the text with me And we'll start in verse 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify into himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. Remember how this book began? In our first point, I took you to the salutation of Paul. And in the second verse of the book, it says this in hope. of eternal life, which God that cannot lie, promised before the world began. Ah, folks, the anticipation of disgrace ensures And Jamaica is the same, of course, my home is in heaven just waiting for me. And when I get there, how happy I'll be. My home is in heaven, no rent to pay. My Jesus paid it, paid it all for me. We have a glorious anticipation We have a blessed hope. I may conclude all this by just reading from chapter 2, verse 15, through chapter 3, verse 7. Chapter 2, verse 15, and following. These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Your testimony. Put them in remembrance to be subjected to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready unto every good work. To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing meekness unto all men. For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lust and pleasures, living in malice and envy. hateful and hating one another. That's what we used to be before this grace. Verse 4, chapter 3. But after the kindness and love of God, our Savior toward men appeared Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. Which is shed on us abundantly through Christ, Jesus Christ our Savior. That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Let us pray. Father, bless this truth to our hearts. May the message of thy word today ring in our ears. Father, we thank you that you indeed have shed abroad this grace to all men. And this grace alone brings salvation to the soul. O Lord, may we deny the lust of this world and cling to Christ alone. In Jesus' name. Amen.