Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel. Chapter one, verses seventeen through twenty-seven. Those who have written commentary upon commentary in these particular verses refer to this as the lament Or the weeping of David. Or we know about Jeremiah, the book of Jeremiah, and then the lamentations of Jeremiah that follows. And this is the lamentations of David at the loss of his friend. Jonathan. Second Samuel chapter one, beginning at verse seventeen. And David lamented, or wept, or sorrowed. With this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan, his son. And also he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. Behold, it is written in the book of Jasur, a book we no longer have available. So apparently it wasn't inspired The beauty of Israel was slain upon the high places. How are the mighty fallen? Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ascalon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice. Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. Ye mountains of Gilboa. Let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor fields of offerings For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away. We read in verse twenty-seven how the weapons of war have perished, the men had fled, and they dropped their shields and their swords and their spears and Israel's basically unarmed at this point. The shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, and the shield of Saul as though he had not been anointed with oil. In verse 22. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jodh turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty. Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, pretty much to one another, at least. And in their death they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles, and they were stronger than the lions. Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who has clothed you in scarlet, with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. Saul had been good for the economy for Israel. Verse 25, how are the mighty fallen in the midst of battle? Oh Jonathan Thou slain in high places, and I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me And that love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. How are the mighty fallen and the weapons of war perished? Going through Samuel chapter by chapter and verse by verse. Great, great temptation to skip these verses this morning. Maybe come back to them another time. But as I read and prayed about it, I could not help but think that And all the months we've spent in the book of Samuel, God has brought me to these verses this morning. I title the message a little different. Many of the preachers title it The Lament of David. Some would title it Good Grief, like Charlie Brown. I guess there's good grief. I've titled it this morning, Great Grief, because that's what David felt at the losing of his friend. In verse 18, teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. And if we go back to 1 Samuel 31 and verse 3, we realize that What had really defeated them on the Battle of Gilboah was the bow of the Philistines. We read there in 1 Samuel 31 and 3 how the uh archers hit Saul with the arrows and certainly probably Jonathan and and certainly probably many of the the main guard around Saul. And so before the combat became hand to hand or in close as it were with spears and so forth, the arrows had done great damage. And so David has learned one thing from this Horrible loss. He has learned that he must teach the entire tribe of Judah the use of the bow that from a distance David would want that entire tribe to be able to prepare to fight the Philistines who could fight a battle very very well from a distance with their archers. And he did not want Israel, the army of Israel, to ever be put in the position again where they couldn't meet the foe, meet the enemy, blow for blow and weapon for weapon Uh the idea that America often we hear, oh we must disarm and we must get rid of this bomb and that bomb and this weapon and that weapon. It is such foolishness when your enemy has all of that And David would have everything that the Philistines had. And if the truth be known, we find that that uh Jonathan was very good with the bow. And that some of the Benjamites were very good the bow, especially those of the family of Saul. We read in 1 Chronicles 12 and 2 that that That Jonathan and his family and Saul, that they could with both the right hand or the left hand shoot the arrows out of the bowl and hit the target. The problem was it was only Saul and his family and Jonathan who had learned the lesson of the bow and were well equipped to use it, but not the whole tribe of Benjamin, and certainly not the tribe of Judah and the rest of Israel. David has learned an important lesson this day, that his people, Judah, and all of Israel, must know how to use the bow. They must be armed to the teeth to meet the enemy. And so from this day forward, from verse 18 and forward, every Jew who placed an arrow on the string of the bow. Would in memory remember Jonathan, who could shoot with the left hand or the right. Every time they placed an arrow on the string of the bow, they would they would remember it. It was a memorial to Jonathan How they must learn to shoot with either left hand or the right hand as well. And so this this lamentation of David, uh many recorded it and memorized it and repeated it for years and years and years that they not forget the name of Jonathan. Israel has a memorial that's still in place today, not the one of Jonathan here, but they have a memorial about Masada. And some of you know what happened to Masada in 73 A. D. , how the last holdout, the last standout against the Romans were about 960 Jews, and they went up outside of Jerusalem to a place called Messad. It's a very high mountain area and high, hard to reach. And the Romans had a great deal of trouble getting up there and and it went on for two years building a dirt and dirt pathway up to the top to climb over the walls and and defeat these Jews and when they got inside the next morning after for after months and months of building this rampart against the hold outs who would not surrender. Fearful if they surrendered that their toes and their thumbs and their eyes and how the Romans would treat them They climbed over that wall in 73 A. D. in the morning, and all 960 Jews had taken their own lives rather than be tortured by the Roman soldiers. soldiers that had taken so long to reach them. Today, still today, since seventy-three A. D. Still today, the Jewish armies meet on top of Masada when they finish their boot camp and their training, and they stand on top of Masada and they shout these words, Mashadah shall not fall again Masara shall not fall again. To this very day it is remembered from 73 A. D. It's much like in Texas when they said, remember the Alamo. Davy Crockett is dead. Jim Bowie is dead. But remember the Alamo. We will not let this happen again in Texas. And they never have. There are sometimes in history, in society, a term that causes us to remember and never to forget, and we have it this morning. on our communion table. This do in remembrance of me a memorial, not to forget our fallen savior on the cross At Golgotha. There are memorials worth keeping, worth repeating, worth remembering, worth teaching to our children. And so he says here in eighteen, teach the children the use of the bow. It's an encouragement for us when we've suffered a great loss to keep active. Don't sit down and mourn forever and ever. One must not allow such a great grief and brooding to overcome us to become the excuse for us to stop ministering and serving others. David said we could sit and mourn Jonathan and do nothing, but there must come a time when we start to use the bowl. String the bow, shoot the bow, get accomplish the bowl. There comes a time when we must become active again and not give up on ministering and serving others. And that is a great temptation. To just quit, to fall under a heavy blow, and to do nothing. We don't see that the men of God did nothing. Keep active after a great loss. Don't stop coming to church Don't stop praying, don't stop reading your Bibles, don't stop witnessing to others. When Moses died, we read about that in Joshua 1 and 2 that Joshua crossed over the Jordan into the promised land and begin to boot do his battles with the Canaanites. He didn't just sit down and brood over Moses and do nothing. When John the Baptist was beheaded, what happened next we find is that Christ continued his healing ministry and the feeding of the 5,000. When Stephen was stoned, what do we find there is the apostles and the disciples? It says they went everywhere preaching. Keep active after a great loss. When Jesus wept over the death of Lazarus in John 11 and 35. He didn't just quit and sit down that he lost the best friend from Bethany who often housed him and fed him and was of great companionship and of great Encouragement to him, but now that Lazarus is dead, Christ he wept, he sorrowed, he lamented like David, but he didn't quit. He went to the grave. He commanded the stone to be rolled away. He commanded Lazarus, come forth He prayed to the Father and he raised up Lazarus. Don't let sorrow paralyze you. Satan would have you to sing no more Satan would have you to sow the Word of God no more. Satan would have you to share not the gospel with anybody anymore. I found a verse that encouraged me in Job 29, who had not suffered great grief, but Job. And he did sit at a dunghill for a while, and he seemed paralyzed for a while. But as you read the whole story, you find that he gets up and he becomes active, he gets witnessing to those who come to counsel with him. In Job 29, 12 and 13, Job said When I delivered the poor that cried, when I delivered the fatherless, when I delivered him that had none to help him The blessing that came upon them that were ready to perish came upon me. Don't let sorrow paralyze your friend. You gotta keep on. Keeping on Because the blessing that we bestow on others as we continue ministering, it will come upon us. Does this mean that we just get over it? As some say, you gotta move on, you gotta just get over it. So do we just move on and forget about those that we've lost, like Jonathan and our beloved ones? No. Because in the lamentation of David, verses 19 and 25 and 27, he is, if you go back to chapter to the If you just go back to verse 12, where David has been he has been weeping, and David has been mourning, and David has been fasting and he has been praying and all the men with him. But by ch by verse 19, he talks about how the mighty have fallen So he hasn't forgotten Jonathan. And in verse 25, he says again, How the mighty have fallen. So he hasn't forgotten Jonathan. And in the last verse of chapter 1, he says, How the mighty have fallen So he hasn't forgotten Jonathan. We may move on. We may we'll never get over it and we'll never forget him The loss of a loved one. For most of us, something as close as Jonathan will be a one-time event. A one-time event. But you don't get over it. The pain remains. The loneliness lingers. Does God remarkably and miraculously remove David's grief? He does not. Does God miraculously remove our grief? He does not David's sorrow here is repeated three times in just this chapter, and there's more to be said about it throughout Samuel. How the mighty are fallen. For Israel is slain. How the mighty have fallen. For Jonathan, my brother Jonathan. This way, and how the mighty have fallen, and now the enemies of God will rejoice. He says in verse 20, Oh, tell it not in Gath, but the Philistines will. Oh, publish it not in Ascalon, but the Philistines will. Oh, if you publish it and tell it in Gath and Ashcalon, the daughters of the Philistines will rejoice. And no, no doubt they did. That Jonathan was dead. That Saul was dead, that the armies of Israel were scattered across the mountains. They dropped their swords, their spears, their shields. They are not only discomforted, but they're disarmed. They have no weapons. Did they rejoice? Oh, we can believe it. But David's cry, David's lament is that they would not. And as he thought and as he heard about it later, that they were rejoicing. and Gath, rejoicing in Ashlon, the women were dancing in the streets. One can only imagine the additional grief that had brought him at the loss of Jonathan. Can you imagine the great grief of the disciples of Christ? Some of them At least one or two were at the cross. Others had already fled, paralyzed, hiding up in the upper room. But we know that John the beloved was there. And can you imagine his grief as he's at the cross and he's hearing the elders and the scribes and the chief priests and Caiaphas and the Pharisees and the Sadducees mocking Christ as he's dying on the cross? Can you imagine that grief? And then can you imagine now the great grief that they as they as he observed this mocking? And we read that in Matthew 27, 41. But how about knowing how these Pharisees and Sadducees and Chief Priests and Elders that the mocking and the rejoicing would continue day after day after day after day where they rejoice in the streets that Christ is dead And that they would do this. John the Bluff must have thought at that time forever and ever and ever. Never. And how that must have grieved him. And Mary Magdalene. And so David laments David is so destroyed at the loss of his friend Jonathan and at the loss of the armies of Israel that in verse 21 he says the mountains of Gilboah, and that's where the battle took place on the mountains of Gilboah O ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain ever to fall upon you again. How could Gilboa betray Israel? Why was not Gilboa this the high place, this high mountain And and if anyone's ever been in the military, you know that you want to hold the high ground and Gilboa was the high ground. And Israel held the high ground. Saul and Jonathan were on the high ground. Gilboa, how could you betray my Jonathan, my Israel? We as kids would play king on the mountain, you know whoever started out on top of the mountain, he had quite an advantage of staying on top of the mountain. And if you've ever been in the military as you do uh uh reconnaissance or as you do uh tr uh combat practicing. It's it's always the the the idea is to try to take the hill. Take the hill. Gilboa was a mountain and and it didn't It didn't seem to provide the support. It was a disappointment to David that the mountain of Gilboah And for his Jonathan And in his lamentation, as much as he cannot stand that the the the daughters of the Philistines are rejoicing, he is he is so caught up in his grief that he wants to blame the mountain and an inanimate object And he wants to curse the mountain and he curses the mountains, that no dew or rain should ever fall on you again Where royal blood was spilt, no dew, no rain. The royal blood of Saul and the family of Saul, in the blood of Jonathan, let where royal blood has been spilt, no dew or rain fall upon you. It might seem strange to curse an object like a mountain. But the Lord Jesus Christ cursed a fig tree, didn't he? Because it was a disappointment to him. He came upon a fig tree and they were hungry and there were no figs on it. And God cursed it. And we read about that in Mark 11, 21, how it withered away. Are you a disappointment to the Lord this morning, Christian Pilgrim? We bear the name. Are we a disappointment to the Lord? straighten it out. Because there's a curse coming for those who have not turned their lives over to Christ, who've not repented of their sins. Prior to this battle We read in verse 22 again of the bow of Jonathan. The lament of David is just back and forth. Back talks about Jonathan. The bow of Jonathan and the sword of Saul returned not empty. That is, they seldom missed their target. Jonathan fired an arrow from the left hand or from the right hand, it struck its target, and stalled as well. They were both accomplished with the sword And when they swung the sword, it didn't miss or be de It wasn't deflected by a shield. The bow of Jodh and the sword of Saul returned not empty Saul and Jonathan in verse 23, it says that they were like eagles. They were swifter than eagles. They could swoop in on the enemy at a given notice, and they were stronger than lions. So full of courage were these two men who died together, father and son. We've said so much about Saul over the months, whether he was saved or he was not saved. It's notable that David here does not talk about the spirituality of Saul, but it's also notable that David is very charitable and mentions only the good of Saul. Never mentions his murderous assaults upon himself and the one attempt upon his own son. David in his lament, and as much as he is hurting, and sometimes when people are hurting, they reach out and strike out and they want to hurt others. But David, the Holy Spirit, has the control over him, and though he is hurting, he will not hurt others. He will not bring up some of the things about Saul that would hurt The tribe of Benjamin. David would rather heal the wounds between the families of the Benjamites and the Judites. He is charitable to the very man who tried to kill him on several occasions. Should we not be more charitable to those who have been less abrasive towards us? It boggles my mind sometimes the hatred I find between uh two people or towards two families or or clashes or between uh individuals, and I'm saying, what have they done to you? That there's there's there's this such animosity and there's just this lack of forgiveness. What have they done to you? Have they tried to kill you? Have they taken a shot at you? They throwing a knife at you? They tried to Tossed down in front of a moving car. What have they done to you? David, Saul had tried to kill him on numerous occasions, and he is so charitable People tell me they hate this race or that race or you know they they uh there's a hatred towards uh uh the you know the the those coming across our border illegally You know, I spent 23 months in Vietnam and I don't hate the Vietnamese. They killed my commander. They killed three or four of the men in my tent. I have no hatred for the Vietnamese people. They were just doing what their government told them to do. That's what I was doing. So within the household of faith How can we not be as forgiving and as charitable as David in our most painful moments? Keep the wounds Open. We don't want to do that between the families of Judah and Benjamin, do we? We need to be forgiving, charitable In fact, he says in verse 24, can you imagine here's Saul, who's been trying to kill David how many times? And in verse 24, he says, David says, Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul. And for no other reason, weep for the soul of Saul that seems to be a lost soul. as we read the scriptures. And he continues in verse 25 and 26. Oh Jonathan? I'm distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. The loss of a true friend. cannot be measured. A true friend tells you when you're wrong. Tells you what you need to Get straight, tells you when you're sinning. A truth man loves your soul. He's the gatekeeper to you Your soul. Oh Jonathan, I'm distressed. My brother Jonathan The more we love, the more we'll grieve the loss of a great friend. And I want you to hear here. But David hasn't just lost another buddy, another compatriot, another soldier. He's lost his soulmate. He's lost one who he knew prayed for him. Oh, do you value that? There are some folks here in this church, I know they prayed for me. Your loss would be so dear to me. And not that it all of you all. But to lose a friend who prays for you. David has lost that friend. The more we love, the more we grieve, and I know that. We look at at the death of Jacob. People grieved for 70 days in Genesis 50. Moses Uh when he passed away, Deuteronomy 34. 8 they grieve for Moses for thirty days. And this the this is the official grievement period. In fact, we have that in America, don't we? If a president of the United States dies uh Ronald Reagan they grieved for 30 days, John F. Kennedy they grieved for 30 days. We know that when someone uh le there's an official grieving period, whether people are really grieving or not, and these were official grieving periods Mary is weeping for Lazarus for four days. At the end of four days, Christ comes upon Mary and Martha, and they're still weeping, John 11 and 32. When Rachel's children were all killed in the day when Christ was born and Harrison our decree to kill all the babies two years in hunger, we find that Rachel great was her mourning and weeping for her children, and she could not be comforted Matthew two and verse eighteen. The loss of those we love causes great grief. And we don't expect it to go away like something miraculous. It's such a loss. It's a portion of your heart that is destroyed David says, Very pleasant thou hast been, Jonathan, unto me. Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. Jonathan's love here is compared to a woman's love, which is generally deeper than that of a man's. A woman's love is generally deeper for her parents, deeper for her siblings, deeper for her spouse Deeper for her children than her husband's love for the children. A woman's love is just something hard to surpass. And so he says your love has surpassed the love of a woman. And he's not talking about something here uh of physical intimacy and that you find uh liberals and apostates trying to say that there was something going on here between Jonathan David that was wicked or filthy or dirty, but it it doesn't jive. The context doesn't spell it out that way. And when in the days of Christ that the Old Testament was put in the Greek and Christ and the disciples would read the Greek, that was a common language in their day Although the Lord Jesus Christ of course knew every language, but you you go back to the days of Christ and we find that the Bibles they were using in Jerusalem at time they were in the Greek language and in the Greek language It says you're very pleasant, has no benefit to me. Thy love was thy agape, it says here, to me. It was a spiritual love that Jonathan had for him. The word there is thy thy agape to me was wonderful. It doesn't say thy eros or thyrotic uh uh erotic love or the filial brotherly love, but it says agape to me was wonderful. Pass in the agape or the spiritual love of any woman. Don't let anyone make this something filthy When you go through the the greeting Uh not just in the scriptures, but we talked about Jacob and the grieving for seventy days, Moses the grieving for thirty days, Mary and Martha grieving already forty days until the resurrection of Lazarus uh Rachel and the grieving for her children. You go through all you you go through the secular history of the grieving of Caesar Augustus, you go through the the history of the grieving of Napoleon, you go through all this And uh you go through look it up on your computer, look at all the time frames of grieving for this lost leader and this lost great individual, uh the the grieving over the loss of Billy Sunday, the grieving of the over the loss of uh D. James Kennedy. We go through all the grievings of all the people. And there's one that's missing. In all of history, we don't read of a great period of grieving for the Lord Jesus Christ. Why is it missing? Because he didn't stay dead, that's why. I wonder if the world has ever thought about it. If they read the view of Christ died and was buried and somewhere his body disappeared, the grieving would have continued. For at least four days, at least thirty days, at least seventy days like Jacob, or thirty days like our present. Why is there nothing in all of history that talks about the grieving of the disciples For day after day and month after month and year after this is not there. History is totally silent because Christ was resurrected on the third day It makes no sense for one soul beloved who healed and raised others from the dead and fed and cleansed the lepers. It makes no sense that there wouldn't be a grieving To this very day, if you stay dead. Maybe this morning you say, Oh I would love to have a friend like Jonathan. Well, can't you become a Jonathan to some If you don't have a Jonathan, can't you become a Jonathan to another? Can't you become a Jonathan to a brother? Can't you become a Jonathan to a mother? Here's a challenging one for you. Can't you become a Jonathan to your helpmate, your spouse? If you haven't got a Jonathan, be a Jonathan. And for you that don't think you have it, Jonathan, let me remind you Jonathan's love was wonderful. It says you're passing the love of women. And if you don't think you have a Jonathan, you do. You have a Jonathan in the Lord Jesus Christ. Is not his love wonderful? Is not his love for all who believe wonderful? Is not his love wonderful that he would love a creature? Is not his love wonderful that Christ would love a speck of dust, a piece of dirt, that's all we are? Is and in fact let me take it one step further. Is not his love wonderful that he would love You or you or you. I mean, maybe he would love her or him or them, but but that he would love you. Is that not wonderful? That's the love of Jonathan, and you do have it if you're a believer. And if you want to even make it more wonderful, the love of Christ for us is so wonderful that He not only came for us, but He died for us. Is that Even not more than wonderful? Is that love not more than Jada's love for us? Is that love not just wonderful? That love is a miraculous that Christ would die for dirt. For creatures, for sinful, dirty creatures. You have a Jonathan friend, if you have the Lord in your heart. That's a miracle. There's one other miracle to consider Verse twenty seven. We'll see another miracle. As we proceed with the verse. That we've seen twice already, how are the mighty fallen? Yes, even the mighty die. Everyone's gonna die. We're all sinners. Unless Christ returns, even the mighty will die. And most of us before we die, we will suffer the loss of a loved one And most of us will experience some great grief. Maybe a child you'll lose. A mother that's closer to you than a brother, you'll lose The friend is sicker closer than her brother, Proverbs 18, 24. You may lose one one, some that says he mourned as for his mother, Psalm 35 and 14. You may have a relationship with your mother like nobody else, you may lose your help meet. Genesis two eighteen The wife is your youth Proverbs five nineteen Some of you experience the loss and some of you have already the loss of the white Or the husband of your youth. Why does that hurt so much? Because what God has joined together is torn asunder. The scriptures tell us that we become bone to bone and flesh to flesh. It's great grief having a part of your flesh ripped from your heart. And how great would the grief be? How great would the grief be I'm told by those with great grief that the greater your love, the deeper your pain. That's a That's a frightening thought to me. The greater my love, the greater my pain. Pastors aren't superhuman And though Bob may believe it, X Marines aren't superhuman either. The greater our love. I am told the deeper the pain. First Corinthians 15, 57. Here is the miracle But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And he has promised us The grieving, the hurting, the lamenting, the sorrowful. He has promised us in scriptures not once, not twice. But three times this miracle recorded in Isaiah 25. 8, Revelation 17, or 7. 17, Revelation 21. 4. Here's the miracle that he has promised. Those with great grief. The Lamb. If you love the Lamb of God The Lamb God shall wipe away all tears from your eyes. No more death, no more crying, neither any more pain. And whatever you feel this morning or will feel someday, dear friend, I know someone, and if you know him and love him, he will wipe away all the tears. All grief wiped out, wiped out forever, out of your hearts and out of your minds. That's a miracle. And I'm looking forward to it, and I hope you are too Let's pray. Oh Lord. We know that everything we have is sent from above. So many joyous days, but the trials too. Job says it, shall I not receive good at your hand and evil? Blessed be the name of the Lord, O Father. There are times when Things come upon us and we want to turn and run from God. We want to blame God. We want to be angry with God. Give us a heart like Job to say, blessed be the name of the Lord. And when we do and when we can, he will in time bless us abundantly and wipe away all Thank you, thank you, Lord Jesus. Amen