Turn in your Bibles with you, please, to the Gospel of John in the 14th chapter. John chapter 14. I had not sung that particular selection from the Psalter for many years, and actually had forgotten it. It's a wonderful tune, but kind of high to sing out on right before you're gonna preach. So uh it's one of those ones that goes way up there. They didn't go down to the sea in ships that do business in great waters These behold the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep, is the King James for that first verse. Glorious words from the Word of God. That was one of my scuba verses. They that go down to the sea in ships that do business in great waters. These behold the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deed. If you have your place now in the Gospel of John, the 14th chapter, I'm going to read from verse 15. through verse 27. John chapter 14, starting with verse number 15. If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because I live, ye shall live also. At that day, ye shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me, and I in you. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him. And I will manifest myself to him. Judah saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord How is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him If any man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him, and he and we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and the words which he hear is not the word which ye hear is not mine, but the father's which sent me These things have I spoken unto you, being present with you. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost When the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be. Afraid. Let us bow for prayer as we begin. Heavenly Father, now as we approach Thy Word, We understand that your word is not understood by human explanation or by human wisdom. But rather, the Word of God is understood as the Spirit of God guides us into all truth. As the Spirit of God reveals Christ in the Word. As the Spirit of God whispers truth to the hearts of those that believe. And so, Father, may we see you today through thy word. And may we be taught by thy Spirit, and may we bring glory to thy Son. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The Holy Spirit of God. We have one God And yet our God has chosen to manifest or demonstrate, show himself to us in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. One God, and yet three. And that is a hard truth to grasp. And it is not understood by Some explanation that I could ever give you. And yet it is expounded in the Word of God, and it is believed by faith And if you were a believer this morning, you know it's true. Because you have fellowship with the Father. And you find redemption in Jesus Christ. You believed in him, and yet you know the leading and the working, the abiding of the Holy Spirit. My father used to refer to it as the mystical union. And that's a good way to put it. It is indeed a mystery, and yet it is not a mystery that is unknown. It is known by the people of God. This morning we're going to consider the Holy Spirit as promised here in Scripture. And yet the Bible does not set forth the Holy Spirit to be worshipped. Yes, he is worshiped in that we worship the triune God, and he is a part of that worship And yet the emphasis of Scripture and the emphasis of worship is not on the Holy Spirit. But rather the emphasis of worship is on the Son, it is on Jesus Christ and on the Father. And so Get ready to look deeply into the Word, but not see things you've never seen before Because the things we're going to consider from this morning are the old solid truths that we have known from God's Word. This is not a new revelation. or a new view, but rather a review of the matter of the Holy Spirit. Now, if you notice the title in the bulletin, the title is Grieve Not the Comforter. Because we're going to close our time this morning with the matter of grieving and quenching the Holy Spirit. But before we get there, let us consider the Holy Spirit. And it begins with a promise. It begins with the promise of the Holy Spirit in verse 16 and verse 18. of chapter fourteen. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. And verse 18, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come unto you. That word comfortless is the Greek words. You might hear the beginning of it. Orphan. It's where we get our word orphan from. I will not leave you comfortless. God says, I'm not going to leave a bunch of orphans. Christ says, I am leaving you, but you're not going to be left as an orphan. You're not going to be left alone or destitute. I will pray the Father, and He will send you another Comforter. He will send you the Holy Ghost so that you will not be orphanus. You will not be comfortless. You will not be orphans. And we find frequently that Christ referred to his disciples as children. If you look back to the 13th chapter, just across a page or so in your Bible, and verse 33, little children. Yet a little while I am with you, and ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come. Little children! I'm going to be away, but you're not going to be alone. I think most of us that have children at one time or another have said that. We're going to the store and granny's going to stay with you. Or we're going to be away for a day. But don't worry, you're not going to be alone. And that's what Christ is saying here. In John 21 and verse 5, Jesus said unto them, Children, have you any need? And so we have this glorious promise that the Holy Spirit is going to be given, and the purpose is that we not be orphans. That we not be without a comforter, that we not be left alone. Remember when Christ wept over the multitude in uh uh in Matthew 9 And we read in Matthew 9, 36, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as Sheep having no shepherd. Now it's not it's not the word comfort, this is not where faunus here. Don't misunderstand me. I like to bring in other words, and that's not what we're doing here. But it's the same idea. Christ saw the multitude and they were they were sheep and they didn't have a shepherd. There was no one that was concerned for them. There was no one that cared for them. They had no guide to green pastures. They had no protection from wolves. They were orphanists. They were they were they were left as orphans There was none to comfort them. But Christ here is telling his disciples at this very tender moment, little children, I'm going away, but I'm going to give you another comforter. Folks, it's a glorious promise. And again, when Christ wept over Jerusalem, he said, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Thou that killest the prophets and stonest those that were sent unto you. How often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathers her children I would gather together, let me read it right. How often would I gather you gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings? He said, I would gather you as a hen gathers her children and she gathers her chicks, but you would not But here Christ said, if you love me, you're my disciples. He said there in verse 23, if any man love me He will keep my words, and my father will love him, and we will come unto him. This is verse 23 We will come unto him and make our abode with him. And so our consideration of the Holy Spirit begins with a wondrous promise. Christ declared he would never leave us or forsake us. And that promise is fulfilled in the person of the Holy Spirit. Who dwells within the believer, who is our constant comforter. But that brings us to a second matter. The Holy Spirit is not without personality. The Holy Spirit is indeed a person. He is not just some mystical idea. He's not a ghost. We talk about the Holy Ghost, and that word has been appropriated from our biblical language. And so when men think about a ghost, they think about a disembodied spirit. That's not what we're talking about with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is indeed a person. He is the person. And so first we find the promise, and second, the person. Look in verse 16 and 17 of John 14. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. When someone abides, it's not just the idea of them being there. People say, well, I can't be there in body, but I'll be there in spirit. Well then he ain't there at all, folks. Right? Oh, I'll be with you in spirit. Well then you're not there. You're not abiding there. But the promise of the Holy Spirit is not that he would just be some idea or thought. But that he would indeed genuinely abide with us. Verse 17, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive Because it seeth him not. Have you ever seen a spirit? No. No. Have you seen Christ? Ah, I haven't had some vision of a 700-foot Jesus standing at the foot of my bed and telling me something. But folks, I've seen him Oh, I've been reading this glorious book. And there he is. I I see him I behold his face. And it's the same with the Holy Spirit. When we're studying God's Word, and the Spirit illumines our heart And illumines our truth. And yes, he is here with me. He is my teacher and my guide. And he's not just some thought or idea. He is my personal friend. This word comforter, we consider the word comfort less, which is the word orphanus or orphan. The word comforter is the Greek word paraclete. And um when I was a child I used to hear that and I would get parakeet, paraclete and parakeet confused. But he is the paraclete. That word paraclete or comforter means one who is called to the side for aid. It's a word that means an advocate. It's sort of like a lawyer who is called to the side of the criminal who's as guilty as he can be. And yet the the paraclete, the advocate comes alongside. But who is our advocate, folks? Well Jesus Christ the righteous is our advocate, and you see the evidence of the Trinity that it is one God, and yet there is overlap even between the three persons They have their distinct personality, and yet we find that in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth, and yet we come to First John, all things were made by him, by Christ, and and we find the Spirit of God moved upon the waters, and so we find all three persons active in the Trinity. There's one God, and yet three manifestations. And so here the comforter, his very name, the Paraclete, means one who is an advocate for my soul. One who declares truth to me. He pleads my cause. One who is in the widest sense my helper, my aide, my assistant, my succoror, and my friend. He has a personality. And so this Holy Spirit is indeed the third person of the Trinity. He is God, and He is one with God. Look at verse 26 of Matthew 4, or John 14. But when the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. Notice what you have there? You have The Holy Ghost, you have the Father, and you have the Son, all three mentioned in the same verse. The Holy Spirit is one with God. He is one with Christ. He is one with the Father. And He's always been God. He did not become God. But further, this person, the Holy Spirit, is the personal present representative of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 18. I will not leave you comfortless I will come to you. And further, we find that this Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and from the Son. This we find Uh in uh Matthew twenty eight uh and verse I'm sorry, in um chapter twenty six. I'll get it right yet. Chapter 15, verse 26. Next chapter over. My tongue is getting ahead of my brain here. Chapter 15, verse 26. But when the comforter has come Whom the Father will send in my name, even the Spirit of Truth which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me And so this person, the Holy Spirit, is God. He's always been God, and yet he proceeds from God the Father. Now that word proceeds is the same word that we typically use in monetary terms. You have an investment, and then you have the gain on investment, and the gain on investment is the proceeds And it's the same word. He proceeds from just as certainly as a spring proceeds forth into a river And you cannot distinguish between the water in the spring or the water in the river because one flows from the other So it is with God the Father and the Spirit. He proceeds from the Father, and He proceeds from the Son. He flows out. From God to God's people. And yet the water in the spring and the water in the river is one water. There's not a division between the two. And so he proceeds from the Father. He is the actual presence of God with his people. And so we have a glorious promise. And we have the person of this Holy Spirit. But consider this. In Matthew 4, in verse 4, it is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that Proceedeth out of the mouth of God. It's the same word. The word, where does the word of God come from? Well, it proceeds out from God. And so the Spirit of God flows out from God to his people. And then in Revelation 19, verse 5, or 15, out of his mouth Goeth a sharp sword, speaking of Christ in the revelation. And that word goeth is the same word precedeth. And again in Revelation 19, 21, and the remnant that were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the throne, which sword proceedeth out of his mouth? That goes out of the mouth. from his mouth. And what was it that Christ said, I will send you another comforter. He will proceed out to you. And so he's indeed a person. But what is the purpose of this Holy Spirit? What is the purpose of the Comforter? And this is an area which Is greatly twisted in our day for financial profit. I'm sure all of us have heard reports of great stadiums being filled with people that have come and if you just just have enough money and give a little faith Have a little faith and give it up money, you're going to be healed because the Holy Spirit's going to be here and I have the power to do this to that. And all the emphasis is placed on the Holy Spirit. But God's word is very clear about what the Holy Spirit will do and what his purpose is. We don't need to wonder. And so let's look at the Word of God. The first purpose of the Holy Spirit above all else is to testify of Jesus Christ. Look over to chapter 15, the next chapter from 14, where we are, in verse 16, verse 26. Chapter fifteen of John verse twenty-six But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father He shall testify of me. The Holy Spirit never testifies of himself. The Holy Spirit never draws attention to himself. But rather, when the Holy Spirit of God is truly speaking, working, and moving, he is always pointing to Christ. Look over to chapter 16, one chapter further, and verse 14. He, that is the Spirit, He shall glorify me. For he shall receive of mine and shall show it unto you. It doesn't say the Holy Spirit will glorify himself, for the Holy Spirit will originate something and show it unto you. But rather, Christ says the Holy Spirit will glorify Christ, glorify me, and he shall receive of that which belongs to Christ, and he shall show you what is mine. That is the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit glorifies and exalts Christ, not Himself. The Holy Spirit receives of, repeats the things of Christ. He's not the origin of the revelation, even though we find in Scripture very clearly The holy man of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Christ himself said in the passage you read, My words are not mine, but the words of my Father which I give unto you. The Holy Spirit was the conduit of the word. The Holy Spirit inspired men to write, but the word comes from the Father and from the the Son. And so he says that Christ, or that the Holy Spirit, will show you what I've said He'll bring all things to your membrance, but he's not the origin. Now why is that important to understand? I had a dream and the Holy Spirit told me this The Holy Spirit gave me this book to write down for you. This song, the Holy Spirit, you know, God gave me this song. Well I was No. No The scriptures came through the agency of the Holy Spirit, but they came from the mouth of God. And so the Holy Spirit is clearly defined that he will not speak of his own, but he will speak the things of Christ. He will receive of mine and show it unto you. This truth has been thoroughly thrown out in much of what is called Christianity today, but it's very important to understand. He shall receive a mind, and he shall show it unto you. The Holy Spirit's purpose is to teach us and bring to our remembrance the things of Christ. Look at verse 26 of John fourteen. But when the Comforter I've already mentioned this in passing, but when the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in when the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring to remembrance Whatsoever I have said unto you. The Holy Spirit is going to bring to remembrance the things that Christ has said. The Holy Spirit teaches us the meaning of what Christ said. And the Holy Spirit brings to remembrance the things that Christ has said. And further, the Holy Spirit will guide us into truth. This is in chapter 16, verses 12 to 14. If you want to turn over there, it's just one page from you. John 16, verse 12. Christ says, I have many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth. It doesn't say he'll originate truth, but he will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself He shall not speak his own message. He's not going to come up with this. But whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak. And he will show you things to come. And so the Holy Spirit is very clearly, at verse 14, he shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine and show it unto you. The Holy Spirit here is very clearly defined as the conduit of truth, as the expounder of Scripture. But the origin is from God the Father. For Christ declares that his message is not his own. He received his message from God the Father. And then the fourth purpose of the Holy Spirit is that He will reprove the world. And this we find in John 16 sixteen again that's the third chapter over from you, John chapter sixteen, verses seven and following. Nevertheless I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you, and when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment The Holy Spirit reproves the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. He is the agency of conviction. There are no atheists. Doesn't matter who claims to be an atheist There are no atheists. Man knows deep in his heart that there is a God. Why is it that every culture has some form of deity? You will not go to a primitive culture and find them without some form of deity, whether it be a rock or a stick or a crack cloud or a both volcano. or the ocean or the shark or some animal, a bull, a calf, or a goat. Every culture has some form of deity. Why? Because man knows there's a God, and man knows God must be appeased. Why? Because the Holy Spirit reproves the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. You've sinned. There is righteousness, and judgment's coming because you're not righteous. That's that verse in a nutshell. That is the work of the Holy Spirit. And so we find the promise, the person, and we find the purpose, what he is doing. But then, folks, we find the glorious presence The glorious presence of the Comforter. Look back to chapter 14 again and in the 16th verse. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him, neither knoweth him, but ye know him. For he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you And then down to verse 23 of the same chapter, chapter 14, Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him, and we will come unto him. and make our abode with him. Are you all alone? I love I love getting out in the woods. I love being alone. I I I love the solitude of of a of a deserted place. And yet whither shall I go for thy presence? Or whither shall I flee from my spirit? I'm not alone. I cannot get alone as a child of God Oh, the unbeliever is certainly alone. The unbeliever is certainly orphanus. He's an orphan in this world. But I'm not alone because my heavenly father Is with me in the person of the Holy Spirit who testifies to my heart of Jesus Christ. Yea, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Ah, folks, it's a glorious presence. It's an abiding presence. And folks, this is part of the new covenant of Jesus Christ. It's part of the new covenant. Think of Saul in 1 Samuel 16, verse 14. And the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. It did not remain. It did not Dwell with him. And one of the saddest verses of all scripture is Judges 16, verse 20. Where he finds Samson, God's prophet, the man of God, with his head asleep on Delilah's knees. And then Judges 16, verse 20, and she said, The Philistines be upon me, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep and said, I will go out and in other times and shake myself. And he wished not that the Lord was departed from him. Samson's head was on Delilah's knees and the Lord had left him. His hair has been cut. That was Old Testament, folks. That was before the revelation of Jesus Christ. David witnessed Saul's agony at the departure of the Holy Spirit. And after David's sin with Bathsheba, his prayer was, cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. But God gave David a promise concerning his son. Turn with me to this one. Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 7. 2 Samuel chapter 7. And this verse does not in its entirety apply to Christ because it does mention sin, but it is a foreshadowing of Christ. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, verses 15, I'm sorry, verses 14 and 15, David had wanted to build the temple. And he was told, No, you've been a man of blood, a man of war, you can't build the temple, but your son will build the temple. And this is the promise that God gave to David concerning Samuel, his coming Solomon, his coming son. Second Samuel seven verse fourteen. And I will be his father And he shall be my son. That point part can be applied to Jesus Christ. If he committed iniquity, that obviously is not talking about Christ. It is only Solomon. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men. Christ was chastened with the rod of men, but not for his own iniquity, for whose For ours. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And so the part, if he commit iniquity, doesn't apply to Christ, but he took to him iniquity, and he was beaten with the rod of men. He was crucified according to Roman law. But my mercy shall not depart away from him As I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. That God says to David, David, you're going to have a son. I will be his father. He will make me my son. If he sins, I will chase him with the rod of men, but I will not take my mercy from him. I will not take my spirit as I took it from Saul, who I put away before you File that in your mind, because it's very important when we come to the New Testament. 4. If you turn with me to the first chapter of John, we've been in the 14th, 15th, and 16th chapter. Turn to the first chapter of John And John chapter 1 is speaking expressly of Jesus Christ. John chapter 1 Just keep your eyes moving because I'm gonna highlight through the chapter. John chapter 1, verse 11. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Verse 14, and the world was word was made flesh and dwelt among us. Verse 17, for the law, think old covenant we read the law. For the law was given by Moses But grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Verse 19. The next day John seeth Jesus coming and said unto him are coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Verse 32 And John bear record saying, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. The spirit comes to Christ and it stays, it abides. Verse 33, and I knew him not. But he that sent me to baptize, that's God the Father who commensured John the Baptist, he that sent me to baptize. And knew not, but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, the same as he which baptizeth with what? The Holy Ghost. And I saw and bear record that this is the Son of God. Do you see the opening of the new covenant? And the sign that was given to John the Baptist was that the Spirit would descend on this one and remain. And it was foreshadowed all the way back in the Old Testament. When God said to David, I'll be a father to your son, he will be to me a son, and I will not take away my spirit from him as I took it. From Saul who I put away before you. Folks, we have a promise and a person and a purpose. But we have the glorious presence of the Holy Spirit, who Christ said he would send from the Father. And that descending and remaining Spirit of God was the very seal, sign, and covenant, and whatever it was that we're not to quench the Holy Spirit by whom we're sealed to the dead Of redemption. And so we have a promise and a person and a purpose and a presence. But folks, there's a great and serious prohibition. There is a great serious precaution. There is a prohibition against grieving and quenching the Holy Spirit. There is a precaution. Be careful! Because this spirit can be injured. This spirit can be grieved and even quenched. I had thought earlier in the week about going through a long exposition of how we grieve the Holy Spirit. And I came to the conclusion that wasn't necessary because you know. Mm-hmm. We read there in Ephesians for our responsive reading this morning, be angry and sin not. And so on, a lot of things. Folks, when we grieve the Holy Spirit, we know how and why we did it. It's not a it's not a mystery to us David prayed about his besetting sins. We know how we read the Holy Spirit. But the word to grieve here is the Greek word lupete. It's a word means to treat others so as to cause them grief. To treat others so as to cause them grief. And if you read there in verse 23, if a man love me, he will keep my words. There it is. You want to know how to grieve the Holy Spirit? Do anything that doesn't keep his word. Or grieve Christ. Yep, there it is. If you love me. We we don't deliberately cause grief to those whom we love. This is the same word that we find when it says that God saw the wickedness of man was great. in the earth, and every imagination of his hearts and thoughts was only evil continually, and he repented God that he had made man, and it grieved him to his heart. Same English word, not the same Hebrew word, not the same original word, because it My tongue got ahead of my brain there. It's the same idea, but not the same word. But it is the same word that we find of Peter when Peter was grieved at Christ asked him the third time, Peter, do you love me? Three times Peter denied the Lord, and three times Christ asked Peter, Peter, do you love me? And the third time he was grieved. Oh he was hurt, he was wounded. Grieved not the spirit We know how we grieve, and to grieve the Holy Spirit is to act, behave, speak, or think in such a way toward and before God as would bring sorrow, pain, or deep anguish. It is to conduct ourselves in a way that would be opposite of love, devoid of gratitude and humility. We cherish those we love, and we refuse all that would cause them grief or pain. We would not do anything that would drive them away or cause them pain, and yet our behavior towards the Holy Spirit is often the opposite. We do that which God hates. We look at that which God despises. We love that which calls the death of our Savior. God is not a man that he should repent. And yet God has expressed himself in ways that we can understand. We know what it is to be offended. We know what it is to be cut so dearly. by one that we have done so much for. Have you ever helped someone given to them sacrificially Nursed them when they were sick, cared for them when they were in sorrow, and they have returned and repaid your love and kindness with the greatest of injuries. And then consider what our sin does to the Holy Spirit of God. Grieve not the Spirit of God. But folks, there's a danger. There's a precaution greater than grieving the Holy Spirit. And that is the one found in uh 1 Thessalonians 5 verse 19. Quench not the spirit. Folks, you know what that word quench is? It's the same word that we find in the parable of the five wise five wise and five foolish virgins. Where it says in Matthew 25, verse 8, and the foolish said unto the wise, give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. And that word gone out there is that same word quenched. It's gone out. The Holy Spirit will never leave or forsake the true child of God. But the child of God can sin to the point that the Spirit is silent. The Spirit is quenched. Now, what was it that the Spirit does? We're not orphans. Because he speaks to us as a Father. Peace, my child. What is it the Spirit does? Well, he doesn't come up with his own message, but he speaks of Christ. He receives of Christ things and shows The Holy Spirit doesn't have his own message, but he comes and he blesses our heart through the word. He is with us all the time. We're not alone, but sometimes we feel very, very alone. Because this glorious Holy Spirit can be sinned to point to the point, sinned against the point, but he is quenched. That though he is still present with us, he has withdrawn himself in silence I'm sure many of you have heard a story or yourself experienced a situation where your own child has been told again and again and again, hold my hand, stand right here, don't leave. And yet they have wandered away for the nth time. And you have stepped back around the corner. And watched their fear that they might learn not to wander. And folks, that's exactly what happens when the believer conscious spirit. And so folks, we have a glorious Holy Spirit That is given to us for our blessing. Given to us for our encouragement. Given to us that we might have fellowship Given to us that we might understand the scriptures. Given to us that we might never be alone. Given to us that we have an open avenue of prayer. Given to us for all these blessings. And yet this spirit can be grieved and even quenched. May God give us grace to resist the devil that he might flee. Stand with you for the Our Father, these are truths from thy word that are so familiar and yet so apt, so well, that we be reminded of them constantly. O Lord, bless thy truth to your the hearts of your people. May we look into the perfect law of liberty. May we look into thy word, and may we be transformed and convicted and changed by it. Bless thy truth to our hearts we pray. O Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.