Turn with me to 2 Samuel chapter 6 this morning. We'll be discussing a lot about the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant, for those who are not familiar with it, was about as high as our communion table. about as deep as our communion table and not quite as long, all right? About four foot. So when you think about the Arctic Covenant, it's about this size, covered in gold and on top of it of course were the two cherubim facing in towards each other. And the Ark of the Covenant was known as the footstool of God. Israel for a long time had believed that God's presence was where the Ark of the Covenant was kept. And it looked about Similar in size to our communion table. So beginning at chapter 6 of 2 Samuel, we read, and again David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000. That was probably a couple of million people, but he took 30,000 of them. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Baaliah of Judah. to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubims And they set the ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab. And most commentaries leave that Abinadab was a Levite priest, and that is housed in his house. So in the house of Abinadab, which was in Gibeah, the city of Gibeah, and Uzzah and Ahioh, the sons of Abinadab, drave the new cart, and they were driving it towards Jerusalem. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God. And Ahio went before the ark In verse 5, David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of furwood, on harps, and on psalters, on cymbals, and on cornets, and on cymbals And when they came to Nikon's threshing floor, somewhere between Gibeah and Jerusalem, Azna put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen shook it, or shook the cart. He must have been afraid it was going to fall off the cart. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error, and there he died by the ark of God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. And he called the name of the place Perez Uzzah to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? I hope I can keep your attention because there's so much Here, and it's so important that first we understand a little history about the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant had been made by Moses, had been put in the tabernacle as they traveled through the wilderness And then after they'd crossed over in the promised land, it was still kept in the tabernacle up in the city of Shiloh, how did it get from the city of Shiloh into the house of the priest, the Levite, Abinadab? It's kind of important There was a time when there was war, and it was there was no king, there was only Samuel leading the people. And the people were fearful of the Philistines, and they weren't doing so well against the Philistines, and the elders said Let us bring up the Ark of God. And they took the Ark of God out of the tabernacle for the first time in its entire history. It was removed from the Ark of the Tabernacle and taken out to the battlefield Where the Israelites were promptly thumped and stumped and bumped and beaten to pieces and the two priests, Phineas, if you remember Eli had two rotten sons for priests. And those two priests, Phineas and for the moment the other one's name escapes me. Someone has it, they can shout it out. Hopney, thank you. They both died, and the Ark of the Covenant had been removed from the tabernacle was captured by the Philistines, and they kept it for almost a year. They put it up in the house of Dagon, their God, and you remember the next morning they came in, and Dagon had fallen over on his face Bowing before the Ark of the Covenant of God. And they set it back up, and the next night they came back in, and Dagon's head was missing, and his hands were missing, and he was fallen again before And the and the Philistines said, What is going on here? Perhaps we should get the Ark of God out of Dagon's temple. And then a plague broke out among the people and they wanted to get rid of the ark and they moved it to Ekron and they moved it to different cities in the Philistines and wherever they moved it, more plagues and more plagues and more plagues. And the Philistines said, We gotta get rid of this ark. What do we do? And they stuck it on a new cart And they hoped that with the oxen at tied to it, just let it go wherever it goes. Maybe it'll go back to Israel, maybe it'll go off into the middle of the sea somewhere, whatever. And it went back to Israel to their astonishment Not turning left or right from the fields of grain that were ripe for the harvest, the cattle, they took that Ark of the Covenant up there into a place called Beshemesh. And the plague subsided and the Philistines and the people of Bethsemes had never seen the Ark of the Covenant. It had always been in the tabernacle. And so they were curious. And they ran upon it and they touched it and looked at it and they opened up the inside of the ark. They wanted to see the concrete or the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments. which were inside of it. They want to see the Omer, the vessel filled with the manna from the wilderness, which is also inside of it. They want to see Aaron's rod budding, which is also inside of it. And as they looked upon the ark that they'd never had never come out of the ark of the tabernacle had never come out of the tabernacle, rather. It always been the tabernacle behind the curtain of the Holy of Holies. It was only seen once a year by the high priest. when he'd walk in and sprinkle blood upon the mercy seat. They were so curious, they go to it, they touch it, they look at it, they follow it, they lift the lid, they look inside, and a plague breaks out upon the Israelites, killing 50,000 people. It was like an atomic bomb went off. More people died that day from opening up the Ark of the Covenant and looking inside of it than at Nagasaki or Hiroshima And the people were petrified and fearful. And they said, what do we do with this? We've got to get rid of this thing. Close it back up. Stop looking at it. Call for the priests. Call for the Levites. Just get it out of here. And just get it out of here. And so they removed it and they took it up and they set it in the house of Abinadab, which we just read this morning. That's how it got in the house of Abinadab. Apparently they as they're moving this uh ark of the covenant along and they said, Oh we're not even gonna go all the way to Shiloh. There's a priest that lives up here, his name is Abinadab, he he's in uh Gibeah, we'll just we'll put it there and we'll decide later on what else we might do with it They were so fearful they didn't had they wanted little or nothing to do with the ark of the cover at that point. And it sat in the house of Abinadab for twenty years. Until King Saul came along, and one day he was fearful of the Philistines and wanted to know what to do. He said, I want the Ark of the Covenant pulled out of the house of Abinadab and will bring it into battle with us. Well that had been done before and didn't go too well But as he was considering it and the priests were going to get the ark, he changed his mind because the Philistines were running away, they were petrified, and the battle turned in favor of Saul, and so it stayed in the house of Abinadab. the priest for another almost fifty years. And nobody you know, in the old days when the Ark of the Covenant was behind the Holy Holies inside the tabernacle. The people would come at the Passover and they'd bring their lambs to be slaughtered, and the priests would come out, and they knew that they'd surround the tabernacle, hundreds of thousands of Jews And they knew that they were in the presence of God that inside the tab. But once it was in the house of Abinadab, for 70 years it was forgotten. And so we look upon this this morning in chapter 6. We find some things going on in chapter 6. We find the decay of of the faith in God, we find the decay and a decline of religiosity in Israel has affected all of Israel. And I don't know how else to compare this but to say to you sitting here this morning that they pulled Bible reading and prayer out of our schools over 50 years ago, and believe me, it has affected this country. And wait till it's been out of our schools for seventy years, as the Ark of the Covenant was out of sight and out of mind of the Jews. the Israelites for seven years. It affected them. We're going to see that here this morning. And it's affecting us as well today. And so Laura let us read understanding here a little more of the background as we look at the message this morning. At verse 1. And David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000 chosen men, people that loved the Lord, had an interest in the things of God. People that they were that had not forgotten somewhat about the Ark of the Covenant, where it was and what it had meant to the people one time. He said, Let's bring up the Ark of God. He chose the healthiest, the bravest, the hardiest of the men he could find To return what he perceived and what these thirty thousand men perceived as one of the greatest treasures of Israel, the Ark of God, containing the Ten Commandments engraved with the finger of God on stone As we read in Deuteronomy 10, verses 1 through 5. And verses 3 and 4, it said, they set the ark of God upon a new cart. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab and Gibeah. And now you know why it was there in the house of God, rather why the ark of God was in the house of Abinadab. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab and Gibeah and Uzzah. The sons of Abinadab and Ahio, they also most likely are Levite priests. They drave the new cart And I want to say you immediately this morning that the motive of David and the motive of the thirty thousand and the motive of Uzzah and the motive of Hyel was pure. Their desire was to bring the Ark of the Covenant back into the society, back perhaps to the tabernacle, uh, back before the forefront of the people, their motive was pure, their desire was holy, but they did not consult the scriptures before they moved the ark Why? Because 70 years out of sight and out of mind, they had neglected a lot of things they needed to know that they'd forgotten to do And there is so much that this society that we talk to young people today about what's wrong with abortion, and they've lived you've lived through abortion. It's been in this country going on now for about fifty years. We've lived through uh we we we we see these things in America, we talk about the gay marriage and our young people, they say, What's wrong with that? Ever since I've been uh from the day I was born. What's wrong with that? If we're not in the scriptures, we're not if we're not familiar with the scriptures, we lose sight of what is holy and what is important and it begins to to just decline throughout the nation of our society as it did in Israel. And so the motives were holy, the motives were But they did not consult the scriptures. And that's why when we talk to you young people about the things that are wrong with America today We tell you it's in the scriptures, and maybe it doesn't mean that much to you because it doesn't mean that much to the society, to America anymore. And that's what had happened here. They did not consult the scriptures. They moved the ark. They imitated what the Philistines had done. Do you realize that? We say so often that we don't want to see the culture of the world get into the church And yet that's what was happening here. They imitate the Philistine culture. They put the Ark of the Covenant on a cart, and it came all the way back to Israel, all the way back to Bethemus. I mean no harm was done They did it and nothing befell them. In fact, things were befalling them until they put the ark of God on the court. They were imitating the culture of the Philistines. And their transportation of the Ark, the Philistines transportation of the Ark, was successful. And so sometimes we look around and we see how the world draws crowds uh at at concerts or how the world draws crowds at speaking engagements, uh how the world draws crowds for for uh you know Academy Awards. We see uh the what how they How the thing works and they say, hey, we can do that with our churches. We can do the same thing. Let's bring the culture of the Philistines in. We should look different from the Philistines, different from the world But they did not. Christ had said in John five and thirty-nine, search the scriptures before young people and old alike, before we make decisions before we do things. We need to search the scriptures to see if we are in line with what God would have us to do. And here they thought, my, well surely God wants the Ark of a Covenant Back in a larger city, back in the center of Israel, back before the forefront of the people. We don't have to look at the scriptures to see what we we should do or not do I mean the majority of people, 30,000 people say, let's do it. The King David says, let's do it. We don't need to look in the scriptures Hmm. Had they in Numbers chapter four, verses one through fifteen, so clear How to transport the Ark of the Covenant. First, it was to be covered of the curtain of the Holy of Holies, and then it was to be covered over that with bathrooms. And then stabs would be put into the rings or built. There were rings that hung on the Ark of the Covenant. Stabs were put in, and then Levite priests would shoulder it. Four Levite priests were lifted up on their shoulders and they would walk it. across the land. Nothing really difficult. But no card is mentioned, no new card is mentioned, no oxen or beast to drag the Ark of the Covenant out across the Somewhere in the field somewhere. But they didn't do that. They didn't read Numbers 4, 1 through 15. They didn't put it on their shoulders. They didn't use The stabs. In the 50 plus years, or probably more like 68 years since the last transportation, Israel had forgotten how to transport the ark And they didn't look in the scripture to find out. They they didn't think that everything that that confronts them the world is covered in the scriptures. I mean, we're just gonna move the ark. I mean I don't think the Bible covers that I mean, I got some problems today, but I don't think the Bible covers that. The Bible covers everything. Scripture is sufficient for everything in your life. And so they had forgotten how it was to be transported, or perhaps some remembered vaguely how it was to be transported, but they lightly esteemed the instructions of our holy God. Yeah, there was something about wrapping it up so that no one can see it and no one can touch it and uh something in the back of my mind, I think there are rings on it. What if the rings are there for? And what those poles are laying beside the rings are for? You suppose the poles go in those rings? Yeah, I think that's what they did with it. And then what? Ah, somebody picked it up and carried it that way. And many knew not at all the warnings of the Scripture. Because Numbers 4, verses 1 through 15, and sometimes we read small portions, we don't read the whole portion. Or in context, but if you're to read Numbers 4, verses 1 through 15, the fifteenth verse says, They shall not touch the holy thing lest they die. Wow, that seems kind of important, doesn't it? People don't like the fact that God warns you that if you do not turn to his Son Jesus Christ, except His shed blood on the cross for your sins Repent of your sins that you will spend eternity in a place called hell where the wailing and gnashing of teeth and the fires are never put out. And they say that's a terrible thing to tell you. No, God is warning you. And he makes it very clear, and his warning is so harsh that you abide by his calls to turn to his son and repent. Of your sins. He makes the warning so horrendous that what excuse would you have? And here, he that touches the ark, they shall surely die. That sounds like a pretty harsh sentence, but you know something? You ought to pay attention to something like that. He's made it hard. He didn't say, he that touches the ark, shame on you. He that touches the ark, I'm not going to be happy. He that touches the ark, his wife will never give children. He that touches the ark, he'll lose his job. No, he says, He that touches the ark, you shall die Are there portions of the scripture you just don't think are significant? Are there portions of the scripture that you just think are significant They're trivial? Are there portions of scripture today that you that you think are are of little consequence? There are people like that. They say, Oh, I read the Bible. I like a lot of what's in the Bible. Well what don't you like? Well I don't like the way it begins. I mean I can't buy this six-day creation stuff and and God made everything. Well what else don't you like? Well I don't like the way it ends either. Well God's gonna come down and he's gonna damn people and kill people and send plagues. But I like a lot of the stuff in between. They just don't like the Alpha, the beginning, and they just don't like the Omega, the end. I mean who likes a movie that you say, I thought it was a great movie. How was it? Well the beginning wasn't very good and the end was rotten. But the beginning was pretty nice. They're not going to sell that to anybody. If they tell you they don't like the beginning or disagree at the beginning, they don't like the end. Believe me, friends, there's little in between that they like either I don't like the genealogies. Really? Boy, you don't know how important they are. They set the stage for how old this earth is for one thing. And you don't like the fact that the promised land is Israel's. Well, sorry about that. But the oldest deed known to history in any country, whether it's China or Russia or America, the oldest land grant deed. Is in the scriptures and it talks about the promised land. And guess who it belongs to forever? God's chosen people. Israel. Oh. Well, what are you going to do with that? Those are some of the things that people like, the things they don't like in between Genesis and Revelation, I guess. God, as we see in the scripture this morning, he views the handling of that which is holy very seriously. The Ark of the Covenant, you touch that thing inappropriately, you can touch it with the poles, you can touch it with the poles to the rings, you can touch it once it's covered with the badger skins, but you can't just go over and lay your filthy, sinful hand upon it. You be careful how you handle the things of God. You be careful how you handle the holy things of God. You be careful how you handle your holy Bibles. Do you come home from church and just toss it over there on the couch? Throw it up in the bookshelf and it falls down. Get in your car and toss in the back window. You be careful how you handle the things of God that are holy. You be careful how you handle his verse Don't take them out of context. Don't abuse the Bible, the scriptures. Don't use it to beat people over the head out of context and what the scriptures are really teaching. How we handle that which is holy is a serious matter to God, we see here. elsewhere. In verse five, David and all the house of Israel is that they played before the Lord on all manner of instruments. Can you imagine thirty thousand people? I don't know if they each had an instrument, but out of thirty thousand people we got ourselves quite a band going here. We got ourselves quite a parade going here. Thirty thousand people are following behind the Ark of the Covenant and are playing all manner of instruments made from furwood harps and psalteries and timbrels and coronets and and uh uh it's just this must have been loud and this must have been fun and it was religious uh all of this as they traveled But they were violating the portion of Scripture. So you can have a service that's loud and fun and happy and joyous, but is it violating Scripture? We have to look at that. They were violating a portion of Scripture, but but really, what do you look at? They've got the the Ark Of the covenant that's on the cart, and they've got the cattle, and they've got the high priest leading at Ohio, and they've got the other high priest along at Azza, you know, along the side of it, and they're driving it, and they're moving along right well. Things are going good. What do you mean we're violating scripture? Things are going good. Look at this joyous occasion. How excited we are. After seventy years, we're bringing the ark of the covenant back to the center of Israel before the forefront of all the people. Oh, this is wonderful. It's going great. What do you mean we're violating scripture? There's no consequences. And then The ox stumbles, gets stung by a bee? What happens? Something surely that God was involved with directly And the ark appears ready to fall off of the cart onto the ground. But we things are going so good. The service, the worship, the entertainment, the music, it was all wonderful. Until they hit a rough spot. in the road, along their way. Isn't that so much like a lot of people? Things are going great. They love the fellowship. They love the church services. They think everything's just wonderful until they hit a rough spot in the road. Because they haven't really been in the way of Christ. They they they come to church, they they get their Bibles and they may they look at their Bibles once in a while. They feel like they're in the way, but they're really They're on their way, doing their thing, going to church once in a while. Maybe going to church quite regular. But they're really doing their thing. They're not in the way. They're not they're not in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. They're not in love with the scriptures They're on love with the fellowship. It's just mom and dad always did it, so now I'm doing it too. And they're in their own way, but they're not in the way of the Lord. They're along their way, not God's way by the way, but their way. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man. Put the Ark of the Covenant on the card. It worked for the Philistines, it worked for the world, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Proverbs 1412. There you go, grabbing some obscure verse again. The ends are of the ways of death. You find one verse, you gotta throw it out there. The ends are of the way. Okay, then how about Proverbs 16, 25 There is a way that seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof there it is again So, Azza, the Vedical priest, who should have known better He put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen shook it, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he died by the ark. The method employed to bring God's word before Israel, it's important after all, isn't it? People say it doesn't matter how you present the gospel, it doesn't matter how you surround the presentation of the gospel, it doesn't really matter what's going on in the church service, as long as they get the Word of God You know, any method employed is good. Well, if any method employed is good, why was it when the woman possessed was following Paul And she's saying, There goes the men of God, the holy men of God. And she was possessed with demons. And they didn't want her to preach the gospel. And they told her to silence yourself. Why? Because it does matter. Used to running on construction site jobs, guys quoting verses, Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, atheists, throwing things out there. The methods that we employ to bring God's word before the people, it's important. And the method here was an oxen cart The anger of the Lord was kindled against us. The anger of the Lord was kindled against us. The anger of the Lord. Ah, it's Old Testament stuff. Let's go to the New Testament where there's a warm and a fuzzy, welcoming, loving Jesus. We don't see that kind of anger in Jesus. Really? Matthew 3 and verse 5. Christ was in the temple, the man with a withered hand, in Matthew 3 and verse 5. And the Pharisees and Sadducees and the scribes and the elders look at Bible say, you're going to heal him? You're going to heal him on the Sabbath? Oh. What is with you people? Christ, of course, heals him, but in Matthew 3 and verse 5, it said in Christ he looked upon them with anger. Oh, and do you expect a bright smiley face when it comes down in the book of Revelation to wipe out the ungodly till the blood is high as the bridles on the horses There is a righteous indignation, David talks about that in Psalms. the lack of biblical knowledge perhaps on us's part and on the part of David and on some of the 30,000 It shows a decline after 70 years of the Ark not being in their presence. It shows a decline in America today. with the Bible and prayer of our public schools. We see the decline of reverence today, as we see a decline of understanding and reverence in there. If there was a real reverence for the Ark of the Covenant They'd have looked up to see how do you move it? Don't put it on a cart. Don't do what the Philistines did. Forget what the culture's doing There was not a reverence for Christ says that there should be in Matthew 5 and 18 for every jot and tittle. Like the dotting of an eye and a crossing of T is the best way to explain that. There ought to be a reverence for every jot and tittle in the scriptures, and it hinders proper handling of that which is holy if we don't have a reverence for for every jot and tittle. And apparently Azza didn't have a reverence for the chapter 4 of the book of Numbers. Or he wasn't acquainted with it and that's the problem with so many people today. They either don't have a reverence from from Genesis to Revelation for every jot and tittle, or they're just not familiar with it. And when you show it to them they think, well that's That's a mediocre verse. That's a nonessential verse. That's an inconsequential verse. And so I often hear from people, here's what they say to me. Oh, you look in the New Testament Or rather than the Old Testament in Genesis, Yom for a day, it doesn't mean a twenty-four hour. So yom doesn't mean a day, they say. But but yom does mean a day, especially when preceded with a number such as on the first day, on the second day. Christ came out of the ground on the third day. They marched around Josh to Jericho for seven days. But they say Yom doesn't mean a day And then you leave Genesis and and you go up to Revelation where it talks about that Satan will be bound for a thousand years. It's called the millennium. And they say, well, a thousand years doesn't mean a thousand years. millennium the Greek word there doesn't mean a millennium it it means a hundred years or maybe ten thousand years but well how about a thousand years no it doesn't mean a thousand years so The day doesn't mean a day and year doesn't mean a day. And oh by the way, the same people say at Mark 3 and 29, where it talks about eternal damnation. Guess what? If day doesn't mean day, and ten thousand or a thousand years doesn't mean a thousand years Do you know something? They also don't believe. Eternal. Eternal or everlasting doesn't mean eternal and everlasting either. They got a problem with time. And when you reject the meaning of the word day and year and eternity, you're going to have lots of time and eternity. Think about Every jot and tittle that you mocked and ridiculed and thought was inconsequential. And that's what was happening here. After 70 years off the ark, some of the Bible just didn't seem all that important. And that's what's happening in America today. The Bible just doesn't seem all that important. This is a caution to us not to be led by impulse. in our worship of the Lord, not to be led by the flesh in our worship of the Lord, not to be led by the latest novelties in our worship of the Lord. Not to be led by just pure excitement. Because when you see that, we often find that they remove Christ or the Scriptures from the front and center of the word. I've got to tell you, and I could walk you down within a couple of miles here, I could take you to two or three churches where they've got loud music and they've got excitement and they got a long service. and and people tell me our service lasts for two hours. What do you do for two hours? Well the band starts and they go on for about forty-five minutes and then there's some announcements and then the band plays for another forty-five minutes and then the pastor gets up he's got this great 15-minute sermonette. I love it. 15 minutes, Christ is no longer the center and the forefront of the message of a worship Do you know why our pulpit sits here in the center? Because the word of God is supposed to be in the forefront, and that's why we have a Bible up here. That's what Luther did in the Catholic Church when he finally took over, when he finally became reformed and he was a saved man, though Paul Jesus said all the way over in the right And they had another pulpit all the way over to the left. They'd read the scriptures from one, they'd preach to the other, and he got rid of them, and he dragged the pulpit in the front, and he said, The Word of God in Christ should be center and to the forefront of all that we do You go into churches today and you know what's at the center of the forefront? Five or six electric guitars, uh maybe a saxophone and and they've got snare drums and That's what sits there. Not a Bible, not a communion table. The novelties that have removed Christ. The novelties where the verses are inconsequential. So inconsequential. that today we have women preachers. Did you know what the Bible says about women preachers? First Timothy two and twelve says, Suffer not a woman to teach or usurp authority over the men. It's talking about in the church service. Women are not to teach in the church service. Doesn't mean you can't teach Sunday school can't doesn't mean they can't teach at women's Bible studies, but they're not to usurp authority over the men, they're not to teach in the pulpits. First Timothy 2. 12. That's what happens when the scriptures are no longer forefront and the center. Of your heart and of the services. No women preachers. Guess what else? No humorous. sermon monologues and that's what's happening all across the land today. You look at some of these mega churches and it's all about the the monologue. It's all about The the joke after joke after joke that they tell, and the people walk away and say, Oh, I really enjoy him. He's so funny, he's so entertaining, he really keeps my attention. No. Ephesians 5. 4. It's a bunch of foolish talking and jesting with little of the gospel inserted anywhere. People come out of these mega churches and they interview them. Hi, what are you doing today? Well I'm Jewish, but I just love this service over here. Well, I'm Catholic. I just love the service. I'm Mormon. Oh, I'm an atheist. Well, it doesn't matter. This guy, his his monologue, his his chatter, his humor, I just love it. Hmm Or if they don't do that, there's all the whole sermon is connected together by a bunch of heart-tugging little stories that are just kind of fillers all through the message. And they tug at the heart about the little kitty stuck under the bridge in the vidock, or the dog that's drowning in the river, and how someone saves the dog. And when they finally get all through with all these little heart-tugging stories, they say, And and Jesus saved you just like that But the whole message is built around the these heart-tugging sermones filler. 2 Timothy 4:4 says, They shall turn their ears from the truth and be turned on to fables. Most of the message is nothing but a bunch of little stories and fables. With a gospel inserted here or there. So here's Uzza. Back to Uzzah. His reaction as a Levite was to protect the ark from falling to the ground. That seems like a natural reflection. I I think that's a a natural thing that we would all do, wouldn't we? Just a natural reaction. Something's falling, you want to catch it. Had he forgotten? Maybe so. Had he never known? That's even possible. It had been seventy years But had he been well up on the scriptures and well up on the Word of God and had he been involved with others of like precious faith, he might have remembered, wait a minute, the God who can protect The Ark of the Covenant and the Temple of Dagon, surrounded by an army of Philistines, can surely protect the Ark on this cart. I don't have to reach up and touch it. God can just hold it in place, teeter-tottering, until it settles down a little bit. He forgot how God had protected the Ark. The Ark didn't fall to the ground in the temple of Dagon. Dagon fell to the ground in the temple of Dagon He's a Levite. He knew he wasn't to touch the ark. He knew he wasn't to touch the ark. It's like your children. Don't touch that boiling pot of water on the stove. They know they're not supposed to touch it. Well, what often happens? They touch it. He knew he wasn't supposed to touch the ark. It seems like a minor sin. But it showed a major lack in the awe and the reverence of that which was Holy. Showed a major lack in the awe and the reverence of the ark, the word of God contained in the ark. You know, God not only keeps his promises, God keeps his promises, friends. Repent, thou shalt be saved. Love the Lord Jesus Christ with all your heart and all your soul and all your mind. God promises you eternal, everlasting Bliss. God's promises are always good, but God's threats are true as well. This minor, seemingly minor sin, God fulfills his threat. They shall not touch the ark lest they die. And you know, these vers think about this. It wasn't just one mistake. Oh, let's take the ark and put it, let's put it, let's, let's put it on the the cart. didn't cover it. Had they covered it with the badger skins, had they covered it with the the the the curtain of the Holy of Holies, if it started to fall, he could have put his hands on the badger skins He didn't touch the ark, right? But you know what? This ark isn't covered. Then I just made one mistake. See, when you when you first you start to neglect the word of God, then you Neglect two verses, three verses, and on and on it multiplies, and pretty soon you're in deep trouble. Or you're dead. Or both This seemingly minor sin showed a lack in the awe and the reverence of the ark and the reverence of the Word of God, and God kept his threat, and they Azad died. These verses are actually proof that the author of the scriptures. is God. You know why I say that? Think about this for a moment. We're often accused of the whole the Bible, that's just the words of Moses. It's just a bunch of men trying to make up a God that they can worship. follow. It's all man made. Man you know, man came up with this whole idea. Really? If man had come up with his own religion, his own God, rather than being the inspired word of the Holy Spirit He wouldn't have written in his holy word about the cart or about the Ark of the Covenant. No look, no cart, no touch, you die. I mean, when you think about that, or how about you if the day you eat of it you shall die, Genesis 3, 3, with Adam and Eve, or kiss the son lest you perish, or the wages of sin is death, Romans 6 and 23. I mean, really, when you look at these stories in the Bible, how about Elijah? When the children come running out, they say, go up thou bald head, go up thou bald head, and two she-bear come out, and they kill 42 children. Children I mean, are these the kind of stories that you would put in a Bible when you're trying to convince people to follow your God? Only the Holy Spirit would put things in a Bible like that I mean, when you look at the things that are in the Bible and you say to yourself, my goodness, the scriptures, they make God, well, he's not very marketable in today's world, is he? I mean if you want a Bible that's marketable, you're not going to preach on Elijah and go up thou bald head. If you want a book that's marketable You're not going to talk about hell and damnation forever. If you want a book that's markable, you're going to remove the verses or ignore the verses that talk about uh the story here. Kiss the sun lest ye perish Adam and Eve are going to die for just taking a bite off a piece of fruit. Us are going to die for just touching the ark? Come on. That's not a marketable gospel. No man would write a book like that. It had to have been written by the Holy Spirit to incorporate the kind of stories that are in here. Do you think some scriptures make God unmarkable in today's world? Far too many preachers do. And so preachers have adopted the light-hearted approach to worship, the light-hearted approach to the handling of the Word of God It sickens me. I have the Christian radio on sometimes, and I hear somebody and they're on there talking and they say, okay, folks, now let's turn to the book 2 Pete. It's Peter, dear friend. Second Pete? Hey, look at this verse says here. Let's give Jesus a hand. I hate that. That's a lighthearted approach to a serious message. I could go on. The carnal comments I hear. I'm not gonna mention the names, but I I tell my what did he just say? Some big names. Christian radio. I can't believe the carnal comments they make. I say to my wife, can I make that from the pulpit next week? She says, You better not. I'll take a numbrolate side of your head. I said, Well, you think his wife liked it? She said, No, his wife didn't like that he did that either I mean the carnality that I hear from preachers in the pulpit, some that have been around a long time. We're not talking about young preachers, we're talking about some of the older preachers on the radio. But they they have this idea of a lighthearted approach. And it's even now becoming a common thing to slip in a little swear word once in a while. And that's because you're trying to reach the young people. Young people, do you realize what this preacher thinks to you? He thinks you're a cursor and a swear. So if he curses a little bit and swears in the pulpit, he's going to reach you. They have a low opinion of the young people. And they'll slip in a curse word once in a while in the sermons. It's they say, well, they use the Koine Greek, the language of the common people. I'm gonna tell you, New Testament written Corne Greek. Now I haven't read the whole New Testament Greek, but I read several of the books in it There's no swearing. There's no cursing. To reach lost souls, we're going to cuss from the pulpit or swear? I want you to note when it's 2 Pete and give Jesus a hand and there's cursing and carnality from the pulpit, there's an absence of awe There's an absence of reverence. There's an absence of fear. Not unlike Azahir, who stretched forth his hand to steady the ark, and he fell dead on the spot. And when he fell dead on the spot, guess what happened? The singing stopped. The instruments stopped playing. They became silent. And David, verse 9, was afraid. He must have thought, who's going to die next? Am I going to die next? Is the highest brother going to die next? Is it going to spread throughout the whole thirty thousand of us like it did in Bethsemana? Who's going to die next? When God's word is not handled with holy reverence, there will be consequences And it's not being handled with reverence today. It is the Holy Bible, and it's not being handled with reverence in churches, in pulpits, in pews, in homes, in the house. in the White House, in the Senate. It's not being held with great reverence and awe anymore today. And we are seeing the consequences after 50 years of removing it. from our school system. We haven't even reached the seventy year mark that Ozza and David had reached The death of Uz, it should teach all of us something. First a sinner's hand Ozza was a sinner, David's a sinner, I'm a sinner. It's to teach us that the sinner's hand is dirtier than the ground we walk on. God sees the hand of a filthy sinner as dirtier Than the dirt we walk on. It'd be better for the ark to hit the ground than the ark, the holy ark of God, would touch the hands of a sinner Second thing we learn there are no little sins Oh, that was a little sin that Uz did. Why'd he die for that? There are no little sins. It wasn't a little sin. It was totally in conflict with the Word of God. It's on a card. It's not covered. It's being touched. That's three violations. Three strikes you're out. Three strikes you're dead, Azna. There are no little sins What we have when people think there's little sins or little white sins or well such a little white sin, what we really have going on is that man has diminished his view of the filthiness of sin There are no little sins. We've just diminished our view of the filthiness of sin. And furthermore, we've diminished our view of the holiness of God. The thrice-holy God. And what he says, it really goes. Or we go. And David was not an exception, would seem David felt God was harsh too. David felt that this didn't seem right. David felt this is just a minor sin, a minor you know, what's going on here? In verse 8, God had interrupted David's joy, that's what was happening. David was out there and the band was playing, the instruments were going, the people were singing They're rejoicing, they're excited, and for in summary many ways I can see why they would be, and I would be too. I mean, you tell me that the Bible and prayers going back in the public schools, talk about getting excited, talk about uh you wanting to yell, shout, jump, scream, and and sing? Absolutely. But somebody rained on his parade. They interrupted David's joy. Are you ever displeased with what Christ is doing in your life? Come on, how many here have ever been displeased with God's doing their life? Okay, got a few honest people out here. All right, good. We're like David. We don't see the whole picture. We don't know the whole picture. Does this seem to be like severe consequences considering Uzziah's intention was good. His intention was good. So isn't it kind of a severe consequence? Before you question our Savior's actions, I want you to consider the four things. First Romans 11:33. Unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. You think that God was severe with Uzzah? You think God was severe with your mother, your father, your brother, your sister? with you. His ways are past finding out. Second, Uz's death. It wasn't severe. Think about it. It was quick. It was painless. He never uttered a word. He was dead before he hit the ground. Oh Lord, I want to go like that. And I believe Ozma is a saved man. Third thing is, Christ has taught us that death has its rewards for the sick. Saved. So was the Lord Jesus Christ. Was God harsh on us? Death has its rewards for the men that are saved. And fourth point, God's actions are intended to rouse believers. Or just bur us or to stir us up. God's actions against us and others sometimes what's going on, it's around our Our sacred attitude, our profound adoration for his word, and our hatred of sin. And that's there's some good things going on here Remember the death of Adani and Sapphire in Acts 5 of the New Testament? It produced a healthy fear that came upon all the church. It was good what happened. May the chastening strokes of God, may the chasten strokes of God that are falling All around us and upon us, drive us to our knees. Drive us to our knees and drive us into the Word of God with a new appreciation for that which is holy. And you know what is holy? Christ Jesus our Lord is holy. And the things that befall us are to drive us to that conclusion that we are not so holy. But he is thrice holy. Do you handle the holy things of God alright? Oh, start doing so if you're not. Don't give in to the attitude that is formed about this Bible today. You treat it. You treat it well. and God will treat you well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the example of us. Fully expect to see him in heaven. Fully expect to talk to him about that day. Fully expect that He will praise God for taking them out quickly, painlessly, and setting an example that we're still reading about today that That we might not falter, having the Word of God in our hands, in our homes, in our churches. May we not pull an Uzzah in the last days of our life And we ask this in Christ Jesus' name, our great God and Savior, Lord of Lord and King of kings. Amen and amen.