Got your question, but before we get into our question, let's read uh Hebrews ten and beginning in verse twenty-five. Hebrews chapter ten. Hebrews 10, beginning, I might just start the sentence in verse 24, let us consider one another to provoke unto love, and to good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another in so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Okay, I keep saying we're kind of at this mountaintop in this particular chapter of Hebrews And you'll see why when we get to the next section. The reason it's a mountaintop is because this has had such a great buttressing of points as to what we have and where we're at and the superiority of Jesus Christ. And so he's exhorting us to all of these wonderful Christian behaviors that we should be very familiar with at this point in time. But to get our minds into this passage, I thought of a silly little question. I'm in the market for a new car these days, and so I kind of have new car on the brain. And I thought about this example here. So imagine, just imagine, that you are an engineer. Mrs. Ross, we promoted you to engineer Ford Motor Company. Huh? Yes. So you've been demoted to an engineer and an auto manufacturer And you have been tasked to build, this is a technical term, an MVP, a minimally viable product. Minimal is the key word. Sometimes it's called design to cost, sometimes it's called design to schedule. No gold plating, no whistles and bells, minimally viable product. So you have to design the simplest car possible. with the fewest parts. Now don't get into the weeds. I don't want to talk about staters and actuators and brake lines and things like that. I just want big basic functions. So which are the big basic functions that you would keep on your minimally viable car? And I'll give you my bid first and I'll tell you why it loses because the winner is the one design that lasts the longest. So if my boss gave me that assignment, I'd said go out to to a toy store and buy a little uh playco plastic car with the little plastic tires. Done deal. Right? You know, this is the little thing to put a three-year-old in. You didn't tell me what size, but no, that wouldn't last long. At least that you have a your head up Engine? Okay, an engine? Yeah, what else? So you get an engine, I'm gonna straddle the engine. Transmission and battery. I don't know. Transmission battery, okay. Engine transmission battery A nuclear powered unicycle with a with a turbine. A nuclear powered unicycle with a turbine. All you need is a sealed container with some sealed I would love to see that design because we would go into business. And it would last forever. It would last forever. It would be it would be less than 100%. That's a clever one. I haven't thought of that. We had uh uh somebody from online give us a uh interesting response to that and see if I can pull it up. Um Alright. Uh let's see. Oh I thought I had that one. Um oh my goodness. Here it was. Yes. We she's uh listeners include said I would include the following engine transmission, motor, wheels, tires, brakes, suspension, and electrical system Sounds pretty good. I respond I replied back saying, yeah, but I would add heated leather seats. Any other thoughts? You're an engineer. You're trying to build a car with the most basic Basic parts. What would you what would you put in it? Any other thoughts? Banks. Okay, brakes, what else would you put in your car? Yeah, you mean you mean I put it in or what? You're built you're the engineer. You're coming to me with a piece of paper and you're gonna list out the top things you're gonna put. Yeah. The bricks and the horn Brakes and a horn. No wheels, no seat, no engine, just brakes and a horn. That's an interesting car You'd be a good traffic cop. Sit in the corner. Manual transmission because it's less mechanically complex. Man manual transmission? What else? I mean you gotta build the whole car, not parts. Wheels, tires, car body, engine. Something to keep you out of the weather. Something to keep you out of the we ah, I like that. That's nice and flexible. Something to keep you out of the weather. Okay, administered nuclear power plants got a second thought here. would be a good starting point. You'd need more longevity in the design, but it was extremely minimalistic but very functional. Yeah, right. It was minimalistic. It was lightweight. Yeah, yeah. It was ideal for the environment. All right, Mrs. Ross. What are your thoughts? What's your minimally viable car? Minimal par well you're the one that drives these high end Cadillacs. Escalade. That's right, you're a minimalist and a Cadillac Escalade with a police officer in the back is what you want. six point oh so yeah eight eight eight is eight yeah eight silver six point oh is an eight eight silver okay yeah that's the catalog the eight remember I'm demoted From year to year. Well, that emote, that word moat comes from motivation. Exactly. Motor. Motivation. Right. All right. I'm learning all kinds of things here today. She likes breaks in the horn and you like it all, so there's We got the whole gamut here. Well, um, this passage says uh is really talking about not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. And you might think I'm keying off that word assembly uh and to a degree I suppose I am. But um let's talk a little bit about you know Christian assembly The assembling of the saints. It's also known as a gathering of the saints. uh a a fellowship of the body of believers. Fact of the matter is, and this is something that is very unique, I think, in uh Christianity, is that true believers really, really love to spend time with other true believers. They just do not find that kindred spirit. They don't find that heartfelt connection with others in the world. That there's just not that same connection. It really is a different uh family relationship. And this is the this is the church's habit from long ago. If you'll look in your bulletin insert, I've got a few verses there that talks about some of the features of the early church. One of the things we find is how the early New Testament church How they operated. We read, for instance, in Acts 1. 14, it said, these all, these referring to the apostles, they all continued. With one accord, in accordance, they they were on the same page with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women, so women were not excluded, it wasn't a he-man woman haters club And Mary, the mother of Jesus, with his brethren. So there were bloodline family relatives, there were others outside of the immediate family. And women that have been following Christ and supporting the apostolic man. Acts 242 after Pentecost it says, and they now this is now referring to 3,000 souls, right? Wow, you had a large crowd 3,000 people. I counted one time in the book of Acts, where all the nations are listed. There's like seventeen different nationalities listed in there. Arabs, Cretes, Parthenians. There is a whole laundry list Of some nations I don't even know they exist anymore. People from all these different regions. Now how are they going to get together? I mean they hadn't been with Christ and the disciples for three years. Well what are these mixed bag This just random collection, as it were, of people. How are they gonna how are they gonna operate? They continued steadfastly That's an important word. In the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread And in prayers. Now breaking a bread I think can have two senses of the meaning there, and I take both of them to be intact. One to be they got together and they ate together. You know, that's one of the closest forms of friendship that you can share with another. Invite them over to your house for a meal. Or they invite you to their house for a meal. But it also refers to the Lord's table, the breaking of the bread and the Lord's Supper. But these 3,000 continued steadfastly. They were zealous to do this thing. How did they break the language barrier? How were they able? It didn't matter And I give an example of this years ago when my mother-in-law's uh aunt, Aunt Rose, came from Lebanon, and she's a Christian, doesn't speak a lick of English. And they decided after dinner to sing some hymns. What a great Christian testimony. And they were singing hymns that I was familiar with, and I could join them. And it was wonderful because they're singing that same hymn in their language, I'm singing it in mine, and there was a connection there. It's a wonderful thing to see You read in Acts 20 and verse 7. This is now much further along in the book of Acts, in that first century church development. Now we've got the Apostle Paul converted. He's on the scene He's busy spreading the gospel in these Jewish synagogues. And we read it says, on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread. Again, I think there's that dual meaning there, the fellowship as well as to participate in the Lord's Supper. Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued his speech until midnight. That's a long time. They were quite interested in hearing news about the Messiah. They were quite interested in learning and hearing more about Jesus Christ, what He's done, how He had actually fulfilled a great many things. The early New Testament church was ignorant of a great many things. They argued for the fact history shows for 300 years they were trying to figure out exactly who Jesus Christ was. Fully God, fully man, one or the other? I mean it took the church 300 years to be able to articulate an answer for that. But they continued steadfastly. And observe all the specifics. What were the main things that you saw them doing in their gatherings? What were they? Listen out They were praying? Prayers and supplications? What else were they doing? Eating. They're eating. We love to eat. Absolutely. What else? Exhorting. Yeah, there was exhortation. There was teeth. Somebody's speaking about the Bible. Prayers, eating, Lord's supper. There was communion, there's fellowship going on. They were hanging together Singing? Yes, absolutely. Singing. Yeah, I didn't find those verses that specifically talked about singing, but yes, that is there, and verses can be used to show that. Here's the flip side of this Sadly, I have seen too often in my life, even if it's once it's too often, that Christians can fall into the trap of unbiblical separation. Now I'm for biblical separation from the world, the flesh, and the devil, anything that's dragging you away from Christ. You don't want to maintain those relationships But there are those who, we read in Jude 1. 19, these be they who separate themselves, sensual, not having the Spirit. There are those who from among the body, and Judas writing to a church, and in that body of believers, he said, there are those who will separate themselves. He calls them false prophets. They seek to drag you away from the fellowship of the saints. And eventually you can become isolated. You read in 1 John 2. 19, and this is an important one to look at in your handout. You can turn in your Bible if you want. 1 John 2. 19, we read this. Speaking of those without the truth, it says, they went out from us. So these are people that are in the assembly of the saints. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, of our Father, of our same faith, one Lord, one faith, one baptism They would no doubt have continued with us. What do we read back in Acts? They continued, continued steadfastly. You know, it's hard to continue in anything because the going gets tough. The road makes turns into a a dark corner, and lo and behold, there's obstacles that appear. It becomes more difficult. to get together. But they continued. That early church did not have government protection. They didn't have a constitutional amendment to protect their rights of assembly, petition of grievances, free speech, freedom of religion, and none of that. In fact, Caesar wanted to be identified and hailed as Lord and God. He wanted both titles. He ascribed deity to himself, and you leave any ruler alone, and I guarantee you that's where he's going to go. North Korea's my exhibit A on the table of despotic dictators who wish to be worshipped as Lord and God. And yet in this Christian assembly, continuing steadfastly, they went out from us. They would have continued, but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. Sometimes God lets the going get tough on purpose to do a little pruning of the tree, to do a little culling of the herd, getting rid of those who are truly not of the people of God. Let me tell you about some downsides of isolation. Oh, this is just a bonus track for you. Number one, it can sound enticing because some can come to you saying, they're not as faithful. Joe and Vince are just not as faithful as they can be. They've they've got a lot of things right, but on this one point right here, they're just they're just wrong. And you can't hang with that. You've got to come out And I've heard arguments like that, not specifically aimed at well, I guess it is directly at both of us. Yeah, I have heard that before, within the past few years, not dating back five or six Not going to join us because this one thing is wrong. And so you need to come out. You got to come away. And they draw you away for one little point. There's a lot of people out there like that I've had at the Friday night Bible studies godly families that would show up. Father and mother had good godly practices. Their children were well, they were obedient, they were well trained, they were not a train wreck. And the wife after the services, after the study, Bible study, didn't have services per se, was over here in the corner, talking with the other women. Vince is wrong about this. That's not right. Vince is no, this is not correct. Little mouths to kind of pull you away. Nitpicking. Nitpicking. Okay, let's assume for the moment I'm not right in that point. Joey, have you ever made a hundred across the board in the entire semester on every exam? No, neither have I. Don't feel bad. I'm not picking on you. Sure, we make mistakes. Why don't you talk to the person that said it? Hey, what did you mean by this? You know, let me tell you what, controlling the tongue up here is not easy. We make slips. I say stupid things. And we can make errors in judgment. Well, come and talk. I'm happy to stand up here the next not happy, but I would stand up the next week when convinced that this was wrong and say, you know what, on this point I was wrong. That's the sign of a teacher who's trying to get close to truth But there are those who will try to separate you. Let's say you listen to that voice for a while and you join up with this individual in this group. Well, I'm telling you right now, that's unbiblical separation. If you cannot show just cause, and there are reasons for why you should separate from a church. They're not operating according to the pure word of God. If the church is not exercising godly discipline, if they're not preaching the true gospel, and if they're not if they're perverting the the the sacraments, they're doing those in an incorrect manner Two or more of those are in place, that's a good reason to separate. That's a good reason. Shy of that, you have no real good reason. Oh, but I got this great job promotion over here. There better be a really good church over there before you accept that great job promotion. Because what will happen, invariably, is the devil will paint a rosy road for you and you will go and it'll just seem so much better And you and your kids will get in there and you'll have a wonderful time, and then calamity hits. Guess who's the first one to get a phone call every time? Joe and I. You know why? Because they know these other people are false, and they don't have answers for them, and so they come back to us And I'll tell you what Joe and I will do. Sometimes we scratch our head and say, you know, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. The egg is on the ground. The pieces are broken. How can we put this back together now? We can't. And you're in ruins. It's too late. You hadn't been under good counseling. You hadn't been under good exhortation. You hadn't been under sound teaching. You hadn't been in the fellowship Hadn't been, hadn't been, hadn't been. A whole bunch of hadn't bins add up and it results in a catastrophe, invariably. And I could go on with this at length. But let's talk about Those real reasons why some people have little issues. They don't like the way my glasses are. I'm not wearing wire-rimmed glasses. I don't have a three-piece suit on every Sunday. I'm not making this up. I've heard this. About a man that came into my Friday night Bible study sh fellowship in San Diego strictly because he was at a Baptist church that says, you shouldn't be here because you're not wearing a three-piece suit and don't have I couldn't kill them. Wire rim glasses. What is so holy about wire rim glasses? Can somebody find that for me in the scriptures? Some ants I'm telling you the stupidest things you'll encounter. These are man-made rules. We had a lady leave the church in Jamaica because we were letting kids that were poorly dressed come into the Sunday school. Oh my. Yeah. Jamaica. That's that's like the wealthiest island nation in the world, right? Yeah, hardly. We we have a lot of kids the only good clothes they have are their school clothes and their parents would not let them wear on the weekend. So they would come into church basically and play rags. And we had a lady that that got upset about that because we would not force them to wear good clothes to church. And wouldn't it have been so much better had that lady seen the need and provided for the need And said, let me help. Wouldn't that have been so much better? Couldn't that have had a better outcome? You know, we have a choice in life in a lot of ways of how we handle things. You know, forbearance is a big part of our gathering. Can anybody say honestly? And this is actually good for Li Ying to see and hear, can anybody in here say honestly, I have mastered the Christian life I'm doing really good at it. I'm there. Can anybody raise their hand and say that? No. Look around, Lee. Who's raising their hand? Are we a bunch of hypocrites? No. No. We're getting there. We're sheep. God doesn't call his people panthers, tigers, and lions. We're not even super sheep. We're sheep. They're feeble. And they need to learn forbearance. They need to learn knowledge too, but forbearance. I want you to turn your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 12, and this business of not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is is a important subject to talk about. And I will speak to those who can't find others in a moment. In 1 Corinthians 12, I want to discuss This. You know, this was an issue in the Apostle Paul's day. I don't know if they had wireframed rim glasses or three-piece suits back then or whatever excuses they might have had But here's what he says about this, and it's in chapter 12, verse 12. He says, as the body is one And hath many members. And all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. He's Comparing the church to a body, you know, a physical body. And we also refer to ourselves as the body of believers. That's biblical language. You know this. 13. By one spirit were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Gentiles, whether bond or free, there were slaves and free men in that mix. And have been all made to drink into one spirit. The body is not one member but many. Now here's the punchline. Listen to this. I love this illustration. It's a really good one. He says, if the foot How many of you feel like you're stuffed in a you're at the bottom of the totem pole, stuffed in a dark corner somewhere? Well maybe you're a foot in a warm sock. Maybe that's your role in the church, okay? If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand. Oh, look at the nice hand. Got painted fingernails, not mine, but maybe yours. Has unwrinkled skin, not mine, maybe yours. He says, um Because I am not the hand. I am not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? Can you imagine my foot complaining against my hand? I don't particularly like this position. I don't even want to show you my foot. You go, wow, maybe you ought to get that thing amputated. I don't know. I'm just teasing. Verse 16, if the ear shall say, I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore, because the ear says that not of the body? If the whole body were an eyeball, where would the hearing be? I love that. Can you imagine walking around with one big eye Oh man, you'd get stuff in it in a heartbeat. Just walking across, rolling across the parking lot. I had a little tiny, tiny, tiny hair stuck underneath my eyelid and every time I blink it was annoying the daylight's out of me. I couldn't find the thing. It was the tiniest hair. I finally had to get into a mirror, pull up my eyelid and look, and I finally found it and I wet uh q tip and scraped it out. This thing was driving me crazy. Can you imagine if the whole body were an eye? That would be a massive, massive problem. Is the whole we're hearing, where we're the smelling. But now God hath set the members, every one of them, in the body, and here's the key word, as it hath pleased Him as it hath pleased him. Some To whom much is given, God says much is required. I require a lot out of my right hand, my right arm, I require a lot out of my fingers for typing. I require a lot out of my The gray matter up here, I require a lot from it because much has been given to it. There's other parts of my body I recently discovered that the pinky is crazy important. You break your pinky and and life is kind of miserable. I mean there's a lot you can't Try opening up a brand new pickle jar with one hand. It kind of doesn't work. All of a sudden that pinky is handy. And you may feel I'm going a long time in ministry and I don't know what I'm doing. I've got nothing to do, but boom, some Something comes up in the church where we have a need of, and guess what? You're the only one that's got it. And you're uniquely positioned for that. At that time, the body needs you. And you likewise can go in life where all of a sudden, boom, you hit something. You have a need. Where can it get been met? And lo and behold, the church is there to help you, the hurting member of the body. That's where he's going with Verse 19, if they were all one member, were the body, but now are they many members, yet one body. The I cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. There have been times, I'm sad to say, when good and godly ministers have approached some members of the flock and have chased them away. Unnecessarily. They just got a little too holy. They just pushed them away. You can't do that. There are biblical times to excommunicate an individual, but there is a specific biblical process for doing that, and it cannot be done arbitrarily. And it's last resort. And it is last resort, because the goal is restoration, not punitive. He says, The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor, and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. Are you old? Are you over the age of seventy-five? What can you do Well, I guarantee you I'm not going to put Mrs. Ross on my brand new Joe Biden zero turn. I call it my Biden zero term because when he kicked out all that money at the beginning of his administration, I went and bought a zero turn. lawnmower with it. I'm not setting you on my zero turn to mow my grass. Not gonna happen. I can do it. I know you can, but I'm not gonna do it. One of the greatest privileges that our senior community has in the body of Christ is Prayer warriors and pray they do. Pray they do. How many of you are too busy to pray Yeah, well God will take away all your energy, so you're shut up to prayer. And it says, Anna, a widow from her youth, served God in the temple daily with prayer. prayers and she served God, catch that, served God with prayers and supplications. That's amazing service. And when your senior citizens are in the hospital and life support and the nurse comes up to you and says, well You know, let's just pull the plug. You know, what kind of quality of life would she have? I'll tell you, if it's if it's got life in it, it's quality. And one big quality she has she can pray. You're gonna take away my prayer engine? No, I don't think so. You yank that out, I'm wrapping that cord around your neck. Not doing it. I interrupted too much, but Dear Mrs. Keeney, elderly lady, extremely small social security pension, lived in a little apartment in Delta that was about the size of this room in the vestibule. The entire apartment where she lived, maybe even smaller than that, she would put two dollars, not a check, but two one dollar bills, in an envelope and send it to the mission board for the ministry in Jamaica, month after month at the end, and she prayed for us constantly. And we often thought thought that Mrs. Keeney is doing more for the ministry than churches that are giving eight hundred dollars a month towards what's happening. Yeah and and and you're not just pontificating because I know in the position as a treasurer If I get $2 from a widow, let me tell you what that does to a faithful treasurer. You pump the brakes. Yeah. You pump the brakes before you go off and spend a dime. Because you know she's pinching hers. You really are very careful What am I gonna spend this on? Let's be careful here. Let's be real careful. Great is her remote. Oh yes, absolutely. Now, what if I don't have a church to attend? Sadly, in our day and age, we have scattered sheep. The evil one has wreaked havoc in the church. We still have, thank God, a constitutional protection, but we do not have a government which necessarily believes In exercising and enforcing our constitutional protections, the right of assembly, freedom of speech, freedom of religion What if we find it difficult? And of course, beyond the government, our seminaries have done us no favor. There's a lot of false teachers that have been promoted up into the ranks. Well, I would suggest that you beseech the Father to direct you to a fellowship of other believers in order to exercise those necessary spiritual activities. But Brother Vince Some I've had one person walk in here and said, wow, you've got a mega church in here compared to what they're used to seeing. They're so star for fellowship. What is the minimally viable gathering of saints? What's the min- remember my discussion about the car earlier? What's the minimally viable gathering of the saints? And Jesus says, where two or three are gathered together in my name, There am I in the midst of them. Believers desire fellowship. I know they do. Two or three. Praise God. that he gives us a minimally viable configuration that'll last forever. Now, you will find if you do that and you're faithful to it and you learn to Dwell among yourselves, because with three you get really close, and the little nuisances and grievances can get magnified really big. You learn to forbear one another. You start to learn to exercise the one-another commands. And as God sees this little body striving, pressing, advancing, God will be faithful to add to that midst. Sometimes adding more saints into the mix can bring its own challenges with it and own struggles. Why is fellowship necessary? Let me quote to you something. I rarely do this, but this is such an apt quote for my point. It comes from Benjamin Franklin at the signing of the Declaration of Independence in 1776. There was a lot of argument and disagreement. They really wanted to be as independent as possible. The concept of a federal republic was beginning to take root, and the separation from Britain was looking to be more and more likely. But there were some that were reticent towards signing, and Franklin said, gentlemen, as he was signing, he said, we must surely, we must all hang together, or we will surely hang separately. Great play on the word hang because they knew if they're putting their name on the line and the British get a hold of that document, they're going to be the first ones hung by the noose. And I tell you what, that is so fitting and true for the Church of God. We must, we must hang together, or we will surely hang separately. You get away from the flock. It will not be to your benefit. It will be a catastrophe. I guarantee you. It's just a matter of time. It also says about the devil, the Lord Jesus said, He that is not with me is against me. He that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. See, there's the opposite. There's either a gathering of the saints, you're either working to gather people together, and there's no middle ground. Or you're working to separate Oh, come over. We have a family event on this wonderful special church day. Let's all go to this family event and set. That's gap, that's separating. You're separating from the Lord's work. Why not be a witness to the family and say, oh, I love that activity, that's great, but I'm worshiping my God that day. I can't come. I will come afterwards, but not interrupting my worship of God. He is the Lord my God. That's a way that separation occurs. People pull him away John 10, 12, the Lord Jesus said, He that is in hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep or not, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. The wolf catches them and scatters the sheep. This is, again, the devil's mode. He's into scattering, not gathering. So be on the lookout for all things that are trying to separate you. from the fellowship of the believers. Separate you from worship. Now, does that mean Joe and I are going to pull out a rod and castigate you because you were only here 51 out of 52 Sundays in the year? No What does our text in Hebrews say? As the manner of some is. It ought not to be your custom, it ought not to be your habit, it ought not to be a manner. We ought not to take the worship of the Lord God and the gathering of the saints lightly. It ought not to be a custom or a habit to omit that. That is dangerous for your soul. I'm putting you on alert. Where's the brake? Where's the lady with the brakes and the horn? I'm pumping the brakes and I'm blowing the horn right now. That's dangerous to your soul. Now he says, because, and back to Hebrews, we We want to gather. We want to gather and exhort one another the more as you see the day approaching. As you see the day approaching. The day approaching is speaking about the day of his return and the end of all things. You find this, and I'm going to give you three New Testament passages which speak about this. I put them in your Handout, we'll see if we can get to some of our latter passages here. James five eight. Be ye also patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. You want to be gathered together. I think one of the greatest fears I have as a Bible minister is that After a long, hard period of service, and it is long and it is hard, that in a eclipse of faith, in a moment of weakness, I'm just being honest and sharing with you a fear That one evening I just say, I just I'm gonna go to Bubba's Bar and Grill, watch a football game and have a beer. My fear is at that moment Jesus is coming back. Can you imagine? being found in a bar when Jesus returns. Are you kidding me? That's a fear. It's like, no, no. You have to fight against that. Fight against it. We need exhortations, we need urgings. No, I don't have an urging to do that. Please don't misunderstand me. But it is a concern that I would be found in a position where I do not want to be found. I want to be found in the fellowship of the saints. First Peter 4. 7 he says The end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Wasn't that one of the collective activities? Prayer. Praying. 2 Peter 3. 10. 2 Peter 3 is one of my favorite chapters in all the Bible. I love 2 Peter 3. And I'm just going to give a few verses for this. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. We all know that In the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, the elements will melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Doesn't sound too silent to me I'm not sure how you miss the destruction of the known cosmos. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye, old English word, y'all, you, plural, meaning plural. The assumption is as a gathering, as a collection of people. What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation, conduct, and godliness, looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God? Wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements will melt in further heat. This is done collectively. We need to be awake and ready Let's turn now to 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 2. 1 Thessalonians 5, 2. I didn't have room to print all this in the Bible and excuse me, in the bulletin. These were extended passages, and uh I did want to uh have you see it from your text. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 2, drawing it here quickly. We need to be awake and ready. For yourselves know perfectly That the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as travail upon a woman with child And they shall not escape. I love that illustration as a woman with child. Now In the early stages, first few weeks, woman may have no real confirmation that she's actually pregnant. Move along until you hear that until you hear. You feel that first little flutter. You go, oh, I'm thinking maybe I'm pregnant. And then and then they go along and it becomes a little more obvious. the more obvious. And you get going into the third month, fourth month, fifth, up to the eighth and a half month month. You know you're pregnant, you're pretty sure, but you don't exactly know the exact day. Oh yeah, the obstetrician says such and such a day. And then a labor pang hits It kind of comes suddenly. You can predict it. You can't predict it. It just comes. But you can detect that it's coming. You can see the signs There's signs that have slowly but surely been increasing over time, but eventually becomes very detectable. To those who know this process, it's evident. Likewise the Church of God is coming into a birth. And there is a time of pain and compression And breaking of water and blood and all that stuff coming for the Church of God. There is a time when we will be brought forth into our kingdom. And it will come like a woman in birth pangs. There's travail. There's pains. But it's coming. And you'll know it because you're watching for the signs. Oh, but I don't know what the signs are Well, that's the foot talking. It needs the head. It needs a mouth. It needs an eye. You need the body parts together to help you figure this out. No one part can do that. That's why you come together, so that you can see these things. He says, verse 4, But ye brethren, are not in darkness that that day should overtake you as a thief. Again, not you individually. Ye plural. Ye collectively are together. Ye together can see, can sense. The whole of the body can determine this. You know, an army watch requires more than one for a 360-degree surveillance. One guy can't sit out there and watch for the whole camp You gotta have people looking at different angles. Maybe some a little higher up with some infrared glasses. You need a collective, and that's how God has his church operate. Notice that it's directed to us, that we do not sleep. We're so put on faith, hope, and love, comfort yourselves, edify one another. All of those Words can't be done in a vacuum. You can't do that as an individual. Those are all one another commands that has to be done together. Last passage, and I'm running out of time, is in 2 Timothy 3. 1. It says, this know also You can turn there if you'd like. 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'll give you a moment. 2 Timothy 3. 1, this know also that in the last days perilous time shall come. Men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous boasters, proud blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. Without natural affection, we see in atmosphere today. Truce breakers, false accusers, see a lot of that, especially in the church, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, seeing a lot of that today. Traitors, betrayals, see a lot of that today, Hetty, oh so arrogant, high-minded, lovers of pleasure. In the Greek it's one word, hedonists, we even have it in our language. More than lovers of God. But here's the kicker. He's not talking about outside the church. Because of this very next phrase, these people have a form of godliness. But they deny the power thereof. That's scary. We see this in the world right now, right? And you know what? That's been in the world back in the Roman days. The Roman emperors were notorious homosexuals. They would assault and molest you know, young young individuals. They they were not uh righteous, moral upstanding individuals by any stretch of the imagination. They had foreign invaders, they had financial expenses, they went uh bankrupt. Nothing new. That was in the first century church. This, brethren, is a picture of what happens inside the church, inside the gathering, inside the assembly. And not necessarily yours. You may see it in a whole lot of others out there, the larger, broader church. As the day draws nigh and iniquity abound. True believers will be even more desirous of our holy assemblies. So, brethren, that's why I titled this Hanging Together. We've just got to hang together. We just just gotta do it. That's how we're gonna get through this. This guy back here, did his family hang together? Yeah they did. There wasn't any other place to be. There wasn't any other place of safety. Oh it's a nice sunny day. We've never seen rain. What are you talking about rain? It's only a mist that comes up out of the ground There's something very different coming that you've never seen before. If the same was true then, it's true right now, is brother. Let's uh close in prayer. Father God in heaven, thank you for this uh reminder to us, Lord, that we need each other. Lord, help us to remain Steadfast and constant in our uh our connection one to another. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.