That are being made that the author of Hebrews is establishing. And we're now at verse 18 and 19. So we've climbed these stairs And now we have a rather shocking statement. So I'm going to read Hebrews 7, 18, and 19. We're going to get to our question because I really want to discuss this one. This is going to be fun. Hebrews 7, beginning in verse 18, For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. For the law made nothing perfect but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which we draw nigh unto God I would like to cover more passages than just these two today because I don't want to be dragging too slow through this and rehashing through the same information again and again, but this one deserves a little bit of a focus time. Here's my question, which I hope you got. You're the driver. Keep that in mind. You are the driver, not somebody else, you. You're the driver, you're driving an 18-ton double. . I looked up all these specs, by the way. I'm just not making it up. An 18-ton double becker double becker. Double decker bus It's a tour bus. It's got 87 passengers on it. I modeled it after the London tour buses. You're going down a two-lane parkway, going 65 miles an hour, two this way, two that way. I guess it's four, but it's anyway, it's a parkway Suddenly, your artificial intelligence real-time GPS says make a right turn at the intersection 1,500 feet down the road. Now, unbeknownst to you, the little AI doesn't tell you the reason why, because it's so smart. It says the bridge is beginning to collapse. You've heard news reports in the past about the bridge that's up ahead. What is going through your mind? So I'll read the first response we had. Somebody responded, oh no, the driver needs to be removed from his job. If you had prior knowledge of the road condition, an alternate route should have been chosen. Don't trust your GPS totally. Keep your wits about you. And it seems going 65 on a two-lane parkway might be too fast. Always put your passenger safety as your highest priority. So that was one answer. What else is going through your mind? Weird. Follow the GPS, whatever. Weird. Follow the GPS, whatever. Okay. I just I just implicitly trust the GPS. Anyone else? Oh, but I don't put this double decker on its side. Oh. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, hope I don't flip this double decor on its side from a too sharp of a turn. Yeah. Okay, what else? What other thoughts are going? Just stop. Use the telephone. Everybody's got a telephone. Call the highway patrol or else call someone who lives down there. Yeah, all right. Just h hit the brakes. All right Um, I don't know what it is. There's no wrong answer, it's just what's going through your mind. This happened to me. I called a cab to take me to the grocery store. Now I have been to the grocery store many a time, so also I knew the route. And so this young man says I said, it's uh I told him where it was it, Oh, I got my GPS. So he put it in, I'm away for you. But he started off, I said, You're going the wrong way And I kept telling him, you're going the wrong way. No, my GPS says this. You're going the wrong way. Well got to a place where the store was supposed to be open field He says, hmm. So he calls the uh So in this instance of your driving the bus, given that you've had that experience, what would you do? I kept telling them. No, no, no. Given that you're driving this bus, I know about your story. I'm trying to stick with this one because your story doesn't tie into the Sunday school lesson I got a very carefully crafted story here. I don't know. You don't know. All right. But it sounds like you wouldn't trust the GPS. Okay. All right. That's fair enough. Anybody else? I won't trust the G US completely. Okay. Because I had experience driving in um Detroit Yeah, uh on on my way to the airport. But suddenly it's a port, uh heavy rain from the uh from the air, something like that. My GPS just uh, you know, had no signal, something like that But the result is I missed my my uh plane. I have to reschedule. But what I'm pretty was this was my first time to drive in uh Detroit is very completed but also I I think that uh to be very careful safety is the first Yeah. Be very careful. Safety is first. You've had experience where you weren't quite sure what to do with it. Yeah. There's no wrong answers here. This is all good stuff. Any other thoughts on some trust it, some don't. You're worried about flipping it Any other thoughts? What else is going through your head? I would feel concern. I would feel anxiety. That's an awful short runway to turn the bus That's so heavy, so Yeah. Concern, anxiety? How about some of these fellows back here? You you're drivers. You've driven the Kluth bus a time or two before, you know at least a little bit of what that's like. Well I I have some more circumstantial questions like, you know, what what have what have the experiences been crossing this bridge before? Because The thing is we don't actually know what's going on and so if we've already gone on the bridge before, why should we deter now GPS might just be giving us Crazy information. Good answer, yeah, really good. Yeah, we've crossed this bridge a hundred times before, never had a problem. Yeah. Are there any dollies anywhere around? There are any dollies around Yeah, the cho cartership Dolly. Wrecking bridge. The Dolly, the Hitley Bridge. Oh, okay. I gotcha. Yeah, that would be on my mind. How fast can I hit these brakes here? Should I pump them? Should I uh disamp on them or yeah, that'll be my thought. Right Well thank you all for that. That's excellent. And I hope this was helpful. So in my silly illustration, the double-decker tour bus is the nation of Israel. And the passengers are the Jews. And the driver is the high priest. The Lord Jesus Christ is the AI-driven GPS who says you've got to make a hard right turn up ahead. And you see that throughout his ministry. Some doubting and questioning. Others, the nation of Israel has survived these things in the past. Why should we worry now? But Jesus is saying, no, you actually have to make a hard right turn. And that's what we're going to get into in this story. And I hope to deepen your appreciation. for why it would be very difficult for a Jew to accept Jesus as the Messiah, because that's what we're going to get into here today. And so the title of the messages, or the Sunday school lesson, is A Hard Right Turn. Jesus, when he came on the scene, was presenting to the nation of Israel a hard right turn. How long it had been in that nation since Abraham was around. Since David, let's just start with the Davidic kingdom. Since David had set up the kingdom, does anybody have any history, remembrance of about what time David set up the kingdom to this point when Jesus is around? How many years before? Bible history is kind of easy to divide. Back to Abraham, 2,000 years. Back to David 1,000 years. How long has the U. S. been around? 200 and something. 200 something years. Yeah, 250-ish. Nation of Israel had been around four times longer and had seen a lot of ups and downs. And yet Jesus coming along and saying, the bridge is going out ahead. It's beginning to crumble. You're not going to be able to cross that bridge. You must turn now or perish And that's kind of what is being presented. And you can see why it would be hard for the Jews. We can't do this to our nation. It's better that one man should perish than that the whole nation should die. We're not going to crash this bus. We're not going to destroy it because of Jesus. No way we're not going to do that. You can see those tensions in it. So let's get into it here, all right? Our verse 18, after we took these stair steps up this passage in Hebrews, comes to this shocking statement, for there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before. Well, it's interesting, that word disannulment means cancellation. And the commandment in the context refers to what? Well, it would be the Levitical Code. Verse 5, if you've got your Bibles open, said, Verily they that are the sons of Levi who receive the office of the priesthood have a commandment. to take tithes of the people according to the law. The law made them priests, the law commanded them to pay. It made priests, the law made priests who were men, who would die. That was in verse 18. Or that's ahead in verse 18. uh uh eighteen? Excuse me, uh yeah, I'm I'm in a different passage here. So um verse eight, I'm sorry. And here men that die receive tithes. But he says there's a disannuling of the commandment. That has major ramifications. That's a hard right turn to say, oh, well, yeah, the Levitical priesthood thing. Yeah, that's canceled. My plan to go over this bridge is canceled. What? What do you mean? That doesn't make sense. Because the thing ultimately being canceled, if you cancel the Levitical priesthood, what else goes with it? What did the Levites have responsibility for? What were they handling? Sacrifices? Okay, sacrifices disappear. What else were they handling? What was the more important thing that they were handling? Remission of sin. Uh remission of sin, okay. Yeah, that's true. All right. What else were the priests handling? Money. Yeah, they certainly handled money They took it, but it would be 10%. They taught the law. If the Levitical priesthood disappears, who's going to teach the law? If that's being canceled, the law teachers are gone. And that has an implication You know, that's the whole point that the Penmans have been building up to. The Levites were commanded, and this is your second fill-in-blank, the first one is the thing ultimately being canceled is the old covenant. And I'm going to shore up that point here If you have a Thompson Chain reference Bible or some other commentary study Bibles, in the note it'll say, well, it's referring to the ceremonial laws. Oh no, no, no. The context is not talking about ceremonial laws. It's talking about the Levitic, the law that put the Levites into place. Well, that's the Old Covenant. It's talking about the Old Covenant in its entirety. Now, in the immediate context, it's referring to the law that made the men priests We're going to get to, as we develop further, that if you remove the law the lawgivers that's because the law is gone too The Levites were commanded by the law to be priests. The priests were commanded to teach the law, that's your third fill-in-the-blank, and a new order of priests, according to the prophecy that he's been talking about, would be a new lawgiver presumably with new laws. Now, all of this appears to contradict Galatians 3. 15, where the Apostle Paul says this. He says, Brethren, I speak after the manner of men. Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannoeth or addeth thereto. In other words, hey, we got a covenant It's been confirmed with bloods with blood sacrifices, with that there was a shedding of blood, there was an oath taken, that confirmed the covenant. And once it's confirmed, you don't add, you don't take away. It's intact. The same is true if you have a mortgage agreement. It's signed by both parties. That's an agreement. It's a legal document. I'm not at liberty to go into my mortgage agreement and change certain words. I don't like that word, you know, monthly. I'd rather pay it yearly. I'll just change monthly to yearly. That number, there's a few numbers I'd like to change in there, right? That's 8% interest is kind of nasty. I think 0. 8 would be nice. I'll just add a little jot in there. You can't do that, right? That's not going to work. He says the same is true with God's covenant. You can't just tweak it. It doesn't work. In fact, even Jesus himself in Matthew 5, 17, came along and said, Think not that I am come to destroy the law. Or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to what? Fulfill. Later he says In verse 19, whosoever there short therefore shall break one of these least commandments and teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. So here's my question. How do you How do you cancel a contract? How do you disannul a contract? How do you terminate a contract? How do you do that? Oh, that's for a testament. A testament requires the death of the taste eater, but a covenant does not. A lot of people died under a covenant and didn't cancel it. How do you cancel a contract, a business contract, let's just start with that? Well then you're gonna trigger the terms and conditions and then the penalties of the contract will fall upon you. That's how to cancel your good good credit. could renegotiate the deal, but both parties have to agree. Renegotiate? Alright. That's one way to do it. Renegotiate it. I'm not sure Israel's in a pos that's a correct answer. Was Israel in the position to renegotiate the contract? If God wants. If God wanted to. Was he willing to? No. He wasn't willing to renegotiate. He just said if you break one of the least of these commandments and teach men so he'll be leased in the kingdom of heaven. So he didn't renegotiate. Keep that thought in mind though. How do you cancel a contract? Joey? Mutual disavowment. Mutual disavowment. Both parties disavow it. Okay. Yeah, they they both uh get rid of it. What's a legal way to do it or a clean way to do it I'm not sure if if this answers the question of canceling it, but you fulfill all the terms and conditions. Paid all the money, you've paid all the interest, it's over, it's done Right, you're thinking of the analogy of the mortgage payment. It's a contract between you and Wells Fargo or whoever holds your loan. You've paid all the money. It's all paid in full And you've met the terms and conditions, you can burn the contract. In fact, some people have a mortgage burning ceremony where they go out and they make a little celebration and they burn it. I've done that before when we paid off the mortgage for the church I was at I was very very pleased to do that. And that's how the old covenant is canceled. It wasn't renegotiated. God could have if he wanted to, but that's not what he wanted to do. It wasn't um sued. There wasn't a lawsuit, there wasn't a disavow, it was a fulfillment And so once it's fulfilled, it has, to reuse the same phrase, fulfilled its purposes, and now we go on to something new. We go on to something different Verse 18 makes another shocking statement besides this cancellation. It continues. There's a disannulling of the commandment going before, meaning the prior commandment, that's the former commandment, the old covenant. for the weakness and the unprofitableness thereof. Well those are shocking words. Those are really shocking words. Because David says in the Psalm, the same David that penned Psalm 110, he also wrote, Oh, how I love thy law, in a few chapters later of Psalm 119. He wrote, in keeping of them is great reward, Psalm 1911. He spoke very positively of it. But Hebrews 7. 18 says the commandment had weakness and was unprofitable. Those are pretty negative words. Pop quiz. I was going to do a candy quiz and start throwing out candy, but uh I think I'm not a good tosser of candy and I didn't A little short supply of chocolate at the moment. What's the best two-word definition for someone who is perfect? Two words, and you can't say Penny McKnight, that's the wrong answer. What's the best two-word definition? That's your definition. What's the best two word not it's not for this calm down here, okay? What's the best two-word definition for someone who is perfect? Kind of like Elias actually. Godman. Godman, okay. Morally excellent. Morally excellent? It was from last week. Both of those are close. It's not the answer I'm looking for, so yes, there's a specific answer. You're close. He is perfect. But what is it about him that's perfect? It's that he lives forever. Perfection is found in someone who lives forever. If you live forever, that means you're eternally righteous because you have no reason to die. Death only comes about because of death. Because of sin. Excuse me. Yes, death does cause death. Now in what ways then, brethren, do you think that the law taught by the Levites was weak and unprofitable? Because it uses the word unprofitableness in contrast to profitable, in contrast to perfection. What raises it weak? That's the result. Yeah, that's the result. And that's true. In what ways is it weak? So one way is it didn't make something perfect. Paul called it the law of sin and death. Ah, okay. The law of sin and death. Okay, yeah Can't make me live forever. It can't make you live forever. It can't make you live forever. You see the train of thinking that's going on through here. Why he's hammering perfection, why he's hammering power of an endless life. He's hitting on certain themes here to point out this was the aim and the objective. It was weak because the priest died, and it was unprofitable because you couldn't live forever. It was weak. A priest would die, you got a new one in. Did Israel always get a excellent priest as a replacement? Did they always get a really good high priest that came in afterwards? It was a roll of the dice. That's kind of how royalty is. I don't know why in American tabloids we're still fascinated with the British political system. I thought we ditched them with George Washington some 250 years ago. We tried to get away from all that ridiculous royalty because they got into office not because they were smart, not because they were even particularly pretty, not because they were qualified, but because they were born into it. Heaven help you, as to who knows what you got for the king. It was a roll of the dice. Some were good, some were a flaming disastrous. So it was true for national Israel. The priesthood was royalty. They weren't voted into office, they were born into it. you could get whoever. So it was weak, it was unprofitable. They died. It couldn't make you live forever. Alright, I want some readers here, and then I'm going to ask you how the verse that you read shows the law to be weak or unprofitable. Who wants to cover Acts 1339. He wants to read that. Alright, Anton. And by him, Jesus All that believe are justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. Alright, so what's what's showing us this weak and unprofitable in that Well, that um justification couldn't come by it. Couldn't come by the old covenant. Moses can't justify you. It's just not possible. It's just wooden warbury. Yeah, excellent. Alright, Romans 8. 3, who wants to cover 3 and 4. Gabriel, take that one. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh But after the spirit. Okay, so what I mean it kind of uses the word weak there, so kind of expound on that. What is it that he's saying is weak and unprofitable, Dia? How about the law? Well, when an individual would try to outwork the law, it uh it wouldn't end well. Okay. It didn't end well for them. Okay. So let me give you a little challenge here. Reread that, but I want you to substitute whenever you see the word uh sin, uh substitute the word death. Uh and if you see the word weak, you know, kind of relate that to a death theme like the word dying. So whenever you see sin or weakness translate it with some form of death For dying. This is a view professor. Yep, right. And divided by the square root of three For what the law could not do, and that it was dying through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of dying flesh, and for uh death, condemned death in the in the flesh. Yeah, just stop right there. You see how that still sorta works? You see that the law is weak in the flesh because the flesh is dying? How spiritual do you feel when you're healthy, you've had a full meal, you just come back refreshed from vacation? Um you're still glowing from the sun and your toes from the little fishies nibbling on them in the water and you've had uh you know what I'm getting at. House And you've had a good time of Bible reading, how spiritually minded do you feel at that point? Is that maybe a high point or a low point? That's great It's great. It's high point. You're sick. You've been sick for a long time. You haven't been out of bed in a while. Your head is hurting. You've got all kinds of aches and pains. All you can think about is how do I get out of this pain? You don't have energy. I can't even sleep. How spiritually minded are you at that point? Zero. Zero. Yeah. It's like Lord take me now. I had enough. Yeah. You see the weakness, the death that works in the flesh. Just when you need it the most is exactly when you don't have it. It's weak in our dying flesh. All right, Job 9. 20. You want us to read that one and comment. 9. 20. Yeah, just one verse. Job 920. Anybody take anyone. If I justify myself, my own mouth shall condemn me. If I say I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. Um basically anybody can go to court and claim not guilty. But it but sometimes they're as obviously guilty as they can be, but no, I'm not guilty. That's good. I like that. What about the second part as well, where he says, I am if I say I am perfect, it'll prove me perverse. Well if you say you're perfect, it proves how imperfect you are. Right. Because perfection means eternal life. You live forever. And so it's obvious you're a man and you're gonna die And so that proves him to be perverse. And like you point out, there's the intimate connection, I I think is what I'm trying to get at. What when we hit at the concept of sin, we're kind of maybe overusing Pauline terms And I think it's helpful to look at this a little different angle that Hebrews is taking, which is the root issue that is, you don't live forever. And that is a huge problem. Such is the way of an adulterous woman, she wipeth her mouth and said, I've done no will. I haven't done anything anything wrong. Absolutely. Galatians 3. 21, somebody read that just that part of the verse If there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law. So the Apostle Paul just nails it right on the head. If there could have been a law Which gave you life. This theme resounds throughout the scriptures, and in fact, you can take it all the way back to the garden, which will be just uh a few passages later from where Pastor's preaching at this morning. When Adam sinned, the Godhead had a little discussion. Lo, the man has become now as one of us. And lest he put forth his hand and take and eat of the tree of life, and what? Live forever. In other words, I don't want this to happen. Therefore he drove him out of the garden. Why would God drive him out of the garden? All Adam had to do was put forth his hand and eat of the tree of life, and he would have lived forever. Because righteousness is not going to come by the law. Eternal life is only the source of eternal life God is very jealous for his glory, very jealous for his name, very jealous for his son, and for his son's plan of redemption. It will only come as a free gift from Jesus Christ. to beget eternal gratitude in the believer. You know, again, the point of all this, what's the point here, is that a main theme, a goal which the Jews sought to attain was perfection. You know, even the Apostle Paul says, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. He thought he had carried all these things out. And then when the full force and the reality of what the law actually pointed out was revealed to him As his eyes were opened, then he'd realized, oh wretched man that I am. So the penman here is using Genesis 15 with Melchizedek, Psalm 110 with the order of Melchizedek that he's an endless life He's making a case for how inferior the law is to Jesus the Son. That's the contrast that's being made, and that's what he's putting forward So, I now asked a question, getting back to my little bus analogy. I know it was cheesy, but it kind of got you thinking. Why would it be hard for a Jew to believe in Jesus as the Christ of Psalm 110? Why would it be hard for a Jew to believe in Jesus as, oh, he's the Christ that Psalm 110 is talking about? Why would it be hard for them to believe that? They expected him to come as a a uh ruler. He was supposed to be bedecked in diamonds and pearls and rubies and he didn't Exactly, yeah that's that's one very big there was uh the wrong expectation. They had a different expectation. Yeah, that's correct. Yeah. There was quite a few reasons, so what else? Why what are the many reasons why It would have been hard for a Jew to believe in Jesus the Christ. They didn't think that he would come to can't to fulfill complete the law. They thought that he was going to come to kind of carry it out some more, would you extend it further. I don't think they expected him to make a hard red turn Exactly. They thought, oh, we're going to be back in the days of, well, David was good, Solomon was better. Boy, when the Messiah comes, it's going to be great. We're going to have our law and our system. It's going to continue on. Hooray! Yeah, and they didn't expect Jesus to make that hard right turn. Any other thoughts or ideas? Kind of building on that their whole lives they've been told, Keep the law, keep the law, keep the law, keep the law and now they're being told the law's bad, believe on Jesus. And so it was just a totally different way of thinking. I can't just all the focus you're putting on this just I can't even imagine. Because we're looking back from history and we can see how it all played out and we've got the entire word of God They didn't have any of that. There was a complete change. It it would have had to be obviously salvation. It had to be so obviously of God and not of man for them to see any of that Even after the resurrection in Acts 1, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? They were still thinking a political kingdom? Uh all of the Penny, I appreciate everything you said that they uh they just really For us Gentiles, having the whole record looking back, I guess we don't have end hearing preachers about it, talk about it for a while. Having been raised in it from your youth up, not saved by the works of the law, but by the grace of God I think a great many, even evangelical Christians, uh Arminians, or of a broad range, of Protestants at least, will understand, know, and appreciate you're not saved by the works of the law, but by the grace of Jesus Christ We've had that echoed in our ears. That was not echoed for a thousand years in the ears of the Jews. That's not what they heard. And as I meditated on this even more, I began to think that could God have given them a whole lot more warning? Could he have given them more signs, more indications? Sure, God's, I mean there was a 400-year inter-testamental period of silence between the last book of the Old Testament and the beginning. of the book of Matthew when Jesus came. But w but why didn't he? Because he wanted them to believe. Oh. You nailed it He wants them to believe. And he said it repeatedly through his prophets. The very last book of the testament says, the Son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings. He'll be zealous for his temple. He'll come. He'll come suddenly to his temple. They had the word. They had the priests who were supposed to teach the law. They could have repeated these prophecies in the ears of the people. They could have said it again and again and again. What's interesting is that, and I've got to get to verse 19, but just briefly How many of you have heard about the Dead Sea Scrolls? They were found in a cave in the area of Qumran in the very arid region of Israel. In addition to the entire book of Isaiah on a large scroll, they also found a lot of the articles of the Essene, E-S-S-E-N-E, Essene community that live there, and their various rules, and some of their writings as well. And they were very, very interested in prophetic things. They were anticipating an imminent return of a Messiah. And I find that to be very, very fascinating because it was written around the time of Jesus Christ. So it was very interesting that there, and you read in the temple that there were those who waited for the consolation of Israel. You did have a few old people who knew who were in the temple serving God with prayers, but they were hearing. They were hearing The law that was being given. And they they were waiting. They were waiting. They knew it was coming. So there were some. There were some who knew. But not many. And as Mrs. Ross pointed out, it was a test of faith. Do you believe me? And that gets back to my AI GPS thing. Do you trust the GPS? And you can see why some people would say no. They've had false prophets come through before, but Jesus was very different How was he a different prophet? Well, he did miracles. He did miracles that none of the other prophets did. He restored sight to the blind, to at least two that I'm aware of, maybe as many as three. No other prophet has done that He raised, he ruined a lot of funerals. You know that? He would go to a funeral, he would touch the casket, and the widow's son would be raised to life. You'd be hard-pressed to find a whole lot of prophets in the Old Testament that did that. I can think of Elisha, but beyond that So he was looking to be like the real deal, but he's having to make a hard right turn And then we get to verse 19. The law versus hope, as Penny looked at earlier, for the law made nothing perfect but the bringing in of a better hope dead, by the which we draw nigh unto God. John says it this way, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Again, here the law is a reference to the entire Old Covenant. And a better hope would be that of an endless life. Verse 16, who is made not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. And drawing nigh to God is what the Levitical order sought to do. The Levites are trying to draw men close to God. Now, this may be an obscure passage to consider, but I want you to think about this for a moment here, because Jesus makes a very interesting statement that I've pondered about, and I believe it's a fitting connection. I'm focusing on this phrase, drawing nigh to God. That's what the Levites Levites were to do. If a man sinned, He might be cast out of the camp. It might have been sin so grievous that he would be stoned, permanently removed from the people of God. But to draw them back into the community, draw them back into the presence of God and his people Closer to the temple where God's presence would dwell, were a series of sacrifices, teachings, all these things that they were instructed by. And it was to bring men closer to God. Listen to this very interesting passage in Mark 12. This is a time when people are coming and asking him questions. In Mark 12 and verse 28, we read this. One of the scribes came and dot dot dot asked him, which is the first commandment of all? You remember that question that was asked, those of you familiar with the New Testament? Jesus gives them an answer that Hero, Israel, the Lord thy God is one God, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. This is the first commandment. The second is like unto it, namely you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang the whole law in the prophets. So he summed it up in two points. There wasn't one, there was two, which we now refer to as the two tables of the law, the first four commandments, loving God The second, sixth, loving your neighbor as yourself. Now notice the scribe's response here. Verse 32, the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, Thou hast said the truth. The scribe gets it. The scribe's at least familiar enough with the law of God to recognize, hey, Jesus, you got a profound answer. Thou hast said the truth, for there is one God, there is none other but He, and to love Him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength. And to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. This scribe demonstrates tremendous understanding. Notice Jesus' answer to him though. When Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far. From the kingdom of God. You're not far. Well, not far doesn't mean you're in it, it means you're close to it. When Moses in Deuteronomy is about to bring the children of Israel over into the promised land, he reminds them that he besought the Lord, please let me go over. Let me go to a mountain, let me go to Lebanon. He wanted to go to Lebanon. Moses said, I want to go to Lebanon, I want to at least see it, and God says, no, you're not going to see it, and don't raise this with me again. Because you angered me. You didn't honor me when you were supposed to speak to the rock once and you struck it twice. Or worse for that I forget exactly, but I know he did something twice and he's supposed to do it once. I think he's supposed to strike it once, not twice. Moses is a picture of the law. In the New Testament, he typifies the law, the law of Moses. He could only get you to the promised land. There is not a law, verily, which could give you life. The Promised Land is a picture of heaven. But Joshua can and will take you into the Promised Land. God is jealous for this fact. He is jealous for his son. His son will get all the glory. And when you lay hold on that, that helps frame All of the old covenant, the old testament laws, rules and restrictions and regulations, the ceremonial, the judicial, all of that. And I know there's questions going through your mind, because there were the same kinds of questions going through the minds of the Jews. The Apostle Paul answered these. He had many an argument, and I think because of all these arguments he had with people, he wrote the book of Romans. You will say unto me then. Shall we sin that grace may abound? All of those questions came up But at this stage, at this point, he's saying the law is unprofitable, it's weak, it made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, and by that hope you draw an eye to God. In fact, you get very close Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes unto the Father all the way but by me I want to leave you with a few notable quotes I've heard over the years, and they're very helpful, very helpful as a little thumbnail sketch to help you understand this point. Pastor Mahan put it this way. The law tells you to run but it doesn't give you legs to run. Tells you to climb, but it doesn't give you a ladder to climb. Now, if you're a righteous man, you could do that, and it would point out a righteous man. But if you're not, it can't give it to you. Bunyan in Pilgrim Progress illustrated that. There was a fellow, the main character is a fellow named Christian And in his religious zeal he tried to climb climb Mount Sinai, but he found it to be a foreboding terror. He couldn't make it. It was just rocks and lightning and fire. It was just horrible for him. Last I leave you and I put it in your bulletin because I think it's an excellent hymn from John Newton. Boy, if ever there's a man saved by grace, it was the old slave trader John Newton. What a scoundrel this fellow was He wrote a song, Let Us Love and Sing in Wonder. And if you know it, I invite you to sing it with me, just the first stanza. Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us praise the Saviour's name He has hushed the law's loud thunder. He has quenched Mount Sinai's flame. He has washed us with his blood. He has brought us night to God. I double printed that last part, sorry about that. He has hushed the law's loud thunder. What a marvelous depth of understanding, because that's what Jesus Christ did in fulfilling the law of righteousness. The law of God no longer has a claim against you. You can bring it to you on that great final day of judgment There's the law of God which could nail every cell in your body with an iron nail to a cross and say you're guilty beyond imagination. And Jesus Christ steps in and says Fulfilled. I've taken care of that. That contract is canceled. That's a hard right turn. That is a hard right turn for a nation of Jews. Another beautiful picture of Faithful is another one of his companions, and he hasn't been tempted by the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of light to get off the path and go back to his old worldly ways. And he turns off the path and then he recognizes his sin and he comes back and Moses shows up. And he just cold cocks them, just knocks them out cold. And he tries to get up and the law just starts beating and beating and beating and it's not going to stop. The law is just condemning him to death And as he is lying there in those throngs, one shows up and all he does is shows his hand. And shows his hand. And the law has to run away because Christ has paid the penalty of the law. Very good. Let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this marvelous, glorious um uh reckoning, Lord, how the uh The law was fulfilled in Jesus Christ, Father. There's many questions we still have, and we look forward to answering them as we continue in Hebrews, but we uh indeed Rejoice at your saving, redeeming work for poor and needy sinners. Help us to look to Him again today in Jesus' name. Amen.