Turn with me if you would. First Samuel chapter six Verses one through twelve. And the ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. We might just gloss over that quickly, but that's a long time to be without the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments had been removed from Israel. They were in the Ark of the Covenant It's a long time to be without the Ten Commandments. Inside that ark was also the autographed copies of Moses' writings. It's a long time to be without the Word of God. To have the Ten Commandments and the Word of God removed from a country. For a day is a long time, but for seven months And so for seven months without the Ark the Covenant there was no Passover. There was no sacrifice. There you could not bring the blood in and sprinkle upon the Ark and the Passover, the atonement once a year was set aside. This was a very trying time for Israel. And at this point they never knew if they'd ever see the ark again. So the ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines. Seven months. There's a lot in that verse. And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do? To or with the ark of the Lord. Tell us wherewith we shall send it to his place or to the Lord's place. And they said, If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty. But in any wise return him that is God a trespass offering. Then you shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why God or his hand is not removed from you. And then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return to him? And they that is the chief priest. Answered, five golden emrods and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for or the kings. There were five kings in the land of the Philistines For one plague was on you all, and on your lords, or on your kings. Wherefore you shall make images of your emrods, verse 5, and images of your mice that mar the land And you shall give glory unto the God of Israel. Peradventure he will, or perhaps he will lighten his hand from off of you and from off your gods and from off your land. Wherefore then do ye harden your heart Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts as the Egyptians? Or why are you so hardening your hearts as the Egyptians and the Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When he had wrought wonderful among them, they did not let the people go. But rather, did they not let the people go? And they departed. Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kind, that's two milk cows, that's two cows that are actually have just had calves and are have let down their milk. These are these are calves with with full udders of milk and and calves that are are nursing on them. Take these two milk kind or milk cows on which there come has come no yoke, and tie the cows to the cart, and bring their calves home from them And take the ark of the Lord and lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold which you returned from for a trespass offering in a coffer by the side thereof, and send it away. That it may go. And see if it goeth up by the way of the coast to Best Shemes. Then he had done us this great evil, if it goes up that way. But if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us. It was a chance that happened to us. And the men did so. And they took the two milk cows and tied them to the cart and shut up the calves at home. And they laid the ark of the Lord upon the cart, the copper, with the mice of gold and the images of their tumors And the cows took the straightway to the way of Beshemesh and went along the highway, lowing as they went And turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. And the Lord of the Philistines went after them onto the border of Beshemesh. Seven months the Ark of the Covenant of God had been in the land of the Philistines. Seven months without their commandments, seven months without the writings of Moses, seven months without an atonement, without a sacrifice Seven months. And on the other hand, seven months the Philistines had it. And they they'd had plagues and they'd had death and disease and destruction. And what hard hearts they were that they held on to for seven months. I would have think that after a week you'd have had enough of it and wanted to get rid of it. But these were hard hearts and they would not let go of the ark as the The Pharaoh would not let go of his slave labor, the Israelites in Egypt. That's a long time to suffer, seven months It's a long time to watch somebody else suffer. It's a long time to watch your loved ones die. It's a long time to watch all this harm coming upon you and to do nothing. They just couldn't let go of the ark. They had stolen it and they were going to keep it. Do you have trouble letting go of things that you shouldn't have? Lot's wife couldn't let go of Sodom and she was turned into a pillar of salt in Genesis nineteen and 26. Gehazi, he couldn't let go of name and silver, and he acquired leprosy, 2 Kings 5, 23 through 27. Saul couldn't let go of the Amalekites' cattle that he had captured And it cost him his crown, 1 Samuel 15, 14 through 26. You all heard the story, perhaps, or you can go on YouTube, you can get everything on YouTube, and you can see how you catch a monkey. And you'll if you go on there you'll find they'll they'll take a very heavy clay jar with a very small hole and they'll drop peanuts in it or some sort of nuts and uh on the inter tube or on the uh on the internet this week I was watching it and and they did just that. They dropped these peanuts inside this hole and the and the monkeys watching 'em He's got a good sense of smell. He knows there's peanuts in that hole. He runs over and he shoves his hand in the hole and he grabs a handful of peanuts. And he can't get his hand out, but he won't let go of the peanuts. And the natives there, they they run up to him and they throw a rope around the monkey and they take him away and he can be tonight's meal or sold to a zoo somewhere. Because the monkey won't let go of the penis. And that's the way we are sometimes, aren't we? Pilgrim, are you hanging on to some particular sin that you just don't want to let go of? It'll cost you. Drunkenness, drug abuse. It'll destroy your liver, but people hang on to the booze anyway. Adultery and infidelity, that's a magnify of the most numerous of diseases and infections you could ever imagine. And people hang on to that lifestyle anyway. The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. 1 Timothy 6:10. And people hang on to their money, they covered their money, and they want more of it. Please note that the sins that we often hang on to, they don't just destroy your comfort level. But left unchecked, left unchecked by the gospel of Christ, they'll inflict eternal havoc on your soul. And so it was that we read here the Philistines, after seven months of destruction and plagues and diseases. They're considering getting rid of the ark. Considering it. They're going to bring in some high priests, and they say in verse 2, what shall we do to the ark of the Lord? They they were at least they said they were prepared to listen to what was known about the God of Israel. They bring in these these priests, and they called the priests and the diviners. These were the experts in all the different religions We had them at Towson State University. We had them at the University of Maryland, experts in religion. But not true professors of the faith of Jesus Christ. But they knew some things. They knew some things about the God of Israel. In fact, when you when you read the story, when you go to the Bible, it's amazing what the Philistines knew about the Word of God. It's amazing what the Hittites knew in the days of Rahab. They knew, they had heard about the Red Sea being parting, and how God had brought them to the Red Sea. That was the Hittites And now we got the Philistines here, and we discover here they know lots about Moses. They know what the plagues in Egypt, they know these plagues really happened. They know what the plagues were. I mean you start to wonder, here are Philistines and Hittites They're uncircumcised Philistines, and they seem to know more about the Bible and believe more about it than the professors in the colleges across this land And so they say, What would you do? What should we do? And they call on the priests of the diviners. And verse 3 it says, If you send away, if you send it away, how much longer do you want to hang on to this thing? It's a curse to these people. If you send the ark away, send it not empty, but return to him that returned to God a trespass offering. You have trespassed on, you have sampled, you have trampled on the Word of God, on His laws And you need to ask God to forgive you. You need to ask the God of Israel. You need to give him an offering to show that you have a contrite heart, that you are sorrowful for what you've done. And send a gift along as you return it. It's amazing how sometimes when we start out we plot and we plan and we think how things are going to work out. They probably thought we got the Ark of the Covenant, oh this is it's covered in gold, it's got treasures inside of it, these people love it, they want it. What a ransom we can get for this. I bet Israel will give us all who knows how much they'll give us for this. This is stupendous Israel never offered them a ransom. Israel never even attempted to rescue it. I mean, they were in sad shape after having been led by the apostates Phineas and Hopnia for so many years. They they didn't even attempt to get it back. And so the Philistines who might have thought to be a great ransom paper at some point or another, almost sudden they are paying to return it like kidnappers. They kidnap your kid. In fact there was a movie made that way one time that something about little red chief. The kid he is such a rotten little kid. The kidnappers kidnap this kid and they want a hundred thousand dollars. And if the people say, Well, we'll try to get together in two days, and the kids driving the kidnappers nuts, and they say, Okay, fifty thousand, we'll just do fifty thousand. Have you ever watched the movie? Uh the I think it's called The Ransom of a Little Red Chief. And so by the by the end of the week the people they've almost got the fifty thousand dollars together and the guy said, Look, look, we'll give him back you. We'll give you a hundred dollars and you take the kid back. He's at the he's like a little dentist for menace or something. And that's what they got here. They are given the Ark of the Covenant back. And what is it? They've got to pay to return what they stole? But that's what the diviners say. They say, look, you've trespassed against God, you've sinned against the God of Israel. You need to give him an offering. You need to confess that you are sinners. You need to confess that a price must be paid to Israel's God for what you have done. And dear friend, if you have sinned, there is a price you must pay for what you have done If you've transgressed the laws of God, and which one of us here has not, even the Philistines understood that the wages of sin, there's a price to be paid. for our sins. Now you can see this morning think, well that's not what my college professor says. That's not what my teacher tells me. That's what the neighboring the neighboring kids don't believe is the price to be paid. Well Then they're worse than an uncircumcised Philistine, because even the Philistines knew that when you sin against the God of Israel, there was a price to be paid. And so they are willing to pay the price. And he says that if you do this, then uh perchance you shall be healed. And it shall be known to you why the disease and the plagues come. I mean if you pay this if you send that ark back and you pay the the sin offering and so forth and the diseases stop And the plague stops, the people stop dying, you're gonna know that that's what caused it. I mean, you're just gonna know that But some here we find they they just doubted that stealing the ark would have brought such severe judgment. I mean It's in the midst of a battle. They attacked us, we're fighting them, we win, they run and and and we we s we s we take what's not ours, the Ark of the Covenant. I mean it's stealing, but I mean hey they were bad guys, they were fighting with us and You know, it's okay to steal from your enemy, isn't it? That's what the Philistines would have thought. You know, I mean and it to steal this this box It's a box. It's covered in gold, but still, I mean it it's the swallows of war, they left it there and rather than just leaving it there for them to come back and get it later. Yeah, we stole it. I mean, but would God be that severe to us for just stealing a box? I mean it wasn't a sacred thing to them. It was just would God be that severe just for stealing? Is there somebody here that thinks that stealing a candy bar isn't all that bad from some store? Stealing a little pair of earrings isn't so bad from some store. They're not expensive earrings. How about stealing a pen from work? Off someone's desk because you like it. You don't think you deserve severe judgment for stealing Judgment begins with the house of the Lord. If you think God's going to deal with those Philistines who don't really know any better in some instances, if He's going to judge them that severely, how much more severely will He judge those who have been raised and cutch their teeth on the Word of God. Stealing. Will God judge us severely? For that Christ said, Except ye repent, ye shall perish. Luke 13 and 3. Christ said you will perish. Is that severe enough judgment for you? And he goes on to describe what perishing is. And when a heart, what a hard heart truly repents. And these Philistines, they had hard hearts, they kept his heart for seven months. That's a hard heart. People are dying left and right and they keep the ark. That's a hard heart. And now they're told here to to return this and and and to give a trespass of and to share it with God that you know you've sinned and you and you're asking to forgive you and the And that's a hard heart. And a hard heart that truly repents. You know what it does? Exodus 22. 9 says when you when you've taken something from someone and you're and you're caught with the item that you've stolen, it says you're to restore to it double its value. So if someone steals your television set and the police catch them, guess what? He's supposed to buy you two television sets to replace the one he stole Or at least get back to one he stole and give you another new one as well. If he steals your car, you end up with two cars in your garage. I mean I d I love the Old Testament. I love I love the Word of God. You know what happens You know. What was it recently? There was something that some court settlement uh for millions and millions of dollars. I forget the government came in and settled it. Oh, that the cars, the cars that had the ignitions that started fires and And people died in those and and so the the car companies come out and we're gonna give billions of dollars, we're really sorry. They didn't give one dime to the people whose kids are dead or families are dead, they gave it all to the government. The government got the penalty, they were gonna give the money But that's not the way the Word of God works. If something stole from you, if something caused you a great injury, you got reimbursed. But our government doesn't work that way. They don't they don't sue the mortar or the auto company so that you will get something back to help bury your daughter or your mother or your children or raise them or get them through college. Oh no though. They sue them so the government can collect billions of dollars. And keep it for themselves. But here it says in Scripture that he stole, he had to restore double to the individual he stole it from. Exodus 22 and 9. So here the Philistines are. They understand this. And so in verse 4 it says, What shall be the offering? And there are priests, they're not Levitical priests, but they understand that there was to be an offering, a trespass offering, an admission of sin. a repentance of sorts, a restoration of sorts, and said you not only got to give back the ark, but you've got to give back something more. Now they didn't give back twice the value of the art, believe me. But they did give back five golden emeralds, or what that were there for tumors. They gave back five golden shaped tumors. and five golden mice. The mice aren't very big, and neither were these tumors, but it so it wasn't double the value of the ark, but but at least they had the concept right. You give back more than you stole See, they understood something about the Old Testament. They had heard about things that Moses had written You know, if you hear not Moses, neither will you be persuaded the one who was raised from the dead. These Philistines, uncircumcised they were, they had listened to some of the things that Moses had said, and they believed some of those things. Boy, that's it's almost better than a lot of preachers today in the pulpits, aren't they? But they weren't saved, but they still believed a lot of what Moses had said. And so they said, Well we'll give the offering the five golden tumors and the five golden mice. That is the number of the lords of the Philistines, that's the number of the the five major cities of the land of the Philistines, and and apparently those five kings that also have been plagued and they got these diseases. and members of their family had died as well. The offering wasn't double the value of the ark. But they also knew that they weren't to send a blemished or unclean animal to sacrifice to God, didn't they? They knew that There's a lot of things they understood about the scriptures. And so as we're reading this, they give them the five golden emirs and the five golden mice. I understand the emrods, the tumors. What's this about the mice? For seven months they had the Ark of the Covenant. For seven months there have been the plagues. We read all about that in the previous chapter But what's this about the mice? It's not till this chapter that we finally read that there was more than just that. After seven months of them showing little or no remorse God brought upon them a mouse, lots of mice, to destroy their crops and to bring a famine. And so it is, they're not only dying of plagues and the diseases, but they got a famine going here. They're starving to death He said, if you won't listen after all the plagues, I'll bring another plague onto you. And he had done just that. Life's only more complicated and more eternally painful if we reject What God is doing in our lives and trying to move us back on the straight and narrow. And they had rejected that. They had not sent the ark back. They weren't listening. They weren't getting it. Is there someone here that keeps putting off making things right with God? Is there someone here that keeps putting off making things right with the Israelites or making things right with other Christians? If you're putting off making things right Life's only gonna get more complicated for you. Life's only gonna get more painful, more intense for you. They they put up for seven months making it right with the Israelites. Making it right with the God of the Israelites. And it got very complicated, got very painful, and when the plagues weren't enough, God brings in the mice and the famine and the starvation. And that's the way people are today. They haven't made it right with God. And if you reject the free offer of a Redeemer, Christ Jesus. Who nailed your sins to the cross, Colossians 2. 14. If you aren't going to make things right with God and see that your sins are forgiven and offer up to God a contrite heart and contrite spirit, if you won't do all that Well then you're not as smart as a Philistine. You might be smarter than the fifth grader, but you're not as smart as a Philistine Whose hearts were hard and reluctant after seven months. I mean, we're talking seven months of hardship. We're talking about seven months of plagues and disease and and hunger and famine and the mice coming in here. And it says in verse six, he says here's a the priest. They told him what you gotta do. And they told him what it's going to cost them and how to do it. And then in verse six the priests look at the people, and they see some that are eager to do it, but they see enough that are not. And so in verse six they say they say, Wherefore do you harden your hearts I mean there's a bunch of them that are listening saying, We're not going to do that. I don't want to do that. You've got to be kidding. And the priest said, Wherefore do you harden your hearts of the Egyptians and the Pharaoh? He walked wonderfully among them. Did they not let the people go? He said, What is the matter with you people? There are some of you before me, and you don't want to do this. You're not going to get with the program. He said, Pharaoh didn't either. He went through ten plagues We're in the second plague right now. We we got the tumors and the diseases and we got the famines and the mice. You want eight more plagues? Wherefore do you harden your hearts? he says. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. Can you learn from another's sinful consequences, or do you insist on learning it for yourself the hard way? These Philistines had two plagues. They said, You insist on learning it the hard way? Can you not look back at the Pharaoh? Can you look back at Egypt? Do you really want eight more plagues? I mean, can't you just learn from the consequences of others? And there's sinners throughout our community and sinners throughout our families. They've done horrendous things and they have paid the price And you know it. And you're going to learn the same lesson by personal experience? Can we not learn from the consequences of other sinners not to do the sins that others have done? So the these priests, Philistine priests, they're not Levite priests. They came up with a test. Look, we're gonna find out of all this stuff, the mice and the plagues and the death and the destruction, we're gonna find out whether this is of the God of Israel or maybe it's not. Maybe it just came upon us per chance I mean we've never seen anything like it before. And we got we got the mice. Well at least we're not the lice. We just got the mice. Well we got a plague, but at least it's not at least our waters aren't turning to blood yet, and there aren't any Hail coming down from heaven yet, but do we really want all that? That's we've devised the test For those of you who aren't quite sure whether God's doing something here to us, punishing us for our sins. For those of you here who aren't quite sure whether you should repent or not, here's the test. Let's make a new cart. I mean if you can put the Ark of God on a cart, do you want it on an old cart that's hollowed, that's that's carried around garbage on it? You know, this that's that's carried around filthy animals, unclean animals, maybe a couple of dead bodies. I mean, if you're taking off the God of Israel, you really don't want to put his ark of the covenant On a cart that's hell slop and garbage, right? I mean if if we're wrong here, the last thing we want to do is offend this God by putting it on some old rickety cart. So they build a brand new cart. So build a new cart and take these two milk cows. Take two milk cows of which have never been a yoke, and tie these cows to the cart Yeah that's good to have the crosses here. They they know what cows are like. It's it's difficult to get one cow tied to a cart and have them pull the cart, you know. But when you when you hook up two cows and they've never pulled it, they're they're not synchronized, you know They're not about to pull the cart orderly. The one cow's going to want to go off the left, the other cow's going to want to go off the right. I mean this is really bizarre. You're going to take this new cart and hook up two milk cows And and melt cows are not generally what you would use to pull a cart anyway, but that's what they want to do. They go this a this is a difficult test when you really look at it. So that he's got these cows and tie them up and and and they're expecting to pull the carton in an orderly fashion. Oh, in addition to that, take two milk cows who just calves. They've just had their calves. And their calves are nursing on these melt cows, pull the calves off the nursing cows, stick them in the barn. And put the cows on the ark, and let's see if those two cows will just ignore the calves in the barn and move on up to the city of Beth Shemesh. Oh, we're not done with the test yet. First off, it's not the nature of a mother cow to abandon her young calf. And I I'm sure the cross and others here could tell you that Don't you ever try to get between a mother cow and her newborn calf. I mean they'll they'll gore you. They'll kill you, they'll trample you. They don't like to keep the cat. You try to keep that cat from the mother cow, you're you're looking for some real problems. And then of course the cows are going to be hungry and they don't want to go to Beshemesh. They know that back there where the calves are in the barn, that's where their stall is, that's where their feed is. It's almost feeding time. They want to eat too. They know where to go for food And when you look at the story, if you were to go to verse 13 and we didn't read it, when the cows began to walk along the road to Beshamesh, When they come to Beshematz, it says in verse 13, they were in the field harvesting the wheat. We're talking about harvest time. We're talking about July or August. We're talking about harvest time. And these cows have moved away from the calves or down the road a good distance. They're hungry. And off in the fields along the way are wheat fields and cornfields and it's harvest time And so when you tell us we're going to hook up these two milk cows, lock their calves the barn, put them on the road, and see if they'll go straight away to Beshamesh. And they won't go off to this wheat field, they won't go off to this flax field, they won't go off to that oats field, they won't go off that rye field. They may be They're hungry but they'll just keep on I mean this is quite a test This is quite a test that these that they have devised. And so they're saying, we'll see. how they will how they will react. And I would ask you today, how do you do with the company you keep? These two cows are ho they're yoked up together, unequally yoked basically, and they don't want to be on this carton. One wants to go one way, one wants to go the other way. And how do you deal with the company you keep? Well one wants to go one way, one wants to go the other way How do you do? How about your sin nature? The nature of these cows was to turn around and go back to the barn where the calves were. What is your sin nature? What is your nature? What do you want to do? How do you do When you are tempted by the company you keep, when you are tempted by your own sin nature, when you are tempted by your appetites and the circumstance of life, how do you do a temptation? These two male cows are severely tempted to go back to the barn where their calves are, to go back to the stall where the food is. What is what a test these Philistine that they it's a test that is just Planned and plotted for failure. We're gonna prove there's no God in Israel. We're gonna prove that all these plagues and the mice, it's just a perchance thing. The only way that this could ever work, the only way that that the God of Israel could really do this, if he was a if if he really is a God. If he's a kind of God that could oh they could Well Moses said he was the kind of God that could open the mouth of an ass and speak to a man, Numbers twenty-two and twenty-eight. I mean if he can really do that, if he can open the mouth of a donkey and have him speak to the man riding on his back You know then maybe that kind of God could do something here. But I mean really, this is a test beyond uh beyond any doubt they wanted to fail. And so the card it says it was made ready in verse 8 and sent away. And in verse 9 it says, Let's see now if it will go up to best famesh, and if not we shall know it is not the hand that smote us. I mean it if these cattle and and I can just picture this. They got them yoked up. Now do you think they they got the cattle and they turned them and put 'em on the road, you know, got the cattle turner on the road and they're pointing them right up to Beth Temesh You think they did that? They don't want this to pass. You know what they've done to these cattle? They've hooked them up to the oak and they've turned them around and they are facing the barn where they can hear their calves bellowing for mommy. These cows are gonna have to do a whole hundred and eighty degree turn. No hands on 'em, no whip, no guidance. Let's just see what they do. Well, they're gonna head right for the barn. They're gonna head right for the calves. They're gonna head right for where the food is Well, surely one of the cows will I mean well maybe not. Maybe one of the cows would would want to turn around 180 degrees Both cows have got to want to turn around. Both cows have got to ignore the calves in the barn. Both cows have to ignore the food that's in the barn. Both cows must want to turn around 180 degrees, and by the way, when you got two cows and they're going to turn a cart, both cows have got to want to turn the same direction. What if one wants to turn 180 degrees this way? The other wants to turn 180 degrees. I mean, this this whole test, it is an amazing test. It is a test that the Philistines would never expect, would never lay upon their God Dagon It's kind of like when you're in college and they start throwing questions at you as young Christians. They say, Well, if you're God's God, how about this and how about that? The questions, the things they would throw at your God, they would never throw at evolution. Or humanism or communism. They've got a million questions about Christianity and our God, but those questions would never be laid alongside of their gods. As we're going down the road to veg to mesh, and here comes that first wheat field or that first cornfield. Okay. One of the cows says, No, I'm going the best of best. The other cow says, Not me, I'm going over the wheat field on my right hand side. What are you gonna do? You've got to have two cows. God must be able to control the heart of two cows that do exactly the same thing, synchronized beautifully Well, did you notice here in verse 9, it says that and they were to goeth up to Beshamesh. Beshemesh is up in the mountains. It's ten plus miles. Ten plus miles uphill. They not only aren't used to pulling a cart, but now they're pulling a cart with a load and they're pulling a cart uphill for ten plus miles. Straightway, no stopping for water. Straightway, no stopping for wheat Straightway, no stopping because you're exhausted. Straightway their udders are gorged with milk. For those who have been on the farm, you know what that means. Their udders it's hard for them to walk The udder gets in the way. It's banging against her legs. And if the calves aren't there to be nursed on, they become inflamed, they become sore. And so now with udders inflamed with milk and sore and c uncomfortable, they are dragging this cart ten plus miles uphill to Behemoth. I tell you again, it is designed to fail. God will not pass, the God of Israel will not pass this test, they think And there isn't anybody here that would ever continue on their journey to heaven if there wasn't a God. That was working in your life. Drawing you and strengthening you, you wouldn't make it. He is the author and the finisher of your faith And that straight and narrow path that the Scripture asks us to walk, that takes us up into heaven, it's an impossible trek for a man of flesh. To stick to it. It's a tremendous test of faith to think that we can stay on that path Oh, we trump, we we stumble, we trip, we fall, we get back up. But it's quite a test that the devil is watching, like the Philistines were watching, to see if we'll make it to heaven And only if God is in your heart, only if Christ is a reason for your faith, will you ever make it? If God can draw these two cows up the best mess, is there any heart so hard that God can't successfully draw it to heaven too? Have you given up on somebody because their heart's so hard? I mean, they're turning the wrong direction, they're facing the barn. Have you given up on somebody's heart so hard because they're listening to what the calves and the others have to say? And you could give it up somewhere else because they're off in this wheat field and they're off in that cornfield and they're off in that and then over here in the flax field and they're not paying attention to what you're telling them. Have you given up on them? If God can move the hearts of these two cows, synchronize and orderly, step by step, towards Beth Semester, He can do the same for Our grandchildren, our children, our parents. He's the God of Israel. He's the God of the Ark of the Covenant. He's the God that says that the king's heart's in his hands, and as the rivers of water, he turn them whithersover he will. Proverbs 21:1. And so these men in verses 10 through 12 they laid the ark on the cart. And the cows, it says, took the straightway to Beshamesh I mean they did well one went to left, one went to the right, and they're fighting with each other to turn the cart around and they finally get the cart turned around and one goes off the left in the white field over here and the cow on the right, he goes out, he wants to go off the right over here on the cornfield. It said they went straightway And it says here, they went straightway to Beth Shemeth loing As they went. You know what that means? We sing that song low in the manger, the the cattle were lowing. The cattle were bellowing Do not even begin to believe that these two cows had Nabesh the Mesh had forgotten about the calves. Against their own nature, they are drawn by God and are bellowing, I miss my calves My udder is inflamed, it's soar, it's full of milk. I want to go back, but something is driving me upwards That's the story of a Christian. We look around out there, we see the sin going on, and all the temptations are out there. And it's hard sometimes, isn't it? But there's something that says in our hearts, no, keep going Stay the course, the straight and the narrow. If you're saved, you do. It's hard sometimes to say the course. And these two cows do. There's no whip being applied to them to start them or to drive them or to direct them. There's no apple to entice them. There's no rain to aim them in the right direction. They go straight away to Beshemeth, lowering or bellowing as they went, and it says they turn not aside, left or right. On to Beshemeth, these cows They are a testimony. They hadn't forgotten their calves, but they are a testimony. Going against their own nature. As we Christians go against our sin nature, we get saved, but we still have some of that sin nature hanging on, don't we? But if we're saved, we go against that sin nature. We go against the temptations of life as these cattle did here. We find here that they they move further and further away from their calves. And we must move further and further away from our sins and further and further away from the sinners who would have us drawn back to the barn, drawn back to the gutter in the barn. The gutter of life. The Philistines had to say themselves What on earth is guiding these two cows? What on earth is leading these two cows? What on earth is joy? They said the Philistines followed them all the way to the borders of Beshe, but they couldn't believe it. They're scratching their head. Some are on the right side of the cart, some are on the left side of the cart, some are up front looking They can't see anything drawing them. They can't see anything guiding them. They can't see anything that's driving them. They couldn't understand But you know what was guiding him? What was drawing him? What was driving him? The same God that commanded the ravens to feed Elijah in 1 Kings 17. The same God who prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, the same God who commanded Lazarus to come forth out of the tomb, John 11. That's the God that's guiding them. The question is: what is guiding them? What's leading them? What's drawing them? It's the God of the Old Testament. It's the God of the New Testament. The harder question to answer may be this: Who is guiding Your heart today. That's the important question, isn't it? Who is guiding your heart? You'll know. Look behind and see the path you are trotting. Who is guiding your heart today Let's pray. Father, we thank thee today that you can take a jackass, you can take an unbroken cow. And use it for your glory. Oh Lord, can you take fallen man and do the same? We know you can. We pray that you will. We pray, Lord, if there's anyone here this morning that's been off track, off the straight and narrow, guided and driven and drawn by satanic forces. Carnal forces, Lord, today get a hold of that heart. Get a hold of that heart, Lord, and turn it around And move it upward to heaven, to the throne of Christ. We ask this in the name of our great Savior, our Redeemer, and our God, Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Ask if uh Bruce, if you close the prayer today, please.