Verses 20 through 30. This story is also shared with us in Matthew 12, verses 22 through 32. with each of them contributing some information that the other does not. So you might want to go back and read Matthew twelve today and uh 22 through 32. But beginning at Mark chapter 3, titled the message, He Delighteth in Mercy. Begin verse 20 of chapter 3. And the multitude cometh together again, so they could not so much as eat bread. And when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold on him, that's on Christ, for they said he is beside himself. And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath be Elzebulb, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils And he called them unto him, and he said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom it cannot stand. If a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan rise up against himself and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. Or that's the end of them No man can enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strongman and then he will spoil his house. Verily I say unto you, or truly I say unto you, or the original language where he says, Amen, I say unto you. All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies, wherewithoever they shall blaspheme. But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation, because they said he hath an unclean spirit In verse 20, we find that the multitude cometh together again, and if you were to go back to Matthew 12, you find out why they came together again. Christ had been healing. In fact, he had just healed, if you look at Matthew 12, he had just healed by casting a demon out of an individual, a man who was blind and dumb. We read of that in Matthew 12 and verse 20 He was blind and he was dumb. Blind and he could not talk, as it were. Unable to see, blind. And unable to pray, could not speak. What a horrible situation. What a miserable situation this man was in. That he couldn't even pray. He could eat, his tongue would move, but he could not speak Perhaps his heart had prayed, but no one had ever heard him pray, and he was blind as well. Wouldn't it be wonderful to have the Lord physically around today? How many here would want to see him touch the hem of his garment, you know, and have some malady, some problem you're dealing with right now just gone? No more blood tests, no more lab tests, no more visiting doctors. You know, I when Christ heals you, we don't read how long the healing stayed, but they probably all died of something else, you know, decades later Because he would probably fix the things you didn't even know were wrong. Wow. Christ that performed this miracle here in Matthew 12, we would see and And we're seeing the outcome of it. It brought multitudes following again, more people looking for healings. Christ's miracles were so obvious that the followings just would uh w just wouldn't stop. In fact the followings uh the crowds were so mad uh such a large size uh the because the miracles are so authentic Because the miracles were so evidential. They were so evidential, so authentic, and so obvious that 2,000 years later, everybody still believes he performed them The evidence was substantial. And then his resurrection, which finalized all the miracles with one great resurrection on that Sunday morning. And you say, well, that happened 2000 years ago. How do you know it's true? Because people are still talking about it. I mean, it the the miracles are so obvious that they are still talking about it. Take away the miracles of Christ. Take away the resurrection of Christ. And what would people be talking about today? He wouldn't be any more important than Pontius Pilate or Herod. We don't talk about him. We don't worship them. The reason that Christ is so prominent today on the lips of people all over the world, especially those that hate him. Have you noticed anybody else protesting, talking about Pontius Pilate? You know somebody protesting, talking about Herod or Caesar or Cleopatra. No. The prominence of Christ's miracles have crossed over two thousand years and they're still talking about him, they're still worshiping him Because the miracles were so obvious and the empty tomb was unexplainable except for the resurrection of Christ And this day here that we're reading about, Christ did what the Messiah was supposed to do. The prophecy was that God would send his son, the prophecy is that he would send the Messiah, that he would be God, come in the flesh, Emmanuel. And you would know when he came First off you'd know he came because he would be performing the same miracles that the scriptures said he'd perform, and he was performing them. He was performing more than they said in the scriptures. Curing lepers, raising the dead, healing the blind and the deaf and the lame. Not all of that was predicted. He was doing more than the Messiah was supposed to do. He could deliver you from your woes. Christ could deliver you from your afflictions. Christ could deliver you from a handicap if you were blind or deaf or could not speak. He could even deliver you, perhaps they thought, and they did hope for this one from the yoke of bondage of the Romans. They had all these great hopes And why would this Christ deliver you from your woes and your afflictions and your handicaps? Because he delighteth in mercy. Not because we deserve it, not because we're kind of good guys, or we might contribute to his his treasury, or he delighteth in mercy. Micah 7 and 8. eighteen is all the explanation we need for why he was healing and why he still answers prayers today, why he was expelling a demon from this man that was blind and couldn't You know, he he's he's blind. He couldn't even ask someone, can you show me the way? I'm looking for such and such Market Street. Can you show me the way? I'm looking for somebody's house. Can you show me the way that he couldn't even talk and he was blind. Horrible situation, the demon. And Christ expels the demon from him, and by expelling the demon, we find that Christ hadn't just come to take care of our woes and our afflictions and our handicaps, but he'd come to destroy Satan's kingdom. To free us from the power also, which none of them grasped then, to free us from the power and the penalty. of sin. You may be here this morning and say, boy, God has added some my prayers. I've been healed of this, or I've been cured of that, or I got rid of the flu, or uh you know some some malady, some problem I've had in life, my eyesight's improved, my hearing's improved. You may have all of that. But has he freed you from the power and the penalty of sin? They miss that here They weren't coming to be free from the power and the penalty of sin. And so maybe today they go to church and they pray that God will take care of this and take care of that. But not their sin problem and the penalty of sin. And Christ was doing that as well. He was so busy healing. So busy healing that he couldn't could not so much as eat bread. That shouldn't be difficult. You have a little pocket in your in your robe or whatever and and while you're hitting it between you could take out eat some bread. He didn't have time to eat a slice of bread. He was I I don't think we imagine when you look at the uh some of these uh faith healers on T V You know? And you think to them, I wonder if they take time out to eat? Sure they do. Do people ever run from a restaurant somewhere and stop them from eating? No. Why? Because they know they're not really healers They walk down the hospital halls to visit a relative. Do people run over and and say, Oh, while you're here, can you heal me? No, why? Oh, I don't want to bother him. And they know in their hearts he doesn't really heal. But Christ really healed and it they would stop him from eating and drinking. They knew he could do what the prophecies in the Old Testament said that the Messiah would be able to do. So he was so busy he could not so much as eat. And we read in John 4 and 6, he was so weary at the well. Remember, he's speaking with the woman at the well who had the five husbands, and the one she was living with now is not her husband. And he's speaking with her at the well, and it says he was weary. He inconvenienced himself, didn't eat Was exhausted. And pilgrim, I wonder if you ever inconvenience yourself or others. Make that phone call. Write that card Visit that person. Pray for someone. Inconvenience yourself. If we want to be Christ-like, that's what it is. To inconvenience yourself. I remember one time had someone the visit in the prison after church and somebody wanted to go with me and we're heading out and say, oh but first I've got to stop and get something to eat. I said the visitation hours are very limited out of the Jess of prison system and we don't have time. I've got to stop and get something to eat We hit a drive in and we kept going, but sometimes there isn't time to eat. Inconvenience yourself for a soul who may have less time to live Then you have time to eat. I know if one takes time out for recreation, if one takes time out for rest, relaxation, or a vacation, some will call you a sluggard But if you take time out not if you don't take time out to eat, they say you're beside yourself. You know you just can't win as a Christian. You know? If if you don't eat If you don't take time out to eat the drink, if you don't take time out to rest, they say you're beside yourself. You're you're crazy, there's something wrong with you But if you do take time to rest and take a vacation or do some recreational things, they think you're a slugger. John came either eating or drinking and they they they thought he was A real mental case. And Christ comes eating a drink, and he's a glutton, right? And a wine bever. Stop worrying about what the world's going to say about you. They are going to say something about you. And sometimes we need to take a rest. And sometimes we need a vacation. And sometimes we need a little recreation activity as well. And yes, there will be people who will not like that. They thought he was beside himself. His friends that says in verse 20, these are his friends that said he was beside him. His friends. Boy, have you got friends like that? Neither are his friends, it says in verse twenty-one, who heard of it. They went out, they heard that he was all the multitudes there, and he didn't have time to eat, and he was a weary individual, and maybe he looked a bit haggard. And they said he is beside himself. you take that Greek word there, it means he was out of his mind. You see, if you are beside yourself, you are out of your mind. That's where it comes from. If you're beside yourself, you're out of your mind. That's what it's saying. He's out of his mind. Or some would say if you're beside yourself, there's two of you, the self-soph you have a split personality, or a schizo, tore schizo to tear in half. Uh these are the things we're saying. And uh Strongson Corinne says that he was raving mad. Why What'd they say of this? Well they said this of one of the prophets that Elijah sent out in 2 Kings 9. 11. They said, that's a mad fellow. He's nuts. He's insane. And Governor Festus says of the Apostle Paul, when Paul was talking about his conversion on the road to Damascus and how the risen Christ, the Lord Jesus Christ, appeared to him. and spoke to him and struck him blind. He's telling us to Governor of Festus and Governor of Festus says, thou art beside thyself. So if someone wants to call you a little crazy, a little insane, beside yourself, you got a split personality You're not right in the head. Festus says of Paul, thou art beside the this comes from the governor. You know, I've never had a governor tell me I'm beside myself. I've never had a governor tell me I'm I'm a little nutsy about a little little over uh excited about the gospel That would hurt, wouldn't it? Some high official would tell you that. This is the governor telling Paul, Paul, you're beside yourself. Much learning doth make thee mad What is it that made this these friends here in chapter 3 and verse 21 think that Christ was beside himself? What was it? Well, he didn't take time out to eat. We already said that. He also pardoned sins as if he were God, you know. I mean he told the man that was paralyzed to let him down to a hole in the roof, and he said, Thy sins be forgiven thee. I mean He's forgiving sins like he's God. He's beside himself. He doesn't even stop to eat. He's beside himself. And he's constantly seen among the publicans and sinners Yes, witnessing to them, getting them saved. And he's consumed with a religious frenzy not seen since the days of the Old Testament prophets. Wow Well then maybe the Old Testament prophets were beside themselves too. Oh well they were accused of that. As we mentioned here, Elijah, one of the prophets, it was Elijah, accused of that. Yeah, they were Daniel would not eat and drink what the king's table brought to him, and they thought that was bizarre. I mean, the king's food was the best of the dainties of the kingdom, and he wouldn't eat them. Scripture says that God's people doesn't say we're beside ourselves, but this is what Scripture says: that we are a peculiar people Anybody here as we walk around the world today and and you run into people and they see people out in the street, I mean If you get surrounded by enough uh people of the the goth look or the piercings of the skin and the eyelids and the belly button and and the eyebrows and the ears of the rings are so big you can stick your finger through the the hole in their ears and they've got the purple hair matching with the green hair and and uh you you and they're not called peculiar we are called peculiar We are peculiar people. The Lord says if you love him and if you have a frenzy or an excitement about the things of Christ, the gospel, that you're the peculiar people. Luke 14 and 2, you are a peculiar people. God said, I have chosen you, you are my peculiar people. The twenty six eighteen of Deuteronomy. Again, you're peculiar people. Well, that's the Old Testament. They were kind of peculiar. They ran around out there in the desert or sacrificing goats and And they and they put blood on the lintels of the door. That is pretty peculiar. Well in the New Testament, guess what? First Peter 2 9, you are a peculiar people. That's only one time Titus 2, verse 14, you are a peculiar people. Well, okay, it's only two times, and I can go further with this We should feel peculiar in this world. People should think we are peculiar because we got ties on us. on Sunday, we dress up on Sunday, we go to a a a building on Sunday, meet with other people that look like us and and we you know what you do when you leave here? Maybe you go to a restaurant someplace after church and you see another couple come in, they're not from the show church and they're dressed like you and you say oh they went to church they're peculiar like us let's go over and say hi right we are a peculiar people The young young people like the they like to blend in. Whatever the style is, we wear it. You know if it's hats they wear hats. If it's big white belts, and there's nothing wrong with keeping up a little bit with the fashion But they feel peculiar if they're a little out of sync with what the world is doing. You know, the lapel's gotta be so wide, the tie's gotta be so wide or skinny or thin Um or they f or we young people feel peculiar. Well young people, let me tell you something. I don't care If they think I'm peculiar. You know what? Everybody the young physics, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that, because I wanna be different. And then when they look around, they're all dressed the same. They're not different. They're not different The Christians are different. We are peculiar in the world's eyes and God God God gives us that that handle. You're peculiar. You're my peculiar people. I'm just glad I'm his people, peculiar or not. But I mean I Does it bother you that those heading for perdition think you're peculiar? I mean think about that for a second. Does it bother you that the people who think you're peculiar, they're on their way to hell, to perdition We shouldn't care what they think about us. It ought to bother you more if they don't think you're peculiar. It won't bother you more if they don't speak evil of you. For they did of Christ, the Lord Jesus Christ Christ. Now observe here in verse 22. And the scribes they'd come down from Jerusalem. They'd come a long way to meet Christ. That's a that's elevation about 2400 feet and now they're down at sea level here and they're they're speaking to Christ and they come down this long distance and they say to him he hath the Elzebulb And by the prince of the devils casting out devils. They're not just saying first off, they're saying he hath the other words. They're saying he is possessed of A spirit. He is possessed of a demon. But they're also saying the demon's name is Beelzebub. And it says that the prince or the chief of Luke 11 says the chief. Beelzebub is the chief of all the devils. That's Satan. That's Lucifer. That they said he hath by Beelzebub and by the prince of the devils casteth thee out other devils. He's not just possessed with an unclean spirit, and in verse 30 of what our reading it says an unclean spirit. He's possessed of the devil in himself Wow, what a charge. They didn't dispute the miracles that Christ was doing, these scribes. And in Matthew they call them the Pharisees, by the way. Probably were scribes and Pharisees, and sometimes a scribe was also a Pharisee and so forth. But they came down and said he's he's possessed with Satan, Lucifer is in his body. This unclean spirit is beelzebulb. He is possessed, taken over by. But they do not dispute the miracles. They say it's by the power of Beelza. Well, they can do these miracles. They can cast out these other devils They didn't fear in making this charge that they might be hampering the work of Jesus Christ They didn't fear that by making charge against his ministry that might be maligning and attacking the work of Christ and not They weren't afraid of that. They didn't fear that what they were doing was a stench in the nostrils of God and that they mocked Christ. They mocked the Lord Jesus Christ, who delighted in showing mercy. I mean do you mock someone that that picks up a stray dog that's got a broken leg and takes him to the vet? Or sometimes someone will take it a wounded deer and they'll take it to the vet Did you mock somebody that shows mercy to an animal? Do you knock somebody did you mock the nurses at the hospital who show mercy to the patients? Do you knock the boy scout who binds up somebody's broken arm in a car accident because he's showing mercy? Mocking somebody that shows mercy Christ delighted in mercy and they're mocking him for cast they're mocking him for forgiveness of blind man's sight Forgiveness deaf man the the the man who could not speak, rather the dumb, the ability to speak. They're mocking him for raising a man that was dead. They're mocking him for cleansing a leper. They're mocking someone that is doing God God's work as the Messiah. What a stench in the nostrils of God that must have been Pilate will say later on in Matthew 27 and 18 and again in Mark 15 and 10 that they did it out of envy. The reason they hated Christ, the reason they hated his works, the reason they hated his mercy that he bestowed, the reason they hated all of his healing, the reason they hated all of his res Resurrecting of of people who were dead. The reason they did it is envy, they thought Oh, he's gonna get more attention than we get. They're gonna think more of him than they think of us. It was all out of envy. And so out of envy, they assault the works of Christ. Out of envy, they insult the works of Christ. They assault and insult the thing which gave God great glory. Wow. That God could give a man, that God came in the flesh as man, that God the Messiah, a God incarnate, God in the flesh, that God would care about his creatures. Creatures. It would heal them, answer their prayers, sit at a well and talk to them about their sin problems, as he did the woman at the well. Take time out late at night when he was weary, and Nicodemus came at night. I mean, you you go through it, you wonder when the Lord Jesus Christ slept in the Garden of Gethsemane. It says he prayed all night long. When did he sleep? When did he eat? Why didn't he eat and sleep like everyone else? He had to need it. He'd taken on the body of man. That body it says got tired. It got weary. It got hungry. He did it because he delights in the mercy to us. And if he did it then, believe me, he's not too busy to listen to you when you pray To call on him and say, Lord, I have a problem. Have you got a minute? Of course he's got a minute. Lord, I'm back talking to you about my sin problem. The same sin problem I talked about last week, last month, a year ago. Well, it's raised its ugly head again. I think it's even worse than before. He doesn't say, look, I'm tired of this. No. He is always there for us. He never wearies of hearing from us and our praying to him. They insulted and assaulted the things that brought God glory. They assaulted and insulted the Lord of glory. Because that's what the Lord Jesus Christ Christ was. He wasn't just Lord. He wasn't just the Christ, the anointed one, he was the Lord of glory. First Corinthians two and verse eight And other places. He is called the Lord of glory. And they didn't mind insulting him. They didn't mind assaulting him. And they didn't mind crucifying the Lord of glory. First Corinthians 2 and 8. Out of envy, they did all of this. John the Baptist had a different attitude towards the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, didn't he? I mean, John the Baptist is out there and he's got the multitudes, he's got in the crowds, and day by day he sees his multitudes, crowds Dwindling. Getting smaller. There's a new preacher in town. It's his cousin, the carpenter from Nazareth And my crowds are getting smaller and his are getting bigger and then uh and he's healing and he's doing miracles and and John the Baptist did know miracles But John must have I'm a good preacher, I'm a faithful preacher. What's happening in my crowds? Well it might be the miracles. Wow, I wish I could do the miracles. I can't do the miracles, and and my cousin's taking away all my uh Notoriety, and he's taken away my crowds. And John could have got jealous, and John could have gotten angry, but John, John does not. He says in John chapter 3 and 30, the Lord Jesus Christ must increase and I must decrease. Wow. John was willing to set his ministry aside or to see it dwindle and and someone else take over what he was doing. Um I can't help but see that uh some similarity there with m me as I've gotten older and Health hasn't been good. Uh not gonna hang on to the dying end and you drag me out of here with my fingernails in the carpets or something like that. I must decrease John said, and he must increase. Well, but that's John the believer. He had a good attitude about what was going on here. But how about the magicians in the days of the Pharaoh? You know what they said of the lice? And when Moses is out there and he's performing those miracles by the by the hand of God, he's doing all the things as as God enabled him, instructed him with the with the rod And the the lights came in and the the magicians, they're not saved men, but they work for the Pharaoh. They don't like Moses either. But they said and in Exodus 8 and 19 when all the lice were on the animals and on themselves and itching and they're scratching, they said, this is the finger of God Wow. That's quite a confession. Why couldn't the scribes have said of Christ's miracles, this is the finger of God. This is the hand of God. Because of envy, they hated God. him with a passion like we had never seen before. Do you ever see the finger of God and the little things in your life? Do you ever see it in the little things? If you can't see the finger of God in the little things of your life, how will you have a sanctified attitude? when there are major insults and assaults that come after you later in life. I mean if you can't see that some of the little things that bother you now, some of the little things that it kind of You know, get your goat sometimes. That's a um I don't know if the young people have heard that term or not. Get your goat, is that familiar to everybody? Boy, they got my goat, you know. Um well the the Navy gets mad about that when the Army or Air Force steals her goat down in Annapolis before the big game. They have a goat down there. Little things can get or go, little things can agitate and aggravate us. And if we can't see that God's finger is in it, the thorn in Paul's side, that was of God, wasn't it? The blindness on the road to Damascus, that was of God. Wasn't it? And there are things that happen in our life and we can't see the finger of God in these things sometimes, then how are we going to see the hand of God? If we can't see the finger of God, how are we going to see the hand of God? When there's major assaults on our life and insults that come one way or another, we need a sanctified attitude, and it starts with handling the little things. And Christ called him out for it in verse 23. And he said unto them, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom be divided, and that's what it would be against itself, the kingdom cannot stand. And and if Satan rise up against himself, that's like he's committing suicide, right? He's casting himself out He said he he can't stand. It's not realistic, it's not reasonable to think that Satan is attacking himself. It it it doesn't make any sense. I mean we read about in Ephesians 6. 11 the wiles of the devil. Satan is smarter than that. He's not going to attack himself. He's not going to toss He's not gonna toss out his legions of demons. He's not gonna do that. He's smarter than that. He's not gonna proceed with some haphazard plan He's been around for 6,000 years. He has one smart, dirty, unclean spirit. And the one thing he has learned is what works and what doesn't hurt him. and his diabolical demonic army. And Christ said doesn't make any sense. And the scribes and the Pharisee there, they should have noted that when Christ tossed out the demons, they were surprised. Whoa, and we read about that. They were surprised. They said, Have you come to torments before our time? Mark or Matthew 8 and 29. What are you doing here now? Why have you come before our time? They were surprised when he did it This wasn't Satan's plan. The demons wouldn't have been surprised by They were surprised when he cast them out. And they would cry out and they'd say, Let us alone Art thou come to destroy us? And we read as we go through this. They would dispute with Christ. Put us in with the swine. Don't do it now. Leave us alone right now. And they said they would cry out and they would sob and they were scared That does not sound like Satan tossing out his own demons, does it? They would have been apprised of his plan. But these demons are petrified, surprised, they're disputing, don't toss us out. They're sobbing, they're crying out with fear, they're scared to death. And so Christ warns the scribes that I am not possessed of Verily I say unto you, verse twenty-eight, all sins shall be forgiven, and blasphemies wherewith they shall blaspheme But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation. Now, there's lots of talk about what this is. You go through a lot of commentary. What is blasphemy of the Holy Ghost? Because it's not forgivable. And so we need to look at this And first of all, do you think you've ever committed so many sins that God can't forgive you? Everything like, or you've committed these horrible sins, sins you can't talk about uh you thought about sins in your head that are so horrible you couldn't even share them with your mother, your father, your wife, your brother, I mean there's there's just things that go through your head. They're not things you do, they're just things you think and they're so horrible. I can't be forgiven for those things. Is that what you think? No. You can be forgiven for anything. Except blasphemy of the Holy Ghost. No matter how gruesome your thoughts, no matter how grievous the sin you've done, no matter how often you've done it, it is pardonable. God will forgive you. Why? Because He delighteth in mercy. It doesn't say, well, all right, this is the Lord up in heaven. All right, I can forgive him one more time. It's not seven times 70 yet and you know and I'll go the extra mile. I guess I can do that. He delights in mercy. He delights to call on him. He delights in forgiving us of anything. But I've done it six times this week. I've been doing it for 70 years of my life. Whatever. That's okay. He delights in mercy. He'll forgive you. How do I know that? Because it says the only thing he won't forgive is blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Why wouldn't the blood of Christ cover that sin? Let's look at the sins that he delights in forgiving. He delights in forgiving David committing adultery. His power is king, woman, come up here, you're mine. Horrible thing to do. And then kills her husband. And yet Christ delighted in forgiving David of his adultery, forgiving David of his murder. 2 Samuel chapter 12. How about the prodigal son? Living a riot, riotous living, Luke 15 and 13. And we can use our imagination about what that meant. Riotous living with the women in a faraway country and drunkenness and gluttony. He done it all. And yes, they had drugs back then too. But he delighteth in mercy, and the prodigal son found it. Paul's out persecuting Christians, arresting, tormenting, torturing. Force them to blaspheme the Lord Jesus Christ. Force them to bless the name of God. But not to blaspheme the Holy Spirit. That is different. You can blaspheme God's name, and probably everyone here has taken the Lord's name in vain at one time in their life Shame on us, but it's forgivable. Some of you have also taken the name of the Lord Jesus Christ in vain, maybe all of us at one time, but it's forgivable. Paul was forgiven, and certainly he had taken the name of Christ, the carpenter of Nazareth, in his name in vain as well. He was just persecuting the Christians. How about Peter's triple, triple, triple denial in just a matter of minutes of Christ? And he does it, it says in Luke 23 and 42, with profanity, cursing and swearing. It's forgivable. Why? Because the Lord Jesus Christ Delights in mercy. Friend, there's nothing you've ever done. Nothing you could ever do. He won't delight in forgiving you. Except the blaspheming of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And we do need to look at that briefly. Blaspheming of the Holy Spirit is a defiant ear reverence towards the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. Blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. You can be defiant and irreverent towards God the Father and God the Son, but if you're defiant and irreverent towards the Holy Spirit, If you blaspheme the Holy Spirit, it is not forgivable. What was the sin? Explain it to me. I might have done it. I wonder if I'd done it. Basically, as we look here It's declaring that Christ, who was full of the Holy Ghost. Read in Luke 4 and 1. He was full of the Holy Ghost. He was possessed and empowered by the Holy Ghost to do all these wonderful, wonderful miracles. And they are claiming that his miracles and the power that emanates from Christ to heal and resurrect and cure the lepers, it's the power of Satan. They are calling the Holy Spirit inside of Christ, for it says that Christ was filled with the Holy Spirit. They're saying that he is doing all these miracles by the power of an unclean spirit. They are calling the Holy Spirit An unclean spirit. They're calling the Holy Spirit Beelzebub, Prince of the Devils, Chief of the Devils. They're saying that the Holy Spirit that indwelt Christ was nothing but a filthy, dirty demon Maliciously slandering the Holy Spirit by calling him an unclean spirit. Satan, Lucifer, Beelzebub. That's what they were doing. See, they say here in the earlier verse, verse 22, that he's filled with this Beelzebub. And then in verse 3 it says he's filled with an unclean spirit. You can't talk that way about the Holy Spirit and not think there would be repercussions. Well why is that the one sin that we can do? Blasphemy that's not covered in the blood of Christ. When you blaspheme the Holy Spirit, it undermines the only remedy for A lost soul. What is a remedy for a lost soul? Repentance. There's only one sin that you can that you can do that it says if you do this sin, you'll never repent. Why won't you repent? Because you've undermined the work of the Holy Spirit. And this is what the scribes here were doing, the Pharisees, you you're you're tearing apart The Holy Spirit, who calls us, we read in Ephesians 2 and 1, calls us unto salvation. quickens us unto salvation and cleanses us. Titus 3 and 5. The very one that will give you a heart of repentance is the one you are blaspheming. When you cry out, Oh God, save me. A person has blasphemed the Holy Spirit. That cry will not be in their heart. It undermines the only remedy because repentance comes from nowhere else but by the work of the Holy Spirit and for blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. It is the worst of all sins. It has no cure. I would warn you this morning that as we think about that, have you ever grieved the Holy Spirit? Ephesians 4. 30, not a good thing to do. But it's forgivable. You know, the Ten Commandments tells us how we should live. Those words are given by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Old scriptures are given by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And if you do things contrary to the Word of God, you're grieving the Holy Spirit But you're not blaspheming the Holy Spirit. You're only grieving the Holy Spirit. That's forgivable. Resisting the Holy Spirit, Acts 7 and 51, you know what you should do. And you you know it's going to grieve the Holy Spirit, and you've grieved the Holy Spirit before. And you continue to do that which you should not do, resisting the Holy Spirit. It just gets easier and easier, doesn't it? First first you you uh grieve the Holy Spirit, and then it becomes easier to resist the Holy Spirit. And so you resist the Holy Spirit But that's still forgivable. Who here, before he was saved, wasn't resisting what God would have him to do, resisting the Holy Spirit. And so you can grieve the Holy Spirit and you resist the Holy Spirit. It just gets easier and easier until eventually it says that 1 Thessalonians 5, 19 will quench the Holy Spirit. We just put him out of our minds. We're no longer interested. We go our happy way and we just live a life of Still forgivable. You know why Because the Lord Jesus Christ delights in mercy. hope. But if you blaspheme the Holy Spirit, you're done If you say there's no such thing as the Holy Spirit or the Holy Ghost, there's spirits out there, there's demons out there, and He's just probably one of them, wow, that's a scary place to go. You blast in the Holy Spirit, you're done, you're finished, you're without hope. You'll never, you know why you're without hope? Because once you blast in the Holy Ghost, you will never seek forgiveness. You'll never repent. You haven't got a prayer. Well, that's a pastor's opinion. That was also the opinion of John the beloved. John the beloved of all the disciples writes in 1 John 5:16: I speak to you of a sin unto death. That's the eternal death he's talking about. Someone there's a sin you can commit, he says, unto death, I do not say that you shall pray for Yet. Oh my goodness. John the beloved said, if you see a man doing this particular sin, he doesn't name it, but mostly that he's talking about blessing of the Holy Spirit. If you see someone blasting the Holy Spirit, he said, Don't even pray You without a prayer. So has anyone here ever blasphemed the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit? Is there anybody here worried? I haven't done that. I thought I was saved. I think I'm saved. I want to get saved. I I I I I I I hope I haven't done that. If you hope you haven't done that, you probably haven't. You probably haven't But to prove you haven't, dear pilgrim, repent Today. To prove that you haven't blessed the Holy Spirit, you need, as you sit there, to repent today. Repent, pilgrim, repent. There's not a better way to prove to yourself that you haven't blessed in the Holy Spirit, but to repent today. And yes, it's better to be called by the world, you're beside yourself, you're a real kook, than for God to call you lost. Lost for all eternity. There's your choices. Have you blessed through the Holy Spirit? I don't know. Can you repent today? If you can, and you do, you'll know that you haven't. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day For a topic that's not covered too often, there's not many verses written about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost. And of all the things written about sin, John refers to one sin. That instructs the readers of the gospel to not pray for. If you see someone commit this one sin, they will not have a prayer. Under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, John says, don't pray for that sin that that man or woman has committed. Oh Lord, keep us from blaspheming of the Holy Ghost. Quench We can do that for a time. But God, in the day of His power, will touch us. And Lord, may that be this day. If someone is concerned about his attitude towards the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, the Holy Scriptures, the Holy Son of God, oh Lord, change their attitude this day. Holy Spirit may thy Holy Spirit send a call of repentance into our heart. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Saturn.