We'll just look at verse six. We've already had the responsive reading. I just want to key in on verse six. Matthew twenty-eight. And verse 6. When the woman came to the sepulchre that morning, and the angel said, He's not here. He's risen. As he said. He's risen as he said. I'm going to talk to you about that this morning Back in the 1870s there was a man named General Lou Wallace. He fought in the Civil War. He had just in fact he fought at Shiloh. They lost that battle in Shiloh, he and Grant and some other generals, and he just never got over his entire life he never got over that loss. And he just he just It took him all the way to his grave. The horrendous battle, the loss of life, a bloody battle, one of the bloodiest battles of civil war. And one other person on the battlefield was a man named Robert Ingersoll He also survived the battle along with General uh Lou Wallace. And they were riding on a train one day to a Republican convention And uh Robert Ingersoll, who is the renowned nation's greatest atheist, wanted to talk with Lou Wallace. And Lou Wallace was wasn't a Christian. He wasn't anything. He wasn't he didn't have opinion one way or the other, but he knew that Robert Ingersoll loved to talk about Christ, you know, not existing and Christ not being deity and God if he did exist and and Christ was never crucified and Christ didn't die for anyone. And so he said, I'll sit down and talk with him. And they sat and they talked for several hours on the train ride When the train ride was over, Lou Wallace that night was walking the streets in the dark, and he said he felt like he'd just been with the darkest of souls. In Ingersoll. The stuff he'd heard from this man, he said, spewing out like a volcano. He said, I've got no opinion either way, but I've this this dark, dark soul I've spent hours with I've got to find out. I've got to do research and know for myself. Was there a Christ? Did he exist Did he die? Was he crucified? Was he sacrificed for his sins? I need to know. And General Lou Wallace went and practically lived at the Library of Congress reading over manuscripts and reading over reports. And he wrote a book when he was done. And some of you have heard of the book, Ben Hur. And you know the book depicts in that the story of the crucifixion of Christ. It's an historical novel, but he said it's historical. It's all true what you read in here. I would encourage you to go to Amazon. com and type in Lou Wallace. And Ben Hur. And look at several of the editions. Because the title of the book was not Ben-Hur. The original title. And some of the books, even being printed today, will give you the full title. It was Ben-Hur. A Tale of the Christ. That's the title of the book. And that should have been the title of the movie. And that should have been the emphasis of the movie. But that's not the emphasis we get today, is it? He is risen, meaning he must have died. In fact, Daniel 9 or verse 26 gives us a kind of a history of what's going to happen in the years ahead, hundreds of years, centuries ahead. Daniel 9. 26 says that two horrifying events are going to take place. The Messiah shall be cut off. The Messiah, you're waiting to come as your Savior that Israel is just hoping for. He's going to die. And the people shall come and destroy the sanctuary or the tabernacle where they worship. Every historian today, every credible historian, not Christians, they can be atheists, agnostics But every credible historian today acknowledges that the sanctuary was destroyed in seventy A. D. And for some of you who have been over there Mrs. Lay's been over there, I know she's been there, and others, Mrs. Kiefer's been there. We we stood there. The sanctuary's gone. It's been destroyed. It's it it's not there And you can talk to the Jews and you can talk to the Muslims and the different tour guides, they'll all tell you it was destroyed in seventy AD The problem is in the Daniel's prophecy of Daniel 9 and 26 that the Messiah was to come and to die before the sanctuary was destroyed. I say problem because every Jew knows this prophecy and every Jew knows the sanctuary is gone, so every Jew says The Messiah was supposed to come before the sanctuary was destroyed. The sanctuary is destroyed. And so the Jew says, Well, I guess Daniel's not true because Messiah hasn't come yet Or Daniel is true, and Christ must have been the Savior and the Messiah. The question is, was someone's life cut off prior to the destruction of the temple sanctuary? Yes, Christ was. Was anyone's life cut off prior to the destruction of the sanctuary with messianic credentials as close and as b as much three hundred prophecies fulfilled No one else fits a description of a cutoff, dying, Savior, Messiah in all of history before the sanctuary is destroyed, except the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the struggle that the modern Jew has today. He has to either believe his Old Testament. has flaws and errors, or that Christ is the promised Messiah. And he was cut off. And that Daniel does tell the truth. There's no other name that history offers that will fulfill Daniel 9. 26. Only Christ fulfills that. And so the Jew says, as Christ said to them, you believe not, you would not believe a woman was raised from the dead, because you believe not Moses, you would not believe And that's the problem. They don't believe the Mosaic books, they don't believe the Old Testament books, because if they do, as many a Messianic Jew will tell you, I got saved when I started to read the Old Testament and I believed it. I believed it, I believed it, I believed it. Isaiah 53 is not Daniel 9, but Isaiah 53 says, he was wounded for our transgressions. As a lamb led to the slaughter, he was cut off From the land of the living. But then verse 10 says, But he shall prolong his days, because he poured out his soul on it. How can he prolong his days if he's cut off? Unless He's resurrected and lives on forever. I talked to a Jewish rabbi who is a saved Jewish rabbi, and I said, What guys is saved? He said, I was that was Christian college uh Bible studies and they knew I was there and and I thought, Oh, they're not gonna cram Jesus down my throat. Just give me some little platitudes, just some nice things, you know. I don't mind thou shalt not steal. He said they read Isaiah fifty-three. About this Messiah, about the lamb of being slaughtered, led like a lamb to the slaughter and cut off from the living, and then coming back to life again and prolonging his days. And I jumped up and I said, I don't want to hear all this New Testament stuff And they said that's Isaiah 53. He said, I read it. I went home. I read it again. I read it again. I took it to my rabbi. He didn't give me an answer. And the Lord touched my heart. And this Jewish rabbi, a messianic Jewish rabbi today says it was I thought it was reading. I thought they were reading to me the New Testament, they were reading to me the Old Testament. The idea of the resurrection, I want To share this with you because we as Gentiles we have Resurrection Sunday and we read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We've been in Sunday school class, and we think this idea of a resurrection is it's it's kind of a new thing since the resurrection of Christ But it's not. If you go back and if you're familiar with the Old Testament, the resurrection is not a foreign concept to an Israelite. The resurrection was not a foreign concept to the Old Testament Jews They understood all about the resurrection. The fact that the Messiah can be resurrected, it should not have surprised them. Isaiah 26 and 19, Old Testament. The Jews knew this. Your dead shall live. That's the resurrection. Though the worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God Whom I shall see for myself, my eyes shall behold, and not another. That's Job nineteen, twenty-five through twenty-seven. That's Old Testament. The Jews are not unfamiliar with the concept of there being a resurrection. Ezekiel 37 describes the vision of the dry bones of Israel coming alive again, sinew and muscle, and standing up in strength and coming, and the muscle and then the flesh coming back on the bones again. They believed in her resurrection. Even the Pharisees, the New Testament, believed in the resurrection. Sadducees did not. And that's why we say they were Sadducees. They're Sadducees. And then there's stories in 1 Kings 17 of Elijah the prophet raising the child from the dead. And there's 2 Kings 4 of Elijah raising a child from the dead. The resurrection is not a new concept. People today tell you, oh, resurrection isn't scientific. Well, it's been documented all through the Old Testament. We've got eyewitnesses in the Old Testament. The resurrection is not a new concept. The new concept is being taught in our public colleges today that the resurrection isn't scientifically possible. Well, it's not scientifically possible, but if there's a God, all things are possible You see, they don't want to believe in the resurrection of the child in the days of Elijah and Elijah and then in the days of what Ezekiel prophesies. They don't want to believe any of that because that means they'll be resurrected unto judgment. And so they preach against it. It was with considerable alarm that the chief priests upon the crucifying of Christ and the Pharisees and the elders, they came to Pilate and they said, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ as his body was hanging there on the cross, that deceiver said, After three days I will rise again. You know what their fear was? That he would. Their fear was, and if he didn't That the disciples might steal the body weight and say he had. So they wanted a guard place or command the step that could be made sure until the third day. And Pilate said, Make it as sure as you can. And so they made the Sepulchure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch. Matthew 27, 62 through 62 When you seal a stone, you take like a leather cord that goes across the stone and on both sides of the stone. is the seal. You molt wax and you put the seal of Pilate's ring or the seal of the high priest's ring, and so you cannot move that stone without breaking the seal. Or cutting the seal. And yet the stone was rolled away. And so if the disciples had stolen The body of Christ, they've broken the seal. You're breaking a Roman law that is punishable by death. If if Pilate or Herod or anybody in the Roman government at that time believed that the disciples had really broken this Roman seal. They'd have been put to death on the spot. And how many times were they out in public in Jerusalem speaking and Rome and the guards and Caesar and And Pilate and Herod never had him arrested for breaking the seal because they had heard from their own guards that an angel had come and rolled away the stone and the tomb was empty. Now the Roman guards may have been put to death for not fighting that angel, but they didn't go out and arrest the disciples for breaking the seal. They that is why say they the Pharisees and the chief priests and the elders who wanted the tomb sealed and so forth, they knew that Christ and disciples, according to Matthew 10 and 8 had the ability to heal and to raise others from the dead. We don't focus on that much in scripture, but go back to Matthew 10 and verse 8. Any of the disciples, including Judas Iscariot, as we talked about in Sunday school class this morning Christ gave him the power to raise the dead, so now he could Christ raise the dead, but the disciples had the power to do so. We've got to seal the tomb. The disciples, they're not gonna come and steal him from the tomb. They might resurrect him from the dead. We've got to seal the tomb. They knew that Christ could raise people from the dead. He'd raised Lazarus from the dead after he'd been dead four days and he stinketh. John 11. He raised the widow's son at the city of Nain. They were bringing him out. He was already dead. They were marching him out to the cemetery. And Christ came by and raised him from the dead. And then there was, of course, Jared's daughter, a ruler of a synagogue. A ruler of the Jew, the ruler of a synagogue. His daughter is dead, and Christ raises her as well. We read in Luke 8. And so they made the tomb of Christ secure, to secure that Christ's resurrection try to stop it from happening. We'll keep the disciples from resurrecting him. We'll keep him from resurrecting himself. We'll keep him in that tomb. And by doing that, every challenge today has been met that the tomb It's been determined. Was really empty. That's what Lou Wallace said generally determined. The tomb is really empty. It had to have been empty. You got all these people running around Jerusalem saying the tomb is empty, the tomb is empty. Well they walked out and look at the tomb and see if it's empty. And what a strange sight that was. When you wrap a body in aloes and myrrh, it hardens up like a cast. And they looked inside there and here's this cast. How do you extract a body out of this full body cast without cutting it up? You know, if you ever had a casting arm, you gotta cut it off. But here's a full rounded body cast, uh, except for the napkin around his head If you're trying to escape or if you're trying to steal a body, why would you leave the wrappings in the tomb and take the naked body of Christ running them down the street? Naked dead. You wouldn't do that. How would you abstract them out of the cast? And then why would you take the time and say they took the napkin around his head, like the turban, and they unwrapped it, and then they folded it neatly up. I'd want to get in there and get out of there before those soldiers who had fainted, woke back up. All the city of Jerusalem can look in the tomb and can see the odd sight of this body cast as it were and the napkin neatly folded and the tomb empty and the guards scattered. You you could not start a Christian religion. Maybe you could start one in Minor, North Dakota. Maybe you could you start one down in Tallahassee you know, somewhere or or Miami. But you couldn't start the Christian religion in Jerusalem unless it was all true It'd be the last place to try to forge an idea of a resurrection unless it was true. It has stood every challenge from the days of Saul of Tarsus, who had to admit and he hated Christ. Christianity. He was arresting, persecuting, punishing, torturing, and putting to death Christians. He's a Pharisee. Why the change in the Apostle Paul? To a believer. He lost his authority, he lost his title, he lost his wealth, he was tortured, beaten with rods and stone. Why would you go through all of that unless Paul knew It was so true that he was resurrected that he had to change his whole thought process and position. Young people, when you go to college and they start ridiculing the resurrection of Christ, ask them to explain the conversion of the Apostle Paul. There is no explanation for what Paul is willing to go through. Unless he saw the resurrected Christ. Even the Roman guard that came back, the watch, showed on the priests all the things that were done, Matthew 28 and 11. And by the way, I didn't tell you this, but Lou Wallace was a lawyer. Yes, lawyers get saved. But Lou Law Lou Walsh was a lawyer. He doesn't go to the Library of Congress and dig through all this information. He looked at it the way a lawyer would He looked at he said, I'm going to look at this thing, I'm going to compile all the evidence, and could I take this evidence into a court of law and win before some judge, any judge, regardless how prejudiced he was. And Lou Wallace came to the conclusion and he wrote the book, Ben Hur. The tale of the price, he said, this I could take in a court of law and I could win it every time Ask your professors in your college when they start ridiculing the story of Christ. How do you explain Lou Wallace? A lawyer writing the tale of Christ then heard. He wasn't a believer when he started out. And there's been others. Who moved the stone by Frank Morris, written in 1930? He set out to disprove the resurrection of Christ. And he ends up being reprinted twelve separate times since 1930, and he concludes. The evidence is all there. Not just Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The evidence is even there if you look at the secular historians who write about the resurrection, the empty tomb. Why does the resurrection disturb so many people? I mean, the resurrection to a believer, it's great. Christ's resurrection just means that we will be delivered from our tombs. Christ's resurrection tells us that there is security in Christ. Christ's resurrection tells us that we have eternity with Christ. For us that's great. So why do some people why are they so discerned about the resurrection of Christ? Well, the Bible says it predicted he'd be resurrected again in the Old Testament, thou shalt not leave my soul in hell, neither will I suffer my the Holy One to see corruption. Psalm 1611. They don't like the idea of the Holy One not seeing corruption, the Holy One being resurrected, the Holy One not being left in hell or being left in the grave. They don't like that because Christ made a lot of demands. He said, if I am resurrected on the third day, then follow me, believe me, know that I am the Messiah. I am the Savior. That I am the way. I am the only way. No one cometh on the Father but by me. These are things we are forced to believe. Someone on the rail last night called in and and uh talking with his radio talk show host and he says and they were Christian he said you mean to tell me that all the billions of of uh Hindus and all the billions of of uh Muslims out there that if they're not just nice people that because they don't believe in Jesus they're going to hell, another person said, Well I don't know, you know, maybe God's got a different plan for them. Oh come on Why send missionaries to all these countries if we don't believe that Christ is the only way? The answer is yes. Every Muslim And every Jew and every Hindu, and by the way, every Baptist and every Catholic and every Presbyterian who does not really in their heart accept Christ as a Savior, they'll go to hell. It's not just a Muslim, it's not just a Hindu, it's people sitting in America right now with college degrees and doctorate degrees, and they've heard the gospels, but it's not in their hearts. People can say, well, I I believe the gospel. I believe that Jesus really lived. I believe that Jesus really died, was crucified, I believe the tomb is empty, and hey, you know, probably resurrected. Yeah, I believe all that. So does the devil and the demons. Do you love the idea that Christ died for your sins? Now the devil doesn't love that. Do you love the idea that Christ's resurrection proves he can resurrect you and give you a place in all eternity if you repented your sins, acknowledging his blood was shed for you? That's the difference in head knowledge and heart knowledge. You love it. You love it. You love it. You love it. And it said that the Holy One was to die That's what it says in s in the Psalm that we just read, Psalm sixteen eleven. But the Holy One, though he died, would not see corruption. He would not leave his body in the grave. This Holy One Well, who was this holy one? Well, when the devil or the unclean spirit said of Jesus of Nazareth, I know thee, I know who thou art, thou art the Holy One. Whoa, that's a title reserved for Jehovah. That's recorded in Mark 1 and 24. I mean the demons call Jesus the Holy One, who would die and not see corruption and come back out of the grave. Peter rebukes the Jews and says you denied the Holy One and desired a murderer named Barabbas to be set free instead. Acts 3 and 14. Peter said Christ was the Holy One. Christ is called the Holy numerous times, but the problem is that Jehovah is also called the Holy One. Holy One, meaning there's only one. There's only one Holy One. Does that make sense to you? There's only one Holy One. And when we look at the scriptures, Old Testament, Isaiah 43, 3, I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One. And then we read again Psalm 89, 18, the Holy One of Israel. And then again we read in Job 6 and 10, I have not concealed the words of the Holy One. I have despised the words of the Holy One in Isaiah 5 and 24. Rather, they have despised the word of the Holy One, Isaiah 5 and 24. Our Redeemer The Lord or Jehovah of hosts, his name is the Holy One, Isaiah 47:4. Fifty times God has referred to in the Old Testament as the Holy One. And then Christ, who is to die, but his body would not see corruption. He would not stay in the grave. It says prophesied in Psalm 16. Only Christ died and didn't stay in the grave. Get on the internet. Google, where's Muhammad right now? Rotten in the grave. Probably in fact he's from dust by now. Where's Buddha right now? In the grave. Where's Confucian right now? In the grave This morning I heard Jeremiah, David Jeremiah say that even Lenin, who, the plaque over his tomb, says, the Savior of the world, you know where he is right now? He's dead. He's been dead for a long time. You can go and see him in the glass coffin they have for him. So you can see that he's he you walk up to him and you say, Wow He's dead. Oh yeah, man, he's dead. You see that. He's the savior of the world. That's what the communists give us. Obviously he's not the holy one. In fact, they have to open up that crypt every so often. and repaste his face together and make his skin look the right color and paint it. He's seeing corruption. There's only one holy one And he would die, but not see corruption. And he would leave the grave. It says you would not hold them in the place called heaven. Hell or the grave. And there were other signs that pointing to Christ as the Messiah is the Holy One. John the Baptist, Son of a Levite priest for he knew the Old Testament, he knew the Mosaic Law, he knew Leviticus, and so forth. He called Christ the Lamb of God, John one twenty nine. The Jewish crowd immediately would think Lamb of God? Passover lambs. Lambs are sacrificed. Why would John call him the lamb of God? I mean, God's got a lamb? Why would God why would he call this Jesus the Lamb of God? God's got a lamb, and God's Lamb is a man, and God's man, if he's really the Lamb of God, he's going to be sacrificed. He's going to die. They understood all that. It's your college professors and Towson that don't understand that. I don't should just pick on Towson. At Berkeley University. They don't understand that. Milwaukee and Madison, Wisconsin, right? The place they know he's tended there, they don't understand that. But the Jews in the days of Christ understood with the Lamb of God meant. He's gonna die. He's gonna be a sacrifice for sin. They understood that. Many a Protestant doesn't understand that Passover lamb shed their blood. They died to save the Jews that were in Egypt, that believed, believed enough to sacrifice a lamb Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 5. 7, Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. The Apostle Paul. A member of the Sanhedrin, a member of the Pharisees. I mean he understands what it means to say the Passover. He understands that. And he's talking to people in the synagogue, he's talking to the Jews. He says, Christ is our Passover Christ is our Lamb. Christ is the one sacrificed for our sins. He is the Lamb of God. It's of no small interest that the most significant element in the observance of the Passover was the lamb. They would do it every year. They go up the temple, they bring their lambs, they have them sacrificed. They did this all the time But since 70 AD, when they destroyed the sanctuary, they can't bring a lamb to the sanctuary. It's not there anymore. And so they have what they call the cedar feast. And their homes and they have all the stuff incorporated with the Passover, except they don't have a lamb. They have this bare shank bone that they throw on the plate. That represents, oh, if we had a temple, a place to sacrifice a lamb, we'd do it again, but we don't have a place to sacrifice a lamb. And so this bare bone just lays on the plate at their Passover feast today And in addition, it's a rather odd part of the Passover that they do today. They take some bread and they cover it. Remember, Christ said, I am the bread of life, John 6. He took bread, and when he given thanks he break, and said, This is my body, which is broken for you, this doing remembrance of me, 1 Corinthians 11. They take the matzo bread, which by the way is pierced. And it's burned as though it has suffered in the furnace he fire somewhere for our sins. And they take this And they hide it. And then they ask the children to come into the house and try to find And the word that they use, those math that we've just hidden or buried, as it were, that has been pierced and been through the fiery furnace of affliction It's called a coma. Afikoma. You know what that word aphoma means? This piece of bread, when they find it, they pull it out and they yell, Afikoma, Afikoma, he came, he came And they don't know what they're saying. They don't understand because the God of this world, Satan, has blinded their eyes. Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Why should we give his word so much weight? than all the other religions. Why should we believe Buddha instead or Muhammad instead or Confucius instead? Or or just mix them all together and then and say they've all got something of truth in them. Why should we not believe these founders? Because they're all dead. Because they all stayed dead. We've got Christ Jesus, he is not a dead loser. That's why Paul gave us that victorious cry. He said, Oh death, where is thy sting? Because he's risen, Paul writes. Oh grave, where is thy victory? Because he's risen, Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15. We sorrow not as others which have no hope. Why? Because he's risen. For if we believe that Jesus Christ died and rose again, if we can believe that Why should we believe that? Because he is risen. I am the resurrection of life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. Why? Because if he's risen, will be risen. If he lived again, we'll live again. John 11 Because I live, you will live also. Why should I believe that? He is risen. These are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and the believing you might have life through his name. Why should we believe that? Because he's risen. John twenty and verse thirty-one. The resurrection of Christ It means he has delivered us from the gritty, gravelly grave, from the grip of the crip and from the gloom of the tomb. Hallelujah! He's risen. Just as he said. Oh Lord, we thank you for the testimony. We know it's written not just in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and in Paul's writings, and by the enemies of Christ. We we see it down through history. Even historical writers of of Rome have wrote written about these things. It's so documented. There's no historical moment in all of some of the days of creation more documented than the resurrection of Christ. And no significant issue in life that has been more attacked than the resurrection of Christ Jesus Oh Lord, may we as we sit here this morning, if there's someone who has had this in their head for a long time, oh Lord, may your Holy Spirit drive it down into their heart. May it never Ever miss, Lord, one soul here today. If not today, tomorrow, next week, before they die, Lord, that they might too be risen. Touch every heart here. Oh, people are praying and people love those that are in attendance today. But may they not love me, not love the one across the aisle, the one sitting next to them. May they leave here loving the risen Savior. And it's in his name we pray. Christ Jesus. Amen.