Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Psalms and to the 105th Psalm, Psalm 105. And we're actually going to have two scripture readings this morning. The first from Psalm 105, and then we'll be turning to 1 Corinthians 10 as well. When we turn to 1 Corinthians 10, I would encourage you to keep a finger in Psalm 105 because we'll be coming back to Psalm 105 after the New Testament scripture reading. Reading. So first of all in Psalm one o five, and then in First Corinthians ten. The hundred and fifth Psalm, and we'll begin our scripture reading in verse number thirty-eight of Psalm 105. Psalm one oh five, beginning with the thirty-eighth verse. Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them fell upon them. He spread a cloud for a covering, and a fire to give light in the night. The people asked, and he brought quail, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out. They ran in the dry places like a river. For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant. He brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness And gave them the lands of the heathen, and they inherited the labor of the people, that they might observe his statutes. And keep his laws. Praise ye the Lord. And then turn to 1 Corinthians chapter ten. And there I'm going to read the first four verses of the chapter. First Corinthians chapter ten, verses one through four Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud. and all passed through the sea, and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and did all eat the same spiritual meat And all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now we thank you for your holy and inspired word. Lord, as we attempt to open it this morning and to expound upon it and to compare Scripture with Scripture, Lord, we plead the leading and the guiding of thy Holy Spirit. One of the promises of the Holy Spirit was that he would testify of Christ, he would show us things to come, and he would guide us into all truth. And so, Lord, may your Spirit guide us into truth this morning. And Lord, as we make this comparison between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Indeed, the Word of God is the commentary on the Word of God. It enlightens us. Lord, this morning, may we indeed worship and adore our risen Savior, the crucified one. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn back with me to Psalm 105. And there I'd like to point out the verse, which is the key verse for our scripture this morning. We'll actually take our text from 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 4. But the key verse this morning is that 41st verse of Psalm 105. He opened the rock. And the waters gushed out. They ran in the dry places like a river. Who opened the rock? Moses or God? God. What or who was the rock, a piece of granite or Christ? Where did the waters run to the dry ground? What a glorious picture of salvation. God the Father opened the sun, and the healing waters rushed forth to my dry and What a fitting text as we observe the Lord's table this morning. But let us look at the verses we read, starting in verse 38 of Psalm 105. Egypt was glad when they departed. For the fear of them fell upon them. You've got two thems there So we would say these and those. The fear of the people of God fell upon the wicked, and the wicked wanted the people of God gone. Sounds a lot like our world today, doesn't it? The wicked would be glad to see us depart. Christ told the disciples, ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. They shall deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations. For my name's sake. Israel wanted the labor of the people of God. They wanted the Israelites to build their cities. They wanted the Israelites to make bricks. They wanted the Israelites to do a lot of work, but they didn't want what the Israelites had to offer. You see, it was all about God. And they did not want Israel's God. This nation was established on what we call the Protestant work ethic. And if you look across the nations of the world The nations where Christianity has ruled, the people have been blessed. The nations where Christianity has been rejected, the people have suffered. Communism denies the existence of God and look what it has produced. Look at the suffering Look at the suffering even in the Islamic world where they have natural resources and oil in abundance, and yet there is great oppression of the people. But where the truth of God has been, the people have been blessed. Just as the house of Obed Edom was blessed with the ark dwelt in his house. So where the truth of God is, the people are blessed, and we dwell in a nation that has been greatly blessed, just as Egypt was greatly blessed, because of the children of Israel. You see, there was a famine. And Egypt would have perished in the famine had not God sent Joseph to keep much people alive. You see, they were blessed by the presence of the people of God, but they hated the people of God. All of Egypt was spared from famine because Christ was to come through the lineage of Abraham. And therefore Abraham's family must be spared Sodom Sodom was blessed by the presence of Lot Remember when Sodom was defeated, and Abraham and his servants went and brought back the goods? And Sodom would have been spared but for the lack of six righteous. And right away I see your mind say, No, Pastor, the lack of ten. Well, you see you had Lot and his wife, that's two. There are two unmarried daughters, if you would call them righteous, that would make at least one, if not four. But you also had lots sons-in-laws. And it doesn't tell us how many, but it's plural. So that was at least two son-in-laws and their two wives. That would have been eight There may have been another son-in-law, there may have been three son-in-laws, that would have been ten. But for the lack of six righteous, the city was destroyed. Now, what does that tell us? It tells us that the presence of the righteous is a great blessing. Because how large was the multitude of Sodom? that would have been spared for the sake of a few righteous. You see, if Egypt had it had honored God's people There would not have been frogs. Their water would not have been blood. The locusts would not have destroyed their crops. They would not have had boils in their bodies, their cattle would not have died in the field, and the firstborn would have lived. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Blessed by the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. Let me read that verse again. I'll give you the reference. That's Proverbs 11, verse 11. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. We hear the mouth of the wicked every day in our They wanted Egypt gone. But when Egypt felt the power of God, rather than submitting to that power, they rejected Today, our nation wants the Christians gone. This nation, which was established on godly principles, does not want prayer. This nation does not want the Ten Commandments on the walls of a courthouse. This nation is doing everything it can to erase Christianity from existence. You see, Egypt tried to kill all the baby boys to control the people of God. We're here, we're queer, and we're coming for your children. Is no different. It is no different. The children of God existed because they were thrust out. You see, we are being thrust out of our own country today. And folks, it's a blessing to be thrust out. Because the rock that was opened was not in Egypt. And the Messiah that was to be born would not be born in Egypt. And the blessing of God's people was never going to be found in Egypt. Oh, but there were leeks and garlic. Oh, but you said there was going to be pomegranates. You said all these things. And here when they come, as we read in our responsive reading. They come to Meribah and there's no water, and they say to Moses and Aaron, this isn't what you promised us. They failed to realize that the trial they faced was the greatest blessing they could ever have. Because destruction was coming to Sodom. Lot escaped it. Destruction was coming to Egypt, and the people of God were thrust out. And so, when Israel went out of Egypt, we read there, they were glad because they were afraid of them. But the children of Israel failed to be glad. Where was their joy? All they had was murmuring and complaining about the conditions. Oh, that awful Pharaoh! And folks, I believe we're guilty of the same thing sometimes. We fail to realize that when the world thrusts us out, it's for our own good. It is for our blessing. It is for our benefit. Amos chapter 5, verse 10 is an amazing verse. It says this: They hate him that rebuketh in the gates. And they abhor him that speaketh uprightly. Doesn't that sound like our society today? They hate the one that rebukes in the gates. They don't want you to stand in the public forum and say, Thus saith the Lord. But that is what we proclaim. And then verse 39 of Psalm 105, He, that is God, spread a cloud for a covering. and a fire to give light in the night. He spread a cloud for a covering. Where were the children of Israel? They're in the wilderness. They're in the desert. Yesterday I was doing a few things and they asked me around the house and I went outside and stood in the afternoon sun and in two or three minutes I was sweating I was trying wet. And I came in the house and said to Penny, I've got to get climatized again. I'm a Caribbean missionary. I can't sweat like this. I should be used to it, but my body has not been in that hot environment for years and I've gotten used to muggy Maryland and now I'm sweating like a pig. But have you ever been out in that hot sun in the middle of the day and all of a sudden a cloud comes across and it's it instantly feels five degrees cooler I remember in Jamaica after after a hurricane, the hurricanes would take every single leaf off of every single plant. The one hurricane I was up on the roof of the mission compound and I realized I could see into the town about a mile away. Whereas usually the jungle was in between us, the bush was in between us, but every single leaf was going off the trees, and instantly for the next month it would be five or ten degrees hotter. Just because those trees made the whole environment so much cooler. Here, the children of Israel had been thrust out And God gave a cloud over top of them. Between them and the scorching Sun. He spread a cloud for a covering. And we know this is the cloud, a pillar that went before them, but it wasn't just in front of them. It was over top of them It was shielding them from the sun. He spread a cloud for a covering and a fire to give light in the night. They didn't have flashlights, folks. Ever ready was long, long in the future. They didn't have cell phones with little flashlights. It was dark out there. But God's people dwelt under the cloud in the day, and they had the fire at night to give them light. The sun shall not smite thee by day, and the moon shall not neither the moon by night. As they journeyed through a foreign land, journeying to their promised home, he spread a cloud above them. Verse 40. The people asked, and he brought forth quail and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. Oh, the leeks and garlics. Oh, we missed that which was behind. If we read in the New Testament, they ate angels' food. Not angel food cake. I like angel food cake. But they had something better. They ate the bread of heaven. They considered the manor to be simply a temporal blessing, but there was a spiritual blessing that they could not even see. And that brings us to our key verse. He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out. What a glorious truth. God opened up the rock. And the water gushed out to the souls of his dry people in need of salvation. But keeping that in mind, now go back with me again to 1 Corinthians. Chapter ten. First Corinthians chapter ten. Let's tie these two passages together. Moreover, brethren, verse 1, I would not that you should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea. Here Paul says, our fathers All our fathers were under the cloud and passed through the sea. Who is Paul addressing? Well the believers at Corinth. But what was the ethnic background of the believers at Corinth? Were they Jews or Gentiles? The Corinthians were Gentiles. We find Paul frequently talking about our fathers when he's talking to the Jews, but here Paul is talking about our fathers and he's speaking to Gentiles. He's speaking to those who do not have the blood of Abraham in their veins. The Israelites who left Egypt were the fathers of the Gentile church. They are our fathers. Our spiritual fathers drank of that rock in the wilderness. The Israelites wandered under the cloud and who passed through the Red Sea were the fathers of the New Testament church. God has one work throughout all ages. And so we are the inheritors of those same blessings. Consider this. In Acts chapter 7. In fact, you can turn there if you'd like. Acts chapter 7, verses 36 and following, we find Stephen preaching. And Stephen is preaching to the Jews, but consider what he says there. Acts 7, verse 36. He brought them out after he had showed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt. And the Red Sea, and in the wilderness forty years. This is that Moses which said unto the children of Israel, Prophet, shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren Like unto me, him ye shall ye hear. This is he that was in the church in the wilderness With the angel which spake to him in the Mount Sinai, and with our fathers who received the lively oracles to give unto us. Here we find Stephen. Stephen in his death sermon, he is preaching to a Jewish audience. But he talks about this church in the wilderness. And that word church is ecclesia. It is the same word for the New Testament church. And it doesn't mean a building of brick with a steeple. But rather it is a reference to the called-out ones, the called-out assembly. And so Stephen Talking about the ministry of Moses, and he talks about the one that was with Moses on the mountain and the one that was with Moses in the ecclesia, the called-out ones, the worlds that the ones that the world had thrust out. and the ones that God had taken in, the ones who had been called to himself. From Egypt I called my son. We read of Israel. They were the ecclesia. They were the assembly of the called-out ones, the people of God. And so this group that was called out to God, we read there, they all, we should not be ignorant that our fathers passed through the cloud and were under the cloud and passed through the sea. And then verse 2, and were all baptized unto Moses. in the cloud and the sea. And just a quick sideline here, that baptism there is baptizo, which you probably have heard means to immerse. Not necessarily. It can mean to immerse, but it does not always mean to immerse. And so here we find the children of Israel were baptized unto Moses. in the cloud and in the sea, and glory to God, hallelujah, they were on dry land. And so they were not dipped under the sea. But that's a whole different subject. And they were all made to eat of the same spiritual meat. For the people asked, and he brought forth quail and satisfied with them with the bread of heaven. And did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Christ Christ. And so we've seen that when they came to the water of Meribah, they complained, this isn't what it was supposed to be. There's no water here. But there was water in abundance. Water was brought forth out of the rock, and that rock was Christ. And so to come now to our outline is our our time is almost gone. Number one, they all drank from the sea. Spiritual rock. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven whereby ye must be saved. They drank from the same spiritual rock, and that rock was Christ. And so With that in mind, Isaiah's prophecy becomes even more clear. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come e to the waters. He that hath no money, come by and eat. Wherefore spend ye money for that which is not bread? Incline your ear and come and hear, and your soul shall live. Is the soul living there simply the human body? No, it is the soul. And so when Christ said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye eat my flesh and drink my the eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in him It becomes clear. He's referring to that spiritual bread which they ate in the wilderness. He's referring to that spiritual drink which they drank in the wilderness. And of course we have the woman at the well. Sir, the well is deep, and thou hast nothing with which to draw. Jesus said, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him give him shall be in him, a well of water springing up into eternal life, the waters rushing out. So the first thing we find here in our text is they all drank from that spiritual drink. There was no other source but Christ. But then of even greater blessing, it says that all drink of that same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them. But followed them. Folks, I can testify with great joy That I have been pursued by a rock all my life. The rock has been following me my entire life. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow thee all the days of thy life And thou shalt dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Moses, you brought us out here. There's no water for us. There's no water for our cattle. We don't have pomegranate trees. And yet the rock followed them. The rock pursued them. The rock would never leave them alone. They could not escape the rock. For the rock pursued them all the days of the wilderness Folks, the children of God have been thrust out. The children of God are one people throughout all ages. The children of God are only children of God because we have drank of that spiritual drink and eaten of that spiritual drink, that spiritual meat, and the rock follows us still. And that rock is Christ. It was a spiritual rock. The true rock was not a stone of this earth, but a spiritual rock with a spiritual meaning. There was one word in our call to or in our responsive reading that was the reason I chose that particular account of the water from the rock. There in Numbers twenty and verse ten, Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and said unto them, Hear now ye rebels. Must I fetch you water out of this rock? And in the Numbers 17 passage in verse 10, and the Lord said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again from before the testimony. uh to keep uh wroug again before the testimony to be kept for a token against the rebels And thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not. God told Moses in chapter 17, bring Aaron's rod that is kept as a testimony before me, before the rebels, that they die not. And so when Moses steps to the rock, he says, You rebels, do I have to bring out water out of the rock? They drank of the same rock. The rock followed them, and the rock was Christ. Every man born is born a rebel. We are born rebels against truth. We are born rebels against Christ. But my friend, aren't you glad that the rock that the rod struck the rock and not the rebel? You see, the rod of God's wrath fell upon Christ. He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out to a dry land. If the rod had not hit the rock, it was necessary for the fulfillment of the law that the rod hit the rebel. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And this world is made of up of those who are under the cloud. And who drink of the spiritual drink or of the rebels, and certainly the rod will smite the rebels. And so, dear friends, we are partakers of that spiritual drink. That spiritual drink from the rock that God opened to the saving of our souls. And I considered this morning trying to to sing this song and I uh can't do it, so I'm going to read it. How sweet and awful is the place, with Christ within the doors, while everlasting love displays the choicest of her stores. While all our hearts and all our songs join to admire the feast, each of us cries with thanksful tongue, Lord, why was I a guest? Why was I made to hear thy voice and enter while there's room when thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come? Twas the same love that spread the sweet feast that sweetly drew us in, else we had still refused to taste and perished in our sin Pity the nations, O our God. Constrain the earth to come. Send thy victorious word abroad, and bring the strangers home The only thing that separates the rebels from the children of God is the rock that stands between them. Let us stand for prayer before we partake of the Lord's table together. My gracious Father, we thank you that Christ, our rock in the wilderness. Our rock in the weary land, but he was smitten, but he was opened by God the Father, and the waters gushed out to a dry and thirsty land. Lord, as we partake of thy table, may we indeed remember, worship, and praise our great Savior, the smitten one. In Jesus' name. Amen.