Gracious Father, we do indeed thank you that you have given to your people a rest. And Father, it is our earnest prayer and desire this morning that you would indeed free us from all the cares of this world and the thoughts of other things. May you reveal Christ in the Word. May our hearts be drawn to you. Indeed, may you speak peace be still to our troubled seeds. And Father, may we fear greatly the name of our God, because to all of our troubled seas there is brought a great calm. And Lord, this day, may Jesus Christ be exalted and praised in the reading of the Scriptures, in our prayers to God the Father. In our singing of thy praise and in the study of thy word. And Lord, we pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please, as I read the thirty-third verse of the eleventh chapter of Romans O the debts of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of a God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. Amen. Good morning everyone. Two hundred and eighteen is our opening song in the blue songbook. Two hundred and eighteen. All heal the power of Jesus' name. Two hundred and eighteen, our opening tune And we sang the whole six stanzas. Let's take the angels prospect on Bring forth the royal time. And come him for Crown in the borders of your God who from his altar call extol the stem of Jesse's broad. Thanks so the stamina chess is brought and brought him for Israel's chosen Christ a ransom of the fall hill him who says Make you buy his grace and crown him Lord Hills gave you by his great and crown. Signes not can forget the work for anything. Go spread your trophies at his feet and crowd him for God. Go spread your trophies. Inside his feet and crowd him, let every kindred every drug His name to him all majesty as Christ and crown him. To him all majesty us right and crown him for wings. General we had his free breakfast will join the ever last week so Will join me everlasting strong. Indeed we will. That day will come when we will surely announce and rejoice with him he is Lord of all. Please be seated. And Brother Random, if you would, with this confessional reading. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we're continuing on this uh 27th article of the Belgian Confession regarding the Catholic or the Universal Christian Church. Christian, in what do you believe? This church has been from the beginning of the world and will be to the end thereof. Which is evident from this, that Christ is an eternal King, which without subjects he cannot be. And this holy church is preserved or supported by God against the rage of the whole world, though she sometimes, for a while, appears very small and in the eyes of men to be reduced to nothing, as during the perilous reign of Ahab. But nevertheless the Lord reserved unto him seven thousand men Who had not bowed their knees to Baal. This morning we'll be focusing on the time element of the Catholicity or the universality of the Church. Christ planned the gathering and the collection of his church from before the world began, and he revealed it to mankind from the very first man. And he's even going about saving his people until the last man is around. There's going to be somebody in the midst that the Lord is going to say, that the Lord will be bringing in Even as it was during Noah's time. He he kept mankind around and alive until all of his people, all of uh Noah and his family, were in the ark and the door was shut. Then the wrath was poured out But we know from scriptures that Adam knew of uh saw something of the salvation of the Lord, saw something of the covering that he would do. for his people, even after he'd sinned the first time, the Lord had to slay an animal and cover him with skins of an animal And then Eve also, the way that she came forth was quite the picture of the Lord and ha the the means by which he's he'll bring his church. You know, Adam had to be put to sleep, laid down, his side had to be open, his rib had to be taken out in order for the for his wife to be brought. So it was with Christ. He had to be slain and his side was pierced. Blood and water came forth, and this was the means by which his church was ransomed, the way he was able to bring her to himself. The Lord is actively teaching us about the church, and even the way he'll be gathering her from the beginning of time. And there's also a promise that the Lord gives unto the church, that He'll actually be with the Church until the end of time, after Christ resurrected. He told his disciples to go ye therefore and teach all nations, and he said, Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. And uh this is something that the Lord uh shared, promised his people, that he'll be with them even until the end of time. And uh there was also even a promise to Mary before Christ was born out of her womb. Uh the promise was in Luke 133, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom there shall be no end. And so we continually see as the world can goes on that Uh there's a portion of people, a small remnant, that are God's people, though it might not be obvious Who they are or where they are to the world. It's not something expressed on the news. In John 17, verse 14, the Lord said, I have given them thy word And the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. The world is full of fallen mankind. Many fallen sinners that do wicked things. They don't care. They don't delight in the things of God. And there's just a very select few that are on the narrow way. that actually have a care for the Lord and they stand out as a light in this dark world. You know, there's times when persecution can be so intense. That genuine believers can ask, like Elijah in his time, am I the only one here? Am I the only one around? Is it just me? And it takes the Lord to remind us, no, he's he's uh reserved seven thousand that haven't bowed the knee to Baal, that haven't uh tossed up everything and just abandoned the Lord. There are still some saints. And s and that's for us to be encouraged. The Lord still keeping preserving his, though it might seem we're a very small minority. God still gathering and protecting his own. And I'll leave you with this blessed psalm here that shows the Lord's commitment to upholding the church. at all times. Psalm 121, verses 4 through 8, we read, Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in. From this time forth and even forevermore. Let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Great God, the eternal King of Heaven, the one who maintains the church. the one who will always reserve to himself a remnant. We thank you that we are indeed a part of that remnant Lord, the the remnant is the small part of the whole cloth. And the disciples question, are there few that be saved? And we find in thy word that broad is the way that leads to the destruction, but narrow is the way that leads to life. Few there be that find it. And Lord, we confess to you that our fallen, sinful nature would have sought out and was seeking out that broad way. And the only reason that we are a part of this remnant is that Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. And having sought for us, he will surely save us. We thank you for this truth. Father, we thank you, Lord, that we're not deceived. For Lord, there are many deceivers going out into the world. And this past week, Lord, there were multitudes that were deceived by false prophets. Lord we thank you that your elect will not be deceived, for we read that when the false Christ will go out, they will deceive even if it were possible, the very elect. And Father, we thank you that the elect are not and cannot be deceived. Or we pray these things in thanksgiving. Not out of pride in ourselves, but in out of absolute acknowledgement That it is of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed, because your mercies because your compassions fail not. Great is thy faithfulness. And so, Lord, we rejoice in thy truth. Father, there is a multitude. In comparison to the number of this congregation, a multitude, O Lord, of this congregation, that are facing very grievous physical trials at this time. No Lord, there are those that uh are with us online and we're thankful for those means, but have not been able to physically be here now, Lord, for many, many, many weeks And Father, we we read in your word of the body that when one member suffers, the whole suffers. We understand how the whole body suffers with a toothache Or the whole body suffers with a sore foot or hand, or the whole body suffers with a backache. And oh Lord, that is our condition this morning. Father, our hearts are grieved for those that are suffering such great trials. And Lord, we we tell them, O brother, O sister, I am praying for you. And yet, Lord, even those words can seem so hollow in comparison with the need. But Lord, we are not praying to man for them. We are praying to the God of heaven. We are praying to the great physician, the healer of the sick. We are praying to the one who comforts us in all of our infirmities, so that we may gladly say, The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do unto me. So, Father, we know that uh the healing of the body Is not simply a result of good medication of this world. It is of thee And yet, Father, we have prayed many times and thanked you many times that we live in a day and age when there are more pharmaceutical products available to us than past generations And more medical wisdom. And so, Father, we pray that you would use means according to your will to heal those that are suffering so greatly. And yet, Lord, we thank you that we put no faith in the means, but our faith is in the Lord. And so, Father, may you do your work. Father, there's much in this world and in our nation that troubles us greatly today. Lord, may we be more grieved with sin than we are with political nonsense. Or Father, it seems like even among the body of Christ, even among the believers, the political nonsense gets more attention than the sin which is the root and the cause of political nonsense. The cause of blindness. Lord, you have sent a strong delusion to those who reject your truth. And Lord, as I was lamenting this morning, the downfall of this nation, of the United States, took place. It didn't begin. It took place when prayer and Bible reading were taken out of the schools. And so the raging generation that are screaming in the streets are the product of an educational system that rejected God. And so, Father, the hope of this nation is not better government, it is faith in Jesus Christ. The hope of this nation is revival. Lord, you spared Nineveh through a great revival. And Father, we even find That Esther and her testimony spared your people within a wicked land. And Father, may a revival spare this nation. And if Lord, if that is not your will, we thank you that the testimony of Christ will preserve your people within this nation. And so, Father, we pray that you would free our hearts and minds from thoughts about the government, and rather thoughts about the God who rules the government. Turn our thoughts to you. And Lord, along with that, there is the concerns of the economy and over jobs and income And all these things that buffet us about. But Lord, what would it profit us if we had all the things this world could offer and lost our own soul? And indeed, what would it profit us if we lived in a huge mansion like the one I drove by this morning? But we're not ready for the place that you have gone to prepare us. And so, Father, may this day our hearts be turned away from The sicknesses of our bodies that weigh heavily upon us, the concerns of chaos in the streets, which worry us The concerns of monetary gain and the things of this world. But O Lord, may we indeed be strangers and pilgrims. May our attention indeed be turned heavenward. Father, we pray for those that are sick. We pray for those that need thy hand in their business and in their finances. And we pray for peace in the nation. But, O God, above all, we pray that we might be lights and ambassadors in this dark world. Turn our thoughts away from that which is perishing. And may our thoughts ever be towards that which is eternal. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to First Peter chapter two for our responsive reading Find 1 Peter after the book of Hebrews and right after the book of James. Or in 1 Peter chapter 2, once you've located in your Bibles, please rise. We'll be reading verses one through seventeen of First Peter chapter two. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings. As newborn maids, desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious To whom calling as a lineal stone, this is allowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices. acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Sion a cheap cornerstone, elect, precious And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, the stone of something, the rock of a fence Even to them which sumbled at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Which in time past were not of people, but now are the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul. Had every conversation honest among the Gentiles That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may have your words, which they shall behold, Lord our God, in the day of visitation. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the King as Supreme, or to governors as by him, for the punishment of evildoers And for praise them that do well. For so is the will of God, that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free, and not using your liberty as a cloak of malice, but as a service of God. And altogether, honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. So the uh marvelous section of of Peter. Well we turn to our sermon Psalm number seventy-six near the front of your Hymn book, number 76, the blue hymn book. With grateful heart, my thanks I bring, adaptation of Psalm 138. The tune should be familiar. It's uh somewhat uh used commonly with this tune and I mean with this hymn and you'll recognize it shortly. Number 76, we sing all four stanzas in the Amen. With great thanks, I bring before the great I praise, I say I will. Thy holy place and praise thee for thy truth and grace, for truth and grace. Together shine in thy most holy words I cry to thee. And thou distance, thy word of grace will come escape thy kings of earth shall name. Thank me, Lord, for they have heard my wonderful Y they shall come with songs of praise. So great and glorious are thy race So glory bright thou race Before me, so draw by that way, thou will require that train. Thou will stretch for thy arm to save me when my bones are far. The work thou hast for me be done, shall by thy grace be folly done forever. Mercy well, my bigger name, my great. Here's my secret. Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the Old Testament Book of Psalms. And to the thirty-third Psalm, Psalm thirty-three We're considering from this psalm this morning, for he spake and it was done a portrait of sovereignty. A picture of the sovereignty of God as portrayed here in the 33rd Psalm. We understand what a portrait is. A portrait's a picture. A portrait is different from a landscape. A landscape is a painting of a countryside or of a house or a scene. But a portrait is a picture of an individual. It's a picture of someone. And here we have a portrait of God in all of his sovereignty. in the 33rd Psalm. I'm going to read the entirety of the Psalm, beginning with verse 1. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with heart. Sing unto him with psaltery and an instrument of ten strings Sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud noise, for the word of the Lord is right And all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and the host of them by the breadth of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap He layeth up the death in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him For he spake, and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth He fashioned their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. There is no king saved by the multitude of an host. And mighty man is not delivered by much strength. And horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. To deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. Our soul waited for the Lord For he is our help and our shield. For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope in thee. Amen. Let's pray. Father, now Lord, after many, many hours of prayer and contemplation and reading and rereading. And studying and reading commentaries and looking at other sources, Father. Now I will endeavor to expound this passage. And yet, Father, that is all totally in vain. Accept that thy Holy Spirit teach us through thy truth. For Lord, this people gather cannot profit by words after man's wisdom. This people gather. It's not interested in what I think or what I may have come to know. But rather, we are all here, both preacher and listener alike, because we are hungry for thy truth and hungry for thy word. And so, Father, may you impart to us thy truth to the Word. May we glory in the marvel of our Savior May we rejoice in the great sovereignty of our God. May we cast aside all cares of this world and this life. For Father, what do these things mean? What value do the things of this world have when our gaze is on eternity? And so, Father, teach us and bless us through thy word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. The first three verses of this psalm form for us a beautiful introduction. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. That word comely is a word that we don't use much in our modern language today, but it's a word which basically means beautiful. It also means acceptable. It means delightful. Praise is beautiful when it comes from the upright. Praise is beautiful when it comes from God's elect. Praise is beautiful when it comes from those that lift up holy hands unto the Lord. And it is desirous. It is that which God desires. And of course, there in verses two and three we have instructions to praise the Lord with a harp and to sing him with a psalter, with instruments of ten strings to sing a new song and to play loudly. But folks, that word upright is the word by ma r by manner of introduction that we need to consider. For praise is comely for the upright. Praise is not comely for the unupright. In fact, one of the commentators I read this week said that praise from the unrighteous are like flowers on a manure pile. Well, that's a pretty graphic description, especially for those that of us that grew up in my generation, that if we didn't live on a farm or if our grandfather wasn't a farm or we had a friend on a farm, we know what a manure pile is. It stinks. It's outside the barn. But also we've probably seen flowers growing out of the manure pile, wildflowers, because the cattle or the sheep they eat the flowers in the field and the seeds end up in the manure pile, but you don't crawl in there to pick a flower. You see, the world today is filled with those that try to offer praise to God, but they're not submissive to the sovereignty of God. The world is full today of worship services and worship leaders that make a loud noise, especially loud if the smoke machine is going. But praise is comely for the upright. And you see, those that are truly upright in heart Have been made so by the sovereignty of the God we're going to consider. And if God has truly worked on your heart, you realize that you're from that manure pile. And the only way that you can be a flower to God is if he plucked you out. And made you upright. That your praise may be comely, may be beautiful unto God. And so we're not going to go through this Psalm verse by verse, but we're going to touch on every verse at least twice and some of them three and four times. But have kind of categorized them into the pictures of the sovereignty of God that we find in this most beautiful psalm And the first picture we find is found in the Word of God. And we find this three times in the Psalm in verse 4. For the word of Jehovah, the word of the Lord is right. All his works are done in truth. His word is right. There has never been a word spoken by him that was in error. His word is right in that his word is righteous. When he says it is sin, it is sin. It doesn't matter what you think about it. When he says, I have created male and female, then if you're born male, you're male. If you're born female, you're female. Now the world is full of confusion that is not right. But the first thing we see in the sovereignty of God is that his word is right and all his works are done in truth. His judgment is always right. The world's full of falsehood, but God is filled with truth. There is no fake news. In Jehovah. But then again in verse 6, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made. By his word, think about what it took to build this house that we're in. Took a lot of lumber. Before the lumber, it took the pouring of a foundation. Before the pouring of the foundation, the excavator had to come in, and the footers be dug And the footers are poured and then the walls go up and then the basement floor and one nail at a time, even if a power nail gun is used, it's one nail at a time until it's built. But imagine if our brother could have just walked on the property and said, House. And here it is. Folks, God spoke. You talking about sovereignty? The Word of God. We had a great, great exposition in Sunday school about men contradicting God, men's works being opposite to God, and men not submitting themselves to God. But his word, his word is the tool by which the worlds were made. And we're going to talk there later about it in the last part of verse 6 by the breath of his mouth. That's going to come under the works of God, which will be our next topic. But before we move to that, consider verse 39, or verse 9 of Psalm 33. For he spake And it was done. He commanded, and it stood forth. Think about the mighty, mighty works, words of God we find in Scripture that show us that He is the sovereign. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, Peace be still, and the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. I say unto thee, Arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thine own house. And when Jesus saw the multitude running together, he rebuked the foul spirit. saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him. And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and said, and it left her, and immediately she arose and ministered unto them But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he said unto him that is sick of the palsy: I say unto thee, arise, take up thy couch, and go into thy house. And he came and touched the bearer, and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. And when he had thus spoke, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. Folks, again and again and again, not just in Genesis, but again and again in Scripture, we find this fulfilled. He spake, and it was done. Folks, that's a sovereign God. We hear all kinds of speech today. But what does any of it matter? Who are we listening to? Are we listening to the world? Or the one who spoke, and there was a world. But then folks consider this, and our brother brought this verse out again in Sunday school this morning. This is from John 18, and Jesus said unto them, I am. And as soon as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. And if you look in your King James Bible, it says I am, and then in italics, he. Literally what Jesus said was, I am. The he is appropriate and the he is added for our English understanding, but the he was implied, not stated in the Greek. Literally what Jesus said was, I am And if you understand your scriptures and know your own Old Testament, you know that when Jesus said to them, Whom will you seek? And he said, I am. He was declaring himself to be Jehovah. He was declaring himself to be the great I am. And at his word they fell down backwards. Folks The word of God, found three times here in this psalm, the word of God demonstrates to us that He is the sovereign. But not only does his word demonstrate that he is the sovereign, but his works demonstrate his works Give us a portrait of His sovereignty. Verse 4, verse 6, verse 5, verse 9 throughout the Psalm. Let's look at a few of them. Verse 4 For the word of the Lord is right. All his works are done in truth. His works don't lie. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. I was showing my wife something this week where a Young foal, when it is born, has almost like finger-like soft things on the bottom of its hoof After the foe has been born an hour or two, three hours, all that has dried up and has fallen away. The foe gets up on its feet minutes after being born. But if the foe did not have that soft spot on the bottom of its sharp Bone-like hoof. If it kicked in the womb, it would break open the uterus. And we know the babies kick in the wound. Also, if it did not have that protective coating on the bottom of its hoof It could rip the birth canal and cause the death of the mother. Folks, that could not have evolved. Because every horse would have died before the birth of the next generation. Folks, all his works are done in truth. The works of the Lord declare that he is the sovereign. God is not a man that he should lie, neither is a son of man that he should repent. Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? But then look at verse 5 of the psalm He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. Folks, the works of the Lord declare his goodness. We look around at the things that happen, and we say, somebody's in control here. In spite of all the chaos, in spite of all the anger of man, why do the heathen rage? And the kings imagine a vain thing. People imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves. Folks As our brother says, God's got this. God is in control. Folks, the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord in spite of all the badness of man. In spite of the fact that this entire creation groans under the curse, yet we see the goodness of the Lord all around us. Indeed, it is of his mercies that we're not consumed. Because his mercies fail, his compassions fail not, his mercies are new every morning. In Psalm 72, verses 18 and 19, Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. He only doeth wondrous things. He's the only one that does wondrous things. And if he does it, it's wondrous. You can take that phrase in both senses of the word. Who only doeth wondrous things. He exclusively does wonders. And if he does it, it's wondrous. And blessed be his glorious name forever. Let the whole earth be filled with glory. Amen. And amen. That's Psalm 72, verses 18 and 19. And then again in 2 Chronicles 16, verse 9, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of them whose heart is perfect towards him. Folks we think of God seeing all the evil. When when I was a child we used to sing the little song, Oh be careful little eyes, what you see The father up above is looking down in love. Oh, be careful little eyes, what you see. Yeah, God sees the evil. God sees every sin. They're all written in his book. But his eyes run to and fro throughout the earth to show himself strong on behalf of those that fear him. His eyes are running around the world, and yes, he's storing up judgment But his eyes are running around the world on behalf of the elect. Folks, the works of the Lord demonstrate his sovereignty And then look down to verse 6 and following. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made. and all the host of them by the breadth of his mouth. I said I was going to hold that phrase breath of his mouth to this section because it shows that his works Demonstrate his sovereignty. Verse 7, he gathereth the waters together as in heap. He layeth them up in store, in storehouses. Remember Genesis 1, verse 9? When he divided The dry land from the sea, the sea from the dry land. Folks, you know, when children of the children of Israel were standing there at the Red Sea with Pharaoh and his army rushing behind them. They were very, very afraid. They had forgotten that God can divide water. He can put water over here and dry land over there. But folks, isn't that like us so often? When we run into some great trial And we feel like this water is going to be the death of me because I cannot escape from Pharaoh because of this water. God, why is there water here? But the eyes of the Lord run true and fro. To and fro, I got it right. To show himself strong on behalf of those who trust. in him. You see, God can still put water here and dry land there. He has not lost that power. And so the works of the Lord demonstrate his sovereignty. It continues there in verse 8, let all the earth Fear the Lord, that all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake and it was done. He commanded, and it stood forth. In 2 Peter 3, verse 5, we find, for they are willingly ignorant of, that by the word of God were the heavens of old, and the earth standing out of the water. and in the water, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. Folks, why did Noah's flood happen Was it some freak of nature? No. No. He opened up the fountains of the deep. Could God have kept one little spot of dry land for Noah? He certainly could have. But he chose the ark. You see, God shows his sovereignty in all of it In Romans 1, we read that the invisible things from the creation of him are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power, their sovereignty and Godhead. so that they are without excuse. But continuing that passage, Paul talks about those who change the truth of God into a lie. Remember point one? His word is truth. But they change the truth of God into a lie and worship and serve the creature more than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. Evolution is the worship of the creature. Our public schools, our public square, worship man rather than God. It was Protagoras who in around four fifty B C said man is the measure of all things. No, man is not the measure of all things. God is the measure of all things. Continuing with this theme of God's work, demonstrating his sovereignty. Look at verse 10. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the device of the people of none effect. But verse 11, the counsel of the Lord standeth forever. He's made the wisdom of the world foolishness as we saw a few weeks ago. That's a mighty work. You ever read something in the news or or see somebody in the news? And they've got all these degrees and PhDs and whatever behind their name. And you listen to him, you say, that guy's an idiot. No, God brings the counsel of the heathen the naught and all their plans and schemes against him. He's sovereign over that's one of his works How many times in history have some men tried to destroy the Bible? And yet we have it. In fact the the London Bible Society owns the house in where in which um I forget which one of the atheists it was declared that he would destroy the Bible within a generation And after he died, the Bible Society bought his house and keeps that room where he said that stacked with Bibles. He brings the counsel of the heathen to naught Look at verse fifteen. Or look verse eleven. I skipped over verse eleven. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generation. And then verse 15 He fashioned their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. One of the works of God that demonstrates his sovereignty is that he fashioned all hearts alike. And that word alike means every single one of them. He made the hearts of men. The heart that rejects him, the heart that hates him. God made that heart. God has power over the clay to make a vessel of honor and a vessel of dishonor. The Lord hath made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil, we find in Proverbs 16 and verse 4. And so the verse that I read as part of our call to worship this morning, Hebrews 11, verse 33, and I'll read through 36, oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counsellor Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. And so folks, the word of the Lord demonstrates to us a beautiful picture and portrait. Of his sovereignty. And the works of the Lord paint for us across the world a beautiful picture of the sovereignty of God. But thirdly, we find that the heart of the Lord demonstrates his sovereignty Look with me at verse five of Psalm thirty-five. He loveth righteousness and judgment. That's the heart of the Lord. He loves righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. And then look down at verse eleven and twelve For the counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations Blessed the nation, whose God is the Lord, the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Folks, that's the heart of the Lord. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. all that the Father giveth to me. And so the heart of the Lord demonstrates his sovereignty. Verse 12, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Who is that talking about? It's not talking about a country that's almost 250 years old. It's not talking about a nation with a beautiful constitution. It's not talking about a country which at one time was the beacon of truth in the world. This verse is not talking about the United States of America. It is not talking about any secular state. The blessed nation is not ruled over by an earthly king or a president or a prime minister, and certainly not by a pope. The blessed nation is not eligible for entrance into the United Nations. The blessed nation that is spoken of here is the elect people of God in all generations. We read in 1 Peter 2, verse 9, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation. Folks, the heart of God shows us his sovereignty. We are the blessed nation. The Church of Jesus Christ is the blessed nation that is spoken of here. This verse, you'll hear it In a thousand sermons, if you dare to listen, sometime around July 4th. But it has no relationship to the United States of America whatsoever. It's not talking about a nation that happens to be in Palestine today either. It's not talking about the modern secular state of Israel. God is not their Lord. The Lord is not their God. But folks, the Church of God is the holy nation. And we are the people that He hath chosen for His own inheritance. We are the people, the nation whose God is Jehovah. And we are blessed. And folks, how did we get here? The sovereignty of God. We were not born into this nation by our physical birth. But we were born into this holy nation by our new birth. And so we are strangers and pilgrims in earth We are not of this world, but we are in this world. And again in Hebrews we find that these all died, Hebrews 11:13, these all died in faith. Not having received the promises but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek and country, and the country they seek is right in our text. Look at verses thirteen and fourteen of Psalm 33. The Lord looked down from heaven. He beholdeth all the Lord looketh down from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of man. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon the inhabitants of the earth. Folks, that is our home. That habitation of God is the nation that we are members of. And that habitation of God is the home that these all died in faith Uh these that say these things, declare plainly that they seek a country. That's the country they seek, the holy habitation of God. Folks, blessed is the nation, blessed is the holy nation, the people of God, whose God is Jehovah. And we got here. And so the works of the Lord demonstrate his absolute sovereignty. He fashioned all their hearts alike. He made the hearts of all men without exception. Look at verse 16. There is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by as much strength. See folks, this nation is is excited because we have a new Secretary of not defense, Secretary of War. And is excited because our military is being rebuilt. And those are good things. Those are well and proper. But folks, those things avail nothing. But the weapons of this world are nothing before this holy nation. Verse 17: And horse is a bane thing for safety. Doesn't matter how much armor is on your tank. A horse is a bane thing for safety. Neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. In Pro Psalm twenty we find that some trust in horses and some in chariots, but we will remember the name of the Lord. Verse eighteen Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. Upon them that hope in his mercy. God sees us no matter where this remnant is scattered. Verse 19, to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. Deliver thy soul their soul from death doesn't say their body, does it? Now it's implied their being there in that word soul. But he delivers their soul from death He delivers their soul from death. And I mentioned in prayer, actually, Esther, this morning, when all the people of Israel were under the death sentence. But God delivered them from death. To keep them alive in famine, God sent Joseph into Egypt to keep the holy nation, to keep the elect alive in famine. And so we find there in verse 18, behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. And that brings us to the fourth picture of sovereignty we find in this chapter. The sovereignty of God is found in his words, it is found in his works, it is found in his heart, but then the sovereignty of God is found in his eyes. Verse 33, the Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of man. You know, sometimes people say, Where is God? Where was God when the mystic campground got flooded away? Oh he saw it. Where well why does God let the God's not disengaged from the world. His eyes see it all. He controls it. It is all in his care. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth the sons of men. Verse 14, from the place of his habitation, he looketh upon the inhabitants of the earth Did you ever go out and watch a bunch of ants? It's fascinating to watch them. Well the Lord the Lord is not looking away. He sees we ants here on this earth. He knows exactly what we're doing His eyes demonstrate his sovereignty. Verse eighteen, behold the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. But then the final one we find in this psalm, God's command. God's command. Is a marvelous picture of the sovereignty of God. Look at verse 8 and 9 In light of everything we've seen, let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. For he spake, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood forth. Our brother mentioned in Sunday school when the uh servants of the high priest that came to arrest Christ fell over backwards and then jumped up and arrested him. And we say, yeah, what kind of blindness must that be? Well, they they've got a strong delusion. They have stumbled at that stumbling stone. But folks, the command of God chose his sovereignty to the world. You name a false prophet, he'll bow before God. You name a wicked political leader, he will bow before God. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Folks, they all will someday. We find in Scripture that there is no fear of God before their eyes, and we could put a parentheses, yet. There is no fear of God before their eyes at the moment. But every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. All the Muslims will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. All the Jehovah's Witnesses will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. All the queers and homosexuals and transgenders and whatever else, they will someday submit. To Jesus Christ. They will know that He is Lord. I pray that they are found of His grace before the judgment. But we shall all stand in the judgment. William Ernest Henley wrote a poem called Invictus. And I thought about reading this this morning, but I'm not going to because it is it is blasphemous. We actually studied it in literature class. uh in in college in a Christian university and took it apart line by line and it was a a very good spiritual exercise to listen to this man's vitriol against God. But in in the last part of it, the last two lines are, I am the master of my soul, I am the the I I am this I am the master of my soul, I am the captain of my I am the captain of my faith, I am the master of my soul. That's what he says. Folks, you're not the master of your soul. Nor are you the captain of your fate. And don't you thank God for that. Because if I was the captain of my fate, I would drive my ship straight to hell. And if I was the master of my soul, my soul never would have submitted to Jesus Christ. But he is the master of my soul, and he is the captain of my fate. He is the bishop of my soul to use the scripture language. And folks, it all shows us the sovereignty of God. We find this sovereignty demonstrated in His Word, for faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. We thank you that we find the sovereignty of God in his works, for by grace are we saved through faith, and not of ourselves as of the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast But it was his cross work and not my work. We find the sovereignty of God in his heart For God loved me enough that he sent his own son to die for my sin. We find the sovereignty of God in his eyes, for God saw me as yet being imperfect. Before he formed me in the bell, he saw me. Before I came forth, he chose me His eyes beheld me, and he saved me. And the sovereignty of God is found in his command, for he said, Come unto me. As certainly as he said to Lazarus, Lazarus come forth. Lazarus did not have a choice. Lazarus did not sit and contemplate with the command. Lazarus came forth. And so it was for my soul And so, folks, the the last three verses, we saw the first three giving us introduction, the last three verses of this psalm give for us a beautiful conclusion. And we find here our soul, our hope, and our and our our soul, our heart, and our hope. Our soul waiteth for the Lord, for he is our shield. Isn't that beautiful? We saw the words of God, which men don't believe, but we hear them. We saw the works of God which men fight against, but we rejoice in them. We saw the eyes of God which are upon us. We see the heart of God which loves us and the command of God. Our soul waiteth for the Lord for our help. He's our help on our shore, not horses, not kings. Verse 21. Our heart shall rejoice in him, because we trusted in his holy name. His heart found us, and now our heart rejoices in him. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope in thee. Our soul, our heart, and our hope. are all in the Lord. Let all the earth, verse eight, fear before the Lord. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you for the glories of thy word. We thank you, Lord, that we see so many images of Christ. pictures of thy great power and sovereignty in the Word. Father, may this chapter today be one we go back to, this Psalm go back to this week and meditate on it and contemplate the great power of God. And Father, Lord, indeed there are winds and waves around us, but you say peace be still. There are raging multitudes against us, Father, but you always have your remnant There are many cares of this world that concern us and fears of mighty armies. But Father, our safety is in thee. Lord, bless thy word to our hearts today. And help us, your people, to be strangers and pilgrims in a lost world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn with me in your songbook to our closing tune number 133. 133 is oh for a thousand tones to sing. Number one hundred and thirty-three in your songbook or we will sing all five stanzas For a thousand comes to say my great redeemers pray. The triumph of his ways, my gracious pastor. My God caused this meet to proclaim, to spread through all years abroad, the others of my day. He chose the name that chart our bears and rolls here's ears He breaks the power of raining sin. He sets the prisoner free. What can make the vowless plain? This but available. He seeks and listen to his voice to like The dead reads deep, the mournful broken worse rejoice, the form. Amen. Amen be seeking