Believe it, after how much time, a hundred and twenty some odd studies, two hundred, a hundred I forget the count, we're at the end of the book of Hebrews. Now this won't be our last Hebrews lesson. I intend to do highlights while the book is fresh in my mind, what really stands out. Some people who are smarter than me can read a book and pick out the highlights and get deliver that up front, but I need to kind of go through it and those that impress me, so that will be delivered, Lord willing, the next several Sundays, and then we'll figure out what to do from there. I think I was taking audience requests is what we'll do. Alright. Heartfelt endings is what we're looking at. In Hebrews 13, in beginning in verse 22, we read this. Hebrews 13, 22. He says this, I beseech you, brethren. Suffer, permit, allow, please bear with, suffer the word of exhortation. For I have written a letter unto you in few words What he calls few words. It wasn't a long sermon, in his opinion. Know ye though, Brother Timothy is set at liberty. He was released, released from prison. With whom, if he comes shortly, I will see you. Salute all them that have the rule over you and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. Grace be with you all. Amen. And that's the end of our passage of Hebrews. So I have an opening question. I got no responses this time. I guess my question got a little too obscure, or maybe the font was too small. I'm not sure which. For whom is the gospel intended? And I gave kind of a laundry list. You can choose, it's a multiple guest question, so for whom is the gospel intended? And I gave a list. Jews, unbelievers, baby Christians, backsliders, mature Christians, fallen angels, good angels, or aliens on the planet Zeno. For whom is the gospel intended? Any thoughts? All that who will believe? All who will believe. So if aliens on planet Xeno believe, it's for them. So the Jews and then all those who will believe, according to Acts are Okay, all right. Yeah, yeah. Other thoughts? Not that that's wrong, but I I love that biblical phrase usward. Okay. So who are the usward? The elected. Okay? Gospels for the elect. Okay? All right. Any other thoughts? How about uh uh uh what about the difference between baby Christians, backslidden Christians, and mature Christians? Yes. Yeah, you would say yes, you know, all the above. The gospel is for what about angels, fallen angels? No, they desire to look into these things. Yeah, they desire to look into these things. And the gospel's not intended for them because Christ didn't die to save angels. He would need angel blood, but angels don't have blood, they're immaterial, so there is no salvation plan for angels That's why those who are fallen angels are fallen. They're irredeemable. God has no obligation to save the fallen angel. Aliens on planet Xeno, he would have to become an alien, go to planet Xeno, pay for their sins. So even if we do find some strange thing out there that science declares to be an alien, and I don't believe there are aliens on planet zero, the gospel's not for them. It's for humankind Certainly for the elect. What impact does the gospel have on those who don't believe? Does God intend it to go to them? And if it does go to them, what's the impact? Judgment. Yeah. Can't say they didn't hear. Can't say they didn't hear judgment, yeah. They all have a knowledge of God. There's the whole human uh creation which can observe God's creation. Right. His fingerprints are in the stars, his handy prints on this earth and a planet. You look under the microscope or the telescope, you see fingerprints of God. You cannot get around that And so, yes, we find that um the kingdom of heaven is likened to a net, which when men cast forth, they bring in both good and bad fish. So yeah, some people get caught up in this book I've had people come to the Bible studies over the years who were caught up in this book, but they didn't know God. It's strange. It's a sad thing. There's a bonus question. How do you know if something from the bakery is a birthday cake or not? How do you know if something from the bakery is a birthday cake or not? They saw a lot of things in the bakery. How do you know it's a birthday cake? It says happy birthday. Yeah. Well it has a number on it. Has a number on it. And there's another important piece of information you hope to find on it. Frosting. Well that's all the information I need. That's all the information you need. Expect the corner piece. The corner piece with all the frosting. Oh yeah. Corners are bets. If it says it's there's some kind of a greeting on it. Happy birthday. Sometimes you actually put a person's name on it. It's got your name. I didn't ask how do you know if it's your birthday case. But yes, it has some kind of greeting to a happy birthday. All right. Well I had a reading assignment, uh which uh I don't know if y'all were able to do it. I'm not in the habit of giving reading assignments, but This was a good one from Acts 13, and we'll touch on that later for those of you who did look at it. Heartfelt endings. What a sweet, tender ending we have in this passage. The benediction came, the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant. Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to the glory To whom be glory forever and ever. What a marvelous benediction. A lot of theology in that. And then these final nice greetings. Greet so-and-so. These people greet you, greet your rulers. And he gives the notice, little heads up, always nice, rather than just the hi, I'm here to stay with you for three days. I've had that happen before from some relatives. It wasn't particularly appreciated. But uh yes I had uh people show up uh that we wanted to show up because they told us they were coming and we so look forward to their coming and such a greeting is given here as well. Um There's some you see the love towards the brethren in this. It just really oozes out from this passage. The love towards the brethren. You can't get around this response. Obviously the penman was known to these Hebrews They knew him, he knew them as well, and he knew their churches. He counted them as brethren, so I find that point interesting because he says, I beseech you, brethren So this epistle was written to brethren. That gets back to my question, to whom is the gospel? Because there's a lot of gospel apologetics, a lot of Bible truths, doctrinal teachings, but they're given to brethren Um and he mentions the broader church uh in Italy, not just Rome, who also knows them. Uh the saints like to know of where others are. You know, they traveled back the first century, every bit as much as we do now, although we do it quickly, more efficiently, and conveniently. But no matter where the saints are at, they all have one thing in common What do you think the saints all have in common towards each other? Probably Love. No surprise. There's a brotherly love towards each other. It's always exciting to meet a Christian I've never met before in a different place, a different city. You speak with them briefly, and pretty soon you realize I'm dealing with a Christian. There's no magic code phrase, no secret handshake. There is a kindred spirit. The spirit that is in you is also in them, and you can tell and discern. They are fighting against the world, the flesh, and the devil. They are interested in evangelizing. They're interested in talking about the Bible. They light up when you start to talk about Jesus Christ and they get excited about that. Not that well I go to this church or My parents are in this church or whatever. They want to talk about him, and they're interested in that. And there is a uh a glorious uh uh connection. You're all of a sudden best friends even though you've known each other for 15 minutes or less. There's that connection that occurs and that can only be found in true believers. First John 3 14 says this We know that we've passed from death to life because we love the brethren. That's one of the major points, isn't it not, of the Two tables of the law, the two parts of the Ten Commandments, the love of God and love of neighbor. Jesus himself said on these two hang all the law and the prophets. Loving the brethren is a big deal. It's a very big deal. It's an indicator as to where an individual stands with respect to their relation to God. How can you say you love God, whom you have not seen If you do not love your brother, whom you do see. And that's a very penetrating question. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. 1 John 4 7. It's a very powerful passage, the love of the brethren, the love of true believers, those who are truly born of God. You reread these apostolic endings, not just in the book of Hebrews, but this does appear in other places of Scripture. The Apostle Paul has some as well. Turn, if you will, to Romans 16, to the very last part of the book of Romans. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, and then you get to Romans. If you get to the Corinthians and so forth, you've gone too far. Romans 16, we're going to look at verse 20. We're going to pick up his Benediction, and then continue forward. It says in verse 20 of Romans chapter 16, and the God of peace shall bruise Satan. Under your feet shortly. Under your feet. Yes, Ross, uh Mrs. Ross, your feet. Absurdly, yes. You can even kick. I'd love to see that. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Now notice the heartfelt endings here as well Timotheus, my work fellow, who is also his son, his son in the faith, and Lucius and Jason and Sulsapater, fine Roman first century names My kinsmen salute you, his kinsmen, his kinsman after the Spirit. I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, he was the Paul's penman, because Paul was not the one who had the the fine skills due to the writing, he just dictated and Tertius wrote it. Salute you in the Lord. Gaius, mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. So he was staying with an individual named Gaius, another fine Roman name. They all end in U. S. Romanicus, Africanus, Julius, they all have a U. S. at the ending. They all salute you. Erastus, the chamberlain of the city, saluteth you, and Quartus, a brother The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Glorious ending from the Apostle. Listing of these names. You know the other thing that impresses me about this? Is there's not a whole lot lot of names that are given Which is always an encouragement to me being in a house church because we don't have a whole lot of names to mention, but isn't it nice when you receive greeting from someone They say and so-and-so sends your greetings, sends their greetings, and you inquire about some particular individuals whom you've come to know and love dearly. Uh the birds come to mind, obviously, the Han Lands a great many Saints the Halls. You want to know Now, 1 Corinthians 16, I'll just read this passage to you. Another apostolic ending from the apostle. He says this, the churches of Asia salute you. He certainly evangelized those. That part of Roman province known as Asia would now be known as Turkey today. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord with the church that is in their house. They too had a home ministry that was the house church of Priscilla and Aquila. So there was the greeting that was given from them. All the brethren greet you, greet ye one another with a holy kiss The salutation of me, Paul, with mine own hand. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, notice this love of the brethren. Let him be anathema, Maranatha. Wow. If somebody doesn't love the brethren, let them be, as it were, cursed of God. That seems rather sharp. You might say, well, they don't, you know, they don't come to our church, they don't listen to our messages, they don't come to our fellowship, you know, they don't they they even maybe read a different Bible, maybe they don't read the Bible, maybe they read the Quran and they're They seem to be like nice people. No, the apostle Paul says, no, let them be accursed. Let them be accursed. If they don't love you, they don't love God. And we have to have the same mindset of the Lord towards those who hate him and more importantly hate his beloved sheep and his people, those for whom his son died. We can't coddle them, he says. Let them be Maranatha. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. My love, be with you in all, be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. Glorious ending of 1 Corinthians 16. Let me ask a question. What about those family members who say really like say an Orthodox devout to the Orthodox Church or to its sister, the Roman Catholic Church? What should our spiritual mindset be towards such individuals? They claim Christ, they even claim to be Trinitarian. Name even have the right form of baptism. You you began by your question to whom is the gospel? And Paul's admonition was if any man come and preach another gospel And so, you know, if their fidelity is the gospel of Jesus Christ, that puts them in a different category than everyone else in the world. Yeah, so how do you uh uh deal with such individuals when say they maybe invite you or they want to talk over the phone or they want to what's your what's your mindset when you have an encounter with them? If if they are If they are proclaiming their other gospel, Paul said you're a good idea. Well Siri wants to comment on this as well. I thought that was uh Matt and Beverly I'm sorry, brother. Can you say that again? Rudely interrupted by AI. My actual ignorance. There you go. then they're accursed. Um if they are willing to listen to the gospel, they're a mission field. Right. They need to be viewed primarily as a mission field, right? These people are on their way to hell. We can't play around with that. Hell is very serious. Uh there is no back door to hell. There's no escape path, there's no escape route. And we have to understand these people don't love the same God you do. They may love you as brothers, sisters in in in the uh in as after Adam, they may be physically kinsmen, Jesus says he's come to put a sword, to put division between families, and there will be family members who don't love God And the idea is, well, they need to hear the gospel. Because from God's perspective, they're anathema. They're anathema. They are cursed. They're under the curse of God. And to just pat somebody on the head who's under the curse of God would be like to take your child who's running out in the middle of the street on his bicycle with traffic coming is to pat him on the back and say, have fun riding your bike. You're not doing anything different. That kid may survive the wreck. They won't survive an encounter with God. That'll be a train wreck coming. So the love of the brethren is a big deal In Philemons 1, here, the apostle writes, not to a church, but he's writing to an individual, a man whose slave has become a convert under Paul's ministry. And he writes this at the end of the book of Philemon. It's only one chapter. He says this in verse 21. Having confidence and thy obedience, I wrote unto thee. Knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say, but withal prepare me also a lodging, for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you. There is a hope and a desire that he would return to see him There salute the Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, Marcus, Aristarchus, Demus, Lucas, my fellow laborers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. Do you recall someone's letters having such an ending? I'm not saying exactly this kind of wording, but maybe somebody has written you something in the past, and they've had a very fond ending of it. Um does any letter like that stick out in your mind? My dad wrote a letter to me um the week he died. And I got it after I got back from the States for the funeral. And um is I can't quote it, but um it was basically dealing with discouragement and how as a minister to deal with discouragement and know that you know you're gonna have discouragement but the Lord will sustain you and so on. I still have it. Well indeed that's a worthy letter of writing. I ha I have one letter I can have I keep the the few letters and typewritten notes I have for my dad. Uh one of them, I had inquired to him of something relating to uh a life insurance policy. He was a health insurance salesman at Life and Health. And so obviously he's the one to turn to for these sorts of things. I was married, had kids, all of a sudden interested in life insurance, because what happens to me, or what happens to the family if I pass? So he goes about and answers the questions of all these you know insurance things very succinctly. At the very end he says, how's the baby doing? What'd the doctors say about the baby? One of our children had just been born is like Yeah, let me get this insurance stuff out of the way. I want to know how your kids are doing. That's where his interest is at. You know. These things do stand out. The things that make them memorable is that they're very personal. Uh they touch you that no other letter can. They're unique in that respect. They're keepers. I get lots of email. Not a lot of them are keepers. Uh so this is a memorable ending. You know, thematically we find a lot of similarity when we turn to Peter and John and their apostolic endings as well, just in terms of how they approach it If you will, turn to 1 Peter chapter 5. 1 Peter chapter 5. He will be. just a few pages past the end of the book of Hebrews. 1 Peter chapter 5, we're going to go to verse 10. We're going to look at his benediction, and then we're going to Kind of give a running commentary as we go through 1 Peter 5 beginning in verse 10. Notice the similarities. Here's first the benediction. He says, but the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that you've suffered a while Not long. It's a while. Seems long to us. It's a while. Make you perfect. Establish. Strengthen. Settle you To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Again, notice the calling, the person of Christ, the glory of Christ, the goal to perfect you. To establish you, to strengthen you. All of this suffering business is there not to tear you down. It's as as many a preacher has illustrated, it's the refinement of the dross from the silver and the gold is going to be established, perfected, and to him be glory and dominion forever. Very similar benediction. And then he goes on, he says, by Sylvanus A faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting and testifying, that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. There is an exhortation All of Peter and his message was that this is what the grace of God looks like. This is how by the grace of God I am exhorting you. And that's what you stand on. You stand on the grace of God. You're not standing on your own works. You're not standing on the works of Moses. You're not standing on miracles and dreams and big you're standing on the grace of God by faith. Then he has greetings from others. The church that is in Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you, and so doth Marcus my son. So The apostle Peter had his own spiritual convert, Marcus, who followed him in the ways of leading and teaching others. He called him Marcus my son. Greeting one another with a kiss of charity. And then the final closure. Peace be with all with you all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen. He doesn't ask for world peace. He wants peace for the saints. The world's going to have wars and rumors of wars. Yes, we would desire peace where we're at, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life, especially in our own country. But the predominant concern is peace among the brethren Even if they're in the middle of a war, we desire for their peace. Face-to-face interactions always produce a mutual fruit fruit of joy, don't they? We like seeing somebody. It's nice to hear about them, but we love to see them Which is sorely absent in our day. Uh we see them asynchronously, maybe through a video, maybe through Facebook. I've never gotten Facebook. That's why I'm not a billionaire. I just don't understand how to tap into Get my money out of your wallet. I don't know how to do that. I just have not that mindset. Second John 1 says this, having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink But I trust to come unto you and speak face to face, that our joy may be full. Yes, there is a refreshing of the brethren as they get together and speak face to face. You know, that's a plug for in-person worship. That's a plug for fellowship. That's where a lot of benefit is in the regular, routine, systematic attendance at a faithful church is the fellowship of the brethren. You know, I gotta tell you, the strangest church I've ever been in was a uh a Presbyterian church uh just up the road. Angela and I were in a process, a chaotic uh spiritual season of our lives where the denomination we were with was going haywire and we were looking around. Well, let's try out some local avenues nearby This Presbyterian church was old, and a new pastor who was trying to reform the congregation more towards the way that Angela and I thought. Yet, and it was a very multi-ethnic congregation. We really liked that. It really kind of looked like a sampling of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. There weren't any pink and purple-haired people there, so I knew they weren't embracing, you know, the woke theology, so thank the Lord for that. You know what the strangest thing was? After services, people were walking around. Nobody was talking to anybody. Nobody talked to anybody else. I've never seen such a thing. They just walked around. There was a big fellowship area, I guess you could say, that was about the size of these two rooms and they had a very large table with uh, you know, variety of snacks in the back, and there was my wife and children and I and maybe one other group of people that were there and And and the other ninety-eight percent of the people were just walking around heading apart. Nobody talked to each other. It was the strangest thing. I've never Never experienced anything like that in my life. I can understand people talking and they're not going to talk to me because I'm just some new guy coming in and Pastor's wife will dutifully come up and introduce, you know, and kind of greet I've never seen anything like that. Where was the love of the brethren? It wasn't evident it was the most bizarre thing. You know, this brief letter it says, turning back to Hebrews, he says, brethren, I suffer you the word of exhortation. Suffer a word of exhortation. That's a very great phrase, a word of exhortation, exhortation, meaning to challenge, but in an encouraging way to to lift you up. It's a it's uh it's not a a beat down. It's not a message from a prophet, you know, thou art the man. You're you're the prophet. It's an encouraging word. It's a brief one. The Apostle Paul gave a word of exhortation. The only other time that phrase is used is in Acts 13. And that was the reading assignment. Did anybody actually read read that section of Scripture? Acts 13, 15 to 41. You did? Glory, hallelujah! I have one reader. Now let's test his memory. So how would you summarize that word of exhortation that the apostle gave? What was he kind of talking about? The work that is first given to the Jews, but now open to the Gentiles, rejected by the Jews, received by certain Yeah. He's pretty much talking about the gospel and his ministry of it. He was delivering the gospel. The word of exhortation was basically the gospel in a nutshell, is how he packaged it. How started with the Jews, but then rolls out to the Gentiles, and here's what he was talking about. He's talking about believing in Christ, resurrection of the dead. That's the word of exhortation. As you go through Hebrews, isn't that what it's talking about? Hebrews doesn't have a lot of nitty-gritty detail. Now, husbands, here's how you live your life. It's called one word, you're a mule. You're a mule for the rest of your life. Head down, shut up, mules don't talk, they work, they pull a heavy load, and uh they need to take frequent baths. That's the husband's role. Labor Wives, here's what you do. Focus on your kids, love your husbands, love your children. You don't find that in Hebrews. It's a lot of theology about who God is, what he has done, how it's not Different from the Old Testament, but rather a fulfillment of it. And yes, there's now a difference because of this fulfillment. Jesus Christ has made a huge difference And therefore, to worship God in spirit and in truth, you need to pay attention to what Jesus said. That's the gospel. It's the gospel to the Jews. It shows them that, yeah, we do seem to be making a hard right turn, but it's not that hard-right of a turn if you think about it So this letter is to brethren and implies the entire epistle was written to believing Jews, to brethren. That's what this whole book of Hebrews was for. It's for the gospel's for you to hear at all stages of your spiritual journey. You can't say, oh yeah, I I learned that in Sunday school. Yeah, let's move on to something else. We want to find a different teacher. We want to hear more exotic things about the Bible, like, oh, there's errors in the Bible. Let's talk about that. What are those errors? Oh, we're going to look for the new Bible with the corrected version. Or we have a new prophet over here that found some some some tablets in the desert and they were written in gold with the finger of an angel. Oh that's interesting. Let's go hear about Yeah I know the gospel. John 316. I got it. Yeah, yeah. John three sixteen is not the gospel. John three fourteen's the gospel. John three fifteen is the is the uh is the why of the gospel and the in 316 answers a totally different question. You can't say that I want some readers for some of these because we're going to talk about what this is. Alright, I need a reader for the book of Galatians, Galatians 6. 14. You got any volunteers for Galatians 6. 14 6. 14. Marissa will take Galatians 6. 14. I need Philippians 3. 8. Jeffrey's got that, Philippians 3. 8. Oh, this will be a good one. Pastor, if you could read 1 Corinthians 2. 2. Alright, Galatians 6. 14. Marissa, what do you have? But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. So who's the audience? What was the message? Who's the audience in that verse? Who's he addressing it to? It's kind of obscure, let me ask it differently. What what is his message? Yeah. Yeah, he's gonna glory in Jesus Christ. And and is that the only thing he's gonna glory in? Yeah, that's it. He says, God forbid that I should glory in anything else. That that's what he wants to glory in. It's the message of the G of the cross of Jesus Christ. It's the seminal event of history. It is the One act around which all of humanity, yea, even Western civilization, hinges on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is it Annie, uh comment? July fourth is not our day. Right. Yeah, July fourth is not our day. The day of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ is. That that three day period changed everything. Philippians three eight, who's got that, Jeffrey? Philippians 3. 8. Yea. Doubtless I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but don't, that I may win Christ. What's his message? What's his uh view what's his mindset about the message? Every everything but Jesus Christ is nothing, working. Yeah. He's got one message. The church of God has one message. The teachers of God have one message. You know, it's uh there's a powerful illustration that Donald Gray Barnhouse gave years ago. I loved him as a minister, it was just marvelous with illustrations that just stuck with you. And in his uh voice, which I will not attempt to imitate because it'll sound really ridiculous, but he said, Some may complain that, preacher, all you do is preach about the gospel of Jesus Christ. blood atonement and the resurrection. It seems to be all you give us. He says, well that is the Christian's food. And with all due respect to our sister, the Chinaman will say, Well what are you going to have for breakfast? Well I'm going to have some form of rice A rice product. What about lunch? Well I'm gonna have some something made of rice. What about dinner? Something of rice. It is their food, it is their staple, it's the diet, it is the common food item to Imagine Chinese food without rice is going to lead to a path of starvation. It's the primary substance, right? We see this, we observe this. Others are true for the for the Mexicans. Well what if you you cut out beans and rice, you don't have Mexican food. You have something else. This is just how it is with the Christian. The gospel message is their beans and cornbread beans and cornbread type of message. They love it. They love it so. Now, why is the gospel, this life story of Jesus Christ, all that he is, all that he's done, all that he will do, all that he's accomplished, why is that so vital even for mature believers? Here's a mature believer. Why is it vital? Why is it important? Any ideas? Why is that story about Jesus so important even for older believers? Well one thing I would think of course we live and move and have our being in him. We live and move and have our being in him. Right Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. We d we do. He's our everything. That's what it's all about. You know, in Philippians three, one there Jeffrey's there and you We'll just jump up a verse. I'm not asking to read it. He says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you To me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Do we forget things? Now I'm looking at folks that are, you know, in that age of where senior moments is uh not a passing thing, it's kinda here to stay And forgetfulness is a real thing. I think the older we get, I think the more we need to be reminded of these things. We need to be anchored in these things You know, the uh King David did marvelously when he was young. You know, that young lad uh and his zeal for the lord, his boldness against Goliath, his faithfulness Even when he was already anointed as king, but not yet enthroned as king, his faithfulness to the Lord in spite of being pursued by Saul. But David fell when he got older. It's when he's up on the balcony, when he should be out in the battlefront. He should be viewing the the uh The warriors, not the women. That's when David fell. Jude 1. 3 says this, Beloved, I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation. When I gave all diligence to write of you of the common salvation, it was needful, needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith. The faith, the faith which was once delivered to the saints, not recommitted at every sacramental service from the popish ceremonies. You know, the point and the message here is this, making sure of one's salvation, which actually is a pretty strong theme in the book of Hebrews, some of the sharpest warnings and the scariest passages that disturb people are found in Hebrews 10 and in 6 where it speaks about uh uh uh if we sin willfully after we receive the knowledge of the truth. Some of these frightening passages See that you refuse not him that speaketh. Our gods are consuming fire. You know, these are some troubling passages, and they ought to be troubling. They ought to be concerning. They ought to kind of make you go, oh, we don't want to stray away from this. When you're walking in this darkness of this world, isn't it nice to have a flashlight and a spotlight on the road that's the right road to be on? Do you go on a road in the darkness in the woods with this trail that's narrowly carved out and shut your flashlight out once you find the entrance? I found the entrance, okay I'm good, and keep walking. No, you need that that light That's constantly illuminating that path. You need that light. Because you ain't gonna get it on the radio, you're not gonna get it on news or YouTube, you're not gonna get it there The light is not given there, oh yes, there are little sparks and an occasional, but you need the light of the gospel there So to make sure of your salvation should be suffered. That message should be suffered by every Christian. Suffer to hear it. Suffer to hear it. Another point to make here as I close out, because God's Holy Spirit abides in the heart, mind, and soul of every born-again believer. They really and do truly have a deep love and care one for another. They can't fake it. This isn't fake. The attraction is not carnal, it's always spiritual. It runs very deep, and it endures through long seasons of absence. There's some brethren I've not seen face to face in years, yet I still hear from them and want to hear from them and talk to them. The other point, the conversation which always stirs up joy among the saints has something to do with the gospel. It just is. That's the thing that stirs up the joy. That's the thing that says, yeah, I I was thinking about that the other day, and I was reflecting on that. As you speak about what you speak about name, you reminded me of remember when you do it, you were just a somebody out of work That's what it was. Yes. And after got to a certain point of you saying Jesus and talking about Jesus, they couldn't take it anymore. I mean seriously that's what that's it. And if anybody I'm sure Joe has experienced it, as anybody else who's had a number of people in front of us If after watch it's good for a minute, but after that there's somebody that can't take it anymore. That's right. They can't take it Yeah. There was a couple of events that where that has happened. Exactly. Uh at the eulogy it wasn't quite everybody, but there were some who hit the exit door pretty quick. Uh it was at a Baptist church I was speaking at where that happened after a season. Um they it and it they didn't even wait for me to speak at one point. It got to the point where in Sunday school, as soon as the last songs were done singing, okay, you're now dismissed for uh children's Sunday school that it used to be that two or three ladies would get up with the kids and go and and uh forty or fifty adults would stay but After hearing me speak for about three months, then it was 90% of the people got up and left to go to help children in Sunday school, and four men stuck around and listened. And I think they were starting to get it. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah, that's that was an interesting experience to see everybody wolf out It's a memorable story. Yeah, it's a memorable story. Yeah. It's it's a div it's a divide that's the dividing point A God that saves, a God that's sovereign, you're not in charge of your life, he is. You don't bring yourself you don't pull yourself up by your bootstraps, you don't raise yourself from the dead. That doesn't happen. There's got to be a new creature people themselves teachers having itching ears. They want to hear what they want to hear and they do not want to hear the gospel. Right. Because the gospel by nature is offensive to people. Grace is actually very offensive to people. I remember trying to offer la I gotta close it out here, but um this was at a uh uh church in California, the southern border Uh, which right now is a big border crossing point and it got all kinds of uh issues there, but uh it was the stone's throw from the border. I routinely crossed over the border, there's a little three strands of barbed wire, it was nothing to get uh over the border at Hakamba and to Hakame. Uh there was in small towns everybody's got their story and there's always some interesting individuals. This lady came through. I don't know whether she was homeless or just uh maybe a little mentally challenged, uh combination of the two, maybe under housed. Came by the church uh before services started. We were in the fellowship hole just getting some coffee, having some donuts, something like that. She went to get some coffee. She says, how much for the coffee? I said, Oh no, it's free. She says, No, I'll pay for it. I said, Well We preach a gospel here that the gospel is free. So you have have to have free can. In fact, you cannot have a cup of coffee unless you take it for free. She wouldn't take it, Jim. You see how much men hate free grace? You see how much men hate free grace? They could be desperate. But I'm not that bad I'm not that bad. That's what free grace says. No, you're broke. You're beyond broke. You're so broke and bankrupt that you absolutely need an external savior to come and pick you up off the ground And he'll give you life. Men won't own that fat. That's why it's offensive. Well this gospel message. Yes, please go ahead. Yeah. We were good friends as a girl. And and one of my other friends, Mother Paz So he was the only one in real because I didn't I couldn't mean it at that time. He and he when he got back he said, why did I the only thing that I didn't like about her Being dangerous. She kept talking about God's all the time. Why why don't they be like you? You don't keep running I said let me tell you something, buddy. That's what I'm trying to get like. Hey, you said for real? I said yeah for real. You said that? I can't imagine, Jim. Yeah? Amen. Amen. Well, we're at our close. What a marvelous book this says. A suffer, a brief word of exhortation. It's brief. And I will briefly cover the highlights of it the next couple of Sundays, some things that have While it's fresh in my mind, I find that it's really useful to just go back and say, you know, what are the highlights because we've been going through with the soda straw and in great detail extracting things, but I'd like to cover just a few more messages from a from a broad overview and some things that have deeply impressed me. about Hebrews. So we'll close with that. Uh Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer please? Dear Heavenly Father, uh Creator of this world, thou who have Send thy only begotten Son into this world. I pray that you will let your grace rest upon all those who are hearing of this word this morning. And grant life to those who do not have life and grant encouragement and joy to those that do. Right.