First Samuel chapter ten, looking at verses seventeen through twenty-seven Israel has been not happy with having Samuel as their judge. They want a king like all the other nations. And so this morning we find Samuel again berating them for wanting a king. But God has told Samuel that we'll give him a king. Oh, we'll give him a king, all right. And so we find here that Samuel calls them together, and they were going to uh be given a king on this day. Verse 17. Of chapter 10 of 1 Samuel. And Samuel called the people together unto the Lord to Nispa. And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms, and that would be the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and so forth. And of them that oppressed you, I delivered you. And you have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your tribulations And ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore Present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes. Now he's not going to call all six million people in the presence of him, but the tribes are going to select those who will represent them, several men from each of the tribes. And by your thousands, or by your families, and so forth. And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, that is all the representatives. The tribe of Benjamin was taken. There's twelve tribes if you recall. And when he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matra was taken. And Saul the son of Kish was taken. And when they sought him, he could not be found. And therefore they inquired the Lord further if the man should yet come thither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff. And I imagine when all the different tribes have come together, and all the families have come together, and all the representatives Uh they had traveled from some distance and maybe they had luggage and they had camels and so forth, the stuff, you know, that you would bring along with you for those couple of days' journey In verse 23, and they ran to the stuff, and they fetched him thence. And when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward. And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him that is see Saul, whom the Lord has chosen. There's none like him among all the people. No, he was taller than all of them. And all the people shouted and said, God save the king! And Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, how it would go and how it would be. And he wrote it in a book and he laid it before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house. And Saul also went home to Gibeah. And there went with him a band of men whose hearts God had touched. But the children of Beliah, or the children of the wicked, or the children of the evil, said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him. They brought him no presents. But Saul held his peace. Samuel calls the people together, and again he is speaking to them and Mizpah. And he said unto the children of Israel, thus saith the Lord, I brought you out of Egypt. Remember that? And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians. Remember that? And out of the hand of the kingdoms, of the Amorites, the Moabites, the Hittites, and so forth, you could go on the Jebusites, the Phariseites. Remember that? All that oppressed you And ye have today rejected your God, who did all that. Samuel's making a last appeal to the people to repent of the rebellious desire for a king. It was prophesied that God would give them a king someday, but they're demanding a king before its time, and Samuel is appealing to them. He's seeking to link Israel back to think about it one more time before he makes the next step, reminding them of God's previous mercies and God's previous deliveries from all their problems. What king could ever promise to do all that? What president could ever promise to take care of all our problems? It reminds us of the Lord Jesus Christ in the upper room on the night that he was betrayed Not around the twelve tribes, but around the twelve disciples. And it says that Christ, when he had dipped the sop with a small piece of bread or morsel, He gave it to Judas, John nine, thirteen, twenty-six. Yes, that was pointing out to who would betray him, but it was also an act of kindness, an act of friendship to break the bread and dip it, and to hand it to uh a favorite of the day or something like that. It was Christ reaching out to Judas one more time and showing him that I count you as a friend. An act of kindness one more time, Samuel says. An act of kindness one more time. Christ reaches out to Judas. And pilgrim, I'd ask you, have you made a recent effort? To make it right with somebody else in your life? An act of kindness? That's what Samuel was doing here, appealing to him one more time, to sway the Israelites. He says, as he continues in verse 19, the Lord Himself saves you out of all your adversities and all your tribulations. And we often speak to people and try to reach them with the gospel and talk them how God has been so good to them and all the good things He's done in their lives. And how God has brought them out of all kinds of adversities and tribulations, and sometimes it reaches the people and sometimes it doesn't. I would have you to think about it this morning yourself. Has not God brought you out of many adversities and tribulations? Has He not brought some of you here out of unemployment, car accidents, loss of a loved one, sickness, surgery? Medical bills, financial problems, loneliness, sin habits, adversities and tribulation. Can we not identify with some of that what we owe God for how He has saved us from so much? And we talk to people about this, and they tell us their woes and their problems and their trials and tribulations and their needs and As we try to talk to them about the real need is the gospel, the real need is Christ, the real need is forgiveness of their sins, what the real need is for eternal happiness, as we try to tell them this, they often respond with a long litany of things that are going wrong in their life, and then they close it up with, the government's got to do some! Or as here when Samuel later wrote them, they said, Nay, set a king over us, someone to govern over us, let the king do something for us. We don't need God, we need someone to govern us, someone to take care of us. Choosing to lean upon the flesh of a man. That's what Israel is doing here, rather than on the faith of the Messiah. Jesus Christ to sustain them. Isn't that where we are in this world today? People are choosing to lean upon their king or their queen or their prime minister or their president or their government to take care of them. They don't want to lean on the Messiah, the Christ. To take care of them, sustain them. The government's got to do something. Yeah, well Nebuchadnezzar's government sure took care of their problems, didn't he? And the Pharaoh, he sure took care of the Jews' problems in Egypt, didn't he? And the Romans sure took care of the Israelites' problems in Jerusalem, didn't they? Government is never the answer, it's God that's the answer. It's never governments the answer. They're generally the problem. That's why in Romans 13 it says, Pray for those who are ordained of God, who have rule over you. They need our prayers because they don't have the answers. And therefore, Samuel, having said all of this to them, and realizing it's going nowhere, and just as God said, they would have a king, and they will have a king. Oh yes, God said, I will give them a king. But not from the tribe of Judah, as we find out here, as was promised and prophesied. He says here Samuel then begins to instruct him. He says, then present yourselves if you're just so if you're just so insistent upon government taking care of you and someone ruling over you, then present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes. And so the tribes that each select are representative. That would be twelve representatives. And then by your thousands, and so there's probably a thousand families within those twelve tribes, there'd be another thousand representatives And it says here that the tribe of Benjamin was taken, and the family of the tribe of Benjamin, a family called the Matra family, was taken. And then of that family, again they they had to decide who would that be, and again there was Saul was chosen. of the son of Kish. And we wonder well how is all of this done? And with a familiar of the Old Testament, we realize that oftentimes when a decision was made uh the judge or the high priest, they would cast lots to see. And I if you remember as a kid sometimes that there was a last piece of cake or pie in the refrigerator and your mother might get a couple of toothpicks and And she'd cut 'em up in different sizes, you know, and and then she'd have you come over and pick 'em and the shortest one would get the pie. Remember that? My mother had a little twist on that, if something went wrong in the house and and something was broken and none of us would admit to doing it, she'd get out the three the toothpicks and she'd cut them up and she said, Well, we're gonna pick pull the toothpicks out and And the shortest ones are going to get blamed. Do you know how that works? The two innocent ones say, that's not fair, that's not fair. The guilty guy says, Oh, that's that sounds good to me, you know. Kind of like Solomon. You found out who was the guilty one. My mom had some wisdom that I often overlooked. But we find the Old Testament was what he called the casting of the lots And I want to explain that to you this morning. And probably as the rabbinical writings, the writings of the rabbis explained to us, there were there were stones put in a clay vest. So when I did something similar to that this morning is So many men got here early to church. And I put some stones in a cup and had you all of you reach in and pull out a stone, told you not to look at it. Would those men all please stand right now that have a stone that would have picked up a stone this morning And I want you to pull out that stone, and now you can look at it, alright? And I'm going to go around and collect them as you do. I'm going to get yours actually. I'll go over here first. Bill? Alright? You're you're not gonna be the king. King for the day, alright? So watch you and just come over here and join me. King for the day. Get to the left side. Alright? These are all red stones. Blood, sin doesn't count, you know. And so what would happen is Samuel the prophet, he would be sitting there having given out all the stones, and they'd come over and they would drop him in his lap. And the next last ver of uh you see a stone. As you he reached for the stone and Samuel go, there is the pure one. The rest of you can sit down. We have our king today. Treat him like a king today, all right? Rushing sat down. Nobody knew what their stone I told you not to look at your stones You may sit, please. I I told them not to look at their stones, but it didn't matter if you cheated and looked, you didn't know what your stone meant. Matt would not have known what the clear stone meant, you would not have known what the what the red stones meant But the prophet, the judge, he would. And as they came by and they would cast the stones in and they would go to cast the stone, Samuel would grab the hand and say, You're the king. You're the king. And we read of that practice in the scriptures. Uh we read in the Proverbs sixteen and thirty three the lot causes contention to cease. How can you complain about that? You'll draw in the short straw? You know, where's their favorites? Is mom favoring one son over the other to pick the straw for the piece of cake? or Samuel uh favoring one tribe over the other, uh you just grab a stone and we'll just see. In other words, God is in it. In fact we read that it it's caused the the fighting and the contention to cease Uh we read that because it says the lot is cast into the lap, or into Samuel's lap, or the prophet's lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. Proverbs 18, 33 And so you you you see how that would work. And you would see well uh some people say well that's just that's just Jesus he was lucky. You know. Are there people here that you you believe in good luck or bad luck, do you? You really believe good luck or bad luck? People have all luck, some people say. That's not Christ-like. Because the disposal of the casting of lot is of the Lord. We might choose a President of the United States that way sometime, you know? You got five or six cadets, just have it what difference would it seem to make in this day and age, really, right? You'd get you'd get who God wanted. In fact, I think we got who God wanted. Because whoever rules a nation, it's of God's selection to bless us or to punish us until we turn from our Our wicked ways. But some still believe in good luck and bad luck Like the casting of the lot. And I wonder how many here might believe in good luck and bad luck. You read the story of in Exodus 14 and 25. There's Pharaoh, he's charging off to the Red Sea. The Red Sea is part, he's charging off. Oh my goodness The wheel fell off my chariot. You ever remember that verse in Exodus 14 and 20? The wheel fell off my chariot. What dumb luck! What a time for that to happen. Oh, his wheel fell off too. Wow, two, three, four, five. All the wheels are falling off. The wheels are, you know, the wheels are coming off the situation. You're like, all wheels are coming off my whole life. And here it is, the wheels are coming off the chariot What done luck? What bad luck? I want some good luck. And oh the wheels are all falling off all the chariots. What's going on here? Exodus 14. 25 says The Lord troubled the Egyptians and took off their chariot wheels. It wasn't done luck. It wasn't a bad day. Pharaoh wasn't having a bad day. Oh, it was a bad day for him. But the wheels fell off because God took the wheels off the chariot. And so this morning if you said I had a flat tire at the worst possible time or had car problems this week or truck problems this week. I mean I what you know it's of the Lord It's of the Lord. Maybe we don't see it right now. We're wondering why the flat tire, we're wondering why the car won't start. I gotta tell a story, Bill. Bill shared this this week. Young kid back in nineteen sixty-five, uh I think it was on the way to work early morning, very, very foggy, pulls up to a red light, he stops Got a great car, light turns green, foggy as can be, you can't really see. He goes to put on the accelerator and the car just dies on him. Oh man, I'm at a red light, you know, traffic behind me, the car dies on me. So he So it's probably a little prayer of his breath and turns ignition. Hey, strikes right up. Great. I wonder why that happened. Boom! 18 wheel tractor fare went right through the red light in the fog. Bill Bill wouldn't be here today Bill says in 1965, I don't know if Bill was saved in, but Bill said right then there, he said, God did that to my car Whether you're saved or not saved, you ought to see God in your life sometimes when the flat tires come and the cars don't start, when things go wrong. Bill saw that in 1965. That God saved his life that day. So our tire problems, vehicle problems, we may not know why sometimes. How about Jonah, he's tossed off the ship. They feel he's a curse, the Satan's got to get rid of him. Jonah says, I'm I've I've irritated my God, you might as well throw me off the ship. And oh There's a fish there big enough to swallow Jonah and take him you know around for it for a couple of days whether he died or not and was resuscitated we don't know but here's his large fish and it just it was just there at the right moment can you imagine that But see what the Bible says? Jonah 117, the Lord had prepared a great fish. And what did God prepare him to do? He prepared a great dish to swallow Job. There's no accidents in life, dear friend. There's no action to life. I'll tell you what you do. Go on Google and Google ten unique salvations by animals, or ten unique ways that humans got saved by animals. I mean you'll it it's just there's just a tremendous amount of stories I've had some curse in my life, but you can go through these stories and you'll find people that were shipwrecked or they were they hit a storm and got tossed off the ship And they're out there with you know uh with their life ring on and they're trying to swim, they're swimming in the wrong direction, something keeps nudging in a different direction, it's night, it's dark time, nobody knows. Uh they wake up in the morning, there's sharks all around them But there's a dolphin right beside them. And all night long the dolphin has been nudging and nudging and nudging In a different direction than they were swimming in because the dolphin was taking them to shore. And the dolphin would stay with them all the way to the beach. Stories like that, how many of you ever seen those stories in the papers? Some of you I'm sure I sure That dolphin just didn't happen to be there. Can you see when things like this go on in our life that God who's prepared a fish for Jonah? That he also has caused dolphins to arrive at the right time to drive off the sharks and guide us, though in our own ignorance. It is the hand of God, and some people just don't see that But Israel saw this in the casting of the lots. Disposing thereof was of the Lord. And so the tribe of Benjamin. The smallest tribe, by the way, was chosen. And so in the smallest tribe there wouldn't be that many families. You could fill up the cup again with fewer stones. Uh and they would pick again to see which family. The family of Matra was chosen. And the family of Matra would be Saul's father and the children there, and I don't know how many there were, but uh again it wouldn't be that many. And Everyone picked out a stone and and they said, well Saul's not here to pick out a stone. Where is he? Well he was scared. He took off he's hiding at the stuff. And they said, Well then he gets the last stone. Oh my goodness, Samuel says Everybody picked their stone, and the only one left is Saul's, and it is the stone that's cast for the king. Go find him. Where is he? They asked God. God said he's he's hiding by the stuff. Hiding. It wasn't a coincidence. It wasn't an accident. It was a promise of God that Saul was chosen in his own absence where he couldn't vote or select or reach in. He was gone. He's hiding himself by the stuff. It says in verse 22. Hiding himself by the stuff. Maybe he knew it was wrong for the people to want a king. Salmon had already told him briefly before this, uh, they want a king and saw you're it. And In all the conversations Samuel and Saul must have had, he must have realized what Samuel was telling him to remove me as the judge and to replace you as a king The people are wrong to want a king, but you're going to be the king. And Saul, perhaps he fled and hid by the stuff because he didn't want to be the king. He thought it was contrary to what God really wanted Even though it's what God was going to do. So perhaps he was heightened by the stuff because it was wrong for the people to speak the king. Or perhaps he was just worth w he was conscious of his unworthiness to lead Israel Maybe that's why he was hiding by the stone. Or perhaps he was shrinking fearfully from the task that was required of a king. The task that the people of Israel would want him to do. You go back to chapter 8 and verse 20. And the people said, We want a king, we want a king, we want a king. Samuel said, Why do you want a king? And they said, verse 20, so you'll go out before us and fight our battles. Whoa! I'm being spiked as a king, shall I go out and fight their battles? I'm going to be in battle leading these people in combat? I'm going to go hide by the stuff. You know? Maybe that's why he was hiding by the stuff. Needless to say, that's where he was, and that's where they found him You know, if he'd been a God-fearing man, and Saul I do not believe was, some something he was a saved man. If he'd been a God-fearing man, at least at that point If you'd been a God-obeying man, if you've been a Christ-trusting man, he might have been like Isaiah when he was called upon. He would have said like Isaiah 6 and 8, Lord, here am I, send me. That's Isaiah But that's not Saul. Saul is I'm getting out of here. I'm gonna go hate by the stuff. I'm gonna be leading people in combat Get myself killed. I'm young. I'm tall. Who are they going to shoot at? The tallest guy in the crowd. The guy on the horse, the tallest guy in the crowd. He's gonna get shot at more than anybody What's everybody on the other side can do oh and we take down the big tall guys head and shoulders above everybody else, you know. I think he's even the king from what I hear. I mean who wouldn't be shooting at him first? Saul was more comfortable hiding among the stuff, the stuff, the material things of the world. Is there anybody here who's more comfortable among all the world stuff than fulfilling God's appointed duties in life? Let me say it again. Are you more comfortable just hiding among all the stuff you got and all the stuff that's out there? And you're busy with all the stuff and all the material things that the world can give you. Are you more comfortable with all that stuff and that's where you want to stay rather than following the Lord? Obeying the Lord, stepping out for the Lord, witnessing for the Lord. We often say to people, if you can't be a missionary, send one. If you can't be a missionary, pay to send one. Maybe someone will come to you and fetch you. It says here that when they said, Where is he? Where is he? God told them, I guess through Sam, he's hiding by the self. Maybe God will send someone to you, will tell someone. to go and talk to you, to pull you away from material things of this world, this stuff. Listen to him. Listen to them. When they tell you there's something more important than all the stuff. You seen the bumper sticker people drive around all the time? He who dies with the most stuff wins. Are you kidding? I've seen that bunk there. I mean I just want to jump on my car, red light or green light, and run up there and head on a track and say, what are you talking about? You can't take any of the stuff with you. Except your sins. You really don't want to take those with you. So they fetched him in verse 23 and 24. They fetched him, and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward. And Samuel said there's none like him among all the people. And that must have been Saul. Who's a Saul? We know he's from some small tribe, the Benjamites. I can't believe the Benjamites got selected. There were probably people very angry. We saw in verse twenty seven the sons of Belial or the sons of the evil ones or the sons of the wicked or the sons of the corruptions. They were not happy with the selection. I mean, why not the tribal Manasseh, you know, Joseph's family Why not the tribe of Dan? That's where Samson came from. You want a king, you want a leader. But Benjamin is the smallest tribe. They're nothing. There's hardly any of them even left So there was a jealousy, even though the casting a lot is of the Lord, some weren't going to go with that. And so if they find him here, they bring him out, who is this guy? And he comes walking out with Samuel. Man Hey, we did good. He's tall, he's statuous, he's nice looking, he's muscular. Oh, that ought to scare the Philistines. What a king. Can you imagine our king meeting to talk to their king? I think we all kind of enjoy that sometimes when our presidents our presidents are usually quite tall. Uh I think Bush was six three, I think President Obama's six three. and is so much uh shorter than the six foot three president. We we like the fact that our presidents are kind of taller, you know, or bigger or stronger. And they like this. They like to have this this big man here. Saul, shoulders and head above everyone else. He stood out in the crowd. He stood out in the crowd. This is the man they want to be their king. He really stood out in the crowd. I I thought of all those being elected or running for president a couple years ago, I thought Romney stood out in the crowd. He he just looked like might have a magazine cover of GQ, didn't he? He just looked presidential. I didn't like all the things he stood for, but there were people that did, because he just stood out. Saul stood out in the crowd. He was just what Israel desired. He was just what Israel was looking for. They weren't, remember, here's what they let me rather tell you what they were looking for. Let me tell you what they weren't looking for. They weren't looking for another spiritual leader. They did not want another Samuel. Alright? They didn't want some born-aginner in their office. They didn't want some born-aginner running their governments, you know, or ruling over them. They didn't want a spiritual leader. They didn't want a man of morals. If he's got morals, that might clash with my lack of morals. They didn't want a guy with morals like Samuel. They just wanted a big guy who could be their king and intimidate their enemies. That's all they wanted. And he fit the bill. He wasn't going to say things that would rub you raw about your way and your lifestyle of living. He wasn't going to be quoting the Bible at you. They just wanted a big guy. The indication of a nation's character is the people they choose. People get exactly what they want. They choose people to rule over them. They they get their clone. They get who they are. The character of a nation is exhibited by the people they choose, or the people they admire, or the people they desire to lead them. You can go back to the days of the Lord Jesus Christ and what did it tell you about the crowd of the people when they said, give us Barabbas! You gotta be kidding, he was a murderer and a thief? Yeah, we can live with a guy. We can live with a guy like that. We love the guy like that. He's like one of us, you know? Give us Barabbas. Or how about the religious segment of that day and age? That was the crowd, but the religious segment, what did they say? We have no king but Caesar. We have the government to rule us, we have Caesar to rule us, we have no King Jesus, we have no King of Israel, our king is Caesar, the king of Rome is the king of Israel, not this man from Nazareth The indication of a nation's character is determined and made obvious by the people they choose and admire to lead them. America today, ask yourself this question. Is America more captivated by the Hittites from Hollywood or the holy men of Scripture? I mean who do you think would win an election if you got a hip tight? You know, if you got some some hip tight from Hollywood to run against Franklin Graham or something like that. What do you think would happen? The selection pleased the majority of the Israelites. They liked Saul. And so Samuel then said, all the people now, every man go to his own house. And Saul also went down to Gibeah. He goes down to Gibeah. He doesn't go to Jerusalem. That's not the capital of Israel at the time. He goes down to Gibeah. There's no palace there. There's no castle there. There's no fortress there. There's no court where he can conduct business there. It's just little old Gibeah. And there went with them a band of men whose hearts God had touched, we read in verse 26. Can you imagine how the report must have spread as they all dispersed from Nispah and they all went to their own their own tribal area and and as the news are probably spread can you just about hear it extra extra read all about it extra extra read all about it or hear ye hear ye Samuel's about to retire Israel has their first king, Philemet 11. Right? Isn't that what they say? I mean, out of all that's written here. The big news is Samuel's retiring. The big news is we got our first king. His name is Saul. He's from the tribe of Benjamin. That's the way the news media would cover it, right? And just as perhaps here And as we would see it today, if it was to be covered today, the media always misses the most important part It isn't that Samuel's retiring, as important as that is, or they got their first new king, as important as that might be. They missed the miracle. There was a miracle performed here, and they totally ignored the miracle. They don't report the miracle, they don't report God's hand in this whole episode. They don't report the most miraculous event. Scripture records the miracle. And you might be saying, What miracle? What miracle? That abandoned men, God touched their hearts. That's the miracle. But Samuel's retirement, thank God that God has reached down in verse 26. An abandoned men whose hearts God has touched First, that's a miraculous thing when God touches a heart. Some of you know that, some of you are sitting, I hope many, I hope more so, I hope all of you. If God has touched your heart Because if he has, you know is a miracle. You're like the Apostle Paul. You were out there running around as a teenager or a young married couple and you were thinking to yourself, I love my life. I love my sins. I really like where I'm going. This is really neat And God touches your heart, and all of a sudden you hate your sins. You hate where you're going. And you know what a miraculous thing it was. Paul said, I love my sin. That's what Paul says. I love my sin. And then a miracle happened on the road to Damascus. And here's a miracle. He's on the road to Gibeah, and there's a band of men whose hearts God has touched. That doesn't get reported in the news media, does it? Scripture records a miracle, but the news media wouldn't The heart is changed. I want you to notice first that when the heart is changed, it is the operation of the Holy Spirit, it is the operation of God, it is God showing mercy. It doesn't say the man reached out and got a decision card and walked down the aisle and asked to be baptized. It says that he's just locked. He is it says in Ephesians 2. 1, we are all dead in trespasses and sins. We're dead And God reaches down and touches our heart. We don't reach out like the painting of Michelangelo with God and Adam and how God it shows you that God's reaching down in the painting and man's reaching up and God gives Adam life and the spirit. Adam was dead. He's just a pile of dust. He's a pile of clay. He wasn't reaching up to God, and God's reaching down, and all of a sudden, all good they touched. They were both involved in Adam getting this spiritual life in him. That's kind of the way the painting is interpreted, but it's not like that. Adam was dead. He was just a pot of clay. And God touched Adam's heart and made him live. And it's here is the same thing here. These band of men. God surrounds Saul with godly men. Oh, that that would happen at the White House today, that God and maybe there are some there, that God would surround He can be an odd godly man leading the nation of Israel, but surround him with men of God And David would become one of them. What a miracle. It doesn't get covered. It ought to grab all the headlines, but doubtfully it did not. Just like a few years ago, Madam Murray O'Hare and her son, they wanted Bible reading taken out of the public schools. You remember that? And so they went to the Supreme Court and they had Bible reading. was taken out of the public schools. It was all over the newspapers for months and months that it was going to happen then when it did happen and we're still reading about it happening. And we're still living under that law that Bible reading is not allowed now in the public schools. Woo What a headline. How many headlines? How many times have we read about that? But when Bill, Madeline Mirahair's son, got saved, got born again, and rejected the law from the Supreme Court, and asked the Supreme Court, petitioned the Supreme Court to throw it out that he was wrong, his mother was wrong. No You see, when when God touches the heart of someone like like Bill O'Hara, oh we just gotta forget about that. How about the Nuremberg trials? After the Holocaust and all the Jews were fine to Auschwitz and Dachau and all these place and all these Jews were they were were murdered and horrendously it's horri it just horrible and so we arrest the main people that are involved with this and they take them to the Nuremberg trials and they're tried many of them are hung and some are in prison for life and so forth. But and that that's all the headlines. Oh we got this guy, we caught this guy, he's guilty, he's guilty. But did they ever tell did it ever hit the headlines about the couple of them that got saved, that got born again? I mean these are these are men who committed tremendous atrocities as bad as any Apostle Paul had done to the Christians. And they turn a life over the Lord Jesus Christ. One of them standing there with a rope around his neck, the chaplain went up to him and said, Any last words? And he says, Chaplain, I've been fighting it and fighting it. But your gospel's true. I accept Christ. I died today, but I'll see you, Chaplin. in the hereafter. That happened two or three times. Did that hit the headlines? No. Probably people here haven't even heard about it. But there's a book about it. The chaplain wrote a book And he wasn't one easily led to believe who got saved, who didn't get saved, because he worked in the prisons for years before he became an army chaplain and was over there for the Nuremberg trials. And he saw a lot of them and profess faith in Jesus to get out of jail free or to get out of jail early. And he could spot a phony But does it hit the headlines when somebody gets saved? Does it hit the headlines when God reaches out and touches the heart of someone? Let me tell you, it should. It ought to get some notice. Salvation is rare. If you're sitting here this morning, you're saved, you are rare, probably within your own family. You're rare probably within your own community, you're rare probably within your whole workforce where you are. Salvation is rare, difficult, and necessary. Did you catch that? Salvation is necessary. But don't take my word for it. The Lord Jesus Christ said, Marvel not that I said, You must be born again. People say, oh, that's a born-again religion. Oh, you gotta be born. I think you gotta be born again. You can't go to heaven. No, I don't think that, but that's what Jesus said. I agree with him. I would I dare not you know Oh, and by the way, he says it twice in case you missed it the first time, because in John chapter three verse Verse 3, Christ says, Marvel not that I said. See, he already said it once in verse 3. Then in verse 7 he says it again to Nicodemus, you must be born again. And you consider be like myself You can be the most most religious Baptist, the most religious Presbyterian, the most religious Methodist. You can go to church every Sunday. You can do it all. But if you aren't born again, Christ says You're not saved, you're not going to heaven. If you don't have that second birth, that spiritual birth that comes when God reaches down and touches your heart. And if you said I I hope he has, I think he has. If he has, you know it. Because you've changed since he did it. Maybe some teacher has touched your life as you're growing up and going to high school or college. Or maybe some girl or guy has captured your heart. That's really wonderful too. But if God doesn't touch your heart, you've got nothing of significance. If God doesn't touch your heart, you've got nothing of eternal value. If God doesn't touch your heart, you're hopeless. You're helpless. And you're hell bound. So, pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim, has God touched your heart? Has God touched your heart? It makes all the difference in this world, and even more so in the world to come. Well, don't leave today until you know that God has touched your heart. Or you sit right there. Just pray quietly to yourself. Come and talk to me after church, whatever it takes, but don't go another hour, another day without knowing. Without asking. Ask God to touch your heart. Is that a hard thing to do? It's a difficult thing to do. It's a rare thing when someone does it. But I pray that every pilgrim here has her will. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the news that Israel's got a king. But he's not a good king. But Israel's got a king surrounded by men who God has touched their heart. Oh Lord, surround us. If we're not saved, surround us with people whose hearts are saved, whose hearts are touched May they make a difference in our life. May they talk to us. May they fetch us from the stuff. May we come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as others whose heart God has touched. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.