Last day of the year, but this is not the last passage in Hebrews. So uh in your uh bulletin we have the uh section on the inside that we're going to be covering today, 7 through 11, titled Hearing Your Hardness. But I want to slow down a little bit and we're going to kind of have a little introductory discussion. If you have your Bible Turn to Hebrews 3, because we are going to look briefly at the last verse, which is kind of the segue into this section. We're in Hebrews 3, and the verse in verse 6 says this. But Christ as a Son over his own house, whose house are we? Now here's what we're going to talk about. Hebrews 3. 6 If we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end That is, that phrase is going to be amplified in what we're going to read today. But I want to explore that a little bit. Hold fast the confidence, key word, and rejoicing, second word, of the hope. firm until the end. So my question is this. So what is it to be Confident. I'm just talking about the world's use of the term. You don't have to go deep and go theological and confidence in the Lord and Jesus. But what does it mean to be confident in the world? It's easy, you just have Jesus. That's it. Well, that's the spiritual application for the believer. For the unbeliever, what does it mean to be confident? What does it mean? Can an unbeliever be confident? Again, I'm not talking spiritual right now. Yeah, they are confident at what they are doing. Okay. Uh how do they how does somebody become confident? What are the elements to that? Oh his life uh everything everything's going good Everything going good, success, okay. Past performance is probably an indicator of future. Gabriel, what are your thoughts for confidence? If they've done it before, then they're confident they can do it again. Yeah, if you've done something before, you can probably do it again. How else does the world express confidence? Joey, you've seen a bunch of confident people down at college, I'm sure Maybe not among your peers, but the way they walk typically Okay. They walk very upright and forward look people in the eye. Okay. Upright and look people in the eye. Yeah, they they look they they they they're not down and moping. They're they've got a uh You would say a firm contact. They what? They argue again. Ah, they're not afraid to argue a lot. Yeah, they're they're very forward and combative. Mm-hmm. Boldness, whether founded or foolish? Okay, boldness. They could have a certain boldness. It could be foolish or it could be founded. I like that dichotomy. What about this idea? Uh what is it to be hopeful? What is it to be hopeful? Because that's really the cause of rejoicing. To look forward to something. All right. Hope. Yeah, you're looking forward to something. You look forward to it. I think we're at the end of the holiday season. Hopefully you've got something that you wanted this season, whether it was time with family and friends, a particular gift, whatever. So now when it says then that we back in our text we're the house of Christ if we hold fast the confidence And the rejoicing of the hope, firm unto the end. What does then holding fast firm unto the end imply? We've explored rejoicing. Hopeful. What does it mean? What does that imply? Holding fast, firm unto the end. That hold fast and you hold it firm until the end. What's what are your thoughts on that? You're gonna need confidence. Why would you need confidence for that? You have to be sure that you're doing what you think is the right thing. Okay. You have to be sure But it says you have to hold fast firm unto the end. That's true. Why would it say hold fast firm until the end? Well, I think it kind of presupposes that there's going to be some persecution, that there's going to be some Reasons why you might want to give up. So because of the the importance of holding fast, it's encouraged that you Yeah, so you're encouraged to hang on because it's gonna get tough. You know, I remember years ago, this is a quick little story. A young lady that was in the Sunday school class I was in, she said, for the first time she and her friends went whitewater rafting. And she thought this is going to be so much fun. Now she is not a swimmer. She's not an athlete. This is an individual who hasn't missed too many meals in life, if you get what I'm talking about And so she decides she's going to go whitewater rafting. And so she goes, and then she reports that when they hit the first bump and the water comes over the edge That she's in a panic. She's like, oh Jesus, what have I done? All of a sudden, this vision of a wonderful time, whitewater rafting, this Maybe she was thinking of a you know a tube down the San Marcos River or something, but this was not a gentle flow. It was rugged, it was difficult So it was difficult for her to hang on to that joy as soon as a little water came over the bow. And that's kind of what we're looking at here. Because the exhortation is for us to hold fast, firm, until the end, hold that confidence and hold that hope. And that's really the introduction to our section here. I'm now going to read verses 7 through 11 because he's going to make a statement that starts with wherefore. And the wherefore is kind of like a therefore. You have to ask why is it therefore We read now in Hebrews 3. 7, wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness. When your fathers tempted me, proved me, saw my works forty years, it's a mighty long time. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their heart They have not known my ways, so I swear in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. Wow. Well this sounds like a group of people who didn't hold fast their confidence and rejoicing and hope firm until the end. This sounds like the flip side I think you know who these who this is talking about. This would be the Jews in the wilderness. He mentions forty years. He says that generation swearing in the wrath. And we will look at those passages of scripture that's talking about here In fact, the first thing I want to point out before we get into this historical aspect of it, as we're going to go look back in the book of Numbers, look at this Old Testament account Is I'm really struck with that phrase, as the Holy Ghost saith. Well, that's interesting because over in Hebrews chapter 4 And in verse 7, referencing the same passage, I'll just read it for you, it says, again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, Today, after so long a time, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. Well in Hebrews 4 it says David says this, but right here it says the Holy Ghost says this. Well that's interesting. Is there a contradiction? One says David said it, and the other says the Holy Ghost said it. Is there a contradiction? What do you think, Mrs. Ross? Well, I think that probably the Holy Ghost told David. Well exactly right. Yeah. God the Holy Spirit worked through his prophet, David being a prophet and a king. He wasn't a priest. No one individual fulfilled all three offices that the Lord Jesus had, a priest, prophet, and king. David fulfilled two as many others also fulfill two roles. He was used of God to enscripturate, to put the word of God into inspired form. And I'm just always fascinated with little bits of insight that we get from the Bible in terms of how people are just, as it says in Hebrews, how God spake in time past into the fathers by the prophets. Just how that worked. And how they knew it, they knew that this was electricity coming from on high through them to emblazon these words forever. For instance, in your handout You'll notice that look at the roles of the Holy Spirit in Hebrews 2 And in verse 4, God also bearing them witness with gifts of the Holy Ghost. We saw that earlier in Hebrews 2. Here he's speaking just like the Lord, Hebrews 2. 3, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, the Holy Spirit speaking, the Lord speaking. And his voice was enscripturated. So while you're looking in your Bible, let's go to Psalm 95, and we're going to spend a little bit of time here and see just what the Holy Spirit said. Psalm ninety five Psalm ninety five, and let's see what he said. In Psalm 95, we're going to walk our way through this here. It's a short passage. And this is what we find. Any volunteers for reading? Doesn't have to be my voice all the time. Psalm 95. I'll start. People are just looking at their handouts. I didn't put Psalm 95 in your handout. Oh, come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise second time unto him with psalms. For the Lord is the great God and a great king above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth, the strength of the hills is his also. The sea is his, and he made it And his hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand. Isn't that lovely? That's a fantastic section of the Psalms. It's a very encouraging one. You can imagine the exuberance with which it's written. Come, let us worship. You hear somebody who's very happy about it. And then it takes this strange turn. Again, the Holy Ghost says this, alright? Today, second half, verse 7, today, if you will hear his voice, Harden not your heart, as in the day of provocation, as in the day of temptation in the wilderness. When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is the people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways. unto whom I swear in my wrath that they should not enter into rest. So my observations on this. You know, it is an encouraging psalm It's directed to the people of God. You can't miss that from verse 7. It says, we are the people of his pasture. We are the sheep of his hand. This psalm is directed to You and I, to those listening who claim the Lord as the Lord their God. And the warning that we find here is repeated verbatim In Hebrews 3. It's just lifted straight over. Anytime God repeats something, if he says it once, it's important. It's always important if he says it anytime. But if it's twice. It's really firmly anchored. It's firmly established. This is something that really ought to catch your attention. If it's three times, that's a uh that that that has phenomenal weight to it It just shows the load-bearingness of the scripture. And this is, again, a clear example of how God is speaking unto the fathers by the prophets. You look at this and you go Well is this David? It doesn't even say a psalm of David. It was God the Holy Spirit speaking here. And yet we read that no, it's it's David and it's God the Holy Spirit speaking through him. I do want to spend a little more time on this point that it's God the Holy Spirit speaking here because this is an important thing. This isn't just David being excited. He was the sweet psalmist of Israel. And indeed, he would dance before the Lord with all his might And, you know, that's shows somebody who is just very impressed with what his God can do. I'm sure he was uh a tremendously jubilant young lad after slaying Goliath, the champion of Gath But this is in fact God speaking. And David knew this. In fact, he wrote about this at the end of his life. And in 2 Samuel 23, we read this, it's in the first verse. Send your hand out. Now these be the last words of David. So this is David recording it. Verse 2, the Spirit of the Lord spake. By me. So you're right, Mrs. Ross. God spoke through David, spake by him, and his word was in my tongue. David knew it, he perceived it. He knew it wasn't from him. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me. This is one of the clearest places we find somebody who was used of God. To be the channel for his word, he says, it was through me, and he knows it was different. He knows it was not him We find in the New Testament the Apostle Peter describes the movement of God, the movement of God through these ancient prophets. It says in 2 Peter 1. 21, For prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. It didn't come into their head. They meditated, molded over, and they said, Well, I think this is what God wants us to hear. and reprocessed it. It didn't come by the will of man. He wasn't moved by a stirring sermon, or he wasn't struck with uh a neat thought, as we might put it, that was God Almighty came, but says, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That word moved is used in reference to a sail When the wind catches a sail, it moves the whole sailboat. That's how these men spake. God the Holy Spirit caught a hold of them. Numbers 1628, I found an interesting little tidbit here. This is a neat cross-reference I found. And listen to how Moses speaks about it. Moses used to enscripturate much of uh of the Old Testament, first five books certainly. And listen to what he says. Moses said, Hereby you shall know that the Lord has sent me to do all these works, for I have not done them of my own mind. The words and the works that Moses did, he says, fellows, this didn't come for me. I've not done this of my own mind. So Moses is reflecting that It's not something that he conjured up. He is again describing this business of God the Holy Spirit catching an individual and moving them. Luke 1. Luke 1, 69, but The Father has raised up a horn of salvation as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets. God speaking, prophets mouth. Again, just these little insights into how things work. And then 1 Peter 1. 10, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify. Peter says that these prophets in time past The Spirit of Christ was in them, but the prophets themselves were searching. What does this mean? What is this grace that should come to you? So isn't that amazing? They were used of God To record messages that were not necessarily written for them, but for a future generation. And they were Inquiring, searching diligently. How do we connect the dots? When will the Messiah come? Will we recognize him? Do we have all the information together? And then it says in verse 11, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it, and I've capitalized it because that's a reference to the Holy Spirit. Technically the Holy Spirit isn't it It's a neutral. You have Father, that's uh masculine. Uh the Son, masculine, the Holy Spirit. Not feminine, it's neutral The Holy Spirit technically, if you're going to be grammatically correct, is an it, it's neutral. When it testified beforehands the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow What's my point? Just know and understand that when you read the Bible, that is God Almighty speaking to you. You need to get Paul out of the way. You need to put John and Peter, Moses, Elihu, Job, you need to put them in the background. They're there. Their fingerprints are on it. It's an organic inspiration. But it's God speaking to you It really is. And that's what we want to particularly pay attention to here because the penguin for Hebrews is telling us the Holy Ghost said this. And this is written to Hebrews to say, I really want you to pay attention. You gotta hold fast your confidence. You gotta hold Your rejoicing of hope, firm unto the end, because the Holy Ghost said, and now we're going to look at what the Holy Ghost said. So this is a big point he's making. He's tightening it up. He's saying, Forget David. This is the Holy Ghost saying this. And he says back in Hebrews 7, today, if you will hear his voice. Now this This verse, this phrase frankly preaches itself. You can just read it and you can understand it. You don't need me up here to do any further explanation. But I do and would like to have some questions, to think about it some. Today, if you will hear his voice, I want to meditate on that phrase for a moment. It seems to me that It's saying that God's word, God's message is a a right now message. Right now, today, I'm sure Freddie would Love to talk to her clients. Just sign this thing today. When should we close? Today would be good. When would you like that application done? Today would be really wonderful My bosses would also say that w is it I would ask them, when do you want this done? They'd say, Well, they told me yesterday would be good. Uh So, why, folks, do you think God's word, God's exhortation, would be so urgent? Because you never know when you die. You never know when you're gonna punch out Uh what reasons be in addition to that, what other reasons might there be to demand such a response? No other chance. No other chance. Okay. Yeah, I expand on that some. That's an interesting point. Well the the probably they will uh close up the preaching there. Nothing they can There may come a point when you don't hear the word of God anymore. Yeah, good point. Today if you hear it. And I think when it says, um, if you will hear my voice, meaning don't harden your heart. Don't just hear it. Listen and pay attention and do it. Hear it. That's what I'm saying. Not passively. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. What are some other reasons for the urgency of it? Two scriptures from the mind. One on the sign of the signal that God winked death and now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. And so it's urgent now. And the other passage I can't can't quote, but the gist of it is that um the the times pass of suffice of living in Um malice and so forth indie. Yeah. Yeah, we've spent enough time in rebellion against Christ. Okay. Yeah, we there's been the the party's over. Yeah, absolutely. What are some other thoughts? Let me maybe phrase it a little differently. Um, it's talking about the word of the spirit, uh, but We don't want to hand grenade the Godhead too much. It's God the Father. It's God the Son. They're all speaking. Let's let me put it this way. It's the word of the King Is there does that have any bearing on why this might be urgent I would say yes, because the king has great power and if you do not obey in the time that he is ordained for you to obey, then there's gonna be great consequence. Kings and people in great power tend to not be patient people. They want it done now And they will expend whatever resources. You know absolutely. Um here's a few reasons I came up with, just kind of think it through and As Miss Abba pointed one out, there may come a day when you don't hear his voice. And there's an interesting passage in Micah chapter 3 and verse 7. Uh maybe somebody could turn there and look it up. Um it's the King of Kings directive, as we we discussed. It's the it's your creator's command. Right? The one who made you said now when I go out to my radio arm saw in the garage and I push that button, I'm commanding it to turn on and start spinning. If it doesn't, to me, it's broke and it's going to get thrown away and I'm going to have very short patience with it. I expect the tool to work. And likewise we are tools in his hand. He pushes the button, namely Commands us, and he expects a response. It is your husband's voice. Christ is our husband. We are all the bride of Christ. You know, the foolish woman ignores and rejects what her head, her spiritually ordained head, says. I'm not talking about putting up with abuse and the like. But it is the voice of that husband. He is a good husband. Scripture records sharp warnings of those who reject it. And if you call upon him for something urgent, he may respond Just like you. That's one of God's favorite plays. I'll render unto you that which you render unto me Proverbs speaks of it this way, because when I called and you did not answer, therefore when your calamities come and you call upon me, I will not answer. Don't be surprised There is no God, they say. I called upon him, yes, but when he called for you earlier, did you respond? Was there an answer? Yeah. So you see there's a life if you think it through, there's actually a very good and reasonable set of explanations as to why God says Today, if you will hear his voice, and he continues on, harden not your heart. You know, this exhortation was given earlier. It says, therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which you've heard. Hebrews 2 has already kind of covered this, so he's repeating it again. That was a positive command. You know, we ought to give earnest heed. That's kind of a encouraging positive way of saying it. This is kind of a negative way of saying it. Harden not your heart We ought to give heed, but harden not your heart. This is the negative, the the the warning way it's it's uh it it's it's presented to us to Ka let us know that there's this is fairly serious. So let me ask a question. So what does it mean to harden your heart? Or what is a hard hearted person? Ever met a hard hearted person? Somebody tell me about a hard hearted person they've met. Freddie? They do the exact opposite of what you ask. No. Pay attention. Ignore you. Ignore they didn't even hear you. Huh? Act like they didn't hear you Maybe even acting like he didn't exist. I had a plumber like that once, probably. Scripture decides describes him as without natural affections. Okay. The things that should hurt the conscience don't Okay. What are some other anybody I'm sure Marissa's met plenty of hard hearted people at CVS. Go ahead. I was gonna say uh somebody who's stubborn, they're not uh you can't reason with them very well. Their their heart is like Scriptures have the heart of stone. So it's not it's not budgeable, y y you can't speak to it and reason with it That's a good good way to put it. Yeah. What are some other characteristics of a hard-hearted person? Have you ever somebody give an example of a hard-hearted person they've met? Sure you've met some. An atheist who will not listen. Okay. An atheist who won't listen. He just is totally sold out. He's just shut his ears completely Yeah. Yeah. And I would add to that example as well. You know, a lot of the atheists would say, give me enough reasoning and I'll believe. But it doesn't matter how much Uh how many arguments you give them. If that heart is a heart of stone, it's hardened. It won't hear. It won't believe Yeah, they've already made a foregone conclusion that I will never enter through that gate. Same Pharaoh. Okay, Pharaoh. Yep. Yep. Pharaoh hardened his heart and because he hardened his heart, God turned and said, I'm going to harden your heart. You do it to me, I'll do it to you God repays a man's ways back upon his head. Listen to this passage in Leviticus 26. I believe I put it in your in your handout. Leviticus 26, 23, God says this, and if ye will not be reformed by me. By these things, but will walk contrary unto me, then will I also walk contrary unto you And will punish you yet seven times for your sins. Yet God's way comes back mighty hard. It comes back mighty, mighty hard. Hebrews 3 continues in 8 and 9, and we look at how Israel hardened their collective hearts. Let's uh turn now to Exodus 17 in your Bible. We've got some places to turn to because we're going to look at how Israel hardened their hearts. Just what happened What is the historical event from which God moving the penmen of Hebrews to write and record this There's a couple of interesting accounts that we read here. The bulk of it's going to be in Numbers 14, and we're going to spend a lot of time there, but we want to first look at Exodus 17 and verse 7, and we read this. This is the count when they were journeying in the wilderness, verse 1, and there was no water for them to drink And we read in verse 7, this is when Moses is going to smite the rock. They're complaining that they were brought up out of Egypt to be killed. That's verse 3. And verse seven, this whole event is says he called the name of the place Masah and Meribah Because of the chiding of the children of Israel, that would be the Massah, and because they tempted the Lord, saying, Now notice this. Temptation, notice this provocation. Is the Lord among us or not? That's that's kind of a stick in the eye. Why would that be such a grievous statement to God if you can, for a moment, put yourself in the Lord's shoes and consider all that you have done for this people to get them to this rock Why would that be such a grievous statement in the ears of the Lord? He has just proved again and again and again that he is with them, that he is provided He's proved again and again and again that he is with them and he's provided. How'd they get out of Egypt? How does a nation full of slaves just say, well, you know, I think I'm tired of slavery, I think I'll go over here to the desert. Even if they wanted to escape. How are they going to get fed? Oh, pillar of fire by night. Cloudy cloud by day to shade them. The manna from heaven falling down. They were being fed. Water gushing out of the rock. Quail coming He fed them in the wilderness. He slammed Egypt with these ten commandments, with these ten plagues, excuse me. Wow. That's pretty big proof. Folks, that goes to show you that miracles don't convert hearts. The charismatic approach to the gospel was bankrupt, and Israel was a prime example of that. You can make all the miracles you want, but unless there's a real change of heart, they'll still complain. And the very first little ounce of difficulty, again, remember this is to us. Hold fast your rejoicing. Hold fast your confidence firm into the end. Why? Water's going to come over the bow. You're going to have a rock, for there's no water here. Why are we here? Is God with us or not? And it's going to be It's not going to be a short season. There will be some difficulties. And you don't want to say what they did, which is, is the Lord among us or not? 40 years is a long time. Go to Numbers 14. We're going to spend a little time here looking at this sojourn. Numbers fourteen begins with the reaction of the congregation. After the twelve spies come back from spying out the land of Canaan. They're only a few days, a few weeks at most, out of Egypt. Because frankly, it's a straight shot from Egypt right up to the Promised Land. You just kind of hug the Mediterranean coast, boom, you're there. And so they send out some spies. Now they took a different path depending on where you believe they crossed the Red Sea, but suffice to say, it doesn't take 40 years to get there. So they send out some spies Two came back with a positive report. It's a good land, full of milk and honey. Look at these clusters of grapes. They're huge. You gotta have some guys carrying this thing with a pole on their shoulder. In between them, it's so big I don't think you've got grapes that big in your yard. That's mighty big. But ten spies came back and reported they didn't focus on the big grapes, they focused on the big people. The sons of Anak were there, the Anakim, the giants in the land, and we were as grasshoppers in their eyes. Oh, they have walled cities. Oh, we can't beat them. And even though Joshua said their strength is gone from them. They don't have a defense. Our God is with us. Let us go up speedily and we'll take them. This is a man who's holding fast his confidence. But the ten spies just Shrinking. They look at the present circumstances. This is more than we can do. Ah, is the Lord God among us or not? You see how this is tying together? Because if you don't think the Lord God is with you, then you're going to look at the promised land, which has a little bit of difficulty between you and it, and say, I can't achieve it. It's not gonna happen. I can't do it. Because God's not with me. Hold fast. You see why this is so relevant. Here's an example spelled out and Numbers 13 verse 1, and all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night, crying all night long. The children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. The whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt? They said it twice. Or would God that we had died in this wilderness? Folks, the first reaction of somebody who is beginning to doubt their confidence is thoughts of suicide. It's better off than I'm dead. This is no better. I have what have they lost? See, when somebody contemplates suicide, they've lost hope. They've lost hope. And see he's warning against this. Wherefore, verse 3, has the Lord brought us into this land to fall by the sword that our wired and our children should be preyed? Were it not better for us to return to Egypt? Number two, the second response of somebody who's giving up the confidence. That are like the ten spies is I'd rather just go back into bondage. It's better just to go back to the old man and the old ways. Really? Really? Slavery? Who wants to go back to that? Even to this day, we still have people in our land screaming for reparations. even though that's been paid out several times and some people in the in uh like the uh Ethiopians were never in in American slavery. Put political commentary aside These Egyptians had sorely treated the Hebrews in slavery, killing their firstborn. They said, verse 4, let us Let us make a captain, let us return into Egypt. They want to find somebody to lead them out of their situation. They're going to get a counselor, but one that's not of God All of those elements you can read there in Numbers 14. And we skip down to verse 11 and the Lord's response, and he says, And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? How long will it be ere or before they believe me, and for all the signs which I have showed among them Folks, there's a reason why we at Mission Bible Church gather and collect our praise reports at the end of the year and distribute them for you to look at and admire. Now you may say, well, my section was mighty small. Well, maybe you forgot to thank God for when he did answer your prayers, because there have been some prayer requests that you have stopped asking for because God answered them But you failed to give them the glory. Give them the glory. Let it be recorded and be reminded of it at the end of the year. See, you were in this strait. It was difficult enough for you to come to the prayer meeting, request prayer And then lo and behold, you saw God fulfilled it. We need to be reminded of these things. Because we are as strong as a flame from a candle. Any little wind will push us in another direction. We are very weak. Don't hold up Vincent Joe as towers and pillars and bastions. We are weak vessels and servants. We need to be reminded of God's goodness. How did they provoke the Lord? From what we just read All their grumblings, loudly casting doubt to other people as to whether God was present or not, and whether he would actually help them in time of need. Um in numbers but not forget what chapter it's in. But I read it and stuff in my mind that when they the people started murmuring against those after the the uh the the the earth swallowed up these people and they came back the next day that's what I remember just the next day they come grumbling again. And he said, you know, why we are the and it says because of the people that were not Jewish. They came with the Jewish. It was the mixed multitude. Mixed multitude. That's what it was. That little rotten apple was swayed. Yeah. Because the people were stressed out. Yes. Satan used that you know a little leaven, leaven of the whole lump. Yeah. Yep, you're absolutely right. To that point and to that end, I have a question. Do you think Christians Blood-bought, Holy Ghost filled, saints of God. Do you think Christians get wearied or frustrated with how God handles things in the world today? Of course. In what ways? Well when we see the uh the evil people are prospiring. Yeah. When you see evil people prospering, yeah Everything going to get their way and uh everything goes their way and not our way. What other ways what are some other ways that Christians get frustrated with how God is allowing things to happen in your life Unbelievers happy, we're not. What about health issues? That's another. Chronic illness really causes you to wonder what's going on here, Lord. Yeah, there's a lot of ways in which Christians can look at the situations around them. We um I guess uh often we know God has the power to change circumstances But he does it. And he says it's more how good. It's a good insight. It's a good insight. Well you know God has the power to change circumstances, uh unanswered prayer. You know he has the power to change it, but and he hasn't done it just yet. So well what can prevent us then from getting a hard heart in those times What can prevent us from being hardened by those experiences? These are real-world experiences. We've seen them with Israel. I might have been one of those complaining just as much as the other guys. to remember what the things that he's already done, to praise him for who he is, to believe him when he says, I'll never leave you and I'll never forsake you In the middle of it. In the right smack dab in the middle of it. No matter how we feel is who he is. No matter how we feel. Yeah, yeah, right. Feelings come and feelings go, but feelings are deceiving. That's right. All else is vain except the word of God. That alone is worth believing. Yeah. Feelings are vain. How how uh my my my question is uh what can prevent us from getting a hard heart Well, I'm I'm more toward uh how much um well to take care of me death. And um I was Okay, I was in I thought I was in control for spring. And when I woke up and I felt that in my face. And when I put the reach the edge of my bed I was just crying and baking up towards to take the pain Because it didn't care how it affected me. You can deal with me later. But let me have this time. And I cried. And I All of a sudden it was gone. So it's a time of a great relief. And from then on I was fine. And it's going to be helpful to remember that when times get hard again. But that was a promise I made to them. And not until two years ago almost three. Yeah, I'm a and I do not talk about it. I don't say one ego. I kept the promise. I'm good with it. Look at uh 2 Corinthians 12 7. It's in your handout. I want to wrap up and try to get to 10 and 11 real quick. Consider this example from the Apostle Paul, who likewise suffered from something that he couldn't get rid of. He says in twelve seven, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of revelations. That's his understanding as to why a certain negative thing happened to him. He says, There was given to me, and he means and implies it's from God, a thorn in the flesh. People have differed on what that thorn is, but Paul said it was a thorn If you've ever had a thorn in you, you know they're a nuisance. They break off, they get buried inside, you can't pull them out, and every time you touch it, ouch, it hurts. A thorn in the flesh. The messenger of Satan debuffet me. I think that's what the thorn in the flesh was, the messenger of Satan to buffet him, lest I should be exalted above measure. Through this thing I besought the Lord thrice. Now I'm sure he prayed to God more than three times, but he focuses on a threefold prayer that it might depart from me. He knows God could remove it. And he, God, said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Why should God's grace Be sufficient for the Apostle Paul. Why is that sufficient? Because we intrinsically know that he does know best. Okay. Because his grace teaches us that God knows best? Other thoughts. That's not wrong. I like it, yeah There's no comparison between our problems and his grace. Right. Yeah, if you were to put your problems in a bag and put them on a scale and put the grace of God in another bag and set it on the scale which way you think it'll tip. It's going to tip in favor of the grace of God, isn't it? It's stupendous. It's amazing. All that God has promised us. And I think that's one way we can help prevent from falling into a hard heart. What has he promised you? Have you forgotten this? What has he begun to do in you? You know, we have the earnest, which is the down payment Earnest money isn't enough to move in, but it's enough to keep going forward with the deal. We're talking to you like you're serious now. And God's serious with us. He gave us a deposit of the Holy Spirit. And he ain't about to back out the deal. He's never backed out of the deal. And so, no matter what happens, at the end of the day, Paul like us are going to receive certain benefits. Eternal life. You're going to live forever. You're going to win by default. You understand that? They will die. So will you. But you have the resurrection. Ha ha! They don't. Their resurrection is not like yours. You have a new heaven and new earth. Ha ha! They don't. Oh, this world's going to pot. Oh well you just hang on. It sure is. It's going to get there mighty fast. God's grace has new covenant promises This plot will be will melt with forward heat. So who cares? Right, and scum and all. Now how hard hearts were handled under Moses, back to our text, and we're going to stay here in Numbers 14, but Hebrews 3 ten says they do always err in their heart. That's gets back to this mixed multitude that Mother was talking about. They have not known my ways. When he Moses wrote about Oshea, the son of Nun, he called his name Joshua because there was another spirit in him. Hmm. Who you suppose that spirit was? Well, the spirit of God was in that young boy He understood who God was. He trusted in God. There was another spirit in him. And there was another spirit in you too. And we ought to re behave the same. But God rewarded the unbelieving, the complaining, the hard-hearted, the unrepentant Jews that came out of Egypt, all of that grumbling crowd. Their reward was in fact death. And we read it in Numbers 14 and verse 20. Because Moses intercedes when God's wrath was about to wipe out the entire flock. Moses argues with him. Hold up. The Egyptians and others will say that you brought these people out and weren't able to bring them into the promised land. And so he says in verse 20, The Lord said, I've pardoned according to thy word. In other words, he agreed with Moses But as truly as I live, the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord, because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles which I did in Egypt in the wilderness, have tempted me now these ten times. This wasn't the first time. He was very patient. And have not hearkened to my voice, surely they shall not see the land which I swear unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it. Caleb is going to go in. Verse 24, my servant Caleb. Why? Because he had another spirit with him and has followed me fully. Him will I bring into the land. And so my point is this: God's mercy is forever. But his patience is not. You know, people can really wear on God's patience. I mean, he put up with them ten times And maybe you too have had an eclipse of faith and really began to kick and doubt and say, Lord, are you with us or not? I've asked that question. Shame on me. It's a stupid question to ask. And yet, lo and behold His his mercy is forever. My second application is this if you have a new heart, guard it well. Guard it well. Remind. Be reminded. You need to be reminded of what God has done for us. He didn't bring us to this point to die. The dead will not praise thee, it says in Psalm 88. 12. And so if God's pleased to save some people, why not me? And if he's pleased to have others praise him, why not me? Thoughts for consideration. I hope it's a good helpful reminder, uh, given the times that we live in and perhaps your own present circumstances. And if you have a season of rejoicing, rejoice. Remember it. Write it down. Hey, these were good years. And we were worshiping the Lord our God, and we were enjoying it greatly. Yvonne, could you close us in prayer Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the uh teaching of thy word, Lord. Uh pray, Lord, that we would uh help us to uh embrace the the trials Lord that bring unto us, uh knowing that the trying of our faith works patience. Lord uh Uh just uh pray the Lord that we would uh walk with confidence. uh in our faith in Christ Lord and uh may ever thy grace be sufficient unto us uh no matter our uh earthly circumstances. And Lord to this end, uh, we do uh pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.