With a uh topic concerning heaven's deacons. We're going through our series in the book of Hebrews, so if you have your bulletin handy, you can follow along the scripture references with me. And uh we will be looking at one verse in the book of Hebrews, chapter one, and beginning in verse fourteen. And it's really An interesting passage. I'll read it to you here so that you can get the language in front of you here. Hebrews 1. 14 says, Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? This is an interesting little passage. It's not usual that we get a lot of insight into the angelic realm in Holy Writ. And so when we do find little pieces of insight uh I find it very interesting to kind of dig a little deeper and to explore it a little further. That's what we're going to do today My prayer, uh prayed before Sunday school, my prayer was that I would not dig so deep as to lose you as to what the thrust of the import and the import of the message here, or the passage I should say, really is. So let me kind of give you a way of overview. I'm going to give a brief overview of angels. We've studied them quite a lot. We went through them in the summary of Christian doctrine and the spiritual world. But I'm going to be digging into two words in particular, the word ministering and the word minister. Those are very interesting words because they're different They're different in the Greek, and I think they give some insight into the role and the nature of angels. Then we're going to look at whom it is that they are sent to. They are sent to those who are heirs of salvation. We're going to evaluate that and then sum it up with exactly how angels in fact do minister to the elect of God. So the first is a brief overview of angels. This is very quick Again, this has been tackled before. Burkhov's summary of Christian Doctrine, the ninth chapter, covers this. Angels are pure spiritual beings. They're not material-based. They're pure spiritual beings. They do not marry. Jesus made that very clear as he refutes the Sadducees in Matthew 22. They occupy very little space You had one individual filled with them. And so you can pack quite a few into a small amount of space. They can appear in human form. They did so to lot. They um speak an intelligible language. Every time you see an angel speaking to someone, the person gun doesn't say, stop, stop, wait, where's an interpreter? I can't understand what you're saying They actually speak in the target language of the person to whom they're communicating. So that's not uh any uh anything that is uh gibberish that we can't follow Some are holy and elect angels. There are others that are indicated as being evil. There are two classes of angels. There's the cherubim. You see those at the Garden of Eden. you uh see them in uh the book of Isaiah known as seraphim. Uh that word seraph is interesting. It kind of has the sense of of of of bronze or bronze burning uh and the seraphim was able to take alive coal off the altar and touch Isaiah's lips. I believe it was Seraphim that overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. They have a rank and an order. Ephesians describes the principalities and powers in the heavenly places. We have two of them that have names that are featured in the book of Daniel. One is Gabriel, the other one is Daniel, uh excuse me, Gabriel, the other one is Michael And Michael shows up in Revelation as well. And we do find out that they're immortal. For instance, Gabriel shows up in the book of Daniel, and lo and behold, he shows up in the book of Luke to inform Mary uh of the uh infant child Jesus' name. So that's a thumbnail sketch. And I'm not going to talk in depth about any one of those I want to focus on this particular verse and try to extract some information about it. So, looking at that verse 14, the first half, I'm kind of splitting that verse in half God says, are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister? He calls them ministering spirits sent forth to minister. Those are actually two different Greek words, very different Greek words. The first word ministering is, and I'm going to pronounce this wrong, liturgicos, liturgicose, something of that nature. And it is the word that means one who functions publicly. So if you're taking notes in your handout, you see that first fill-in-the-blank, that's the first one you fill in. They have a public function uh it's uh can also be rendered if we were to try to give it one English word it'd be a beneficient. What's a beneficient? Well the beneficient is the one giving something to the beneficiary. So they are on the giving end. And and uh the um uh the the the first century when uh Greece uh was speaking Koine Greek, uh that was the language de Franca of the time. Basically a liturgicos is one who serves others or the state at their own expense. They're actually just very benevolent and they're helping and prov helping the public, doing public good. That is their nature. Uh I'm going to give three examples of this, three examples of a beneficent in the New Testament to try to walk our way through that so you get a sense of what is the liturgical. You can look for this word in your Bible search tool. This is the only place that word shows up. So when we find that type of a word there, how do we extract the meaning? Well what I did is I looked at the flip side. There's the beneficent. So what's an example of a beneficiary? Well a beneficiary is one who receives alms or receives or gives alms deeds. That's the sense of one who serves as a beneficient. So I've got three examples for you. The first is in Acts 9. Again, we're looking at what does it mean to be a beneficiar We see in Acts 9. 36, there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and alms deeds which she did. So the alms deeds that she did gives indication of her service as a beneficent You get the sense that she made these garments for others. She didn't charge them. She just simply made them and distributed them. Maybe she, I don't know, to put it in the modern vernacular, went to thrift stores and found good bargains at garage sales. And oh I think this would be good for so-and-so. But you get the sense that she's just doing what she can. She serves the people by providing clothing. So that's an example. In Acts 10, all three of our examples happen to come from the book of Acts Acts 10, we have another fellow that is named Cornelius. We read about him in Acts 10, beginning in verse 1. He was a centurion, so he had a very prominent role. Some of you have had husbands who have had very prominent roles. A centurion of the band called the Italian Band, a devout man, one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people and prayed to God always. This is his reputation. He was one who had the means and he was quite happy to share it with people. We read in verse twenty two again this r uh report of him. They said Cornelius centurion A just man and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews. Interesting. So the entire Jewish nation knew about this man. He did very good things for them, and he freely gave it to them. He was warned by God by a holy angel to send for thee. This is speaking to Peter into his house and to hear words of thee. So what's the observation here? Cornelius gave much to the Jews. He had a good report of them. He was their beneficiary. I think you're getting the sense here. The last example is in Acts sixteen. where we have this certain woman named Lydia. This is when the gospel first penetrates Europe. Paul wanted to go north into Bithynia. The Spirit suffered him not. Instead he heard the Macedonian call, come over and help us. And that would be the first foray into Europe. This is the first time the gospel penetrates Europe. And the Apostle Paul encounters a group of women by the river praying. A certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purper, of the city of Thyatira. It's interesting, Thyatira was actually straight north uh where Paul was at, he was directed to go to where she was over in Europe. City of Fightire, which worshiped God, heard us. whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul. When she was baptized and her household, she besought us, saying, If you judge me to be faithful to the Lord Come into my house and abide there. And she constrained us. In other words, this woman was just Absolutely taken up with the words that the Apostle Paul was speaking. Wouldn't you have liked to have been there to have heard what he was talking about? Well, you can read about it in Romans, you can read about it in many other places He kept repeating the message again and again as he illuminates the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lo and behold, she was struck with it This is how God saves people. He opens their heart so they can receive the Word of God, even as Jesus talked about in the parable of the sower. And she immediately wants to serve him. She says, Come abide in my house. She doesn't say come visit for dinner. Which I'm sure she had dinner in mind for that evening, but she says, abide there, stay there. You guys are untraveled. Look, I've got room. Come in. And she wasn't She was she was Lebanese about it. You must come. So she constrained them. You might have got two that know exactly what I'm talking about. She constrained them. She wanted them so much to come. She was serving as their beneficient. She freely offered to support Paul and his traveling companion. She really, really went off his way. So what's my point about all this is that uh we see certainly is angels are called these kinds of this is their role, their beneficients. They are to do whatever is required to provide service. They're ministering spirits. That is their estate Alright, then we have the next word sent forth to minister. This is now a verb form. I'm not an English teacher. I'm sure I'm getting the I know nouns Pronouns, verbs, adjectives, beyond that, I'm struggling. So if you've got some past participle, whatever, that's gonna be on me It's the word deacons as diaconia. You certainly know that. We have a church office named after that. So they are liturgicos, beneficients, one who functions publicly But they come forth and they do jaconate work. They're deacons, deeds of service. And it's interesting in scriptures you have a mix of references to what a deacon does. Principally we think of them as doing physical service Um somebody needs to repair the roof. The deacons need to go find some contractors, go figure out how to make that happen. But they also can do spiritual work as well. uh ministering the word of God. That's not their primary focus or function as as we implement it. So we find this here, the implementation of the office of deacon in Acts 13 We read there were in the church that was at Antioch, and it names a number of people, and I'm going to focus on two, Barnabas and Saul. Acts 13 verse 2, as they ministered, that's the word uh liturgicus, which is interesting. They ministered to the Lord, they were taking of their own resources, they were probably remembering the words of the Lord Jesus, freely you've received, freely give. And so they were freely sharing the word of the Lord, and they were fasting. The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I've called them. So Barnabas and Saul were particularly called out to go bring the Word of God to a different people group to continue to spread the word. And then in verse 5 it says, and they also had John to their minister. So they had somebody who was focusing on their physical needs, but they were focused on the spiritual. You uh uh for instance uh there's another place in Romans 15 Uh I don't have it in your handout because frankly I just ran out of room. Romans fifteen twenty seven, it pleased them verily, and their debtors they are, if the Gentiles had been made partakers of their spiritual things Their duty is also to minister deaconate unto them in carnal things. There's the sense. It takes work, folks, to prepare a Bible lesson, a sermon, to Get your doctrine together. The doctrine of God is like the weave of a fabric in the carpet. There are certain doctrinal topics and patterns that appear Over time throughout scriptures and it takes a labor to search the scriptures, yea, even daily, to see whether these things are so Um I've said on more than one occasion there's uh one occasion that as the adversaries of God come up and try to deceive the people of God, every heretic has his verse. Their mouths must be stopped. You have to have a way to answer that to show why their position is wrong in the context, whatever they're doing wrong. It takes work. It really is work. You can't be slothful. In fact, the scriptures depict the minister as an ox uh in Corinthians when he speaks about paying the minister, you shall not nuzzle the ox that treads out the corn. Well an ox is a big animal. He does lots of plowing. He's got a It's a lot of rope, heavy duty work, just plowing. That's what you do. You plow through the scriptures again and again. And you know, every good farmer knows you plow it once. Yeah, you may need to go over it again, and indeed you go back over it again. Oh, I missed that. Oh, there's something else. Well that takes work, it takes time. And at some point you get hungry, do you get fed? I need some clothing. That's where you have those who are going to minister to them in their carnal things. They're going to offer the paycheck. They're going to bring in the tithes of in the Levitical days it was uh the blood of bulls and uh the the the blood of bulls and goats and rams offered to the Lord, but the priests would eat the meat. With if it wasn't totally roasted. Anyway, you get the idea. We find another instance of service from Martha. I think this was good, and uh Luke 10, 40 uses that word deacon. Martha was cumbered about with much serving. She was serving physically. Now, no, that's not a justification that we can anoint and appoint women as deacons. That office of deacon is hap happens to be a very common term for service, and God often gives his servants the title of a very common title. It's not a highfalutin title. They're called servant. That's just as the official title. We call it deacon. But this is what she was doing. She was serving the Lord. Acts 6, I said Acts 13 is where the instituted deacons. I was incorrect, it's actually Acts 6. In Acts 6, uh we find their institution. Again, we're just looking at that word deacons. In those days when the number of disciples was multiplied. There arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. In other words, they weren't getting the handout, the distribution of food. Their widows, they needed some support. Then the twelve, the twelve apostles, called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It's not reason that we should leave the Word of God. Again, an indication of a role. The apostolic band, they've got to be ministering the Word of God. That's what present-day pastors do if they're faithfully carrying out their role. We shouldn't leave the Word of God and serve tables that we're served as we're deacon. In other words, we're not going to go be waiters. Wherefore, brethren, look out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the Deaconate, Ministry of the Word, uses that same word deacon there, again, to show that there is a service for it. So what can we conclude? Now that I've kind of dug the plow a little deep, let me try to pull you back up out of that. What are we talking about here? About these angels that are ministering spirits, they're beneficents, they send their they come out and they they they serve. Well, we can conclude based on this, and again I know I'm straining real hard at these two words, but we don't have a lot of insight into angels that they serve for the public good of God's kingdom. I'm not talking about of a nation, I'm talking about God's nation, God's kingdom. They serve for that public good and are very hands-on They're very hands-on. They're not neutral in this. They're the ones who are dispatched to the Lord to go do certain hands-on tasks. The iniquity of Sodom has come up before the Lord. Angels are dispatched. Deal with it. The Assyrians have surrounded the camp, have surrounded Jerusalem and Judah, and David is there. Dispatches one angel. He doesn't need a lot. They're very powerful. They're very powerful. So and if you turn back to Hebrews, look again at Hebrews 1. Now I don't have it in your handout. You may have to look at this in your Bible or just pay attention or read it for you. This contrasts with verse 13, the verse just before. But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. In other words, angels are not in a ruling mo role. Their mode is not to be rulers, their mode is to be servants. They are heaven's servants. That's why I call the title this heaven's deacons. They don't sit and rule at God's right hand Their role is to be beneficients. They're the ones that are dispatched. Now, to whom are they sent? Given that we know that that's their role, that's their job. In fact, when The Apostle John beheld one in heaven who s ever beholds the face of Jesus Christ and is adorned appropriately for heaven. So stunned John to make him think that this was the Lord himself and he bowed down to worship. He said, See that you don't do that. And so they insist, you don't worship me. No, you don't do that. You know, worship God, not me. To whom are they sent? Well, the second half. of Hebrews 1. 14 is they are sent forth to minister to them who shall be heirs of salvation. So they're sent to God's heirs. And that begs the question. Well, who is that? Who are the heirs of salvation? I think you get the hint from the word salvation. It has something to do with one's conversion. Who are God's heirs? Well, what do you think? Who are God's heirs? If someone were to come up to you and ask you, you know, I read something about inheritance in the Bible, who is that? Any ideas? Sons of God. Sons of God? Alright. I would say that's the second instance. In the first instance, who are God's heirs? They're God's elect and the children. Yep, yep. That's that's uh the second I said heirs plural. Let me re- let me rephrase it to make it easier for who's God's heir? Jesus Christ. He's that ultimate heir Now he doesn't need salvation. He secures it. But you see, if we're in him, we're joint heirs with Christ. That's how we enter into the inheritance, because we enter into him. So the heirs we read about, for instance, in Romans 8 and verse 16. Romans 8, 16, the Spirit itself. Beareth witness with our spirit. There's a testimony that occurs. That we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs. Listening to a child right here. That's an heir Is Connor going to give him everything in the house? Here's the keys to the house. Here's the keys to the brand new electric vehicle? Hardly. In time to come, in due season He'll receive these things, though he's an heir, but yet he's yet a child. If so be we suffer we're joint heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if so be we suffer with him that we may be also glorified. The apostle repeats the same thing. He says, Know ye therefore they which are of faith, that's a very interesting point he makes, of faith, not of bloodline descendancy They which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. He's showing that promise to Abraham ever was only to The elect of God, not those who are the bloodline descendants of Abraham, just because your mother and father were a Jew did not automatically bring you into the kingdom of heaven. That was there was no guarantee for that Ishmael discovered that. Esau discovered that. Countless number Jews discovered that. But they which are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Verse 29. If ye be Christ, Galatians 3, 29, if ye be Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. That's how we enter into those promises. We don't replace God's Old Testament promises. We don't ignore them. We're grafted in. We enter into those promises. That which God promised to Abram. We enter into And there is a far greater fulfillment way beyond our imagination that in fact they hold for us For instance, what is this grand promise that would that that that that we find that God magnifies in the New Testament? Well we see in Ephesians 3. 5 again, continuing in your handout It says, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirits. What is it that's revealed? You know, people have reveal parties for the gender of their child. It's not known, now we're going to make it known. What's revealed here? That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body And partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. That's the revelation that God had a purpose to also save some Gentiles in it. into his body. Titus three five. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, that anytime you see the word that, that's a purpose statement. There's a purpose to all this That being justified by his grace, here's the purpose, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Heirs. Now let that sink in. What does Jesus Christ inherit? There's a silly story that was used as an illustration. Father sent his son to college. His son is getting around. Dad, it's kind of hard to get around on campus, a big campus, and uh, you know, there's a lot of different places. I need some transportation. So his father sent him a Lexus And inside the Lexus he threw a little watch. Here's a little watch to have. So his son gets the car and he writes home and he says, Oh Dad, thank you so much for the watch. That is fantastic. This watch keeps great time It's really nice. I really appreciate that. Never even mentioned Alexis. Writes back, Sons, thing things going okay, doing great dad. You know I'm making class on time. That watch is amazing. It really functions just great. It's a light thing for God to give you thing you need. But do we really Lay hold on the fact that you're a joint heir of Christ. I I don't know how to play that up. I don't want to be irreverent, jump up and down, and get super emotional because We're not to be moved by those sorts of things, but a joint heir of Jesus Christ, to be joined with him, all that the Father gives him, that we can be reckoned as part of that You know, when you have that, what is missing, dare I say? Do we really find a lack for anything? Peter says this, 1 Peter 1, 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again to a lively hope. Boy, that's a great hope, isn't it? It's a lively hope. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance uncorruptible. No one's going to come up and complain about the inheritance. There's not going to be this big debate. There's not going to be all these lawyers trying to get a piece of it tear it away from the second cousin, third removed, and all this nonsense that happens It's undefiled. It fades not away. It's not going to be, oh, you inherited a bunch of railroad stock from Uncle Salon. It's useless, right? No, it's not going to fade away. It's reserved in heaven for you So, your hope is in the salvation of God. But angels, they're at God's disposal. They are ready and powerful to assist and help. They're sent to you. So let's talk about that. How is it Because we're talking about angels here, are sent to those who are heirs for salvation. They've got everything, right? But not yet. He has everything to come, but not yet. How are they sent forth to help? What are some ways in which angels do that? What's their role? Well we find three in scriptures. I've got some verses to support this this concept, and then we'll wrap it up here. How do the angels minister to God's elect? The first is they protect believers. That's your next fill in the bank. They protect believers. They really do The first reference we find is in Psalm 91. He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands unless thou dash thy foot against a stone. It's interesting. The devil used that. He misquoted it In Matthew 4, when he was tempting the Lord Jesus, he was driven by the devil into the wilderness. That's the very first thing the devil slung at him. He actually subtracted a little bit from that Psalm we just read, he subtracted the part that says, to keep thee in all thy ways. He wanted Christ to deviate from the way of God. So he's not going to mention that part. He shall give his angels charge over thee. Does that only apply to Christ? Well, I don't think so. And if you read through Psalm 91 and subscribe to David, it doesn't s explicitly say so, but it certainly sounds like it because in the earlier part He talks about a uh pestilence and famine. Certainly he had experienced those. But this is what David hoped in. And this is what David saw. He did see the Lord's protection over him. We see, in fact, in Psalm 34, 7, he said, the angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. He, in fact, does. God does protect his people You know, Elisha saw this. He's a prophet, and the king of Syria, not Assyria, Syria. Was trying to make some forays into Israel and conquer and to plunder. But Elisha would alert the king in advance. so that his men would disappear. And the Syrian king calls his men together and says, Well who among you is friends with the king of Israel? In other words My plans are obviously being foiled. What's happening here? And they said, well, there's a prophet in Dothan. He's telling the king all that happens. Now how they knew that, I don't know. But that's what they report. And they were given accurate report. Indeed, the prophet was tipping them off So then the king of Syria says, Go get me Elijah. So he shows up. They're after one man, he sends his whole stinking army after them. It's a massive surrounding of one individual And Elijah's there with his minister, his servant, who looks out the window and shrieks. What are we going to do? Elisha very calmly says, No, there's more that be with us than with them. And he prayed, Lord, open up the eyes of this young man. Lo and behold, what do we read in 2 Kings 6. 17? Elisha prayed and said, Lord, open thy his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha You see, it could not be in God's providential timing that Elisha should die at that point in time. It could not be. Elisha still had work to do. God still had work for him. It was not his time to depart. And so a big threat came. God dispatched a few angels. Just just go protect this man. Now they didn't do an outright overt full-on frontal assault because what ended up happening is we read later in 2 Kings that they heard a noise. They heard the sound of a rushing, and they said, Oh, the kings of Israel have have hired the the Egyptians to come against us in some other nation, I forget who. They've hired them and and the Philistines, and they're going to overrun us. And so they all fled They ran away. He didn't have to have a full-on warfare. So the angels have a lot of tools up their sleeves. They have a lot of tricks they can do. So this is the first thing. They do in fact protect believers Brother Vince, does that mean you believe in guardian angels? Well I think there is a sense in which we can say that. I don't think it means I'm going to drive down the road without my hands on the steering wheel, even in an electric vehicle, with auto drive I'm not sure I trust that just yet. It doesn't mean I'm going to tempt the Lord by doing things I know to be foolish. But I think there are situations sometimes a child of God can stray and blunder into where he's utterly oblivious to a situation And he can somehow be I don't know how they work, but they do so and they don't bring attention to themselves and they don't bring glory to themselves. But I believe they will, in God's providential manners, protect his people. Third second thing they do, protect believers. They represent believers. They represent them. Now I call them believers because the text uses a different phrase. It uses the phrase little ones. But you'll see why I call them believers. Matthew eighteen six, Jesus says this, but whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, that's a very important phrase A little one which believes in me, Jesus is not saying angels protect all infants. I think he's saying all young believers. Because a young believer is very naive. And immediately the devil who hates the seed of Christ, who hates the remnant of his seed, revelation is clear that he's attacking them, he's after them. He says, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones. I say unto you, that in heaven Their angels do always behold the face of my Father. As it were, they have an advocate. It seems that God has dispatched certain named individuals to watch over named believers. Now again, they're very powerful. You don't need one-to-one ratio, right? We've seen that with the death of the Assyrians. We've seen that with the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah. They're very powerful. They move swiftly And yet he says, their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven. In other words, they talk to God face to face. If God wants to know the situation, he talks to an angel who can move very quickly, what's going on down there? Oh, I see Now that leads to other questions. Well, how is it that God does know or does not know? And I don't want to get into that. That's a foolish question. God knows all things. And yet he's pointing out there's an angel that advocates directly with the Father. Now, if there child of God. They also have Jesus Christ as their advocate, a second venue, the primary venue really. So Jesus says that they have representation in heaven. That's kind of handy to have They don't trump the role that Jesus Christ has, please don't get me wrong. Third point is that they carry believers into the bosom of Abraham. That's the third way they minister. So from the very earliest time, when you have a new child of God, a newborn believer coming to this world, yep, get an angel watching over them. That's the steward. To the very end of their life. At the very end, we find that the angels are present carrying them. It came to pass the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. So, for Lazarus laid at the gate of the rich man in a miserable estate, just pathetic, the most horrible language you can imagine of a state of a person being in. Full of sores, dogs licking at your sores. I'm not, ugh, I can't imagine. And yet he dies, but as a believer, he was carried by angels into Abraham's bosom. He was escorted. He was given the same kind of service and treatment as it were for Elijah the very prophet, who was carried into heaven by a whirlwind with the chariots of fire and the horses. At the end of time, we read in Mark 13, 27, God says, Then shall he send his angels and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven. Angels are involved at the final gathering. When the grapes are reaped, the harvest is ripe, all are brought in. It's angels that are being that are escorting you. And frankly, that comforts me. I cannot imagine I'm out in my garden doing something. Christ has decided today's the day. He's returning. This is it And it's all she wrote. It's it's over. This is it. This is the judgment. This is the the resurrection. I mean to me that's kind of terrifying I'd really like it if I had somebody kind of there. Sorry, we got you. We got this. It's okay. Welcome home. I'm going to carry you through this. Now I'll see his face, but to me that's just a terrifying thought. I was terrified when the towers came down in in in New York. That was a scary thing. That was very scary. That's just two stupid buildings. The death of a lot of people isn't stupid, but it's a scary thing. And yet we find when Christ returns it's judgment day, it's the destruction, it's the bringing in the new heaven and the new earth. Wow, that's a powerful thing. And yet angels are involved in them. Well, I'm actually somewhat a little early and on time, which is probably a good thing. So I hope you appreciate this role of heaven's deacons, that they serve a specific purpose. And I would make one final comment, and that they're not here to be worshipped. You know, there are those that Colossians speaks about the worshiping of angels There's certain denomination, Roman Catholics, they have their patron angels up there that uh are are held up as I items of veneration. No, we don't do that. They they don't expect that. They don't want that, and God tells us not to do that. Uh they're not here to give you a uh personal insight that you know you need to uh Uh fix your refrigerators. They're not giving messages of trivial nature. They're not doing those sorts of things They're God's ministers, supporting God's kingdom, for God's purposes, and for God's people. Alright, well we'll close out there and uh like to ask Pastor Byrd if you would close us in prayer. Thank you. Well, we thank you for the time that Vince has spent in this so many details. Bobby's been weeks and weeks on just the uh The angels of the Puritan scripture and what they've done in obedience to the Lord. They are just a servant for God, just another creature created by him It just sad today that we see people carrying angelic statues in their homes and on their car dashboards and as if God couldn't do without them. And just as he could do everything without them and everything without us. Well we just thank this uh the study today the business put together. Put angels in their right perspective. And uh thank you all Lord for I caring for so much that you even had your servants around us providing for us. And through Christ's name we pray. Amen.