On September 9, 2023, I started this series in Hebrews and it concluded on April nineteenth, twenty twenty-six. That's a hundred and thirty-six weeks of study dedicated to a book. And while it's fresh on my mind, I decided that I would kind of do a top ten highlights of the book of Hebrews. I don't want to be in a rush, so I'll do five of them today to kind of go back and just touch on things that were good, and then there'll be a, Lord willing, a bonus one at the very end. So there'll be three highlights from Hebrews You know, you've heard me said probably on more than one occasion that if I were stranded on a desert island and I can only take with me one book of the Bible, uh, it would be the book of Hebrews. I like it because it is a New Testament explanation of the Old Testament in light of Jesus Christ's coming and work, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension. gives it all to you in a in a very nice cohesive form. Although it's written to Hebrews, which would be jealous Jews, you can be a Jew but not a Hebrew, but you can't be a Hebrew and not a Jew, if that makes sense. So the Hebrews were the you know the devout ones. Uh to be a Jew is today kind of like saying you're a Catholic. It doesn't mean anything. You know, you just show up twice a year uh for your high and holy day and then you can live the rest of your life as a pagan. It doesn't matter. You're still a good Catholic. Well anyway, we're here to talk about Hebrews and Top ten. But before I go, and I didn't send out a question because I couldn't think of a question all week, but I'll just pose it to you now. Um most of you have sat here through a this study on Hebrews. Are there any particular themes or passages or insights to Hebrews that you've uh remember along the way that you know just kind of stand out in your mind, something that was like, wow, I'd never really thought of that before or yeah, that's really interesting that this book hits these certain topics so much. Any any anything. I'll just open it up to the audience first. Gable's raising his hand. I guess I'll go. Uh I don't remember which study this was, but it's a one you're talking about friction and if there's um friction in a way, if there's difficulty in life, then that could be a good sign That's probably good after. Okay, yeah, yeah. The book of Hebrews. Friction. Friction. Yeah. When there's friction in your way, that can be a good thing. Yeah. Any others or if not I'll just proceed along. I'm trying not to make this a monologue as best as I can, but I fail at that too often. Yes, Ben. over April, everything, over angels, over the prophets, over the old sacrifices and specialism. You certainly see the superiority of Christ emphasized continuously throughout Hebrews. Yeah, that that is true. It very much is there. And that leads me to my first highlight. Turn in Hebrews to chapter 1, verse 1. What an opener! Hebrews? Yeah. Back in Hebrews? As I've been saying, we're doing a review of it. We're just get getting the highlights, so I'm just going to cover highlights. I'm not going to do the entire book all over again. What an opener. That opening statement is one of the most phenomenal opening passages I have seen in any book of the Bible It is a stunning opener. It is zero fluff. It establishes the topic. It focuses on Christ. It's a simple message of redemption. It connects to history. It's extremely eloquent. Uh it's one sentence. One sentence. Why it Uno I'm It's rhythmic, it's pleasing to the ears. Um We read it in English. It says, God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power when he had by himself purged their sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high, being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. Wow What an opening sentence. Now, some of you are very good letter writers. Mrs. Ross in particular is one. And uh Uh she uh can certainly uh turn a phrase and be very precise and be very uh elegant in her writings, uh and and uh but but she's You know, she does have some high vents, some introductory things to it before she kind of gets into it and very polite. This just gets right into it. You know, if you have a letter like that come to you that just gets right into it, typically it's a notice from the government. You know, you're behind on your taxes. There's no fluff. It's just You know, it's poetic. It's incredibly poetic. Here it is in the Greek. Let me just read it to you. And see if you can pick up on the rhythmic nature to it. There's three rhythmic natures. I I thought there were two. There's actually three Thaos, that's God. Thaos, polymeros, polytropos. You hear the os, os, os ending? There's that rhythmic cadence. La Leo Palai Now notice the la la la leo two els palai, the alalol iteration, uh reiteration, palai pater profetis The three P's spoke spoke in time past unto the fathers by the prophets. That's very rhythmic. You know, there are some Politicians who are very elegant in their speech. Reagan was one that comes to mind. There have been others that were very intelligent people that knew how to concisely communicate and yet uh give it in a manner that could be received by a broad audience. Now, don't think about comparing with modern-day politicians. We don't seem to have those. They seem to be in a race for the bottom. But not so here. You know, and what's impressive about this statement is that it's being written to the Hebrews. Now, a good Hebrew student would be very familiar with The Old Testament and the teachings. Do you know how well this fits with Genesis 1, the opening part of Genesis? In the beginning, God Created the heavens and the earth. And you've got this in the beginning, God, and starts off. Here you've got God who at sundry times, diverse manner, spake in time past. You know, it it really fits nicely with Genesis 1. It begins with God speaking, right? It says God who at sundry times diverse manners spake in time past So it talks with God speaking. That's what Genesis 1 did. In the beginning, God, you know, created and it talks about him speaking. Second, you've got You've got spoken history, and then you've got Jesus' entire ministry in verse 3. Look at that. This is his entire ministry. He's the brightness of his glory, the expressed image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power. So that's kind of his creative credentials, who he is as creator. But here's his history. He had by himself purged their sins. Well, that takes you all the way up to his perfect life and the cross Sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on High. Well you can't sit down if you're still dead. So implied is the resurrection and the ascension. That's his whole ministry in that phrase. His entire ministry is summarized. The key points right there. What an opener. And then you've got Jesus' excellence there. He's the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. And then verse 4, how he's uh oh verse 4 is his excellence, being made so much better than the angels. as he, by inheritance, has obtained uh a more excellent name than they. What what an incredible opener. That that verse is worthy of your memorization. Uh it is truly an astounding verse. So that is My first observation, the highlight that stands out in my mind as I look at the book of Hebrews. I can't think of any other book of the Bible that starts off that strong. Not even Solomon in the book of Proverbs, which is an exhortation, you know, the the words of Solomon, you know, uh to his son and so forth. You have this introductory part and indeed there's a lot of meat, but it doesn't just jump right into it. It's uh very unusual. I I believe that all good literature Particularly English literature is patterned after scripture in the King Games. It was the best of times, it was the worst of times My name is Ahab. And you think about what are held forth in American literature as the great works. And they compare them to this. Yeah. Coming from a literature major. So absolutely. Yeah. When you look at that, certainly the uh English had reached the peak and the the zenith of its uh um linguistic qualities uh at the time the King James Bible was translated. People say, oh well it's so old. These and thou well these and thou's were obsolete by the time the King James was written. They brought it back on purpose because it is a distinction between the singular and the plural. The, thou, is all singular, uh, and uh you is plural In our day we've compressed the U as to be sing if I say hey you, I might have a bunch of eyes looking at me, but I may be talking to one individual. Uh and so that's uh just uh but yes, English is truly was at its peak and you'll find excellent readings uh throughout scripture and certainly Hebrews one and the first four verses, the first sentence is just to me an a astounding opener. The second big point that really stood out in my mind that is very unique about the book of Hebrews is the role of angels. The role of angels. I can't think of any other book that speaks so much about angels. You know, we learn a lot by way of comparison, don't we? You might remember some of your grade school kind of assignments, you know, compare and contrast, blah, blah, blah. That's a teacher's favorite words. Compare and contrast. And students like me at that age would look at it and go, what? What does that mean? I don't know. But we learn a lot by way of comparison. We have angels, humans, and Jesus all being compared and contrasted. in this passage. And the information is very interesting that's described in that. For instance, look at Hebrews 1. 5, the very next verse. Unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my son? So we learn all right off the bat that it refutes the idea that men intermingled with angels to create a superior race back in Genesis 6. 2. Where Genesis six two, in case you forgot what that says, it says that uh in a certain period of time the sons of God saw the daughters of man, that they were fair, and took unto them wives and bare them children, they became mighty men, men of renown and Things began to go downhill from there. And some have speculated, well, sons of God, well that must be angels. Angels and humans. No, no, no, no, no, no. No. Hebrews one five refutes that. He says, At at any time, find me a place, at any time in the Old Testament Where he referred to a son of God as an angel. He says it's not there. That's the whole thrust of this argument. So you can just rule out right off the bat this idea that Genesis 6. 2 is referring to angels and humans intermingling. Just can't happen. Not possible. It is a reference to uh uh to believers and Genesis 6. 2, who were unequally yoked. They went to the daughters of men, daughters of the men of this world, and that's what you find in that. Account. But we're not talking about Genesis. Hebrews 1, 13 through 14 also denies that Jesus is merely an angel. And the early church wrestled with exactly who is Jesus Christ when he came. Uh you know, it's evident that he did all these miracles. I mean, you know, people would come in a plane and they were Sick, impotent, he just and the scripture records just a few simple words, and he healed them all. You know, no indication of faith on the part of these individuals. They showed up. Jesus healed them Uh and so uh you know the church was wrestling. Well he's obviously a notable individual. Wow, he must have been and they would, you know, so we can't be God because you can't see God. And so the church for three hundred years wrestled with this But this passage makes it pretty clear that Jesus is not merely an angel. He took on him the form of a human being, the nature of Abraham. Angels don't have blood that can atone for man. By blood, by man's blood, can man's sins be paid for. Animal blood can't take away man's sins either And so we we also learn that angels worship God. That's one of the big things they do. They they are around there to worship God, to serve Him, to glorify Him. We we know from Revelation they're constantly singing. It says they're spirits. Their uh spirit isn't, by definition, an immaterial being. Uh they're they're very real. But they're sent by God to minister to his elect. And so we know from Peter that they kind of look into these things concerning salvation. They peer into it, trying to understand what it is. No book of the Bible really gives a very good explanation by way of comparison and contrast between angels and men and Christ. So it's a very good, good explanation. It gives a lot of good anchor, uh anchoring verses to help you. This gets me to my next big highlight from the book of Hebrews. Now, this one relates to kind of Bible study, all right, and how we come to truth. This may be a little nuanced, but I I think I think it's not going to sail over your head. But what you find in the book of Hebrews in several places is a defense of truth by way of An argument from silence. An argument from silence. Now what do I mean by that? Well, we just read of one of them in Hebrews 1. 5, to which of the angels said he at any time, thou art my son. He's pointing out that God never said an angel was the Son of God. An angel would be seated on the right hand. And so he says, because God never said that, therefore it cannot be that Jesus is an angel. That's an argument from silence. Now, in our day, uh the common pushback because of the nonsensical theory of evolution is well maybe You know, just because so-and-so didn't say it, well, maybe, maybe this, maybe that, maybe they forgot. Well, in God's book, because these are divinely inspired words And our Creator is obviously omniscient and omnipotent and omnipresent, but I'm focusing on the omnipotent. He knows everything. And because this book is there to feed, guide, and direct the entirety of the human race, either unto salvation or damnation, yes, there's people who read this book never become saved, and it becomes a greater witness against them. Therefore, when God does not mention something, you may safely rest assured that Do you if he didn't say it, it it it's not something I gonna if it's absent from the book, it should be absent from my mind. You know how much grief this would have spared Eve had she had considered this Because the devil put forth certain things that God never spoke about. He asserted that, well, you know, in the day you eat thereof you'll you'll be like God and you'll be wise. Well God never said that. God never said that. So she could have rejected it right away. You know what? God never said that. Therefore I reject it because that is patently false Hebrews does that not only for the question of angels being a son of God, it uh also is implied elsewhere, for instance, in chapter uh two and verse five, unto angels he has not put in subjection the world to come. You don't read anywhere that angels are in charge of the uh the the the next dispensation if you will when there's the consummation of the universe the believers are exonerated they're brought into their celestial home you don't read of angels being in charge there And so he says, nope, they're not put in subjection in the world to come. They're all subjected unto Christ. You read in chapter 5, verse 5, Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest. You never read any of the gospel accounts of Christ saying, you know, when he was tried, for instance, before the high priest. He said, hereafter you'll see the Son of Man standing on the right hand of glory. He never said, and I will be promoted to the a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. He never asserted that to himself. He didn't do that. And so that's an argument for silence And there's another interesting one in 7. 14. It says, Our Lord sprang out of Judah, of which tribe Moses fake nothing concerning the priesthood. It says, wow, Jesus came from Judah, and yet he is a priest after the order of Melchizedek, but Moses never talked about Judah's tribe. You see the argument from silence. Hebrews uses that a lot And I find that to be interesting. I don't know any other I don't know that the Apostle Paul does that. I don't know if he argues from silence. I haven't exhaustively searched, but none stand out in my mind You know, it's safe and right to not read between the lines if God did not address a topic. You can't say, well, maybe. You know, one of the famous maybes is one that I'd entertained in my head, very, very, very young Christian. I might even not have been a Christian at the time, was uh, you know Well what happened before Genesis 1? You know, was there like this big cosmic realm and uh a bunch of angels fighting and then Uh one of them escaped and then you know something happened and then and then God kind of started over. Is is that what happened? You know what what I used to entertain these crazy ideas, you know, and there's that's actually a thing that does go around And you can reject that right away because it says in the beginning. God created. Well, one of the things God created in the beginning was time. So there was no before That existed in Genesis 1-1. You can't speak of a before because there was not time before that. So You can read, you do not want to read between the lines and try to come up with your own ideas if God has not explicitly addressed it or explicitly rejected it. So I find that to be impressive Fourth thing that stands out that made a big impression on me as I went through Hebrews is this book is chock full of stern warnings. stern warnings, some of the toughest passages in all of holy writ that really rattle a lot of believers to their core are found in the book of Hebrews. It begins with God speaking in the opening passage, but then it goes on again and again and again and again against warnings of failing to listen. You know, God spoke and that has a ramification for you. It's not like, oh yeah, some some politician spoke because he's running for office in Ohio. I live in Maryland. Who cares? Who cares? God spoke over there in Palestine. Who cares? Oh no, it matters. It matters. You better believe it matters and you better listen because it's God, your creator. He's the one who upholds all things by the word of his power. He is the one that's superior to angels. He's the one that made this universe. He has claims on you. You better listen. And so there's a lot of warnings against failing to listen Hebrews chapter 2, the first three verses. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. That we have got to listen to this. More earnest heed. And it goes on to underscore what he means by more earnest. You remember one of the accusations they said about Christ? Well, um, we know God spoke to Moses. But as for this fellow, meaning Jesus, we know not whence he's from. Well, Hebrews says, if the word spoken by angels were steadfast, and every transgression of disobedience received a just recompense of reward, how shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at first began to be spoken by the Lord, confirmed in us by them that heard him. He says, Listen If those who heard the commandment of God through Moses and all of the all the thunderings and the lightnings and all that attended Mount Sinai If they didn't have a drop of mercy, if they got too close to the mountain, they'd be stoned and thrust through. You know when um Levi's oldest two sons decided to offer strange fire in the temple, the very induction of how to offer incense to the Lord. They decided, now we'll come up with our own formula. And God killed them on the spot. Wow, that's pretty harsh. And he told Levi, don't you cry. Don't you cry for those two boys. Don't you shed one tear for them. God was insistent about that, saying, I am stead serious about this. Well, it's just a formula for incense. God's dead serious about that. Don't kid yourself. He says, if if If every transgression, every disobedience received a just recompense of reward. You remember the man picking up sticks in the Sabbath. They didn't know what to do with it. What do we do? Here's the guy picking up sticks. What do we do Well, I don't know. What should we do? They brought him in ward, they went to the tabernacle and they asked the priest to beseech the Lord. He says, Yeah, you you you gotta stone this guy. You gotta kill him, pure and simple. Picking up sticks. And that rattles me sometimes. I'm almost reluctant to pick up sticks underneath my trees on the Lord's on the Lord's day. It makes you think. It makes you think. It says we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things we heard. You need to take what Jesus and the apostles said, because they were his ministers afterwards to carry out laying down the New Testament foundation. We ought to give them more earnest heed. There's a strict warning. It says, today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. He repeats that twice. Today, not later. Today. That's what earnest heed means You know, your child is is playing around the driveway and their tricycle gets out of control and starts to keep going to the road. Mom cries out, stop, come back, get off. Well The indication is, you know, now would be good. Now is required because there's danger ahead. You need to immediately stop what you're doing. No, but it's inconvenience. I'm having such a good time right now No. You read again in chapter four of verse one, let us therefore fear less being uh uh of uh lest a promise being left uh of us, of entering into his rest, lest any of you should seem to come short of it. Hebrews 12, 25 is very specific. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. So there's a severe warning against failing to hear. And that's not the only category of stern warnings. You've got a warning against departing from the faith. A warning against departure from the faith. It's in Hebrews 6. It's impossible for those who were once enlightened, tasted the heavenly gift, and so on, to renew them again unto repentance. That has worried a lot of people. So wow, if I'm a backslider, does that mean I I I can never be saved again? I mean it worries people, it rattles them. Now, the teaching of the passage is clear that if somebody is a true child of God, they truly do become saved. And in fact, if somehow a true child of God in God's hands, held by him, an elect individual, if that person were somehow to fall away God's going to have to repeat all over again everything he did. That's what that passage is teaching. It's impossible. You have to crucify the Son of God afresh. So what he's describing is an impossibility, but it's also a sharp and harsh warning. You ought to ask yourself. You have to ask yourself if you You fall into willful sin. I just want out of this marriage so bad. I just, I'm going to drum up false charges against my husband. I like the guy across the street. I'm going to marry him. That's willful sound. You're pushing. You're pushing. You're just trying to get away. I I just I I I I I really name it. There's all kinds of of of willful sin that people come up with where they know this is what God's declaration is, and they just run roughshod over it anyway. I remember as a kid, uh I used to like commit petty theft. You know, coming across nickels and quarters was a rare thing And uh if I had one, I'd go get some bubblegum. So I'd be in the store and I just happened to just start an exercise program in the store right next to the candy rope Some willful sin. Just try to find some way to to steal something. A little thief. Just a little thief. There's a stern warning against these things. Matthew, uh Matthew, Hebrews 10. 26 says, if we sin willfully after we receive the knowledge of the truth. And it talks about the damages and the danger that can occur there. Now the truth being spoken of is the truth that's in Jesus, and the warning is to the Hebrews, meaning you I'm telling you about Jesus, you can't turn back to Judaism. You don't want to turn away from that. But it's true for us Gentiles as well. If you've received the truth of Christ, you know about him, his life, death, burial, resurrection, that Colossians says um uh Uh what is that language? I used to have it memorized. I'm dealing with a light grade head cold, and colds always make me loopy. If ye then been risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affections On things above, not on the earth, for you're dead and your life is hid with Christ and God. You know that's the direction for the child of God. That's the the indication for his life. And yet If you say, yeah, I know that's well God wants me to live, but I I I kind of still like my rock music. I kind of still like my fill-in-the-blank worldly ways. I I still like the I still like going to bars for brief seasons. Yeah I'll go to a bar but I'll just have a you know, non alcoholic beverage. Yeah, that's bankrupt. That don't work. That doesn't work There's no benefit, no profit there. Ain't nobody in there interested in hand receiving a track or talking about the gospel. That's kind of not why they're there. Not your mission field. Curious little side note on that. We were at a um day in the word Bible conference back when a certain radio station had those and uh uh out in PG County. I forget there was a nice venue there where they had a restaurant. And the restaurant had a little bar to the side of this venue. And so we were handing out Some religious literature there at the venue. We gave some to Gabriel. He's a little kid, I don't know, maybe five years old. He wanders straight in the bar and gives everybody in the bar track. I was proud of him. There is a warning against a return to Mosaic Judaism, Hebrews twelve, if they escape not, who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away From him that speaketh from heaven. Stern, stern warnings throughout the book of Hebrews, not found as intently elsewhere. To be sure, the Apostle Paul says uh Uh you know no murderer has eternal life. I think John said no murderer has eternal life. Uh Paul indeed spoke about uh know you not the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God, be not deceived, neither adulterers uh idolaters, effeminate, and so forth shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But such were some of ye, meaning that was your old lifestyle. Don't even think about going back to it. But there are stern, sharp warnings in Hebrews about this. Now fifth point today, and I'll wrap it up here. Would not want to go twice the speed of currently going at the track cover 11. The preeminence of Psalm 110 The Book of Hebrews quotes many times from Psalm 110. It's a very short Psalm. In fact, if you want, turn to it, you know, you might look at it. It's kind of short In your reading, you might kind of just look at it and go, oh, okay, short Psalm, I'll just get through this pretty quick in my daily reading. Psalm 110 only has seven verses in it. But the book of Hebrews quotes from Psalm 110 six times. Six times. And of those six times. It quotes twice from the very first verse. The Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Psalm 110 verse 1. You know, Jesus actually even referenced this verse in Matthew 22 when he uh had summarily silenced the lawyers, the scribes and the Pharisees. The Sadducees came to him with a question about the resurrection. The lawyers were asking about the greatest commandment and uh Uh uh and so on. By what authority do you do these things? And so he silenced them and then he stopped and he turned to them and says, Um, when the Christ comes, whose son is he? And they said, Well, he's the son of David. And then Jesus himself quotes Psalm 110, verse 1 Why then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand till I make the enemies thy footstool If David then calleth him Lord, how can he also be his son? And so he stumped him with that. And it took me a while to understand the logic of what Jesus was saying. But there, uh the Lord, a reference to the coming Christ Messiah, says to his Lord, meaning David's God and Savior. How is it that he can call him Lord? Because he is both David's Lord and David's son. Christ is the root and the offspring of David. He's the one that caused David to come into existence, and it's through David's lineage that the Messiah came. And so he stumps them with that question. And Hebrews makes much about that verse as well, but not in the same vein that Jesus did, because he's talking about sitting on the right hand of God forevermore. So Hebrews 1. 3 and Hebrews 1. 13 twice mention Psalm 110, verse 1. Then if you look down at verse 4, The Lord hath sworn and will not repent. Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And of course we know that this book covers Melchizedek quite a lot. It cites it four times. Hebrews 5. 6 quotes this. Hebrews 6. 4 quotes it. Hebrews 6 18 to 20 quotes it in Hebrews chapter 7 verse 1 quotes it. Multiple times of leaning on the same passage keeps going back because the scripture says this And it goes back, and because the scripture says this, hits the same verse again, four times, bang, bang, bang, it really shows the load-bearing nature of each and every passage of scripture But why Psalm 110? Why make that such a drumbeat? Well it turns out that According to some Bible commentators, the Jews held Psalm 110 as messianic. They knew and understood that Psalm 110 was a messianic psalm, that it was definitely speaking of the Lord God Himself, and so therefore God through the penment of the Hebrews is going to unpack that. Of course he would unpack Psalm 110. Of course he is the Messiah. Of course he is the one who fulfills those things. So it really shows the messiahship of Christ. It really connects him to the Psalm and it upholds him and him alone as the Christ. I can't think of any other author of holy writ, human agent, that leans so heavily on one passage of Scripture. Isaiah is quoted quite a lot throughout the New Testament, so is the book of Genesis. You find, of course, Jeremiah and Ezekiel, the other prophets are. You have some occasional obscure references to uh for Zay for instance ho um Hosea, I've called my son out of Egypt, and Matthew and the Christ is called out of Egypt. Well I hope you've enjoyed that. Um I I'm not trying to spend too much time in the particular verses of Hebrews, but uh These are just things that really stand out in my mind as preeminent Hebrews. Come next week and we'll look at the next five. And cover those as well. And I'll give you an opportunity to reflect on it as well. Maybe you can come back and tell me some things that really struck you going through the uh uh the book of Hebrews. All right, well we'll close with that uh summary overview and next week we'll pick it up. Again at the same spot. Uh brother Rick, could I ask you to close us in prayer? Yeah. Thank you. Thankful that we follow the true gospel. Thankful that we follow a Lord that provides salvation that cannot come. From any means other than him. As we go through this Hebrew, we pray that we take heed to the warnings here. To the stern condemnation of our staying with the faithfulness. And we pray that these words, they truly do fall into the good soil of our hearts, Lord. Yes, please. That we may reflect on it throughout the week. That everything that we do, we may think to ourselves, how does this glorify our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Mm-hmm. And Jesus thing before these things um