So um thanks for those joining online. Uh we're covering the highlights of the book of Hebrews. I did the previous five already. We're going to cover the last five today. And this is a great way to perhaps consider Whether you want to hear the whole study of the book of Hebrews, hit the highlights first, and trust me you'll want to hit the whole study. You know, I spent a good while, 136 weeks, I think, is what I recounted of study through the book of Hebrews, and you've heard me say on more than one occasion, if I were stranded on a desert island and I could only have one book of the Bible with me It would be these 24 columns we have of the book of Hebrews. Very short, packed exposition of Old Testament with Holy Spirit insight. You can't get better than that. uh just dynamite dynamite stuff. Well, we looked uh last uh week at a number, but I'll launch right into this week. The next highlight has to do with uh a matter our brother touched upon briefly uh at uh prayer challenge this past week. The Sabbath, the study of the Sabbath. The whole topic of Sabbath rest is addressed in two chapters, two whole chapters in Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 3 and Hebrews chapter 4. It's devoted to that. And it kind of slips in on you. It uh comes in at an angle you're not expecting and then you hit this profound Conclusion, it's a brilliant development of this doctrine of spiritual rest, which is what the Sabbath always pointed to. He makes uh allusion back to Genesis 1 and God uh wrested from all his works. It makes a connection that um this phrase, if they shall enter into my rest, referring to the Jews in the wilderness who wandered about for forty years, and God said, Oh no, I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest and then another place if they shall enter into my rest. And the and the penman consistently does this. He takes a obscure passage and just just draws hard on it, just leans hard, extracts much. If you say, if they shall enter into my rest, there's an implication And the implication is there is a rest that remains for the people of God. The dynamite conclusion that comes, though, is not just from that extraction, as important as it is, and it's vital to the point. But the one that blew my socks off, and I can still remember the desk I was sitting at years ago when I first discovered this teaching in Hebrews 3 and 4, is that You do not rest by cessation of activity. That's not how you rest. You enter into rest by faith. And that's a profound point, because he says, you see, they could not enter in because of unbelief. They didn't enter into rest, and the implication is Sabbath rest. They didn't enter into that because of unbelief. And so we enter into rest by faith. That's a huge point. That is an absolutely huge point. Because this puts to silence those who are trying to enforce a strict Sabbatarian view. Unless you're worshiping God on Saturday, you're you're just you're doing wrong. And no, they haven't read the book of Hebrews, especially the third and fourth chapter. They haven't studied it. Maybe they've read it and they've shot over, but they haven't studied it because it makes it clear you enter into rest by faith. The Apostle Paul teaches this same teaching but from a different angle. He says that the Sabbath was a shadow and Christ is the substance It refers to resting in him. And that's a big phrase, in him. In fact, it's implicit in a lot of the arguments in Hebrews about this business of being in him. So what is pointed out is that the Sabbath, like all ceremonial observations, was a sign. In fact, if you go look at the word Sabbath in the Old Testament You'll see the word sign in the same sentence consistently throughout the Old Testament. It is consistently labeled a sign. That would be like me holding up the invitation to my daughter's wedding and say, Yep, see here's here's my uh son and daughter. This is their marriage. No, it's a picture of their marriage. It's not the marriage, it's an invitation to it, but it's not the real thing. It's uh a picture. And the date on the bottom it says when you go. Yeah I ignore that now. But it's an invitation. Oh but it's already been done. And that's the whole point of the New Testament. Christ has come, He's fulfilled it, and those old signs and shadows are fulfilled. He sat down, he came, he atoned, he sat down at the right hand of God. God's work of redemption is finished. It's all done, and therefore we rest in Him. I have kept the Sabbath. I have kept it perfectly In him. And I do that by faith. That's what is taught in Hebrews 3 and 4. Marvelous teaching, and uh it really is a grand point. The next thing occurs when we look at a phrase that pops up in the third and fourth chapter. Which says uh like for instance 414, seeing then we have a great high priest that has passed in the heavens. Chapter 5, verse 10, uh called the s of God a high priest uh chapter six verse twenty. The forerunner for us has entered even Jesus made a high priest. This theme of a high priest is the next big point is that Jesus is and a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Another interesting point that is unique to the book of Hebrews, the Apostle Paul never develops fully this concept of a high priest. and associating that to Christ. That's okay. Hebrews does. The penman, as it were, is pulling a rabbit out of the hat by way of a reference to a very obscure character in Genesis chapter 14. It's like one or two sentences. It was the setting is the end of the First World War. You realize you can read about the First World War in Genesis 14 when five kings came against four. And it really was insofar as the global population was concerned, a world war. It was all the way from Levant in Egypt and that area of k of kings all the way over to uh Iraq and the uh even uh uh uh part of the um the uh Arabian peninsula, those two coming against each other in this massive epic battle. And The big hero in it was Abraham, who, with three hundred and eighteen servants, I guess you could say, using special ops forces, operating at night, dividing it up and being very tactical about it uh and strategic at the same time, uh whooped up on him because his brother Lot was captured in this whole deal. Well on his way from the return of the slaughter of the kings, a fellow named Melchizedek appears and greets them. He was called the king of righteousness and the king of peace by interpretation. Uh Melchi means king, and Zedek is the Hebrew word for righteousness. He was the king of peace, the king of righteousness. Um uh and he was the uh uh chief priest of the most high God. He was over a city called Salem, uh probably an early instance of Jerusalem. Lo and behold, Abraham then turns and pays Tithes to Melchizedek. He gives them 10%. And you would read on in the story and go, oh well that's interesting. But that was nice. He gave him a tip, you know. Oh no, this wasn't a tip. This was a significant act of holy writ. Anytime you find something captured in the Bible, it's significant. It's not some incidental piece of information It's actually very significant. Well, what the pendant here in Hebrews pulls out is that because Abraham paid his tithes to Melchizedek, and he goes on to point out that Melchizedek is has no father, no mother, no genealogy. He's n endless days, as it were. He's he appears to be one who, uh, as the account of scriptures would have it, would be someone who lives forever And lo and behold, is an eternal priesthood. The penman makes it clear, we're dealing with the theophany of Jesus Christ Himself. We're dealing with an appearance, a very early Old Testament appearance of Christ. And lo and behold, Abraham pays in tithes. Well, Hebrews goes on to say, and guess who else paid tithes to? Well, someone else who was present. Who else do you think was present at that time? It turns out the person who was present was Levi. You see, Levi? Wait, Abraham had to have Isaac, had to have Jacob, had to have the patriarchs before he got to Levi. He says, oh yes. Levi was in the loins of Abraham, and so Levi paid tithes also. He makes that argument. Well, that's interesting because that reveals some profound assumption and insight into the propagation of human souls through men. It's a very interesting idea, and that's why Scripture seems to warrant the the lineage and the genealogy and the tracking of men rather than of women Now, before you say, well, that's that's patriarchal misogynist in the Old Testament. We're more modern these days. Well, except biology is going to work against you. Turns out that men uh have in their Y chromosome, and I'm not a biologist, I'm getting my information uh from Dr. Nathaniel Jeanson. He is a Harvard-trained uh uh genetic biologist uh with his PhD from a reputable institution who is a Christian and he works for a number of organizations, one of which I believe is uh Institute of Creation Research and I think he's also uh presented some findings on answers in genesis. He's done a lot of interesting study concerning genealogies. By looking at men's Y chromosomes, it turns out that if you get like a DNA test 23 and me that they're they're they're out of business now, but it's one that everybody recognizes. It's gonna go back as far as your grandparents know about it. It doesn't go back very far. But the Y chromosome, because the way it captures certain errors and other things, you can actually trace that back quite away. In fact, he has done that to show that the entire human race can be traced to four males. I wonder who those four might be. Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, actually the three, and then to Noah. It can be traced back to those individuals. And he does so because baked into every man, not women, it doesn't track through women, but it does track through men. That DNA is traceable. And if you're interested, send me an inquiry. I'll send you the link to Dr. Nathaniel Jeanson's interesting little presentation he put together on that. It's fascinating So yes, it turns out that uh we do in fact have a record of the propagation of souls of men baked in our body, and here the penman from the Hebrews is, oh yes Yeah, Levi was present, he paid tithes, and so the lesser is blessing the greater. And therefore there's a different order of priesthood Christ is after that priestly order. He's not after the tribe of Judah, but rather he's an eternal priest after the order of Melchizedek. Now what does that do for us? Well, that silences the idea of those who believe that it's in God's plan to restart the Levitical priesthood in Jerusalem. Because there's no benefit to that. There's no purpose in that. There's no point in that. It's been superseded. Anybody want to go back to Windows 3? You want to go back to some old You want to go back how about TRS 80? An old Radio Shack TRS-80 where you put your cassette tape in and boot from that. Anybody want to go back to that? How about the tin can and the string? That would be a regression, a horrible backward step. In fact, the examples I'm giving would be m would be minor compared to falling back to the Levitical priesthood. Why would you want to have the blood of bulls and goats all over again, which could never take away sin? You have a far better high priest He's always awake. He's always available. He's always on the job. He always hears you. And he sits at the right hand of the Father. He has immediate access. He's always acceptable Why would you ever want to return to a failed priesthood? And so that's where we go with Melchizedek. Well, that was the uh uh the uh The seventh uh point, I get to my eighth point. Something else that really struck me as I've gone through the book of Hebrews. It is a book that is written by someone who's extremely eloquent, and they have a fantastic way of jamming succinct summaries of Bible doctrine in one verse. There's at least ten I can find, and I'm not gonna spend too much time in it, but you find many places where you've got a lot of succinct summaries of Bible doctrine that are jammed in one verse. The opening passage I mentioned that we looked at last week was a marvelous one considering considering Why you have to listen to Jesus. If you ever encounter somebody and says, well, it's Jesus' character, why should I listen to him? Quote Hebrews 1, 1 and 2. God who at sundry times and diverse manners spake in time past and to the fathers by the prophets hath in these last days spoken to us by his Son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds who being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power, has sat down by himself, purged her sins, and sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high, being made so much better Then the angel says he by inheritance has obtained a more excellent name than they. Well that's a pretty full answer. That would even fit within a TikTok video. That's a powerful, loaded answer. There's others like this throughout Scripture. The power of the Word of God. You know this one, for the Word of God is quick, meaning living and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword. uh piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of joint and marrows, and as a discerner, it can discern. the thoughts and intents of the heart. What a true statement. Have you ever been reading the Bible and you come across something and you dare venture to ask the question, oh Is God accusing me of something? And there's a little poke in the heart that says, why yes Why yes, you happen to be guilty of that That's the piercing of the sword of God. That is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. I don't get that feeling when I read the newspaper. I mean I I get incensed against somebody else as I'm reading about their foolishness so I can sit in the seat of the judge. Oh, there's no accusation coming to me. The Bible doesn't let you sit in that seat. You're in the seat of the condemned with the spotlight on you. And so that's a powerful verse. The basic doctrines of Jesus Christ, the most basic, fundamental, foundational doctrines. If you were to ask somebody, what give me on on something I can count with both hands and have fingers left over. Tell me the basic doctrines of Jesus Christ. Anybody? The basics. What are the basics Yeah, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Yeah, I'll go with that. Jesus says that's one of the two tables of the of the law. Well, lo and behold, we get that. We get an answer for that. It's in Hebrews 6, the first two verses. It says, therefore, leaving the principles, the basics, the very starting points of the doctrine of Christ Let us go on unto perfection, to maturity. Let's get past this. We stand on that. We've established it. Great. Foundations laid. Let's move on. Here they are. Not laying again the foundation. It repeats. These are foundational things. Repentance from dead works. Faith towards God. Doctrine of baptism, plural, laying on at hands, resurrection of the dead, eternal judgment. He said those are basics Those are basics. If your doctrine isn't sound in any of those things, you gotta go back to school. I like baptism's plural, I think that's interesting, because there's a lot of ceremonial washings and those concepts are throughout the Bible. Uh the laying on of hands, that's probably the one that confuses you, you say laying on of hands. Uh we're talking about faith healing? No, no, no, no, no Laying off of hands has to do with imputation. Imputation. So when the priest would receive one of the particular offerings, which was the offering of the scapegoats There would be two goats brought. One would be killed, his blood would be shed, and the other was, and we even bring it into our English vernacular, the scapegoat. The priest would put his hand on the head of the goat confessing and imputing to him all the sins of the people of Israel, and then that goat will be put into the hand of a fit man and taken away into the wilderness, meaning he's just going to be Abandon. Sent away. He's gonna die in the wilderness. That was the scapegoat. How did that happen? Well The priest laid his hands upon him. That's the imputation. That's the fundamental teaching of Scripture. Because if you don't understand imputation, you're not going to understand anything that Christ's word has done. My sins were imputed to him. His righteousness is imputed to me. My death to him, his life to me. That's a fundamental, that's a principle. That's a very basic teaching of Scripture. It ought to be taught. It ought to be memorized, then Hebrews 6 is a good one. The contrast between law and grace, for the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did. What a great statement. What a fantastic. But it's a profound statement. The law made nothing, zero, not a nil zip squat. Perfect. Nothing was perfected by it. It was the schoolmaster to bring you to Christ. You had to have a better hope, and that's who Christ is. The coming judgment in Hebrews 9. As it is appointed unto man wants to die, and after this the judgment So also Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him shall he appear a second time without sin unto salvation. He's coming. He's coming again a second time. Without sin, meaning no sin bearing, no second chance, that's it, unto salvation, to rescue, the final exoneration of his people, bringing him into glory. Beautiful statement. What about uh people say, well, I I don't like going to church because it's full of hypocrites? Why do you go to a grocery store? It's full of hypocrites too. You see all the fat people I see going down the the the sugar aisle of the of the uh uh of the pop tarts and the and the uh all the breakfast cereals? Great day I don't know how Li Ying stands our American culture. We have so much sugar. It's like Y you probably want to go on a diet when you get back home because the American diet bloated you. It's incredible. All of the sugar we have is insane. But why do we have to assemble? Well, because Scripture says this, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he's faithful to promise Let us consider one another to love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. So much the more as you see the day approaching. Well that's why. We need to assemble. We need to assemble to hear the Word of God, but we need this one another business. How can you carry out the one another commands and scriptures if there's not another nearby? Yeah, you're supposed to carry out one another with your spouse. But it goes beyond that. It goes it goes to the whole body of Christ. And that's a wonderful short sentence. The definition of faith. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. That's a mysterious definition, isn't it? Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence. Things not seen. Isn't that a strange definition? You'll ponder over it for a great portion of your life. It's not easy believism. We're called believers, not believeds. It's not something we've done in the past. It's an ongoing thing. It's substantive. It's real. And yet you just you just you just wonder at that. The substance of things and you mull over it, you chew on it, and you made it and you can chew on that for a long time. That's a very fascinating definition. I wouldn't have come up with that definition. But God does because he knows what he's talking about. Faith is very real. Faith is something that has to be given. It's a gift of God. There's a well-known promise. What's the most famous promise? If you were to ask somebody, uh, what are some of the promises of God? What do you think the very first promise people are going to remember is? Say that again? Heaven. Pro promise of heaven? Okay. Yeah. Probably would count that as the first one. I will never leave you nor forsake you. That's a very common one that's remembered. And there it is in Hebrews 13, verse 5. He has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. It's one that people remember a lot. And of course that leads them to heaven, and that's the thing that they want to have. Our eternal Jesus, Jesus Christ, the same, yesterday, today, and forever That's a succinct summary of the eternality of Christ. That's a huge doctrinal point right there that can be used throughout Scripture. The believer's benediction, now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep Through the blood of the everlasting covenant make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ to whom be glory forever and ever. There's all kinds of little summaries like that throughout Hebrews. There's others that are longer. How we walk by faith, the opening two verses of Hebrews 12, and a very long one in Hebrews 12, 18 to 24, about the true mountain of God. Is it the Jerusalem which now is, or is it the Mount Zion? Which one are you come to? That's one sentence. It's just a lot jammed. It's a very information-dense, rich book. That's something that I very much appreciate about the book of Hebrews. There's another spectacular point that stands out here. This is my ninth point. That the thing that shines very loud and clear, thing which I very much rejoiced at over the years as I was beginning to come to an understanding of the difference between the old covenant and the new. was the superiority, the New Testament superiority over the Old. How much more superior the new is over the old. It keeps emphasizing that. One of the most common words in Hebrews is the word better. In fact, you could make a if you wanted to lead a Bible study in your home, invite some people from the neighborhood, some kids you found, some Some miscreants at the playground, and you can manage to convince them to stop and sit down for Bible study. Just look up that word better and just walk through Hebrews and just comment on it and go one at a time And you would have a really rich spiritual ham sand uh Dagwood sandwich uh for the uh for the for the children at lunchtime. Hebrews 8, Hebrews 9, and Hebrews 10 spend a lot of time talking about this. Why? Well What was central to the life of a Hebrew? What was central to the life of the Hebrew was the Old Testament. It was Moses' covenant. That was everything. Do you remember the accusation that the Pharisees would have? We know God spoke to Moses, but as for this man, we know not whence he comes. We're persuaded God spoke to Moses, but Jesus is some some other thing. That was her accusation. So the penman spends a good deal of time going around this business of Moses' testament. And he points out several critical weaknesses. He actually turns a critical eye back to Moses and shows various significant weaknesses in it. Now, that's a touchy subject, isn't it? Because if you talk about weakness of an old covenant, you're talking about weakness of God's covenant And he's very clear to point out the fault was not with God's covenant, the fault was with them, with the people. It was an excellent covenant and placed upon weak men. But what the weaknesses were are very clearly pointed out. There were three The first was the weak nature of the Old Testament temple services. They were very weak How many lambs would you sacrifice? How many turtle doves of the poor? How many grain offerings and meal offering? It was endless. There never was a stop. You could never really Give one sacrifice that kind of finished it all off. Now, the Catholic Church has discovered that, you know, that that's an issue too. And they figured out how to capitalize on it They'll say uh back uh one reason I have no interest in seeing St. Peter's Cathedral in Europe, and some of you have, and that's fine, I don't fault you if you have, but I have no interest in doing it, because the way they got the money for that exorbitant building. Was the Pope promised them complete absolution from sins forever if they donated mightily to this building fund? And boy, skin for skin, yeah, all that a man hath will he give for his life. Absolutely, they donated. That's where the billions poured in at that time To build that structure. That's fleecing people. That's lying to them. That didn't save a single, that a soul, didn't save a single soul, didn't pay for a single sin. And lo and behold, in the Old Testament temple, all you had were patterns. In fact, they were called that. God told Moses, see that you build all things. According to the pattern. The pattern showed you in the mount. These were patterns, types, and symbols. They were buildings made with hands Tabernacle furniture, blood of bulls and goats, continual offering. But the bottom line is that none of it effectively dealt with man's sins once and for all. It was a constant treadmill and it was always imperfect. It never, never did it. The second part that was weak was the priest itself The mediator priests were weak. Implicit to the Mosaic Covenant was that a priest would die In fact, the high priest had to die if you were in a city of refuge and you want to get out. Because when the high priest died, then those who were in the city of refuge could escape But only when he died, and that would be you know once every sixty, seventy, eighty years, it was a long time. You had to wait a long time for your sprung from uh house arrest, as it were for inadvertent manslaughter. But there is a weakness in that Levitical priesthood because the high priest died, a dead priest can't help you. A new guy comes in. Is he going to be as good as the old one? Is God going to accept my sacrifice? Is he going to be ceremonially cleansed going in? Because if you don't have a mediator It's like trying to go to court, make it the Supreme Court, make it higher than the Supreme Court, without representation. Let me give you a hint Don't think you can go before a judge without an attorney. They hate that. You don't know how the law operates. You better understand you better have representation. You're just asking to get your head handed to you in a platter The judges can increase the fines and magnify them if you try to go without representation. Absolutely hate that. All the more so the God of the Bible. You show up before him without representation. There's not a question asked. There's no summary judgment. There's no findings. No, you're vaporized. You must be perfect to appear before him. Well, those weak priests were not perfect. God accepted it only because it was a picture of the ultimate priest who would come, who would be accepted And he has come. So they could not endure that which was commanded. It was not the law's fault, it was weak men who were under it. That's my next point, is that the covenant was strong, but the Mosaic Code perfected no one. You had weak people under it. Couldn't get a perfect king, he always failed. You couldn't get a perfect priest, they always failed. You couldn't get up uh Perfect atonement. You know, that there was always some weakness to it. Because it was not meant to bear the load of your sins. It couldn't. It wasn't a a load bearing uh service the Lord Jesus Christ is. He says, take my yoke upon you. It's his mighty shoulders that can carry. the sins of the human race. At every single point, Christ is superior over all of these weaknesses. He fulfills all the types and shadows. He's that living substance to which those bloody elements all point He's that eternal high priest who ever lives to make intercession for us. He's known you when you were little. He's known you to your gray hairs in the day of your death. He's known you the whole time through Can't say that of an earthly priest. Not possible. Doesn't matter what city you live in. He still knows who you are. Doesn't matter what language you have. He can still hear it quite fine He's that sacrificial lamb. He offers superior blood, which alone can atone for men's souls. God paid for souls with human blood, and that's all that's atoned for. He didn't atone for aliens on planet Xeno if we should uh think that we're going to discover some bacterial out there somewhere and declare that we found life. He didn't atone for kitty cats and puppy dogs and fluffy animals and he didn't atone for angels either. In fact, angels have no redemption program whatsoever. None He says those that sinned, he's reserved in chains into darkness until that day. Wow. Wow. That's pretty severe. You sinned, great, you're chained to hell. No second chance. God doesn't hold a second chance If I'm at my workbench outside, I'm trying to mold a piece of plate. Do you ever work on something and it's not working for you? The material's messed up and you're like, forget this, throw it away, start all over again Is that unfair? No. You're the creator. You can do with your hands and your material as you wish to do. And so Christ at every single point is shown to be superior over the Old Testament. Alright, tenth point. You know, I left you hanging a little bit with that definition of faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. But God doesn't leave you hanging there because He gives you a whole chapter. A whole chapter on examples. It's a dictionary entry on faith. It's the largest space devoted in all of Scriptures to one topic. The Apostle Paul talks about the benefit of love. If I have the men of tongues and angels uh but have not love, I I am nothing. If I give all my uh my body to be burned and so forth and have not love, it says charity. I am nothing. Love is patient, love is kind, and so on. You know that classic passage in Hebrews excuse me, 1 Corinthians 13. Hebrews gives you an entire chapter. It's what? Over It's uh 40 verses on examples of faith. It m it uses all Old Testament characters. It shows that faith in God, this faith that's substantive, is not a New Testament concept. It's brought to the fore in the New Testament because now it's super important. But you have example after example after example after example of what faith looks like. You know, Jim, we're encouraged to not walk by law. We're encouraged to walk by faith. And there's a world difference between those two. Pharisees walk by law. The Christian walks by faith. Does that mean he walks rebellious against the law of God? Oh no, it goes above and beyond the law. It's a whole different ball game. It's a significant point. And if you're really struggling with, well, what does it mean to walk by faith? Do I know I believe? Go through those examples. You know, as we were going through them, I uh would want to point out uh uh some some things here Because as a as a dictionary entry, it has all these examples. There's 20 Old Testament individuals, several groups. of people that serve as example. The elders by it obtained a good report. The readers by this we understand. But the one that really struck me the most and has such a lingering impact is by faith They walked, uh, where is it? By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians, as saying, attempting to do so, were drowned. I guess of all the examples of faith, that one really struck me the greatest and has had, I think, the most enduring impact for me during difficult, difficult times. And you would say, well, let's talk about Moses. Well, it says they, so it includes him, but it's all these Jews. It turns out that they passed through the walls of water at night. It was dark. Yes, the ground was dry. There was a light That the cloud of God stood between Pharaoh's army to the rear and was light to them up front. So now get the picture in your mind. Here it's dark at night. You got two walls of water. You're holding back a sea. A sea, by any definition, ain't a wading pool. It's got two huge walls of water. Yeah, the ground is dry. Where you're at right now is dry. And God's, and you got light. And it's behind you. If you look at the light, you're blinded. You can only look forward into this darkness, and you see these two walls. And everything in your body says, water doesn't stand up forever. Fact of the matter is I've never seen water stand up. Have you ever found yourself walking in life one footstep at a time and thinking, oh Lord This could collapse at any minute and I would be consumed. If I don't get a job in X period of time. If I don't get physical relief, but right now, for this step, these walls of water are held up And you take another step. And they're still held up. And you take another step. And you're like, this can't last forever. This just can't last forever They shadow of death. It was a valley of the shadow of death. What an astounding walk of faith. To trust God through that. He says, this is your deliverance. I'm just gonna It's it's gonna it yeah, it can collapse and it can kill, and it did, but not on you I've loved that illustration, that example of faith in that more than any of the others. I've profited greatly from the others as over the years as well, certainly the faith of Abraham being highlighted But boy, this one of the sojourn I tell ya I I like Lord these walls are here. I'm seeing them. They could crash down any minute, but I'm trusting you. Hey, I'm on dry ground right now. It's all good. It's all good. But uh, boy, they could collapse any minute. There's there's a whole dictionary full of it It's a marvelous complete chapter that shores you up. It gives you a good kit on what it is like to walk by faith. We learn by examples. Don't you hate those training classes where they just blah blah blah blah blah and they give you the equations and all then you're like glazing? Give me some examples, please. We learn by examples, and this is what you have in Hebrews 11. Faith in God is not a New Testament idea. It's solidly anchored in the old. And all of it contribute all of their walks of faith contribute to our understanding of a walk of faith. And they're summarized as a great cloud of witnesses, as they witnessed to us in the pages of Scripture. And it encouraged us to do what the patriarchs did, namely look unto Jesus. Look unto Jesus, the Messiah, the author and finisher of your faith. He who has begun a good work in you shall perform it. You're being conformed to the image of his Son. Spoiler alert, his son didn't spend his days on a cruise ship. It wasn't happy go lucky every day. It was a little difficult, to say the least. Well, those are my ten points and highlights in the book of Hebrews, and I have a bonus track for you next week. I would call it a minor doctrine. You don't have to agree with me But and I save this particular one for the last, because it is a minor doctrine. And that point is Why, I am pretty convinced that the Apostle Paul did not write the book of Hebrews. And so next week we're going to cover that. That'll absolutely positively be the last time I'll talk for a while about the book of Hebrews. And then I'm moving on to some of the audience requests. I've got a good dozen of those, so we'll walk our way through those. And so we'll begin kind of a ad hoc random series of what seem to use ad hoc studies, and if I remember I'll try to put some questions out in advance Okay, Anton, could you close us in prayer, please? Our Father, who is in heaven. Lord, we thank you that you've given us your word to be a lamp and a light unto us. We pray, Lord, that we would take heed to it that we would. even grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Thank you, Lord, for this teaching and feeding through the book of uh Hebrews of the Lord. Yeah. The many things we learn of it, even uh uh the strength of your word. Even of uh the need to look The Lord Jesus Christ and all of these explanations of the Old Testament and how they're written for our learning. Please continue to teach us, Lord. Help us to continue to feed on your word and walk according to it. Lord, we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.