Mark chapter two this morning. I don't have a Kleenex. Can somebody get me a Kleenex out in the front? Oh Thank you. Mark chapter two We did a responsive reading in Luke, somewhat another version of the story. They're all in agreement, of course. But Mark chapter 2, verses 1 through 12 And told him about the Lord Jesus Christ. And again he entered into Capernaum after some days and was noise that he was in the house. They'd heard that he was in the house. Peter and Andrew's house. And straightway many were gathered together insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No, not so much as about the door. And he preached the word unto them. And there come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, man paralyzed, which was born of four. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press or the crowd outside the house, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Rise and walk. That's not what he said, is it? Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sin but God only? And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether it's easier to say that the sick or the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, arise and take up thy bed and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith for the sick of the palsy I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thy house. And he immediately he arose and took up his bed. And went before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it in this fashion. Title of the Message this morning, Help for the Helpless. And I know for some of you you feel exactly that way this morning. Hearing again And this morning that Mike's mother has fallen again. We are a a bruised and battered lot, are we not? Spiritually and physically and Emotionally, and we have that same case here of one who is in a helpless position, a man with a palsy It begins with how they entered again in the Calpurnium and it was noised abroad or the word got out that Christ was in the house again. How do people know when Christ is really present in their home Some of you that your neighbors know that Christ is present in your home and and how do people sometimes know that? Well they know that because they see your Christian bumper stick around your car They maybe hear your Christian radio turned up pretty loud in a summer night with the windows are open and they uh maybe they they notice that you have a Christian radio dialed in on every station Uh you we used to do it we'd rent a car, we'd find every Christian station and set all the buttons on it. So whoever rent the car the next time no matter what they did, they got a Christian station. Maybe they uh hear you in your conversation quoting verses Or you're carrying your Bible on Sunday mornings out the door early, and it's not to cut the grass or wash the car. People know when Christ is present in your home, don't they? It says in Acts 4 and 13 that they perceived that they had been with Jesus. And there are those in your neighborhood they perceive when you've been with Jesus. And so they were gathered, it says in verse 2, it says, many were gathered together. Some were gathered because they were curious, some were gathered because they'd come for a cure. And then we read these Pharisees were sitting there and they were gathered to condemn him, to catch him in in something he might say or do that would be blasphemous, contrary to the word of God, inappropriate on the Sabbath, and so forth And there was no room inside the house, and there was little room on the outside to get even anywhere near the doors or the windows They came bringing the sick palsy man and and they're looking for room and and all these people were gathered around it. There was no place that they could receive him, not even at the door, it says in verse 2. It's a large crowd that they couldn't get through. People wouldn't make way for them as well. Imagine you're carrying someone on a on a pallet, on a couch, or a bed, and and it's obvious there's something seriously wrong with this person And you're saying, make way, make way, and nobody does because everybody else wants to get in that door as well. People gather today, large gatherings sometimes. But it's not to hear the Ten Commandments read. It's not to hear the Beatitudes read. It's not to hear Shakespeare or Poe recited or memorized. No, we have people gathered today to hear uh green eggs and ham. And they do get together, I guess, to hear Poe recite. in Shakespeare, but not the Ten Commandments, not the 23rd Psalm, not the Christ of the Adolescent. They don't do any of that because, well, America doesn't put much weight in God's word anymore. anymore. They're not going to gather hear Christ speak or some speak from Christ's words. Most of America's appetite for the spiritual is gone. It was like that for the Israelites in Numbers two and verse five. Or twenty-two verse five. I'm still having trouble reading this morning a little bit, but America's appetite is gone, and as the Israelites were, it said the souls they loathed the light bread called manna And for the most part in America people loathe the light bread, the word of God. So they'll gather for green eggs and ham and they'll gather for po, but they won't gather for the Beatitudes, the Ten Commandments, the T 23rd Psalm. Nor do we require them to recite them or memorize them in most of our educational departments today. So they came bringing this young man Sick of the palsy, born of four. This guy is totally helpless. He is hopeless And from what we see in the story of Matthew, Mark here, and Luke, he's even speechless. He never says a word. Uh he may even his palate, his his tongue may be paralyzed. He has to be in Very poor shape. And it says that they brought him, they sought a means to bring him into the house, Luke 5 and verse 18. But there was the press or the crowd outside. And we often find that the press or the crowds or our peers aren't going to encourage a relationship with Christ, are they? And they certainly were going to encourage him to get closer to the Lord Jesus Christ I wonder how many of your friends that you have bring you closer to the Lord Jesus Christ. You have friends like that that would they would enrich your relationship with with Christ, your friends. That's what these men wanted to do. They wanted to enrich this palsy with a relationship with Christ. They were good friends. They were godly friends, safe friends. Have friends like that that want to enrich your relationship with Christ, bring you closer to Christ. You know something everyone here? You have at least four friends like that. I'll name them for you Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They will bring you closer to Christ. They'll enrich your relationship. We all have God has left us with at least four friends to bring us closer to the Savior. Well, they could not come nigh under the Savior here. The house was full, the crowd was outside, and they sought another means, and they uncovered the roof. Where Christ was. And they broke it up. They let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. These four we don't read that they were preachers. We don't read that uh That they were great evangelists. But surely they must have prayed for this man before they carried him down to the house where Christ was. They must have wept over His palsy and and they must have invited him, you've got to go and hear the word of God. I know you can't make it there on your own, but just say the word and we'll take you there. Maybe he maybe he didn't want to go Maybe he could speak and said, no, I don't want to go and hear somebody preaching the Bible and about God. Look what God's done for me. I've been paralyzed these years. I'm not interested in going. And so the friends took him anyway. We don't know He was helpless. And they were looking for an open door to get in before Christ. Do you ever do that in your conversations? You're looking for an open door to insert Christ in the conversation. to get people to think about the things of Christ, to get them to think about the gospel. You try to find some way to turn that conversation, whatever it is, to the scripture They're looking for an open door, and sometimes we feel like there are no open doors. We feel like we're like the walls that are shutting in around us, the roof is closing down on top of us, and there's just no way to break out and witness to somebody about anything. Peter was like that. He was locked up in a prison. There was no open door And the angels opened the door and he found himself out there in the court of the temple preaching again. Made him quite a witness. Joseph was in a prison. You know, he's locked in too. Where's his opportunity? And the Pharaoh opens a prison door and brings him into the kingdom and makes him the second most powerful man to open the door to people all through Egypt. The Apostle Paul was locked in a prison too, wasn't he? Down in the deepest and the darkest of the dungeon, he's down there singing and carrying on. But there's no one to really witness to until the earthquake comes and the doors of the prison were open. And he had an open door to talk to the jailer of Philippi, didn't he? Pray for open doors to talk to people. Even if you feel like you're locked in a prison somewhere and there's no opportunity to speak to people, ask God to open those doors for you, to introduce people to Christ. Maybe you don't look for an open door to introduce people to Christ. But it says here, if you go to the what we read it in Luke, it says they sought, they sought a means to bring him to Christ. You're not going to find an open door if you're not looking for one or praying for one. In this situation here, they found that open door As Peter did to talk to Gamalia when that prison door was open. As Joseph did to talk to the Pharaoh when that prison door was open. They found an open door by looking up to God and most likely praying. And they saw the tile on the roof. looking up to God. And they thought, There's the door. We need to look up and ask God to show us the way. Show us a way to speak to others, to talk to others, to reach others for Christ. And yes, the way may initially irritate the people when you insert that first verse or bring that that conversation around with the Bible and the scriptures. I'm gonna tell you when you start tearing the tile off the roof and the debris and dust starts falling down inside that Inside the house, that probably was an irritant too. You know, they didn't see outside. They just heard the tiles ripping off and the debris coming down. They thought, what is going on up there? What are they they're disrupting the discourse of Christ and they're disrupting his lesson and and this is very distractive and what is going on and they get the hole or they enlarge the hole and they enlarge the hole and someone's about ready to go out and probably drag them off the roof and have them arrested. And then they start lowering this couch down. Couldn't you have brought a couch in later on in in the day when If you're if you're the furniture uh men or something from Mayflower, I mean what's going on here? We can be rather irritating when we first Open the door and introduce people to Christ. And they were irritated, but the results in verse 12 it says were amazing. You open the door and it irritates people, but the results, maybe not right then, maybe not next week or next month, but at least it Our attempts to introduce people to the Lord's Jesus Christ. They may look like a total failure. They may look like all they're doing is string up a lot of dust and dirt and irritation, but the results will be amazing. And we all we might think about as we read this story that the Lord had to know. The Lord knows everything. He's all knowing. He's all powerful. He's he's omnipresent. He had to know that they were coming. He had to have known that thousands of years ago, that when he was sitting in that house That there be four men bringing a man paralyzed. He had to know. And he could have healed the man from outside the house. He he could have stopped and said to him, Excuse me, there is four men carrying a man with a bed outside Tell them to stop where they are. They don't have to go any further. And just ask, tell them that I have sent the word. He could have done that. Do you remember the Seraphonician woman? She had a daughter that was that was possessed of a demon, and she came to Christ and she said, I want my daughter healed, and you can release these demons, have control of my daughter And we read about that story in Mark 7. We'll be getting to it in a few weeks. But and Christ said, I have come for the house of Israel. You're a Gentile. And she says, Even a dog gets the crumbs underneath the table. And Christ says, go home. You'll find your daughter healed of the demonic possession. You know, Christ doesn't have to be right there, and he doesn't have to be right here. Although we're two or three are gathered, he is, but Heaven may seem like a long ways away, but Christ can heal from a far distance. He can take care of our problems. However hopeless and helpless we may think our situation is, he can take care of these things And he could have done it for this man here too. But the Lord has his reasons, his timing, and his purpose. purposes. And so they tore out the tiles on the roof and they lowered him in the presence of these people. There wasn't any room there in the house, so now you're almost You know, how do you make room for this whole couch coming down? But some probably had to leave and go outside to make room. But Christ saw their faith And he said unto the second of Paul's son, thy sins be forgiven thee. Matthew 9, 2, it says, Be of good cheer, thy sons be forgiven thee. The commentators, and I'm in agreement with him, uh the implication here is your sin has put you in this condition. Good year. Your sins are forgiven you. He knew. And we can't always relate our health conditions. We can't always relate the car accident we have. bad or good that happens to the condition of our heart. It's not always sin that puts us in a situation like this. You remember the the man that was blind from birth, they said, Who sinned? His parents were he? And he said, neither. This is that God might be glorified But in this situation, he says in Luke, or rather in Matthew, be of good cheer, thy sins be forgotten. This man's countenance was fallen. This man was depressed. This man was was uh he he knew that he he would that he probably deserved to be in the situation he was in He knew he'd brought it upon himself and and he was saddened and he was and he was so discouraged that he hadn't listened to people before who had talked to him about how to live his life and he he'd taken it so far that finally he was paralyzed. Kicking himself if he could, but he was paralyzed. And so the Lord says that he addresses the greatest need that this man had. You're forgiven. Son, be of good cheer, your sins be forgiven you, implying that the sin had brought this situation upon him. And the truth of the matter is, if we were to canvas this entire congregation this morning and talk to you one at a time throughout your entire life, our biggest problems have never been physical, they have always been spiritual. If we're not saved, it doesn't matter what our physical condition is. Our biggest problem is spiritual And once we're saved, the Satan and the world are our carnal sin nature remains. It'll make sure that we still have plenty of spiritual problems And when we die, we don't want to say, boy, he died healthy, boy, he died rich, boy he died uh uh prosperous and and he died uh uh with a trophy on his case or a gold medal from the from the Olympics or whatever. We want to say he died saved. He died without a spiritual problem. He died in good spiritual health. Many a person dies with great physical health. They're walking down the street. They just finished a marathon somewhere and they drop over dead. Our spiritual condition is always the major thing that needs to be faced. And here Christ looks at the paralyzed man. And the world and that house and the crowd outside knew about the paralyzed man, and they said, I know what his problem is. No, they didn't. But Christ did Because he knows everything. He knows your heart and your sin. And he loves his sheep, though they sin and fall. And so he says, Be of good cheer, thy sins be forgiven Do you have a physical problem today, friend? Boy, I could go through this group. Do you have something you're struggling with? My goodness We all got struggles this morning, don't we? We all got things that are hard to deal with. And so we turn to God and we ask for His mercy and we ask for His blessings. And we we remind him of how abundantly merciful he is and how powerful he is and and how he's done uh this for the palsy and this for the blind and this for the deaf, and surely he can handle our physical ailments as well But we ask amiss because the first thing we ought to ask God to do is forgive us for our sins. That's what happens here. Christ said, Thy sins be forgiven you. He takes care of the spiritual and then moves on to the man's physical ailments. Takes care of the cause, not the symptoms. What kind of a great physician if you walked into his office and you said to him, uh Doctor, I got this terrible cough. Oh, I mean my lungs are just it's just horrible. And you're smoking a cigarette. And he says I'll tell you what, I'll give you some coughs to present medication. That's taking care of the symptom. The problem is throw the cigarette away Oh doc. Oh my side's re hurt and he says, I I think my liver's messed up really bad. And he takes another drink And the doc says, okay, I've got some medication that will help your liver. It's good to make a healthy liver. No, get rid of the drink. You're drinking too much. You're a drunkard You don't take care of the symptom, you deal with the cause. And Christ said, Looks at a paralyzed man. He said, The symptom is you're paralyzed, but the cause is you have sinned, and I forgive you of your sin. So when you're seeking God for a cure, shouldn't we first seek forgiveness? In the Lord's Prayer, forgive us our sins. We forgive those who trespass against against us and lead us under temptation. It's it's there in the Lord's Prayer. If there is a sin connection, and sometimes we can see that And what has happened to us. If there's a sin connection, then seek mercy before the mending. If you can see the sin connection, and sometimes there is, seek the pardon and then the repair And so we find here that he's forgiven But there were certain scribes sitting there, and they were reasoning in their heart, why doth this man speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? Now, I have to say this about these Pharisees and the doctors of the law and these scribes. They had their theology right. Only God can forgive sins. Not the priest in some cubicle in some church somewhere. I can't forgive your sins. God forgives your sins. They had that right. And unless Christ is God, come in the flesh, born of the Virgin Mary, a part of the triune God, and unless He is God, this is blasphemy. He speaks blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God? Here is Christ. He's declaring a forgiveness to this man. Here is Christ. It's a blessing he's bestowing upon this man. God has forgiven you. That is a blessing. And he's for he's bestowing upon this man a blessing and they charge him with blasphemy. Do others ever blast you for a kindness that you're doing to others. I mean Christ was giving it there was a kindness. He was blessing him, forgiving him, and they charged him with blasphemy Did you ever get blasted by people for doing something that's that is good? Look at Elijah. Elijah was out there, he was healing people, he was preaching, he was doing good things for the people of Israel, and Ahab comes and says, You're the one that troubled Israel. Wow, do I deserve being blasted like that, Elijah? Must have thought. And how about Lot? Lot was out there living at Sodom and Gomorrah and he's preaching righteousness. He's living a righteous life He the all this stuff he and it said he was vexed by the people in Saw. They didn't appreciate Lot. He was vexed by them day after day we read in 2 Peter 2 and 8. Nobody appreciated the good things that Lot was trying to do. For that community. And the Lord Jesus Christ in John 10 and 31, He's He's walked to the city, He's healing, He's preaching, He's comforting with words, uh uh touching people who have never been touched before, like the leper we talked about last week. He's doing all of this and they want to stone him. And Christ says, for which of my good works is it that you want to stone me? And so we have here the this idea of sometimes we're blasted for our goodness and our kindness and for doing decent things. How discouraging can that be? But it is typical of a The life of a sheep, of a follower of Christ, the people will blast you for your kindness when you share with them that they're going to hell, when you share with them that they're sinners When you share with them that the scriptures and Christ will teach you the way and that there's only one way. And it says here immediately Jesus perceived that they so reasoned with the in themselves. The Lord wasn't saying, uh thy sins be forgiven thee, and and then over in the corner of these Pharisees, oh, you already said there, yeah, well, that's blessing. Oh yeah, I quiet for I spot. Yeah, I sure that's fine. No, no. They weren't talking among themselves. They sat there amazed and they're thinking in themselves, not talking to each other, these Pharisees, they're thinking in themselves, that's Blasphemy. Not even under their breath, they're just thinking it in their hearts. And Christ read their hearts Did that scare you this morning that Christ can read your heart? What's your heart saying? Oh man, we have 15 more minutes to go. I gotta get out of here. Oh, this is really boring this morning. How many studies? Oh yeah. What I I can't read your heart, but American read your heart Cover and mark again? Oh my can we go somewhere else? How about Revelations? That's exciting. I haven't had a chance to talk to Vince about it yet, but he sent me a letter. A sermon preached uh a couple weeks ago, Mark chapter one. Maybe I misunderstood. Did I misunderstand it? I mean, we walk out of here on Sunday morning, Mark chapter 1. Maybe the Holy Spirit, you feel his present. Maybe you don't feel his present. You don't know what's going on Do you know that message? 1,200 people in Japan listen to it? What is going on in Japan? I mean, it's just what? The United States, I think it was 46. I mean, it's just the Lord looks in our heart, he knows that's in our hearts, and he looked at these Pharisees and these doctors on earth. They're calling him a blasphemer. And so the Lord he perceives us and he says to them, Why read ye these things in your hearts? And I go, What thing? What's he talking about? How does he know it's in my heart, you know? They didn't express their opinion to one another, they didn't express their opinion to anybody else. But Christ knew what was in their heart. He declares he knows what's in their heart. In fact, in Revelation 2, 23, the elf and Omega, when we find as we read through the first and second chapter of Revelation, The Alpha Mega is Christ Jesus Himself, He who was dead and is alive again. He says, I am He which searcheth the hearts. He knows everything that's in your heart. Oh, you got some things you've hidden way down deep. Mom and Dad don't know Your kids don't know. Your wife doesn't know. Some things are really hidden down there. But he searches the heart. He knows what's in your heart. And there's not a one of us here that doesn't have a need to repent. of some things that are in our heart. We'll be held accountable for them if we don't. Oh, and once you ask God to forgive you of something that's in your heart and you feel good about that, believe me, before the hour of the day is over, something else will slip in there That needs to be repentant of also. We're not perfect. Christians are gonna still sin, we're still gonna do things wrong, think things wrong. Christ is omniscient. Only God is omniscient. They're all-knowing, but Christ knows everything. He knows what's in their hearts And he says them in verses 9 through 12, is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise, take up your bed and walk? Well, you know, what should be easier to do? But that you may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of the falls, he arise and take up your bed and go thy way into thine house. He says to the posing man, Arise He asked the man to do something that everyone there knows, including the palsy man, that he cannot do. He asked him to rise. He can't. Nobody in that room thinks he can. Nobody in the rooftop thinks he can. They're still up there, the four guys just looking down. Christ commands him, he says, arise and walk. Christ did that with Lazarus the tomb, didn't he? Lazarus is dead, he's in there. He stinketh, he's in the tomb. We read about that in John 11. He says, the Lazarus, come forth. He can't, he's dead But when Christ commands it and enables us, we do it. We can't do it unless He empowers us through the Holy Spirit to do it. He bids Peter, come on, walk on the sea Peter can't walk on the sea, but Christ says, come on, come on the boat, join me out here. Peter can't walk on the sea. I'm telling you this because the scriptures and God Often commands us to do things we cannot do. For instance, believe, and thou shalt be saved. saved. You can't believe. You are dead in trespasses and sins. You cannot believe unless the Holy Spirit quickens you and makes you alive and enables you to hear With a spiritual ear, spiritual things. And to see with spiritual eyes, spiritual things. When you were dead in trespasses and sins, you can't see or hear anything that is spiritual. You can't comprehend anything that is spiritual. Spiritual manners are there's there's no conception of them. It's only by the grace of God, his undeserved, unmerited mercy that enables and sends the Holy Spirit to give the blind eyes to see the gospel and gives us ears to hear the gospel. Faith comes by hearing. How? By hearing it. Hearing comes by hearing the Word of God It's the word of God that opens the ears in some, that a soul might believe. Christ is on the road to Emmaus. Talk about the inability. Christ is preaching to them. He's talking probably from Genesis to Revelation. Well that Revelation was written. I'm sorry, from Genesis to Amalachi, he's sharing with them the gospel and all the place where Christ is in the scriptures. And he's he's talking to these two men on the road to Emmaus, and they're just they're just they're listening and they're listening, and finally it says He opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. And then wow But you're sitting here this morning that God has not opened your understanding, then you're still dead in trespasses. A man who's dead in trespasses and sins, what does he understand? The dead man in a coffin saying, boy, it's awful cold in here. Oh man, there's Harriet. Haven't seen her in a long time. Yeah, okay. Oh, Joe Shodo, how nice. What does a dead man in a coffin understand? He understands nothing And if you're spiritually dead, you understand nothing of what's going on around you. Christ opened their understanding, and then they understood the scriptures. And if you're here this morning and you find this about as about as interesting as Maybe Shakespeare or Pole, then your understanding hasn't been opened. Because this book contains amazing stories. And this book contains things that ought to just awe you. And not just the first time you read it, but the umpteenth time you read it, you ought to put In fact, every time I read it, I'm I am more taken back by what I see there. In fact, every time I read it, I see more things than I never saw before. You think the pastor's read the book 20, 30, 40 times, whatever, and you think I guess he I guess after 30 or 40 times you're kind of bored with Matthew, Mark, and Luke. I am never bored with it. There's always something new and something different and something amazing and something that awe me. You know, one of the most amazing and the most awing things I ever seen here is that he chose me for salvation. I just flabbergast me. I was sharing with the Wednesday night crowd Billy Sunday, the great Presbyterian evangelist And he said, boy, he said, I said, good thing I'm not God. I look out around here. Say this one, say that one. He says, not me. He said, if I was God, the obituary columns would be full tomorrow. He said, I'd kill them all I like Billy Sunday. I'd have done the same thing. What a merciful God is. He saved me. He saved you folks sitting here And it's still if you're saved, you just you just oh that he chose you. He wouldn't have chosen you. Or you might go, well I'd have chosen me, but I wouldn't have chosen her, him, and here, I wouldn't have chosen them. But I'd have chosen me. No, you wouldn't have. And they wouldn't have chosen you, that's for sure. There's not a person here who would have chosen me if you knew what my life was like before I was saved Undeserved and unmerited, and yet that Christ heals this man. Arise and walk. And this wasn't a gradual recovery. This wasn't a partial recovery. You ever watch these uh uh uh Faith healing services, Holy Ghost revivals on TV, you know, and and they they get the guy and he's he's he's coming down the wheelchair And they slap him on the head and he won almost the wheelchair almost tips over. And then they kind of pick him up by the wheelchair and he staggers down a rampway and they say, Praise God, he's walking. You know what Christ does when he heals someone that can't walk? If if he were to heal the guy, they wouldn't have to lift him out of the chair. He'd get out of the chair, he'd grab his wheelchair and he'd walk down the aisle with it, right? Because this man grabbed his bed and he walked out with his bed. Now where when's the last time you saw some man at a a you know a a revival meeting or a faith healing or something like that where they walked out of his own wheelchair So different. What's in the scriptures and what's going on in some of these churches today He carried his bed through the neighborhood. What a sight that must have been. Carrying his bed. Walking out of the house, carrying his bed. through his own neighborhood and carrying his bed up to the French door. And I I can't help but believe he must have been singing on the Lord. It says in Psalm thirteen six singing on the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me and I think that's what he was doing. He was carrying his banner. He was singing And you think that would have been an impressive sight to see people who knew he was paralyzed and all of a sudden here he comes walking. He's not just walking and he's not just singing, he's carrying the bed, he's been laying in for years, he's carrying it You think that was quite a sight? I think that was a bigger sight and a more impressive sight, and that was impressive. That was awe-inspiring That was more impressive than Samson carrying the doors and the gates of Gaz up to the hill of Hebron. That was impressive too. But this was more impressive. I mean Samson's a big burly guy, maybe. We don't know. This guy was paralyzed and he carries a bed a moment later. Do you ever see someone paralyzed? They're just bones. It's skin on bones. The the pectorial muscles disappear, the biceps and the triceps disappear There are no forearms. There are no muscles. They can't so much as move their feet or wiggle their toes. All the muscles disappear. It's a skeleton with skin stretched across it. And now in a moment Christ has arise and walk, he rises up and he's got full thighs and and he's got full calves, he's got biceps And triceps, and he pits that thing up, and he looks like he's been working out there in a dock somewhere for years. He all of a sudden all the tissue's filled in. And he carries his bed. This is bigger than Samson and the gates of Gaza. And that was vague. And he's singing on the Lord because he had dealt bondably with me. I don't believe there are any silent born-again Christians. You're raised from the dead, spiritual dead. You can't keep quiet. God doesn't want you to keep quiet. He says this thing, praise on the Lord. Anybody here want to hire a silent watchdog? How do you know when others are really born again? That's a tough one, isn't it? Um sometimes we just don't know because there's some Christians out there that are pretty quiet I'm not saying they're not saved, but they're pretty quiet. How do you know when someone's really born again? Well, there's an obvious giveaway here. They are obedient to the word of God. You find people living an obedient life, obedient to the word of God. And this man, this paralyzed guy, he isn't saved, and he isn't healed. First he's healed, but then he's saved We never really see any interest in Christ for him at all. They brought him, remember. But all of a sudden, he's obedient to the commands of Christ. Christ says arise, and it says he arose. Wow. Doesn't take long for a Christian to start being in obedience to Christ, does it? You want to know if someone's born again? They're in obedience to the Word of God. They're not living continually in rebellion to the Word of God but claiming to be saved or backslidden or something like that. They're not quiet about Christ in their conversations They're not comfortable with their unsaved peers. They're trying to get them saved, or the peers are leaving them, or they don't want to be around the peers anymore who aren't saved. And if you're comfortable being around your peers who are taking the Lord's name in vain, question your salvation. If you aren't looking for an open door to talk about the Lord Jesus Christ to others, question your salvation So Christ here, what a story. He forgives the sin. He leads the Pharisees' hearts. He heals the palsy and all manner of diseases. He is all-powerful. He is all-knowing. He is altogether God. Or he couldn't have done any of this. How do I know he's God? Psalm 103, verses 3 through 6. Description of God. In fact, it's a question. Who forgiveth thine iniquities? God. Who healeth all thy diseases? The Lord. Psalm 103, verse 3 through 6 says Who forgived all thy iniquities? Who healed all thy answers and all thy diseases? That's the question, and the answer in that Psalm is the Lord Jehovah Capital L, capital O. It's Jehovah. And here's Christ. And what's he doing? He's forgiven iniquities and he's healing all manner of diseases. He is God. Come in the flesh. There is a triune Godhead. And this man, this paralyzed man, he is sent home carrying his bed. He is no longer a great burden to his family or to his neighborhood or to his city. He is now going to be a great blessing. Are you a blessing, pilgrims? If you're a Christian, you ought to be a blessing. Joseph was a blessing to his brothers during the famine. Wasn't he? Abigail was a blessing to her household. When David was coming to kill everybody, Abigail was a blessing to the household. Zacchaeus was a blessing we got saved. He came down off the tree and said, Oh Lord, honoring this half of what I got to all the poor. He became a blessing when the Lord touches you, quickens you, makes you alive. You're not quiet about it, and you are a blessing. There's someone sitting this morning and You just don't find this book all that amazing. Is there somebody sitting there small you We've never really had a reason to glorify God. Wow. If that's your case this morning, guess what? I'm almost done, aren't you happy? If that's your case this morning. But if that is your case, let me say, may Christ touch your helpless heart. Because it's a helpless heart. And it's a hopeless heart. May He touch your helpless heart in such a loving manner that it will amaze everyone you know before the week is out. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that there are God that all healings, yes, we all want healings. But more than that We need forgiveness, and we may not even seek that. But oh God, seek us out. And put it in our hearts to call on you. Put it in our eyes to see, and our ears to hear, and our minds to understand. The urgency of forgiveness From you for all our sins. Oh Lord, may we cry out to you today. And then may we sing afterwards the great things you have done. It's in Christ Jesus' name, our great physician, who heals both body, soul, and spirit. It's in his name we pray. Amen.