Titled this message this morning Highs and Lows. We look at the highs of David and Jerusalem, very high point in the the nation of Israel, down to the Kidron Valley, his low as he was fleeting, and then back up on uh on the mount of Zion, or Mount uh where he was again a high. We can relate sometimes to the highs and lows in our own life. It does seem that the highs, which are good times, are very short, and our lows, uh we seem to have more of them, and they seem to last longer. Um but we're gonna look at that today and hope that we can relate and find some comfort in the way the Lord took care of David uh in his highs and lows. And how quickly these highs and lows can come, we're gonna note this morning. In 2 Samuel And uh chapter 16. We'll look at the first 14 verses. If you recall, he is fleeing from his son, who was trying to overthrow the kingdom, and would have David dead. And so we begin in chapter sixteen. And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and a hundred of summer fruits And a bottle of wine. Must have been a pretty large bottle for all those men. And the king said unto Ziabo, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, the asses be for the king's household to ride on, and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat. And the wine that such as be faint in the wilderness may drink. And the king said, And where is thy master's son? And Zebah said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem. For he said, Today shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. And then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. I give you all that pertains unto Mephibosheth. And Ziaba said, I humbly beseech thee that I may find grace in thy sight, my Lord, O King. And when King David came to Bacharim, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei. The son of Garah, and he came forth, and he cursed still as he came. And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of King David, and all the people, and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left And thus Shimei, when he cursed, come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of belial, or thy man of wickedness, or thy man of evil. This is what he was calling King David. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son, and behold thou art taken in thy mischief because thou art a bloody man And then said Abishai, the son of Zerui, unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off off his head. That's uh in the modern vernacular, let me kill him, okay? And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zuriah? So let him curse Because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai and to all the servants, Behold, my son, which came forth from my bowel, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjamite do it? And that's why Shimei wanted him dead. He was a Benjamite. King Saul was a Benjamite. In fact, he is now in the territory of the Benjamins. Let him alone, David said. Let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction And that the Lord will requite me or recompense me or repay me good for his cursing this day. And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hillside over against it And cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust, and the king and all the people who were with him came weary, and eventually refreshed themselves there. We find in verses 1 through 3, we're introduced to a new character, Ziba. He is a servant of Mephibosheth And he came with loaves and raisins and wine. That had to be a high point for David. He fled Jerusalem down to the Kidron Valley. He didn't have that many with him, about six hundred we remember, regenerated Philistines had come and joined with him. Very unusual, very encouraging. And yet there wasn't a large crowd that fled with him from Jerusalem and down to the Kidron Valley, exhaustion and the high climb up, and he reaches the top. And we remember last week some of the highs, Hushai came and met him, and and of course it was Zadok the the high priest and the Levites. There were some highs in the Kidron Valley, and as you went up to the top And now when about everything else had quieted down, he's up there pretty much by himself and his people who fled with him. Ziba, the servant of Mephibasheth, comes. And he came with loaves and raisins and wine, and they probably didn't have a lot of food or sustenance. Maybe what they could carry out of the city of Jerusalem, and some of that had already been devoured. As they fled Jerusalem, where they get their sustenance from now on. It was gonna be a tough, tough road for them, looking to feed. the six hundred men that were with him. And here Ziba comes with food. What a high, what an encouragement for David and his followers. Now we might think highly of Ziba for bringing all this, but he was a servant of Mephibosheth. And really all that Ziba was doing was giving away the property of another. And of course he was endearing himself to David and many, many others, wasn't he, by giving away the property of somebody else. This guy would have a great career down in Washington, D. C. , as they give away the property of ours, of our property To others to endear them to them. And they we're not going to vote for them, but they're going to vote for the ones that they endear. And this is what this guy was. He was quite the politician, Zaiba. But the king is is is quite pleased at this point. It's a high point for him. But the king says, I appreciate the food, and and David must have kind of understood where it came from because he was the servant of Mephibosheth In fact, he had fifteen sons that worked for Mephibosheth and twenty servants that worked for him. And so David says here in verses 1 through 3, the king said, Where is thy master? Where's Mephibosheth? Why hasn't he come with you? I know he's lame, but you could have brought him on one of the the asses that you brought with you. You brought all these for our family, but Phibosheth, lame in both feet. Uh he could have been riding on one of them and he could have come with you. Where where is your master? And Ziba said At Jerusalem. Now remember, Mephibosheth was a son of Jonathan, the dear friend of David. And because he was a son of Jonathan, he was a grandson of King Saul. And because he was in the line for the kingship to reign. That was always a possibility. And so he says, where is Mephibosheth? I thought he would come with you and join with us. And he said he's in Jerusalem. For he said, Today shall Israel restore to me the kingdom of my father, of Jonathan. Of course, Jonathan was dead. Perhaps you could read that. Or my grandfather Saul. That was quite a betrayal to David. And after the high point of the food and the raisins and the fruit and the wine The Lord follows very quickly in his life. And that sometimes happens with us. We're ha we're something we're celebrating something and maybe it's an anniversary or a wedding and we'll get a phone call and someone has passed away. And it's a loaf for it. Things can happen very quickly in David's life and they happen that quickly in our lives as well. And here to find the fibish What a betrayal. How shocking to David. It was a low point for David because he had promised Jonathan before Jonathan died that if you die, I will take care of your family. I will never betray your family. And Jonathan said, my family will never betray you. And Jonathan dies. And Saul dies in battle. And David finds out that there's one left. And that's a man. Named Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, crippled in his feet, not likely to ever reign as king or lead in battle, but David had gotten together with him, and he said to Mephibosheth, That I will restore all the land that belongs to to King Saul. All the land that belonged to your father Jonathan. I will restore all that land that pertaineth to them. We read about this in uh 2 Samuel 9, verses 7 through 10. And now I restore all of it to you. I know that because you are crippled you can't really farm it. You can't really trim the vineyards, but I will I will send a man named Zeba to you. He used to work for King Saul, and I will send his fifteen sons and his twenty servants. and they will farm the land for you that you might be profitable and you might have sustenance and you might uh might be well off all the days of your life. And furthermore, Mafibasheth, as Ziba is taking care of the farm for you, I want you every night in my palace. eating at my table continually forever. And so this is the way David had treated Mephibosheth. And now to him Mephibosheth is staying back in Jerusalem, because as Absalom comes back Perhaps when the war is over and Absal's fighting David and David's fighting Absalom they kill each other off till people say there's nobody left except Saul's son Lephibosheth and they will restore to me the kingdom Wow. That was a shocking betrayal to David. Did he believe it? Well, his son had betrayed him. Absalom. His chief advisor, Ahithophel, had betrayed him. It probably wasn't too hard to believe that any other betrayal was possible as well. Maybe I'll have another son someday that'll betray me like Adonijah, and he does. Maybe there's a Judas out there who will betray Christ someday And Judas does. Maybe there's a Peter out there who denied Christ someday and he does. Maybe there's a Thomas out there who will who will doubt the resurrection of Christ and he does. I mean, we can constantly come up with some low points in the lives of our Of our walk in this land of betrayals, highs and lows. And so for David, as much of a betrayal as it was that this crippled Mephibosheth would betray him like this, it seemed at that point in his life plausible. Because there had been so much betrayal already taking place. The truth was, and we will discover in the weeks ahead, if you want to read ahead, you'll find it perhaps. Ziba, the servant of Phibosheth, was lying through his teeth. He was lying through his teeth, and he suspected that David running on the run away out of Jerusalem through the Kidron Valley, up the mountain, over into the land of the Benjamites, where Saul was that was Saul's family out there. Is he's running away, it is not likely he's gonna turn around and go back to Jerusalem and check the story out. And Zyba is betting on that, that that he wouldn't go back or he couldn't go back, and maybe by the time the all the dust has settled David will be dead, and the property will be mine. He gives the property to Ziba. And that's as as good as done. And whether David is dead or alive, he goes back to Jerusalem, he's got the deed, he's got the problem. But Fibberry step is out. So whether David lives or not and perhaps he won't and I think Zaibus probably betting on the fact that David once the paper's signed the property's mine and the fibers that is tossed out it's good to go. It's settled It's a done deed. And so that's what we find here. Ziba is lying, as Jezebel would lie about Naboth and his vineyard, if you remember that story. How she lied about him blaspheming God's name and had Nabah put to death so that she might have the property for her husband Ahab. No wonder God says six things of the Lord hate seven are an abomination on him. A lying tongue. Wow, it has been done with a lying tongue. Ziba obviously is the servant of a large estate, probably paid him pretty well. It fed his fifteen sons, it fed his twenty servants. He wasn't a poor servant by any imagination. He was doing well and he must have been gleaning off the top. And what he brought here to David did not come out of his garden, did not come out of his storehouse. We we can just about bet on that He was not content to manage Mephibosheth's estate. He wanted to master it. He wanted it all for himself. We sometimes have to wonder in America how Christ the King of Kings, as David was king and took care of Mephibosheth. We sometimes have to wonder how God, uh Christ being God in the flesh, how he is the King of Kings, as has placed so many of us in the American vineyard. God's vineyard. America is God's vineyard. In a prosperous vineyard we live in. And yet how often there are people in this country Who are not content. As Ziba was not content. He's in a beautiful vineyard, in a beautiful estate. He's just not content, and we find so much discontentment in this country, the most prosperous country in the world. People are still Coming to this country, legal or illegal, swimming, crawling, you know, digging turtles into this country. And we didn't get into this country. And yet those of us who live here, we find some of us so discontent. We want more. Covetous hearts. And that was Ziba. He had it good, but he wanted more. Why is it that we live in a country of so many discontented people? I would submit to you that the Lord Jesus Christ had to set your affections on things above and not on the things on this earth, Colossians 3 and 2. The Holy Scripture, Christ being the author of the Holy Scripture, teaches us to set our hearts on the things above, not on the things below, not on the things on the earth But Ziba, he wasn't setting his heart on the things above. He was setting his heart on the earth, on the ground. I think that's why there's so many discontentment in this country and other countries as well. Our hearts are not set on the things above, on heavenly things and spiritual things. We're set on the earthly things. And we can't carry them any further along in life than the last beat of our heart. Ziba gambles, but David won't check out his story. And in verse 4, the king does it. And he can't, perhaps. And in verse 4, he says to the king says unto Zia, but Behold, thine are all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. I'm giving you everything that belongs to Mephibosheth. And you probably got it in writing. That was a high point for Zaibo, wasn't it? Wow, he has just gone from being the s from managing this area to mastering all this property, all that Saul had had, all that Jonathan had owned, it's now his. Because David didn't check out the story. I like one of the commentators said, God is the creator of God gave us two ears that we might listen to both sides of the story. How often you've only heard one side of a story and drew your conclusion. And then later on You found out the other side of the story, but you were so committed to the first side of the story that you just couldn't go back and change now. You were you were you were you dug in You were entrenched. You're not changing. David had found the gift of food from Ziba so precious So timely that he rules contrary to the scriptures. Deuteronomy 1:16 and 17 instructs us that we're to hear both sides of the story. Without hearing Mephibosh's side of the story, he rules and gives all of Mephibosha's property to a servant named Zaiba. Nicodemus raised to the same point in the New Testament when accusations are brought against the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, the men came back, the officers come back to the Pharisees. They said, Where is he? You're supposed to arrest him Never man spoke as he spoke. And they're talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Pharisees say, what? Are there secret followers of this Jesus among the Pharisees? And Nicodemus stands up and what does he say? Doth our law judge any man before it hear him? John seven and verse fifty one. Doth our law judge You know, we go to court, and doesn't the judge You have a prosecutor, a defender, you hear both sides, don't they? Why do we hear both sides of court? Because scripture says we're supposed to. You ask the people, why do you have to hear both sides? If this person is famous or powerful or rich, we ought to just listen to him If he's a preacher, we'll ought to just listen to him. If he's got a good conscience or a good reputation, we don't have to hear the other side. That's not the way it works. And some people don't understand why the courts work that way. It's because the scripture says both sides are to be presented. And so Nicodemus says of the Lord Jesus Christ He's being accused of something. He says, does our law, and Nicodemus is referring to Deuteronomy 1, verses 16 and 17, does our law accuse this Christ, this carpenter, without having heard him? And I suspect that there were secret believers of the Pharisees in that group, as they as they had said. We know Joseph of Merrimathea was one of them. And that was probably a high point. Because Joseph Arimathea maybe did not know that Nicodemus was also a secret admirer of the Christ. And those two did find each other, didn't they, at the cross? And this must have been a high point for some of those secret Pharisees that were there But it was a low point for Mephibosheth when he heard, when he heard that his property was gone, I'm sure. And he was not able to travel to defend himself because he is a cripple, and how will he find David anyway? And so Ziba's given the property in verse 4, and in verse 4 Ziba says, listen to Ziba, I humbly beseech thee. Do you just love when people tell you how humble they are? I'm a humble person. Watch out. The the humor s story goes, the guy said he wrote a book, Humility and How I Aed It. And he writes a book. And he gets on radio and TV and he's trying to sell his book. And here we got Ziba trying to sell himself. I humbly beseech thee. Oh, what a humble guy he is, that I may find grace in thy sight, O King. I mean, if David was going to get suspicious, now was the time, you know. He ought to have been. Ziba's humble tongue speaks of in verse 4 grace in the sight, oh Lord my King. Oh, he's talking about grace. He's talking about mercy. He's talking about how humble he is. He's talking about how gracious David is. It just oozes with sickening honey on his lips, and butter, but a covetous heart he had. His covetous heart had sought the grounds of Mophibosheth, and now he speaks about the grace Of David. Do your words ever really reveal the content of your heart? This is not the content of Zion. And sometimes the way people talk, you think, oh, they must be saved. Oh, they must be a Christian. Oh, they must really love the Lord. Oh, I can trust him. But so often the words that come out of the lips, off the tongue, and out of our mouths, does it really match Our heart. Ask yourself that at your words. In fact, sometime when you're all by yourself or you're in your home with your wife, your family, your kids, and you're getting angry and you lose it, those might be the real words. We can think that people are saved, but because they talk about the grace and how humble they are and how merciful God has been to them. But Christ said they draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, but their heart is far From me. Don't she be fooled. Look at Matthew fifteen eight and realize that we can be fooled. People can talk a good game. They can talk a good show. They can talk like a Christian. They know the language. Go to verse here or there Our politicians, you watch, before the November elections, you'll have every politician out there from Senator to Congressman to President who's running quote the scripture. They'll do it And we'll fall all over ourselves to pull a lever for them. And you'll never see or hear for the next four years anything about a Bible or scripture from them again. The next thing we read is as David is heading out with what little bread he's got left and the wine and fruits, he came to a place called Bahurum. Bahurum is in the land of the tribe of the Benjamites. You think it would be the last place that David would want to flee to, the area of King Saul, because there were probably some that still held a grudge against David for taking over the kingdom once Saul was dead. But Absalom is coming from the south, and David has no choice but to head out of Jerusalem through the Kidron Valley and out towards the north and to flee. And so he finds himself in the territory of King Saul and the Benjamites. And he finds himself coming to a city called Bahurum. I know that's a a city you haven't heard of before. You will see it again And we're introduced to a character here whom you will see again. In fact, we've been introduced to Zaiba, we'll be introduced to Zaiba again. And we'll be introduced now to another character in verses 5 through 8, and that's why we bring them all together. They're going to this is really important how these two are going to come together again. In verses 5 through 8, when the king came to Bahram of the house of Saul Shemi came and cursed and cast stones at David, the servants of David. Have you ever been verbally assaulted or physically attacked for being a follower of the king of Israel? Have you ever been verbally assaulted or physically attacked for being a follower of the King of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ? Now some of you might say I've been verbally assaulted, but not physically assaulted. And some might say I've never been verbally or physically assaulted for being a follower of Christ. Well, let me say this to you. You aren't following close enough If you're following close enough to Christ, you will be verbally assaulted for being a Christian. People will make fun of you, though they'll be irritated by the things that they'll throw Bible verses at you Judge not lest you be judged, they're gonna go after you. By the way, they don't tell that they don't tell the verse that says judge your neighbor. That verse is also there And the judge writes his judgment, that verse is also there. So take a verse out of context. If you have never been assaulted in that way, verbally, or maybe even physically. You're not walking close enough with the king. We look here, and they were following close enough It says that they were throwing stones at David, they cast stones at David, and the servants of David, and the servants of the king. Noah had seven people walking close enough to him, they got on the ark, didn't they? Lot had two of his daughters walking close enough to him, they got out of Sodom, didn't they? And Naomi, when she left the land of the Moabites and she came back to Israel, there was one named Ruth walking close up to her. That she became a part of the genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're not being assaulted verbally or physically at some point in your life, ask yourself, am I really walking as close as To Christ as I need to. And Shemi comes and he says, Thou bloody man. He calls David a bloody man. He said, The Lord had returned unto thee all the blood of the house of Saul. What blood of the house of Saul Saul. This is a false accusation. Saul was dead. David didn't kill him. The Philistines did. Jonathan was dead. David didn't kill him. The Philistines did. Abner, his uncle was dead. The commander of the forces of Saul was dead. He had been killed by Joab. David will take care of that later on and see to the Joab pays with his own blood. But David didn't kill Amner. David wept over the death of Amner. And Ishbersheth, who was who had taken over the kingdom after Saul was dead. He was assassinated by two other men that David had nothing to do with, and David killed them for killing Ephesheth. So how can you charge him Falsely charge him. The truth is that David had spared Saul's life on a number of occasions in the cave when David was hiding in a cave Saul walks in the cave and David cuts a piece of clothing from his robe, but he doesn't touch a cell on Saul. Saul's body. And later on when Saul and all the army fell asleep, David goes down and steals, steals or takes or borrows, and whatever you want to call. He takes the the bottle of water that Saul has laying at his head and never touches. Saul's head, proving how close she could get to Saul and not kill him. David is not guilty of the blood of Saul or Saul's family. The truth is, David spared his life. But these were falsities being spread by Shemia and others, no doubt. Have people ever said things about you that aren't true? Hurts, doesn't it? And sometimes it's difficult to prove they're not true. That's a real low, isn't it? This must have been a low for David to be accused of something falsely. And what's he gonna do? He can't bring Saul and Jonathan and these dead people back and say, who killed? Did I have anything to do with it? And they could have answered, No, you don't It's sometimes often very hard to prove. And yet Christ gives us this thought when we're in a low point where we're Christ taught, Bless are you when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. And Christ says, For my sake, Matthew 5:11. Some of the Sometimes it's because you're a Christian that they falsely accuse you. What should your response be? When you're falsely accused. Well, the response of Abishai is recorded in verses 9-11. Then said Abishai the king, Should this dead dog curse my lord the king? In other words, King David, you don't really need this right now. This guy, let me take his head off. I would suspect that that would be the response of almost every one of us here, wouldn't it? You love your king. And they say something against your king, and you like to take his head off. But that wasn't David's response. You see, if David had said, take his head off Abishai, kill him, get rid of him, bring his head back to me. That would have proved that David was a bloody man. That's what he's being accused of You know, sometimes people say to you, call yourself a Christian. I heard you over there sounding to me like you're getting ready to lose your temper. I wasn't getting ready to lose my temper. Don't you accuse me of that? You can't do that David would have been accused of proof, proof that he was a bloody man if he allowed Abishai to go out and do that. David looks beyond Shemiah. We have to look beyond the shimmy eyes in our life. We have to look beyond the things that cause uh the the tribulation in our life and the affliction in our life. We have to look beyond those things In fact when the when the serpents came in were biting the people in the wilderness, what did Moses say? He said he he built that brazen serpent, he lifted it up, he said, Look up And live. And this is what David does. David looks beyond and above Shimei, and he sees this affliction on his life, falsely accused, as he were. It comes down from above. God has allowed it, God has directed it. God could have interfered and stopped it, but he didn't. And so he looks above and beyond this. And Christ tells us also when things are going rough for us to look up, our redemption doth nigh. We're to look above the circumstances in our life. Don't let them get us down so low. Stephen, what did Stephen do? They're getting made of stone, Stephen. They come charging up and they're wailing and gnashing of teeth upon Stephen. What does Stephen do? It says he looked up and he saw Christ. And his throne, standing up and looking down. And so when you have afflictions like Stephen and afflictions like David here, you have to overlook what you see and look up and above it. see that the affliction has come down from above for your good and God's glory. David saw that it wasn't Shimei, but the Lord that was directing all the circumstances of his life. Absalom's trying to kill you, David. It's of the Lord. Your son Adonai is going to also try to throw you out. It's of the Lord. A Hitler fellow has deserted you and he's constantly against you. It's of the Lord. Zebe, or Ziba rather, has lied to you and you've done a terrible uh thing by giving all this property to Mephibosheth. It was of the Lord Your dearest friend Jonathan has died. And David could say it's of the Lord. You've been betrayed. By a long list of names we've had here in the last couple weeks. Falsely accused. Cursed. Rocks throw it at you. Of the Lordshai was eager to be head Shemia and How about Job? Did he understand when he lost everything? He did. Job says the Lord gave The Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Job 1 and 21. He'd lost all his children, sheep, camel, goats. All he had left was a nagging wife Telling to curse God and die? Hey Lord, you missed one. He could have said that. She should have gone first. Lord said, I left her there. Why, Lord? Why'd you leave my wife here? Tell me to curse you and die. It's in the plans. It's of the Lord that left your wife here, your helpmate. Wow. You remember when the Lord Jesus Christ was sent the disciples out to Samaria to prepare the way? He's coming through. Be preaching, teaching, healing, and the people in Samaritan The Samaria area. They didn't want Christ there. They didn't want to hear the gospel. They didn't care about a healing service. They didn't care about any of the miracles he could do. They weren't happy at all. And James And John the beloved. Huh? John the beloved. They come back to the Lord and say, they don't want to hear any of this. We got a great idea. And John the Beloved says, and James echoing and concurring at them, oh Lord, let us call down fire from heaven and destroy them all. That's what John the Beloved said. So don't tell me you haven't felt that way sometimes. If John the Blood could do all of that, and James with him his brother, and Christ said, Yeah, no not what What you ask. The afflictions, the trials, the tribulations, the irritations, the little things that just Get your goat. They constantly come up and agitate you. The car won't start, the tires flat, the phone rings when you're just about ready to fall asleep at night Well the kids has got a runny nose or a chicken pox and all that stuff. You know, you always have you not ever said this? Not only does it happen, but it always happens at the worst possible time. No, it happens at the exact time that the Lord wants it to happen. There's no such thing as Murphy's law. It's God's law. Perfect timing always in our lives. The Lord Jesus Christ. He's in the Garden of Gethsemane. He says, The cup which my father hath given me Shall I not drink it? John 18 and 12. Shall I not drink it? Wow. I don't know what cup the Lord has given you to drink, but sometimes it's pretty soft. Sometimes there's not a whole lot in that cup. And sometimes it's a medicine that doesn't go down, even with a little bit of sugar very well. In the cup that Christ said, this is the cup my father has given me. Shall I not drink it? In that cup was Judas Iscariot. In that cup was Tyaphas. In that cup were the Pharisees. And the Sadducees and Pilate and Herod. And he said, This is the cup that God has given me. This is the cup my loving Father has given me. My loving father has given me this cup. Shall I not drink it? No, the frightening thing about that is I'm preaching this and I may have to eat my words and drink Drink that cup tomorrow. But you will too someday. David could see the hand of God in the details. Can you see the hand of God in the details? Details your life, as low and as rough and as painful as those details are, can you see God's hand in the details? We always see God in the highs, don't we? Oh, God has blessed me. This is wonderful. Whoa, what happened over here? This is a real low. Satan must have got in somewhere. God didn't do this. Oh, really? He asked Job if Satan had anything to do with it or if God had something to do with it. God told Satan, where have you been? Where are you going? Have you considered? Oh Lord, please don't tell Satan, have you considered Pastor Byrd? Have you considered my servant Job? That's what God said. He just put Job right up there on the front line. Don't tell me God didn't have anything to do with the troubles of Job or your troubles. This was a low for David being stoned and cursed. But let me ask you this. Do you deserve the highs in your life? Do you really deserve the highs in your life? Second question. Don't you really deserve your lows to be a whole lot lower than they are? I mean, really, when you think about the low If you were God, wouldn't you give some people a lot lower lows? And guess what? If they were God, they would give you a lot lower lows because we all deserve lower lows and we don't deserve the highs we have. It's all of grace that our lows aren't lower. And it's all of grace that our highs are as high as they are in our life And so here comes this wicked Shimei with his heart. And by the way, God didn't put the wickedness in Shimei's heart. He was born. With a sin nature. He was born, and you were too. The only difference here is that God left him with his sin nature, with his depraved heart But God didn't put it there. Adam and Eve, when they sinned, everybody, every child, every every everyone has always been born ever since then with a sin nature, a depraved heart. And and God doesn't do that. Adam did that. Eve is a part of it. And so here's Shimei, the wickedness in his heart, it was there from the day he was born. It was a vessel of wrath fitted for destruction. Romans 9, 22 and 23. And I you might ask yourself that this morning as you sit here. Are you a vessel of wrath fitter for destruction? Or has God created in you a vessel of mercy? Oh boy. If you're a vessel of mercy, you know it's by the grace of God, don't you? Because everyone was born a vessel of destruction. Unless God changes that. You also might note that a graceless heart, and that's what Shemi was, he had a graceless heart. A graceless heart has no common sense has no common sense whatsoever. If he had common sense, he wouldn't be throwing rocks at King David who was surrounded by an army of six hundred converted Philistines Boy, what is an idiot to do that? There's no rationale, no common sense, and that's what you run into the unsaved people. They're not only not saved, but they don't have enough common sense to even figure out how important it is to be saved And to listen to the gospel. Throwing stones at an army full of men like Abishai. That's totally insane. And Abishai was restrained only by the words Holy Spirit inspired and spoken by David. David stopped Abishai and that entire army from going after him After Shimei that day. Verse 12 through 14. It may be, David says, that the Lord will look upon my affliction and will requite or recompense me or pay me or repay me good for his cursing Don't do it. The more he curses, the more God's going to probably repay me. And Shemiah went along beside him, cursing and throwing stones and casting dust at all at the king and all the people You you you just see that he's throwing stones, he's throwing stones, he's cursing David, nothing happens. He sees him talking to Habishai, he sees him talking to some of the other soldiers, he says, Oh boy, now it's gonna come And nothing happens. So Abashai starts throwing more stones and cursing more. He's probably running out of curses he can even come up with. He's trying to imagine some other some curse you. You're a you're a wicked, evil man. You're easy He's given all these things he's saying about David. And he's throwing stones and becomes so frustrated that he starts throwing dust at. Now dust isn't going to hurt from up top of a hill. But he's so frustrated. He's picking up stones. He's picking up dust. He's throwing the kitchen sink. And he can get a hold of it. He is so frustrated. The more passionate Shimei becomes cursing and casting ducks, the more patient David grew. David knew He was a long-suffering servant. That's a gift of the Holy Spirit to be long-suffering. David knew he had turned the other cheek. Wonder where he got that from. David knew he should forgive someone 70 times seven. Where do you get that from? It's all taught in the New Testament by Christ and through the Holy Spirit. David already understood the teachings of God before they were even written down by him in the Psalms or by Matthew, Mark. Luke and John and others. He grew more patient. David knew God's anger endueth endureth, but for a moment that's a high David knew that weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. That's a high. Understand that there are weeping may endure for night, but joy will come in the morning. Thou hast turned my morning into dancing. That's another high. Gird me with gladness. That's another high. Psalm thirty in verse five and verse eleven God pays his suffering saints well. David knew that. So, pilgrim, how do you react to affliction? Pilgrim, how should we react to affliction? Know this. God pays his suffering servants very, very well. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we look to you today, and we know that the church is suffering throughout this world, over in the Islamic countries. Of Somalia and Sudan and Egypt and Syria and Lebanon. Oh Lord, the suffering that's going under the church. It's horrific. And some of it's coming here. And Lord, we know that these afflictions Have come from above. We look beyond our circumstance and the circumstance of this world, and we recognize, Lord, that the affliction is there to bring you glory. And we wait for the day as our redemption draweth nigh. You will repay and recompense us well for having suffered along with the suffering servant Jesus Christ. It says in his In his name we humbly pray to you. Amen.