We are still making our way through the book of Hebrews. I can't believe we're at the tenth chapter. It seems like we've been in the book forever. There's not too much more to go. And we are in this beautiful chapter that is probably one of my favorite chapters in all the book of Hebrews. I've told some of you before, if I were stuck on a desert island and I could only keep one book of the Bible with me, what would it be? It would be the book of Hebrews. Because you get the Old Testament as well as the New Testament and the clear explanation is very thick and dense, but That's uh just my opinion. Well, we're gonna start today. Our passage is the tenth chapter, and I'm gonna read verses five through ten. If you'd like to follow along in your Bible, I encourage you to do that You might want to make some notes in there. If not, you can have your hand out, or you can just listen. Hebrews 10, verse 5. Hear now the word of the Lord. Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not. But a body hast thou prepared me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me To do thy will, O God. Above, when he said, sacrifice an offering and burnt offering is an offering for sin. Thou wouldest not, neither had pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. By the which will we are sanctified Through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That ends this portion. Well, our discussion question This is probably the toughest part of the lesson, frankly, is to come up with a good discussion question. So if some weeks they seem a little underpowered, may a culpa my fault. I just can't come up with something good. But this week may be a little weak, but I I'm using it to drive home a point. So when we say we are pleased with something Maybe you bought a new dress and you look at it and you go, this is this is the nice dress. Or uh you have a job that's done by a contractor What what does it mean when you say you're pleased by that? You're content with it. You're content with it? At least with this time. Yeah. At least for this time. Interesting. All right. So that's an interesting contrast. You're content, but for this time. Alright, very good. Um Now, is it possible that you could be happy but not pleased? Yeah, yeah. Sure, you can be happy but not pleased What about the other way around? Is it possible that you could be pleased but not happy? Take the emotion out of it Another way to look at this is what are some other synonyms for please or pleasing or pleasure? What are some other synonyms for that? Relieved? Relieved. Oh, that's interesting. Yeah, maybe you've been in a lot of pain and okay. And relieved because part of the job is done, but there's still a lot to be done yet. Okay. Mm-hmm. What are some other synonyms for satisfied? Satisfied. Okay, that's an interesting one. Yeah. Does that have an emotional component to it? Does it have to have an emotional component to it? Or is is it necess can you is it possible to be pleased or just to use your relieved or satisfied? Is it possible For you to feel that but not have any emotional part to it. What are some maybe some examples of that? Give me give me some examples of that Thrilled. Thrilled, okay, I some emotions in thrust. There are some emotions in thrilled. So what would be something where you're thrilled but not emotional? Or is it possible to be pleased but not emotional about it? If I'm editing a document for this pool. And I go through and it's like check, check, check, looks great. I it's just something off my plate. I'm not really thrilled, I'm not really emotional about it. It's just a job done. Oh interesting Well there are other times when I would do a similar job and I'm much more vested in it and then I'm going to have some emotion involved. But there are different levels of involvement technology. That's interesting, yeah, because you gave uh I'm sorry, Jim, do you have your hand up? No Oh, doing taxes last year I was relieved when it was done, but certainly was not happy. Excellent. I like I like both examples though. Let's do a taxes. You do you He's working at the Ross Estate. She she's throwing him over the threshold. He's not in poverty level as long as he's working over there. And you need bodies and you're glad that somebody shows up, but sometimes they don't give you a lot of help when they get there, but you're just glad to see a warm body. Oh I could comment on that a lot, but I'll just pause. Pretty just maybe made me think of one. Sometimes you plan a b event. You plan a big family picnic and it's a lot of work to get together And you're glad it's done and yet you miss the people that now are no that were here and now they're spread across the country again. Yeah. So I just wanted to explore that word please or pleasure and look at different ways it could be used. And I wanted to try to get us mentally out of the rut that pleasure always has something to do with an emotion, because that really is not always true The Bible does use that word pleasure in a way that conveys emotion, but there are some ways that it uses it more of a technical sense. You're grading a newspaper. You're grading a classroom paper It checked the boxes. Pleased. I'm done. Satisfied. I think you use the term satisfied. Did your taxes. Got that behind me. Okay. It it does there's nothing left that annoys me, right? I'm like my mom. I'm gonna constantly run around and look for something out of order, out of order, out of order. It's not out of order. Okay, good, everything's in order. Great Check the box, I can I'm settled at peace. I'm not bothered by it. So keep that in mind because we're going to tap into some of these discussions points we made a little later today. Well, I broke it into three parts. The first is in verses five and six because it mentions Christ's body, the purpose of his body. We're going to talk about that a little bit We're going to look at this marvelous statement that's in parenthesis. It says, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it's written of me. The volume of the book, literally the role of the book, which is how the old Patriarchs would have kept copies of the Torah and the Tanakh. It would have been on a big, long, continuous roll. The great Isaiah scroll was discovered. It was on a roll. In the roll of the book, in the volume of the book, it's written of me. We're going to explore that coming. We're going to look at the pleasure of sacrifices, and then I said there's three points I've actually got a fourth, what the will of Christ actually established. So let's try to get into it here. The purpose Well, without reading it again in 5 and 6, the divine penman is quoting for us from the Book of the Psalms. And he quotes from Psalm chapter 40 and verse 6. Now if you pay close attention to Psalm 40 and verse 6, which is there in your in your bulletin insert It says it a little different. It says, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened, whereas Hebrews says, a body thou hast prepared me There are a few other minor differences, but that is an interesting twist. Now, there's the liberal who would look at this and say, oh, well Obviously there's a problem in the Greek or the Hebrew. There's a contradiction. No, no, no, no, no. This happens a lot in Scripture. The volume of the book had not yet been completed You had not gotten yet to the book of Revelation when the canon of Scripture was closed. And when it was closed, God put his little stamp at the end and said, Don't add to the words, don't take away Many a time God will take an Old Testament phrase and add a divine interpretation to it and restate it in the New Testament to give you insight. And those are the real gems in Scripture. Those are the real gems when you can start to begin to open things up. It's a key. Don't round off the corners. Don't say the key is broken. Use it. Use it to your benefit. That word opened in Psalm 40, thou hast opened mine ear, mine ears thou hast opened, it actually intimates two things. Hebrew is just very colorful It's very colorful language. It's not as precise as Greek. Greek is extremely precise. There's word endings and the choice of how the word is phrased. that can refer to words at the beginning or the end of the sentence and you're free to mix the word order to mean something else. Greek is very precise. Think of it as the the the fine pencil line around the artwork, but the Hebrew is the broad brush stroke. You know, you can kind of see different things in there depending on how you look at it. Now this word open intimates two things. It actually is the very same word board. That word opened is bored, like you drilled a hole in something. And that brings to mind the servant in the book of Exodus. whose ear was bored, and it was bored for a reason. You read in Exodus 21, 5, it says, if the servant, this is one whose served his master, but it's time for him to be released. There was always a time of release in the Old Testament. If the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children I will not go out free. Then his master shall bring him to the judges. He shall also bring him to the door, even unto the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall serve him forever. So, to have your ear bored through was an indication that you would serve your master forever. What does that say about the nut jobs today that like to do all kinds of body piercing? That was a symbol of slavery. So was the marks on the body. You asked the Jews what the Nazis did to them. They put marks on them. Why? They were marked as slaves, as inferior people, and we glory in our shame today and tattoo up our bodies. I don't. None of my kids do. That's the first sense. He's bored his ear, and so that means you're going to serve the master forever. Your willing slave. Mine ear hast thou opened. That was reference to Jesus Christ He willingly had his ear bored, as it were, to serve the Father forever with his life. He would never deviate from it. An ear thou hast opened. The second thing that it intimates And it is there in the Hebrew was a mind illuminated to the things of God. As it were came into your mind. Your mind was open. Mine ear that was open. Jesus often said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Well, a lot of people heard him, but they didn't have that inward discernment of understanding to know what he's talking about. You see that in Isaiah 50, verse 5. The Lord God hath opened mine ear. I was not rebellious, neither turned away back. And in trying to explain this concept here, I found a very useful comment from this commentary. Allow me to read that to you. It's a few sentences. It says this Christ assuming a human body In obedience to the father's will, in order to die, the death of the slave was virtually the same act of voluntary submission to service as that of a slave suffering his ear to be bored by his master. His willing obedient to the Father's will is what is dwelt on here in Hebrews as giving special virtue to his sacrifice. The preparing or the fitting of a body for him is not with a view merely to his incarnation, but to his propitiatory sacrifice as to the contrast to sacrifice and offerings requires. The forming of the ear implies the preparation of the body That is his incarnation. This secondary idea, really in the Hebrew, though less prominent, is the one used in this argument. So I find the book of Hebrews fascinating with this divine insight that's given. The point of all this is that Jesus Christ viewed his body as a sacrifice to reflect his status of ultimate submission to the will of God. He came into this world knowing fully, I came not to do mine own will, but the will of him who sent me. He fully had it in his mind, I am simply here on a mission. And so, as Christians, whose ears God has opened who's given us an understanding, the Apostle Paul simply connects the dots for us and says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. That word reasonable has to do with logical. It is a logical conclusion. You were bought with a price. You're not your own. That's the whole concept of the slave. He's not his own Oh, I hate slavery. Well, if your master is good, it's the Lord Jesus Christ, you're either a servant of sin or a servant of righteousness, but a servant you will be. But a servant you will be. I think Morton Luther said men are like horses. The only question is who's the writer, the devil or Jesus? That's a very good question. And so, as Christians, let us consider how Christ used his body as that offering, as that sacrifice. Then he says, I come, I come to do thy will. And I was just really taken up with that summary statement. He says, I come to do thy will. There's not much explanation I'm going to do. I just want you to hear all the different ways the Lord Jesus spoke about his coming in the New Testament. He says, I come to do thy will. He says in Matthew 5, I am come to fulfill the law He's come to preach the gospel. I'm come to call sinners to repentance. He came to send a sword and to set men at variance, yea, even within a family. I came down from heaven to do the will of him that sent me. He says, I am sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. This is a lot of responsibility. This is a lot of work. There ain't no time for fooling around. I am come into this world for judgment. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Hint he's not talking about right now I am come to save what has been lost. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to save men's lives, not to destroy. He's come to send fire on the earth He's come to minister. He's come as the light, and he came to bear witness unto the truth. That's just a little sampling. If you look for that phrase, I came, I come, I'm coming Jesus plainly tells people his purpose and what he was doing. You know, he said this to his parents very early. What What you not, don't you know, I must be about my father's business? I must be about my father's business. If a 12-year-old boy can say that, how much more a 22 or a 32 or a 72-year-old? I must be about my father's business. We then cover this business about the pleasure of sacrifices. This is um this is kind of the The big punchline I want to get us to today. It says in verse 8, if you look at that, it says, sacrifice and offerings for sins, thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure. You know, we kind of kicked around different ideas for that word pleasure. And the core concept here is really the word satisfaction. And I want to locate us to that word satisfaction because you can be satisfied with something without an emotional component. And satisfaction here conveys the idea, or pleasure, the idea of fulfilling all the law's requirements. Could the death of an animal Truly atone for sins before God. It never really could, and that's been the thrust of the argument all along. You and I know it standing as Christians on the New Testament side oh so many hundreds, thousands of years later. It's plain and evident to us, but to these first Jews to whom the book of Hebrews was directed This was a hard right turn to tell them that the offerings that Moses demanded, the temple and the priests and the Levites, which Moses prescribed, yea, it was in God's holy book The penman here is making clear to us under divine inspiration that it was all in vain. The Levites died. Many animals died, but the people would have to keep coming back again and again. You know, is there anything you think about in your life that you keep doing again and again and it doesn't satisfy? You know, we're gonna have a fellowship meal later today. I know, like me, you're all looking forward to that. We enjoy that time together. We have got a lot of good cooks in the congregation. That helps. And yet, come six, eight, twelve, twenty-four hours later, you're hungry again. Wouldn't it be nice to eat once? To not have to bother with eating and you've got endless, boundless amounts of energy, kind of like this nuclear fission plant inside of you that's just overflowing with energy, just a fountain of energy where you we can't imagine what that's like at all. There are some things that are just beyond our grasp. And so that's the argument, that's the line of reasoning that the penman from Hebrews is taking here. The priests died, they didn't do the job. The animals died and they had to keep coming and being sacrificed because they didn't do the job. But lo and behold, Christ did the job. He made satisfaction for sins. So first of all we find that he pleased the Father We read in Matthew 3:17 at his baptism, that would be the beginning of his ministry, his public ministry, lo, a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am Well pleased. There's a very amplifying adjective added to that. Is that an adjective? Adverb. I always get those ones. Adverb added? Yeah, thank you It's an amplifier. He's well pleased. Colossians 1, it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. God looked upon Jesus Christ as I'm very well pleased. It's one thing to say all the boxes have been checked. It's another to say, we have no more need of even checking boxes anymore again. Just get all those requ the requirements are totally, fully, entirely, thoroughly met. You know, I built an edition for my mom at various points of the construction. You have a building inspector that comes out. It's always a guest in the contractors as to what they're going to look for Because they don't have time to thoroughly go over the code. The code is almost as tall as the building. If you look at it, the electrical code they keep spewing out every year is insane. No, I guarantee you no house is built according to the full electrical code. Regardless. Can you imagine an inspector coming through and says This satisfies this code to the fullest extent that I have no need of reviewing the code anymore in any other place in the city. We can't imagine some kind of a job that would create Such a fulfillment, housing for everybody for free, I don't know what it would do, but in Jesus Christ, he fulfilled everything that God the Father would ever want to look at. Christ's death, furthermore, pleased God, and this is, I hope, something that you can lay a hold on. It was not a happy pleasure. Get the emotional aspect out of it. For instance, look at Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53 in your handout, beginning in verse 6. The last part of that verse says, The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. What an unimaginable load on his shoulders. He was oppressed. He was afflicted. Oppressed, that kind of intimates it's slavery. He was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought As a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before her shears is dumb. So he opened not his mouth To me, that's an astounding aspect of Christ. Everything he went through personally, he didn't open his mouth once. I I'm I'm kind of like Brother Jim. I see some nonsense on the news and I just get upset and I want to start yelling and But can you imagine that having it being applied to him personally? He's personally being attacked by these things. He's personally being attacked by the priests. His own disciples are walking away And yet he could rule that tiniest member in his body. He had it under perfect control. A perfect man able to bridle his whole body and says, I am at the hands of my master. I will not speak back, because it is not my privilege so to do. I am to be led as a lamb to the slaughter. Pilate marveled. Pilate marveled. That he answered nothing. He's seen lots of people. He's condemned many to a cross. He's marveled that Jesus, he says, don't you know? It's almost like This man must be mad. Don't you know I have the power to release you or to crucify you? And then Jesus opened his mouth You'd have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. He that delivered me to thee hath a greater sin He could restrain his tongue, allow all of this to come upon him. He never spoke. And what does it say? Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. Now you would think it would say to deliver him. It says it pleased the Lord to bruise him. It pleased God to allow all of this horrific unjustice to fall upon him. And it was a tremendous injustice. He hath put him to grief, speaking of God. When thou, God, shalt make his soul an offering for sin. And yet we read, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Christ's death was a satisfaction. It satisfied God to bruise him. It satisfied the Lord God to allow Jesus to be that sacrifice. Why are we taking time to talk about that? Because one of the most misunderstood verses in the Bible appears to us in the book of Ezekiel. And it's It's misunderstood because they view the word pleasure in terms of happiness with an emotional content to it. Because the death of the wicked Doesn't please God. The death of the wicked doesn't satisfy God. You try taking a groundhog. And sacrifice or a vulture and sacrifice that instead of a lamb or a turtle dove in the days of the priests, it wouldn't be accepted. And that's what the death of the wicked is like to God There's no pleasure in their death. See what he says in Ezekiel 33, 11? Say unto them, as I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure In the death of the wicked. God's not standing here saying, oh, I really don't want you to die. Oh, no, no, this is not an emotional thing This is a satisfaction thing. The omnipotent, sovereign judge of the universe is looking down and he sees a wicked individual destined for hell, loaded with his sins. And even the man's very death, he can donate all of his goods to charity. It doesn't matter. I have no idea what Charlie Unger did, or is that his name, Unger? Munger, yeah. See he's half he's did be hadn't even been dead six months. I forgot his name. It doesn't matter. Who's that? Who's that? Yeah. Never heard of him. Or Warren Buffett. These very wealthy individuals. They can donate it all to charity. And God says, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Your death didn't satisfy one requirement. It didn't satisfy one idle word. Right. I'm not satisfied, Penny, when you're grading a paper, and you get to the very end and you look at your rubric and you look at this paper. And you look at the student, yep, it's a student in my class. They were there when I told them the rules. Here's the rubric. I gave them the rubric. I have a signature from the student and the parent. He understands the rubric. And what you have in your hand looks like a Chinese fortune cookie. And you go there's there's zero. And it happens. Okay, well Didn't mean to out a student on you, but comes to a science experiment with a cup of dirt. What do you have? A cup of dirt. What is it? It's a cup Of dirt! You ever do that? You wake up in the morning when your science experiment is due and you're like, Oh, I was supposed to put the project together. Marissa never did that. She turned it in early. Nuclear fission project or something. God sees the death of the wicked and says, No, you get a zero. I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. None. There's no satisfaction there There's nothing. I have no pleasure in the deck death of the wicked, but that the wicked turns from his way. And live, turn ye, turn ye from evil ways. Why will you die? He says you want to start down the right path. Repent. That's whom God's seeking, repentance. So this business of God wringing his hands, oh I hoped it would come. Like Jesus is one of many little gods sitting on a shelf just wringing his hands, hoping No that I'm sorry, you serve a little teddy bear Jesus in a toy store. That's not my God. You you serve some false idol called Jesus, lowercase J. That's not the God of the Bible He's not wringing his hands. He says, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But it pleased the Father to bruise the Son. I have complete pleasure in him. God's well pleased him. And that's the difference. That's the difference. What did this will of Christ establish in verses 9 and 10? It says, He taketh away the first. that he may establish the second. And I love this phrase, by the which will we're sanctified forever through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That's one of these just take you through the sky kind of verses here to be sanctified. This is another benefit of Christ's one-time bodily offering in the new covenant. That first was redemption. We read about that in the earlier chapter, Hebrews 9. 12. Neither by the blood of goats and calves, by his own blood he entered in once in the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. So his blood obtained eternal redemption. Blood in the old covenant was also used to sanctify. You remember the priests? The tip of his thumb, right ear, great toe, he was sanctified with the blood of the off. He was set apart to that office You likewise have been set apart as a special people of God to a special office and a special role. The will of Christ, his voluntary submission to the purposes of God, sanctifies that believer forever. Did you catch that? They're sanctified forever. 1 Corinthians 1. 30, the apostle says this. The Apostle Paul agrees, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom. You have any wisdom? Well, it's in Christ. Righteousness, you have any righteousness? It's in Christ. And sanctification and redemption. That's all four of them. All those you have in Jesus Christ. In him, by him, through him, and because of him. 1 Peter 1, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the scatters, to the scatters, to the strangers scattered throughout Dot dot dot verse 2. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through sanctification of the Spirit. That sanctifying work of that spirit applying that blood to us. Technically, however, and this is a key point I have to make because I can't stop there. I have to round this out. Does this therefore mean it doesn't matter what I do, I can live any way I want because I'm fine? Ask David if that works. Ask David if that worked out. It didn't. The thing that David did displeased God. God God knows. You can't fool God. Technically, this is referring to, and this is your fill in the blank, technically The reformers have developed this doctrine of sanctification to a very fine point, and I appreciate this fine point. It is an important one to make. Verse isolation will get you in trouble. My mentor, Brother Bernie, used to say every heretic has his verse, and they do. This is referring to positional sanctification. Positional sanctification, meaning you have a relationship that has been secured of God, whereby you are tied, anchored, chained, to a new covenant. You're in that relationship. For instance, look here, I'm now remembering the verse I wanted to add. It's in 1 Corinthians 7. This is a positional relationship. A positional relationship. In 1 Corinthians 7, the apostle is dealing with some questions that the Greeks at Corinth had concerning marriage and marriage relationships. They had a lot. Here's two people. One's became saved in the marriage, the other one's unsaved, and maybe the wife or it's the husband, either way. Says, well, what should I do? I'm saved. The other one's not. Should I leave? Should I stay in? What am I supposed to do? Legitimate question. The apostle answers that. But notice how he answers it. It's very interesting. And Verse 13, I'll give you some context of 1 Corinthians 7. And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, In other words, he's okay with her. I'm fine with her going to church. I have no problem with that. I I I like her. I have no issues with her. Let her not leave him. She has no reason to leave this man. For, and he gives a reason. This is interesting. It's more than just, yeah, okay, this is just exigency, this is just convenient. No, no, there's a reason for it. That's quite interesting. Now, we're talking about an unbelieving spouse here. He says For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy? Holy and sanctified are the same root Greek word, hagios. In other words, it's a positional sanctification. Because of that relationship, that is a gospel home. How does that work? Well, I can tell you, and again I appeal to my mentor, Brother Bernie, he was saved. God saved him. God never saved his wife. She had no problem, Jan, for some strange reason, genuinely liked me. She thought I was great, thought I was nice. And I was over at that man's house four nights a week. Marissa, can you imagine? Some young fellow showing up at your house four nights a week, and you're going to feed him four nights a week because he's going to talk with Anton for two to three hours every evening about the Bible. Now he was older and didn't have kids. But even if older and didn't have kids, can you imagine? That's quite the impact. She was quite content. She was a good cook. Oh yeah, she was a good cook. She was content to do that God worked that in her. She was sanctified by the husband. And so it is God works in that holy relationship. Was that unbelieving man perfect and right before God? No. What kind of sanctification? It's a positional one. Jesus says, which is greater? The gold or the temple that sanctifies the gold? In other words, it was the temple that had that relationship to the gold that sanctified it. It's like Taking your thumb out of a fresh bag of chocolate cookies and touching one of them saying, that's mine. You've just sanctified that cookie. Ain't nobody else touching it. Lot's son-in-laws, though unbelieving, would have been spared the judgment of Sodom if they hadn't gone with Lot. They still would have been lost before God eternally, but they would have been sanctified in that relationship. So sanctified really does mean set apart. There's a special relationship that one has. And We know this also from the New Testament because of the exhortations to something else called sanctification, that other sense of the word, which means this life of purging of sins, this life of rejecting the old, taking out the trash, and trying to, as it were, make our lives more useful. For the master's service. It says in 1 Thessalonians 4, For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye Old English word for y'all, should abstain from fornication. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, called Jesus I came. He's not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness So what's my point in all this? All that heaven requires is met in him. We are righteous in him, yea, even sanctified in him. And when we see him, all will be finalized in our new resurrection bodies. Right now I'm righteous in him. But I'm only going to let you give my wife a sticky note to for her to write out the things where I have not demonstrated the righteousness of Christ during the week so that she doesn't overfill it. I'm not a righteous man insofar as you might see. But there is a day coming when I receive a new body, a body he has prepared you as well. And then all will be well. All will be whole. All will be complete Until that time, we seek to live a God-glorifying lives through the power of the Spirit, the Word of God in us, to resist the world, the flesh, and the devil. Even as Jesus came, he says, as the Father has sent me, and we've just explored a little bit of this, he says, so, meaning in like manner, in this manner, so send I. That's all for today. Thank you. Jeffrey, would you mind close this prayer? Jeff Jeffrey. Jeffrey, please. Dear Heaven Father, what a blessing it is to be consider uh to be counted amongst your people, uh, where all the work uh salvation was water in Christ. Thank you for the word. It is a joy to the spirit, and it's a help even to those who are still trying to understand it. It's you that give the understanding, what a blessing that is, Jesus Christ.