And I uh I want to note from the very beginning that I realize this is not a uh politically correct message. But uh the Lord has brought us here. I have to admit I wanted to be in a section of scripture and address what the Supreme Court has done lately with the uh sanctifying of gay marriage. And there are a lot of churches out there have already spoken out about it. They have um lowered the American flag to half mass. They've hung it upside down. They have uh raised the Christian flag higher than the American flag, or they've draped the American flag in black I think all those are pretty good ideas. We haven't done that. But see where the Lord leads us in the days and weeks and months ahead. Well let's first look at the verses of scripture, and then we'll uh see why it leads me to refer to and reference uh what the Supreme Court has done as well. First Samuel chapter twenty-five and we left off there with just the last three verses that we didn't deal with. uh a couple weeks ago and so now we're going to deal with uh verses 42 and 43 in chapter 25 or 1 Samuel. If you remember the relationship, the meeting with David with Abigail, and then Abigail's husband dies, and then David proposes to her King David, and she accepts And in verse forty two, and Abigail hasted and arose, and rode upon an ass with five damsels of hers that went after her, and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife. And that was a real exciting place to end a few weeks ago. And David also, verse 43, took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they were also both of them his wives. And we didn't go into that, 'cause we had such a wonderful, beautiful love story, and then it gets spoiled by verse forty three And so I propose to you this morning first, and David is a born-again Christian, he's a bloodwash, he's a man after God's own heart, and he is the king of Israel. But may a Christian have two wives at the same time And the scripture plainly says no. It's contrary to the inspired Old Testament writings. In Genesis 2 and verse 24. And it's also with the words of Christ in the New Testament. So when people say, Well, that's the Old Testament. In the New Testament, we can have more than one wife. There's plenty of examples of Individuals of the scriptures having more than one wife, David's one, Jacob's another. There are descriptions of men of God having more than one wife. Those are descriptions That is not the prescription of the Scriptures. Ungodly men do sin, ungodly or rather godly men do sin, and godly men do things sometimes contrary to Scripture. And to have two wives at the same time was contrary to Genesis two twenty-four, Old Testament. And then Christ pointed out again, the Lord Jesus Christ In the New Testament, Matthew nineteen and five, where it says, Therefore a man singular shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife singular, not unto his wives So scripture is is adamantly clear, Old and New Testament, and we could spend a lot of time today and go through a lot of verses, and I think most of you realize that God has always intended for us to have uh one spouse at a time. time, not two, three, or four. And David here in those verses, he takes two. And that's called bigamy, all right? I know that if you're not married, that's sometimes called monotony You know, and sometimes when you're married it's monotony as well. But bigamy is taking two wives, and then polygamy is having more than two wives. And we're gonna find out in scripture as we go through that that David not only is a bigamist here in this verse, he becomes a polygamous too. And that also is contrary to Scripture. Contrary to historical uh facts of any country in the world, uh contrary to the biblical definition of marriage, there is just no exception Made for anyone, including David, the king, the ruler of the nation. There is no exception. A king may not have more than one wife because he's the king, because he's the ruler uh because he's the despot, because he is uh powerful or rich or famous or a hero. He still may not have more than one wife And Deuteronomy seventeen, fifteen through seventeen says, A king shall not multiply wives unto himself So King David, you're a man after God's own heart, but boy, in verse 42 and 43, he has really blown it. He's really done something contrary to the Word of God. And so we're going to look at this morning doing things contrary to the Word of God, sullying the act of marriage. Soling holy matrimony as we've titled the message this morning. If a king is not to violate the sanctity, and he's not, Deuteronomy 17. 15 through 17. If a king is not to violate the sanctity and the structure of God ordained marriage, and by the way, it comes from the Bible, it's God ordained, starts in Genesis If a king is not to violate the sanctity and the structure of God ordained marriage, should any country take it upon themselves to do that Should any Congress, should any court, even if it calls itself a Supreme Court, doesn't have the right to sully that which is to be sanctified. Holy matrimony And the answer according to Scripture, Old or New Testament, is no, an emphatic and emphatic no, regardless of the Congress, the country Or the court, district court, local court, or United States Supreme Court has not the right. And yet, recently, five Reprobate lawyers from Washington, D. C. Reprobate, that is definition evil uh that is degenerate, uh that is lost or sinners, these five lost sinners, uh Christless is another description of the word reprobate, five reprobate lawyers of the United States Supreme Court. Took upon himself an unprecedented action, unprecedented in all the history of the world. Have there been gays throughout the world? Yes. Have there been sodomites practicing openly what they're doing? Yes. Have countries looked the other way? Absolutely. Not many, but there's been a few. But has any country ever declared gay marriage holy matrimony? No. Unprecedented, what our five reprobate judges on our Supreme Court have done. They have settled marriage with the ingredient called sodomy. They've redefined and they've undermined marriage by actually adding on to this book. And what does Revelations tell us? Revelations 22 and 18, you are not to add onto this book. And if you do add on this book, the plagues written in this book shall be added onto you And five men and women on the Supreme Court have added to this book. They have added the fact that oh, you no longer only have to have one wife, you can have You could have uh well they haven't said more than one wife, what they've said is you can now have a marriage, holy matrimony, they've added the book, and it can be a wife and a wife A husband and a husband, a man and a man, or a woman and a woman. That is adding to, it says a man shall leave his mother and father and cleave to his wife. And so especially for you young people, you're running across the topic more than us older folks, because the older folks don't necessarily disagree on this. But for you young people when they say, well what's wrong with gay marriage? I mean it's legal. It has become legal. But that doesn't make it moral That doesn't make it spiritual. That doesn't make it right. And so you young people, and someone says to you, what's wrong with that? They have added onto the scriptures. And now God will add the plagues unto them, or maybe even this nation. Some of the things I'm going to say this morning might seem harsh. But I just buried my brother We didn't physically bury him, but we had a service. My brother died a couple weeks ago. Just got back from California. My brother was gay. I am not a bigot. I'm not a homophobe. I love my brother. I gave my brother tracks on the gay movement. I talked to him about it being a sin, a sin equivalent to adultery or whoremongery and everything. I said it's a sin. It needs to be repented of. He called me a bigot and a homophobe for years. But over the years he he got through the blur of all the stuff the news media was saying and his his other gay friends were saying and though he was dying of AIDS He did in his final years we had a we had a good relationship. In the final years he understood I wasn't a homophobe, I wasn't a bigot. In fact, my sister-in-law uncovered a a letter uh in his collection of boxes that he'd written to me. Uh he loved me. We had come to a point where we agreed to disagree and uh went out and saw him with my wife. A couple months ago knew he was dying. We always had in every conversation, I love you, Rick. I love you. My brother. And last night with him I hugged him and I said, Rick, I love you and I just want you to repent. I want to see you again someday. And if you don't repent, I won't. He knew I wasn't a bigot or a homophobe. He just knew I want him as a sinner to repent. And he said, I have a problem with the Apostle Paul. I said, Hey, Paul wasn't perfect. Everyone knows that. He was out arresting Christians, killing Christians. I said, but no God even forgave him for that. And I said to my brother Rick, have you ever killed any Christians? No, he said, I don't think I'd ever done that. I still think God can forgive you too. Just repent, right? Just repent. I want to see you again. He threw his arms around me and he cried. He hugged the pastor of his church. He knew I wasn't a homophobe or a bigot. I don't know that he ever repented. But we love one another. You can love the gay, but you've got to be honest with him and ask him to repent of his sins. And if you've got an adulterous friend in your family, you've got to tell them to do the same thing. I mean any sin will put you in hell That being said, the Old Testament makes it clear that sodomy is a sin also. I know the Supreme Court does now rule it's not a sin. Wouldn't it be nice if we could just get some congressman or senator to rule that our favorite uh predilection, the things we want to do that are sinful, aren't sins anymore, and that God would say, well, okay, I'll cross that one off. Wouldn't that be nice It doesn't work that way. God has already given us a list in here of things he considers contrary to his word, contrary to holiness, that requires repentance. His Son shed his blood on the cross to cleanse us of sins. If we say there are no sins anymore, then Christ has shed his blood on the cloud Without cause, but for no reason at all. What a horrible thing for God to have his son die on a cross, a a horrible death, and shed his blood when all someone had to do was say it's not a sin anymore and God could say, oh Well that's taken care of. You don't have to go down into Bethlehem. You don't have to die on the cross at Golgotha. It doesn't work that way. It didn't work that way. And God records in Scripture And some will tell you the Bible doesn't say sodomies. Well what they say is that the Bible never mentions homosexuality. You hear that one? They're right. The Bible does not ever mention homosexuality The word didn't exist at the time the Bible was written, what the Bible mentioned. In fact, the Bible doesn't ever mention gay, you know. It mentions sodomy. And because we've changed our language, it's changed somewhat today, you'll be told to lie. The Bible never mentions homosexuality. Well it does, it doesn't use that word, it uses the word sodomy, and it also states it this way in the Old Testament. If a man lie with mankind as he lie with a woman, both have committed an abomination. Abomination is not a good thing to commit, by the way. Abomination means you have done something that is an eyesore to God. You've done something that is revolting or is a revulsion in the presence of God. It means you have done something that is disgusting. An abomination. Leviticus 18, 23. Well, okay, so you found one verse. Well, how about Leviticus 20 and verse 13? It says the same thing. Okay, so you found something in the Old Testament. The Old, Old, Old Testament. That's Moses. There's nothing in the New Testament Really? Young people. Jesus Christ was saying yesterday, today, and forever. If it's in the Old Testament, you'll find it in the New Testament. God didn't change. Yes, the Old Testament God was a God had declared his word and and you saw the judgment of God in the New Testament, Christ as the God of grace and the God of love. We understand that, but you'll find God loving people in the Old Testament, and you'll find God judging people in the New Testament So it's not just one type of God in the old, one type of God in the new. They are firmly in agreement. The triune Godhead never deviates, never changes. Without shadow of turning. And so in the New Testament is sodomy also wrong? Yes. That's why my brother referenced to me that he didn't like Paul. Paul writing Romans chapter 1 and verse 25. God gave them up unto vile affections. Another description of sodomy. It is a vile display of affection for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. Likewise also the men Leaving the natural use of the women burned in their lust one toward another, men with men working that which is unseemly or disgusting. Okay, so I found one verse in the New Testament. Well, how about 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10? It's there again. How about 1 Timothy 1 and verse 10? I mean These arguments that it's not in the New Testament or that's the Old Testament or the word homosexual is ever, it is mentioned The Bible is not vague about sodomy. The Bible is not hazy about sodomy. The Bible is not ambiguous about the gay lifestyle as it is described. The Bible is very clear. It is a sin. It is a sin that needs to be repented of. And we hear about we're supposed to love the sinner, but not the sin. Well, you don't love the sinner if you don't tell him he needs to repent of his sin. That is not a display of love to tell someone, or rather not tell someone, that they need to do something or they'll perish We're hearing today from professing Christians since the Supreme Court ruling, a division is starting to take place in the church People are going to start leaving this church maybe, or start coming to this church maybe, but there's a division taking place out there depending on what the pastor says about the Word of God. And some are being vague about it now? Some are being ambiguous about it now. Charles Stanley, the great Baptist uh preacher, I think Charles Stanley is a fantastic fellow, but his son His son Andy Stanley, who has a mega church, has accused Charles Stanley, Pastor Charles Stanley, Dr. Charles Stanley, who's about 80 years old now. He's accused his father of being a bigot and a homophobe And Annie Stanley has said, if Jesus were around today, he'd say, bake that wedding cake and attend that gay wedding. He'd be at that gay wedding himself. And he's not the only one doing that. President Jimmy Carter came out and said pretty much the same thing that if he he believes that Jesus would be for gay weddings. And the divisions are starting from high up in the political field. There are governors so telling the Supreme Court to take that law and stick it in your ear, we're not going to obey it. And congressmen and senators They've got themselves a problem because they've passed an unpopular, ungodly, unholy law. And people are going to be in the streets Flying your flags at half mass, civil disobedience. I don't know what I don't know what direction that's it's going to take. Well, you know, we've been calling for revival and wanting God to revive this church again and revive the world again and revive America again. And we've often boasted how it's been the blood of the saints that is that has watered the seed of the church. Well, maybe that's what it's going to take In this country, we'll see Christians put to death. Professing Christians also say professing Christians, I'm not saying they're born again, but professing Christians are also saying, and you'll hear this, that nowhere in the New Testament. Well, I just love when someone tells me nowhere in the New Testament. People who've never read the New Testament tell me, well, nowhere in the New Test because they're just quoting somebody else Nowhere in the New Testament does Jesus ever support the words of Moses about sodomy. You're going to hear that one, young people. Christ never, never gives, lends his support to what Moses had to say about sodomy. John chapter five and verse forty six. The Pharisees come to Christ and He's trying to let them know that he's the Messiah. He's trying to let them know there is a Savior, that he is that Savior, that he is the Christ. And finally Christ concludes by saying this, had you believed Moses, You would have believed me. And you know what the problem is? Christ talks about marriage in the New Testament, doesn't he? He talks about marriage, he talks about divorce. He talks about, he said, had you believed what Moses had to say And what did Moses have to say about marriage? One man, one wife, and Christ spells it out. He said uh that a father, uh the son was to leave his father and his mother and cleave to his wife. That's what Christ said. He quotes Moses. He believes everything that Moses had to say, including what he had to say about marriage and adultery and idolatry. And sodomy. So you can't get by with that. But that's the problem today with people. The reason they're they're they're getting wishy washy and they're and they're they're falling back on on this idea of well you've gotta love them and we don't wanna be bigoted and we don't want to The reason they're doing that is because they're not firmly enough with the scripture to realize that Christ endorsed what Moses said about sodomy. If you believe not what Moses wrote, you'll believe not me, or if one rose from the dead again. The problem in the days of Christ where they didn't believe what Moses said, and the problem today is the same. They don't believe what Moses said. That man shall not lie with man as he lies with woman. kind. It's a sin. Well, if Jesus was here today, do you know what he'd say about this, Mary? Yeah, I do know what he would say. He wouldn't say bake that cake and go to that wedding. He would say to that man who's about ready to marry another man or a woman about you know he would say to them, Go and sin no more. Does that sound familiar? If he would say that to you, a woman taken in adultery, he would say that of someone taken in the act of sodomy. Go and sin no more, John 8 and verse 11. The scripture teaches in Matthew 7 and 13, Broad is the way that leadeth unto destruction. And many there be that go thereat. Broad is the way that leadeth unto destruction. And And two weeks ago, the Supreme Court added a fast lane to the Broadway. Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court added an express lane, an easy pass to the Broadway. And now more people will be heading for destruction because they have declared what is immoral legal. And it takes the conscience of a man. And puts it to sleep. And don't think that bigamy and polygamy isn't on the way as well. It's already in the courts. Fellow up in uh Utah, he wants two wives, he's not even a Mormon. And two percent of the Muslims living in the United States right now are married to more than one wife and our government if they're on welfare, they're on food stamps or whatever and they are collecting for both wives. And right now the governor's taking this uh this is not well we're not gonna call her your second wife uh she's the part of the extended family. We'll treat her like an aunt or something. But it's already it's being recognized In the Muslim community, under Sharia law, you can have more than one wife in this country. Or I shouldn't say recognized as being overlooked and allowed. We are told that we are homophobes. My brother knows I wasn't. We're told we are bigots. My brother knows I wasn't. We're told we don't have any love for the gays. My brother knows that that was I hugged him and I wept with him. I just wanted to see him again. True love. We all want true love, right? We're hoping to find our true love someday. You want someone that really loves you and someone you can you can just fully open up to and love back. We all want true love. True love. Warns you against something that might harm you. Your mother truly loved you because she said, Don't touch that hot pot on the stove. Why'd she do that? She loved you. She warned you about the handle on that pot on the stove with the boiling water in it. True love will say, watch out, the floor's wet. I just got through waxing it. You can slip on fall and hurt watch out. The danger of the wet floor Don't take candy from a stranger or talk to a stranger. Is that because they love us, they warn us about things? We're not bigots or homophobes when we warm the gays That their lifestyle is sinful. It will shorten their life. Medical science. Just stepping outside the Bible a second Medical science tells us that if you live a gay lifestyle, you can expect to die 10 to 15 years sooner than most people Now my brother lived to be 66. He said, well, that doesn't sound so bad. No, but all the doctors were astounded at my brother. He'd had AIDS for about 30 years. He was the longest-living patient that any of the doctors had ever met. He was an anomaly. And yes, there were gays that came to my brother's uh memorial service, but most of them were already dead. We had two or three cousins that were gay and they were they died thirty years ago or thereabouts. And so we need to warn them that your your lifestyle is not healthy. Is that wrong to tell a gay That lifestyle is not healthy. We tell an alcoholic that, don't we? Are we considered a bigot because we're telling an alcoholic your lifestyle is not healthy? It is harmful to you But yet when we tell a gay person that that their lifestyle is harmful, it's not healthy, it it isn't good for you emotionally, spiritually, or physically, it's gonna shorten your life. We're called a bigot, we're called a homophobe I learned a lot about gays from my brother. He was very open, talked about it all the time. He told me of all his gay friends, he didn't know of one of them that wasn't under psychoanalysis. He didn't know one of them that wasn't going to a psychiatrist. And while I was out there at the funeral or the memorial service, I was told that my brother Rick was still seeing a psychologist over 30 years, twice a week And the job of psychologists is to is to s caterize your conscience so you don't think you're doing anything evil or bad. You know, psychiatry they said it's not a it's not a sin, it's not no it's nothing wrong with it. So twice a week he would sit for an hour. It's it's a harmful lifestyle. It's harmful to your emotions. It's harmful spiritually, according to Scripture, you'll die and spend all eternity in a lake of fire. Physically, it shortens your life. And so is it unloving to say repent and believe the gospel? Is that unloving? Is that bigotry? Is that is that is that I'm a homophobe because I say to a gay person you need to repent and believe the gospel Because if that is bigotry, and being a homophobe, I just quoted you Christ in Mark chapter 1 and verse 15. It says, repent and believe the gospel. Was Christ unloving? My goodness, he he threw himself on a cross and bled for our sins. Is that unloving? He he cast himself between us and hell, between us and the devil. Between us and Satan, between us and Lucifer, between us and eternity. I think it's a pretty loving thing that he did. And yet he commanded us to repent of our sins and believe the good news, the gospel. But that's not the dominant message we're hearing today. The dominant message we're hearing today is not repent. The dominant message we're hearing today is God wouldn't Then anyone to hell for being born with a genetic gay gene Well, I agree with that. I don't believe God sends anybody to hell for a genetic gay gene And science, who's been looking for that genetic gay gene for years, hasn't found it yet. And their conclusion is there is no gay genetic gene. Now, if you want proof of that, you can do your own study. Because this is what they did. Seven in-depth studies of gay people. Over the last three decades. Seven in-depth studies, one of them at Johns Hopkins, all concluded this. They went to gays who had identical twins Now your DNA is exactly like your identical twins. And you know what they found? In identical twins It was very, very rare that a gay had an identical twin who was also gay. It should have always been that way. If it's a genetic gene, they ought to always be gay. If I'm gay, my genetically died the exact DNA identical twin will be gay too. But they found it was very rare. You can do that one yourself. There is no gay gene. It's a choice. It's a bad choice. And we all make bad choices. We all make sinful choices. And we need to repent of them. The alcoholic, for the most part, knows that he's a drunkard and he needs to repent of it. The person that commits adultery, he knows what he's done wrong, he needs to repent of it. Probably the only person that doesn't really feel that way is is the drug addict. You know, he's so high up on drugs and he thinks he's fine, he's not repent on nothing. But in the heart of the the average gay person, he is struggling with it. He knows it's wrong. He's in psychiatric evaluation. He just needs us to love him and tell him it's forgivable too We're born not with a gay gene, we're born with a sin nature. We're all born of the sin nature. We're all born with a certain bent towards one sin or another. We're all born with an attraction to a variety of different sins. It may be idolatry, blasphemy, sorcery, adultery. Robbery, thievery, dishonesty, or sodomy. That's just the nature of being born with a sin nature. It's not a a gay gene, it's not an idolatry gene or a thievery gene or an adultery or sorcery gene. We are just born with a sin nature. Many do not like the Apostle Paul because in 1 Corinthians 6 11 and again in Colossians 3. 7, he says something remarkable about the members of the church of Corinth. After listing all the different sins, a long list of sins, among which was uh gay lifestyle, he calls it the effeminate the effeminate man, after listing all this, he says, and Some of them were you. He says within the Corinthian church were people who were idolatry. They were adulterers. They were sodomy. They they were in all kinds of stuff, he said. And and he said, Some of you were of such But now you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of God. Paul says these things are reversible. You don't have to remain idolatrous, you don't have to continue in adultery, you don't have to remain a sodomite all your life because someone has told you it's a gene that you've got. It's not a gene that you've got, it's a sin nature, and it is reversible. You can be converted. In fact A little bekommen study that was put out discovered that 50% of those who enter in the gay lifestyle leave it. Before they die. They get tired of it, they get embarrassed by it. We're not even talking about Christian conversion. We're just saying they just they they finally come to the conclusion this isn't right. And they go on to be married and have children You want to follow that one up just type in uh uh degenerates. How many how many gay girlfriends she's had in the last few years? And they've not only left her, they've gone on and got married and said that there was a big mistake, it was wrong I mean it's it's out there if you want to look for it. But that's the statistics. Well, even without Christian conversion, have them leave the style. Any sin is sufficient to earn us a reservation, the lake of fire. But as noted by the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 6, any sin is also forgivable If we repent and become new creatures in Christ. Second Corinthians five and verse seventeen. Anybody here ever been accused of being judgmental? Ever been accused of being intolerant? Young folks, that's what you're gonna be all of us. As things wear on, we're gonna be accused of being intolerant of the gay lifestyle. We're gonna be accused of being uh judgmental of the gay lifestyle. And here's what your response should be. Yes, I am intolerant. Yes, I am judgmental. But you are judgmental of my Bible, which says it's wrong. You are intolerant of the scriptures, which says it is wrong. Don't back away from the fact you are judgmental. The Bible says that we're to judge our neighbors. We have to make judgments. Who we let our children play with, we make a judgment. Who our daughters date, we make a judgment. Whether we take a particular job or not, we make a judgment. Whether we let the guy who's drunk get in the car and drive the car we're getting into, we make a judgment. We are not tolerant of something. We're not tolerant of weeds in our garden, are we? We shouldn't be taught with sin in our life. Or particular individuals who want to date our children or be their playmates. We are judgmental. We are, and so are they Everybody's judgmental. Everybody's intolerant of something. Don't back away from that as a Christian. You are judgmental because the Bible says you're to judge these things and repent of these things. And to be intolerant of sin. I am intolerant of sin Now there are those who find it insensitive that Scripture uses the term abomination in Leviticus 18 or vile in Romans 1. Uh for sodomy. They they find that insensitive But the politicians and the presidents and the panel of judges perverting the sanctity of holy matrimony, they're not insensitive either, are they? Or rather, they are insensitive, aren't they? They don't mind perverting the sanctity of marriage, and we're not supposed to think that's being insensitive. We're insensitive, but they're not Holy matrimony. I've said this to somebody before and I'll say it again. I cannot have, and I will not have, well I'm the pastor of this church, he can fire me tomorrow, he can fire me tonight, you can fire me this afternoon. I will not marry a gay couple in the second Sanctuary. This is a sanctuary. This is a place where holy things take place. Where we praise God, where we worship God. And I will not have two gays, even as my brother. I don't care who it is. I will not have two gays stand in front of you. And I say, dearly beloved, we're now gathered in the presence of God to join these two in whole whole whole whole holy matrimony? I can't say that But the day is coming when they'll tell you you will say that and you will do that. Or your church will have the fire marshal down on you, OSHA down on you, the IRS down on you. You lose your tax exemption, we'll start taking property tax on you. Retroactive the last 20 years that you've been here. The mindset is they're going to destroy this church The Church of Christ. At least that's what they want to do. Why does it bother? Why should it bother every Christian so much? Why should it bother us what the Supreme Court has just done with holy matrimony? Well, let me give you maybe the deepest-seated reason for why it bothers me. Because marriage is used in the scriptures to define the relationship between the Savior and His church. Marriage is used to define the relationship between the Lord Jesus Christ and those he died for his church. That's a pretty special, pretty holy, pretty miraculous, magnificent, gracious thing that God has done. And He uses marriage to describe that relationship. And they are sullying The sanctity that God calls the relationship to God the Son and His church. And we read in Isaiah 6 and 2 62 and verse 5. That the bridegroom and his church the bride. I mean that's the way he's described the relationship between Christ and those he died for. Isaiah 62, 5 That's only one verse. Matthew 9, 15, that's only two verses. John 3 and 29, that's only three verses. Revelations 18 and 23. Well, there's called we're called the Lamb. Christ is the Lamb, He is the groom, and we are the bride. We're called the Lamb. Okay, that's five verses. Okay, how about Revelation 19, or 21, 9? How about Revelation 22, 17 This is a God-ordained relationship to present not two grooms or not two brides, but the groom and his bride, the lamb's wife, and they have sullied it. They've made it an abominable thing that these five reprobate judges have done to besmirch the relationship of Christ for those he died for at Golgotha. You bet it bothers me. And when the president bathed the White House in the colors of the rainbow Now, maybe some of you didn't get it, but the pastors get it. Talk about being insensitive. The scripture tells that the rainbow in the days of Noah represented the mercy of God. And that the rainbow surrounds the throne of God, and the rainbow surrounds the head of the Lord Jesus Christ. Revelations 4 3 and again Revelation 10-1. It's what what they're saying by casting the rainbow on the White House and Those theologians out there who love the Lord, they get it. They've cast a rainbow in the White House this past week because they were saying heaven approves. The throne of God approves. The headship of Christ approve. He God has put his stamp approval on what we've done at the Supreme Court. And that is just blasphemy. And they didn't care if it was offensive to Christians, did they? It has been suggested by Franklin Graham that the White House install an elaborate new lightning rod system on that building Because as he said in the Psalm 18 and 14, God shot out his lightnings and he discomforted them. And yes, I believe God is going to respond to the Supreme Court. When David took the additional wife, did God respond? When David sullied What marriage in the scripture was to be. What did God do when David took the additional wife? 1 Samuel 26, just two verses later. God didn't wait long. The Ziphites came unto Saul, saying, David, hide themselves in the hills of Akalah. Let's go get him. In 2 Samuel 3 and 6, David takes four more wives. Did God respond? There was war between the house of Saul and the house of David. When David took more wives in 2 Samuel 5 and verse 13, the Philistines came up to seek David. In 2 Samuel 12 and verse 10, when David stole the wife of Uriah, her name was Bathsheba, God said Now the sword shall never depart from thine house because I was taken the wife of Uriah to be thy wife. He already had six or seven wives when he did that. And concubines. God responded every time David, the man after God's own heart, God responded every time David abused holy matrimony. So how do we Christians keep quiet today? With the Supreme Court's ruling on marriage. Do we keep quiet? I say to you no. God's going to address it. And when he does, all the world will know it. And he will We'll address it. And we as Christians need to address it too. Let's pray. Father, we just looked you this morning. And we have been saying for a long time the world's in a mess. But that's because the hearts of the people in this world are a mess And we just pray, Lord, today, that you would put in our hearts to love the Scripture, to know the Scripture, to be bold enough to repeat the Scripture and share the Scripture with the world outside the church. Let them know that there is an eternity awaiting them out there. It could be a lake of fire, it can be joy foreverlasting forevermore. But they need to repent of their sins. And there's a lot of sins out there. Sodomy, it's only one of many. There's worse. There's the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. That can't even be repented out. Oh Lord, give us the courage and the boldness as it becomes more difficult to profess that we are Christians. And may the world know that we are Christians by our love for the souls that need to repent. We ask this in Christ's name, our great God and Savior, Redeemer. Amen.