Interesting um subject to talk about today and it's only in one sentence of Scripture and it begins in Hebrews three. So if you want you can turn to that. It's in the in your bulletin insert uh and we're gonna look at a holy job. I thought holy jobs plural, but no, it's actually one job, holy job. Um I'm gonna read it and then I've got questions. I got a lot of questions today. So hopefully there will be a little bit of interaction. And they're not the pass or fail questions. So that's always helpful. Hebrews chapter 3, the first two verses, it's actually one sentence. It says, wherefore, holy brethren Partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house. That's our passage. All right, so the opening question, just to kind of get us going here, just to think about this a little bit. How did you get your job? How did you land your job? Assuming you're still working in the secular world somewhere. Or maybe you've worked in the past. How did you get your job? Interview. Okay. Did the interview get you the job? No. I thought the interview well the interview is uh like a Right. But the way that your qualification your uh attitude you towards why did you be able to do it. Okay. Yeah. So during the interview process you're kind of selling yourself, although we may not want to think of it in those terms. How about anybody else? How did you get your job? I told you that I wanted work. Okay. Well that's it's from someone else. I wanted work and they gave it to me. Yeah, okay. You you you came to someone said, I have a job for you. I just wanted to say I want work. Yeah, okay. Great. Somebody else, how did you land your job? I'm just curious for different people's experiences at landing their job. I know for mine I was uh referred by my sister who already worked there. So Okay. So it was based on a referral. Okay, so in a referral. I would also say based on qualifications. Okay, qualifications. Right, okay. So those are all correct. That's kind of how we go about getting a job. But I want to take this just a little step further and just to think a little harder about it. And that is, how did you actually land it? So we've talked about the interview process, letting people know about it. Now Mrs. Ross is coming. So that's advertisement is um um i is is kind of like what Mrs. Ross is doing. She's advertising that she hasn't a position. So she's advertising as an employer. And as an employee you would a potential candidate worker, you would advertise your qualifications. But I advertise my qualifications and I don't actually get a job. I did that for all of twenty thirteen and never got a job. So Advertisement alone doesn't get you the job. How did you actually get the how did you land it? What what happened? Fine. Okay, I've applied to a lot of jobs and that never landed it. What landed the job? And I know I'm being picky here. Uh pinning at her hand up and then you Indicate that you are actually interested, they give you the offer and you accept it. So I've ad I've let a lot of people know that I'm interested, but that didn't land it. Ah, that's what I want to get to. Yeah. In fact, nobody gets a job until the person offering you the job says, yes, I will take you. Right? The employer has to finally say yes. So most of what we've discussed, and it's all correct, I get it is from our perspective, things that we did to try to initiate it. And because that was somewhat the question, how did you get the job? But I stopped and rewound it to say, well how did you actually land it? And the way you landed it is the employer Has to actually call you and say, you got the job. Somebody else, other than yourself As to say, yep, you have the job. And so that's I want to keep that in mind as we walk through this. So Hebrews 3 starts off, wherefore, holy brethren, and then it goes on to consider. And so we're going to do a lot of considering today. I want to look at holy brethren. I want to look at that phrase. And then I want to look at three key words, partakers, calling, and profession. Those are three very interesting words that really are going to form kind of the spine of this. And then we're going to close with verse 2 and see how Christ carried out this this calling, this profession. You know, we read this phrase, wherefore holy brethren, and it's a phrase that I was a little surprised to see doesn't occur very often in the Bible You would think that when Christians refer to one another as brothers and sisters, or the Bible refers to brethren in the scriptures, that it would make a distinction between your bloodline siblings versus those who are God worshipers like you, those who are born of the Spirit of God. It typically does not, actually. It just kind of uses that same word brethren. That word holy brethren is in uh the end of Thessalonians, uh, greet all the holy brethren, but This is the only other place where you find the word holy brethren. These are sanctified brethren. These are brothers in the faith, you would say, in the same household of faith. But believers have that same Heavenly Father, but the Bible does distinguish between two. There is a human race of brethren, just physical bloodline descendants. And in the spiritual. You can look in your your handout. Matthew 12, verse 46 and verse 50. Christ makes this plain. I'm sure you know this. Jesus uh is there he's in in a in an area close to home and it says while he Jesus yet talked to the people behold his mother and his brethren stood without now those are not his spiritual brothers, this would be his half-brothers, because Mary and Joseph did have other children from that union But they wouldn't have been Jesus' half brothers. We call them his brethren, desiring to speak with him. And then you get to verse fifty as They uh, as Jesus talks with them, some more he says, Whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother and sister and mother. I I wonder what the Catholics do with that, because he now lumps brother and sister in as those who do the will of his father in heaven. But they all but he also says, Whoever does the will of my father in heaven is also my mother So Jesus there is saying he's got multiple mothers. Oh, I wonder what they do with that. That's an interesting thought. In John 7. 5 it says, Neither did his brethren believe in him. This would be referring to physical brethren. At first His half-brothers didn't believe in Christ, so that's clearly a reference to those after the flesh. But then you see the apostle writing to Timothy, my own son in the faith. We can have spiritual descendants as a re as a result of our ministry, whether at home as a God-fearing mother cramming the gospel into their uh children's mouths and minds, because something gets crammed. Either the world crams unbelief or you cram faith, but something does get crammed. And here he says, Timothy, my own son in the faith, this is one who had richly profited from Paul's ministry and clung to him. So those are the the ideas that are brought forward with this idea of holy brethren. So this is who he's talking to. He's talking to those who are in the faith. He says, wherefore holy brethren? That word wherefore ties us in with everything from the prior chapters And this is where it kind of gets really interesting. There's three words here that I want to call your attention to because as I was poking into them, I was struck by the sense that's being brought forth. And so there's a lot of questions I think that come from this. It's the word partaker calling So let's kind of walk our way through that and then kind of explore that a little bit. So that word partaker is not the same word in the earlier chapter. In chapter 2, verse 14, where it says that even as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he partook of the same. That word partake usually is the word coin in the other. It's not the word here. It's an unusual Greek word primarily and nearly only used in the book of Hebrews. It's a totally different Greek word. It's used once in the book of Luke, and it's in Luke chapter 5, verse 7. This is when the disciples were fishing. You know, the early disciples that were called were fishermen. And we read, they beckoned unto their partners which were in the other ship that they should come and help them. This is the account where they caught a whole bunch of fish. The boat's about to sink and they need some help. Well that word partners is the word partaker that we have right here in this verse. So what sense do you get from that word partaker? when it's used as the word partner in Luke 5. 7. What's that sense of the word partner? Part of the same company or engaged in the same enterprise? Okay, part of the same company. So it's kind of the sense of a business partner, if you will. Have you ever thought of yourself as being a business partner with Jesus Christ? That's the sense of it uh uh because it's motioning to their partners. They're in the same company. They're they're all fishermen. So that was the sense of that word partakers that's used. He uses a word that really has more of a business fin to it. And then you have the word calling. And that word is drawing from a continued main theme. He says, consider your calling. Well, what calling? What heavenly calling is this? And if you turn to Hebrews 1 in your Bible and you can just glance back, that word is showing this continued main theme of God saying something. This is Ross called out. I I have a job. Would you take it? It's a call. You've got verse one of Hebrews 1. God spake. You've got Chapter 2, verse 1. We need to take the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard. Again, there's a call. a voice, so great salvation spoken by the Lord in verse 3 of chapter 2. Again, the speech, this this this this call. Chapter 2, verse 11, he's not ashamed to call them brethren. Again, this this calling. Now that word calling is also rendered, and you can look in your handout, in Ephesians 4. 1 as vocation. Isn't that interesting Ephesians 4. 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. That word vocation is our word here for calling. You walk worthy of the vocation. Well, how do we use that word vocation in our vernacular today? What do we mean by vocation? Somebody has a vocation. Skill or something. Okay, they have a skill. All right. Any other ideas about a vocation? Career. A career? Occupation. An occupation? Yeah. A job. It's just the highfalutin work. It's not vacation, it's vocation. That's your job And you see in 1 Corinthians 7, where it's used as well, 1 Corinthians 7. 20, again, back to your handout, let every man abide in the same calling wherewith he is called Art thou called being a servant? Care not for it, but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. Again, that calling is in reference to a vocational role. Are you called being a servant? Don't uh just remain in that calling, he says. Well, to remain in that calling implies this is before God called you to serve him. You you picked up the phone, you you unrolled the scroll, you you you got a knock on the door, hey you're hired, okay? Somebody called and said, come work in my vineyard I'm hiring you. That's kind of a first calling. That's really how you land your job. Somebody has to let you know you're hired. Somebody has to you can't yourself just show up in the job site, take a seat at a desk. I like this desk. It's nice, big and wooden. It's got a carpet in front. It's got a secretary out front. Well the president's going to kick you out pretty soon. You can't just walk in and take any desk. You have to be called to that. And here the apostle says, in 1 Corinthians 7. 20, you abide in the same calling in which you were called. In other words, I was an engineer when God saved me. Do I drop that and go do something else? He says, no, abide in that calling. Serve God in that capacity. There's a dual vocational role that's going on there. A dual vocation. I have two jobs. I'm no longer an engineer who's a pagan. I'm now a Christian who happens to be an engineer. There's two different jobs there. So that's that word calling. So we had partakers for the word partners. Vocation is a kind of a job. Calling, the sense of a vocation. And then the word profession. It says, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession. That's our word profession. Before many witnesses, I give thee charge in the sight of God who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession. So there that word confession is used. It's synonymous with the word profession. They're kind of the same. My question to you is, what is a Christian's profession? This isn't a trick question. Yeah, that's our profession. We we we we we s we're gospel spreaders, we're word spreaders. What do you profess as a Christian? What else do you profess? Share. Share, okay. What else is there's a lot of things in a Christian profession. There's no one right answer here. What else comes about in a Christian's profession? It's a Life example of declaration? Okay, there's a gospel. There's a life declaration. Okay. What else is part of that profession? What's part of that confession, put it that way? What's testimony? Yeah, your testimony that you are a God-fearing individual. We confess with our mouth and believe in our heart that The Lord uh that that Christ is the Lord, that the Lord God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Yeah, it's uh uh faith, repentance, your talk and walk. That's kind of the the the sense of it. Now here's a challenge question, of course Does your day job reflect that? Does your day job reflect that? To put it another way, does your secular profession reflect your heavenly profession? Are you aligned in the same job? By the way, you don't have to change jobs for that to happen. You know, the idea that, boy, I wish I could retire and then I could be full-time in the ministry and then I could serve the Lord. I was as much of a servant of the Lord and probably even more productive when I was working in my uh quote-unquote secular job than as one who has a little bit more time on their hands. You can absolutely serve the God in a secular worldly profession. I could certainly donate a lot more as I was pulling a lot more money. had a lot more energy and time. Uh I ha th there were just other benefits I had that that could be brought to the table which can't be brought forward now. That was something that was really drilled into us in Bible college that you're not going to get to the mission field and suddenly be a missionary. If you're not a missionary now, you're not going to be then either. You know, and and with the with the preacher voice class, that if you're not involved in evangelism and preaching now, you're not going to suddenly become something because You get a job doing it. Exactly. And you know, you see, I think a lot of people in the job, but they haven't been called. And that gets back to my original question, how did you land the job? Somebody has to call you. They have to say, you're it. I want you for this task. And for spiritual roles, for ministerial roles, It is not waiting to hear that secret little voice in your heart. It is a brother, brethren, a group. Hey, would you serve as our pastor? Hey, would you lead a Bible study? I have, I believe I can say with all judgment day honesty, the proof text are not coming to my mind, but I know this was a point uh that I made often. I can say with judgment day honesty that I have never initiated a Bible study to which I wasn't asked to do Someone or some group of people had always asked, could we have a Bible study at your house? Could we have a study? And I taught in different houses, uh Stan and Stan and Marjorie down in El Cahon, uh in our living room in Escondido, uh at uh Arabic Baptist Church, at uh different locations. I I've been asked. You know, I didn't take the initiative to just, you know, go set up a table somewhere and hang a sign, Bible study here. You know, bring your money in your Bible, money first, and then you know, have study. So that's kind of a calling And of course you detect and discern that, yeah, I do sort of have some gifts to be able to do this, because God doesn't call somebody who's not qualified by the Lord Himself. So yes, God has called you, each of you, into a job. And that means your worldly vocation is no longer an unholy vocation. Did you catch that? Your worldly vocation is no longer unholy, it is a holy one. Now the proof text I give you for that is in the book of Colossians, and you can turn in your Bible if you'd like to that. It's Colossians 3. 22. I'd kind of like you to see it in your own Bible Colossians 3. 22 has a an interesting spin on things. It's one of these little phrases that kind of comes up quickly. You might pass over it and not think about it too much, but it's one that stuck with me for quite a number of years. In Colossians 3. 22 We read this, servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh. So so who's who's he talking about? Who are these servants that are to obey their masters in all things according to the flesh? Who's he talking about? Servants. Okay, servants, yeah. Whose job is to serve Okay, they're serving other people? Believing servants. Okay, yes, these are believing servants, right? Um but what's their job? Think first century serve I think it applies in multiple contexts in the sense that um it's for any person working a job where they're hiring Yeah. Yeah, so you had in the first century uh I'm not sure. I didn't get spun up on my uh first century history, what life was like in Colossia, a city in Asia Minor. But we can imagine back in the first century, where you don't have automobiles, computers, desks, and internet, that to be a servant, there were, I'm sure, shoemakers, there were potters. There were people who helped out the wealthy in their houses, hewers of wood, drawers of water, whatever they were, these individuals doing what we might call menial tasks You know, there was a whole lot of blue-collar labor back in that day. There wasn't a lot of white-collar labor, so to speak. Here it says, you obey them according to the flesh. He keeps writing, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily. Now this is the interesting passage, as to the Lord And not unto men. So he's talking about people in the secular profession. They're cart drivers. They drove a cart full of vegetables to the market. And Maybe they hauled out the trash for the city. Maybe they you name it, there's all kinds of menial tasks that were required. They they uh were Masons. Masonry was a big job, and Masons were those that would just beat up rocks and turn them into something close to bricks, um uh daub them with mortar and and and make different structures, all kinds of road work. You know the Roman roads were incredible back in the first century Roman roads went down a good three or four feet. The Romans knew how to make a road. That's why they've survived for thousands of years. Because they they dug deep. Well that took labor. That took people out there with crude tools. Digging away. And here the Lord says, you're not actually serving that Roman centurion But I'm digging a road. Doesn't have anything to do with the gospel. You're not serving a Roman centurion. You as a Christian are now serving God. You remain in that calling. I've called you as a as my road digger. You're my road digger. And you might wonder, well, I'm working out in the sun. Beating on this hot ground ain't easy. Uh, this doesn't seem like very useful work for the gospel. Well, let me ask you, how's the gospel going to spread if you can't get to the other City where you need to go. Somebody's gonna lay a road down. Somebody's gonna do that. Why not a Christian? Why are you so above that task? So it's interesting because it says he concludes in verse 24, knowing of the Lord, you shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. He lets him know you're serving Jesus Christ. You're looking forward to a reward. There happens to be in the news of late, you can go look this up, the key word is Hermes, H-E-R-M-E-S, Hermes and then type in billionaire after it. Somewhere over in Europe, I fail to remember which country, is a very wealthy man. He's worth seven to ten billion dollars. That's just his portion of the multi-billion dollar estate That uh to whom he is an heir with. And he shares that inheritance with his other siblings. But his portion is seven to ten billion. This fellow is Seeing his age, seeing the end of life, he knows the time draws nigh where he will die. And he is making the record book because he is going to bequeath seven billion dollars, basically his entire estate, to his gardener. His gardener is 51 years old, has a wife and two children. He is going through the process to adopt this man. He's 51 years old, and he's going to adopt him. So that he can, legally in the country, just give him seven billion dollars. That's the sense, folks. That we have here in the book of Colossians. But I'm just trimming hedges. I'm just trimming hedges. I'm just picking weeds. Okay, that's a dead-end job. No, it depends on who you're serving. If you're serving Mr. Hermes, that's a good job because you're in the vineyard of a very wealthy man Well, God doesn't own this vineyard that I'm working at. He doesn't. You're telling me this is not your father's world? He somehow isn't over that? Well, this job on the fifth floor of the of the to a Acme Brick Corporation can't be doing much here. Really? So I just I love the fact that God gave me a present day example of that because you do not know The work that God is doing. You know, He's the one that called you to salvation to begin with, and He's going to be with you all the days of your life, even before the person is saved. And he puts them and can navigate them into their profession, whatever that job may be, and then when they're settled in that job, that can be the point of salvation. Because he wants a Christian in that job at that location at that time. It fits his plan. That's what his plan is for you. And so I hope this makes you think, folks, a little differently about your secular job, your position, or your station in life. at the time that God calls you. Because it makes you realize I now have a holy job. I am serving the Lord Jesus Christ in this job. This is what I am now doing. I have been called to this. I think that's interesting. Well, we get back to Hebrews, and he then says that we're partakers of this calling and we have a profession, but he says he now wants us to consider He wants us to consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. Alright. This is the second time. That God is going to allude to Jesus as a high priest. And it's very unusual, I would submit, to focus on the office of Jesus executioner. It was the high priest, after all, who had this hasty trial, dug up false witnesses Neither of whom could get their act together and testify correctly to condemn him. Jesus had to give them what they wanted, where he declared himself to be the Son of God. The high priest was a wicked man, we know that. The high priest was unfaithful. He was a corrupt politician. And That first audience would really, I think, find that unusual to refer to Jesus as a high priest. But again, let's do as God says and let's consider these two offices, high priest and apostle. All right So this is a little bit of a Bible quiz, a little Bible trivia quiz. What was the high priest's job? Or duties? What were the duties of the high priest? Just whatever you can think of. The one who carried the blood of the atonement to the mercy seat. Okay, he carried the blood of the atonement to the mercy seat. That's very specific. So When you say the blood the blood of the atonement, can you round that out some? What was that? The the principal sacrifice of the year Okay, there was one big sacrifice of the year, the the Day of Atonement, right? That was a very special one. What do you do the other 364 days of the year? He had a lot of different jobs. You're you're not wrong. I don't know if you've ever thought about that, because I hadn't. Well, think about it instead of calling him the high priest, calling him the priest. What was the priest's job? Teach this congregation. Okay, yeah, he had a teaching role. Very good. I hadn't thought of that one, but that's right. Ought not uh the the priest's lips teach knowledge. Yeah, he was had a teaching role. Okay. What else did the priest do throughout the year? They had the duties with a lot of offerings and sacrifices, yeah. Um now what is required to for the offerings in the Old Testament? What was the work that was done typically? We got it easy. We write we scribble something on a piece of paper and stick it in the basket. I mean, can you say easy? I mean that's easy. What did offerings and sacrifices require in the Old Testament? Kill an animal. Kill an animal? What else, Penny? You had to bring an animal, had to kill a they had to kill an animal. Have you ever have you ever physically killed a beast? I know some of Sprinkle the blood. And then he had to sprinkle blood? He didn't have rubber latex gloves in this process, folks. Um sometimes uh what what else was done? What what were the you anybody remember the different types of offerings? Yeah, they had burnt offerings. Let's talk about a burnt offering. How do you get a burnt offering? Crack open the oven, punch in 350, slide it in. No, bring the bring a call for some uh some animals to burn on a fire. Okay, so you had to have a fire. Where'd that fire come from? Go to the natural gas company, bring a pipeline underneath your altar? A match. A match? They had matches. That's handy. They had matches. They had matches. How did you get a fire? How would you get a fire back in those days? Enough to burn have you ever tried now ladies I know you're in the business of cooking something, not burning something. What do you what does it take to burn a whole animal? Like a bull Big fire. Initial coal never went out. But it had to be restocked to keep it from going out. A big fire. How do you get a big fire? I have to bring wood. Somebody's gotta bring wood. Green wood? No. No. You gotta rub Sticks together. Rubbing sticks. Did you ever get that to work? I could never get rubbing sticks to work. That just never worked for me. Yeah. Blowtorch is the one I gotta get to work. Somebody had to cut up some wood and it had to be dead wood. And you know what? It had to be a lot of dead wood. When's the last time you cut up a bunch of dead wood? Especially in the desert. Especially well, yes, the desert now, but climate models from the flood of Noah's Day indicate that prior to the flood and and shortly there actually shortly after the flood the oceans around the Middle East would have been four to six degrees warmer, which would have meant that they would have had much more rain in that area. Jerusalem was noted for being surrounded with trees. Remember that's where David rescued uh a a lamb from the paw of the bear and the mouth of the lion. So there were bears and lions. That's habitat. That's thick forests. That's lots of so they had material not now, you don't see it now. Um 'cause after a great period of time the oceans have cooled down some after the flood of Noah's faith. The fountains in the Great Deep bubbled up, there's all kinds of seismic activity. It would have been a boiler in the water. Would have heated it right up I can get into all that, but that's not my point. The priests had a lot of work. They were also the ones that had to carry the wilderness tabernacle around, right? Only the sons of Kohath could put their poles into the ark and carry it on on poles. There were singers. They the the the Levites also sang. They had a whole troop of them, so they had to maintain their instruments. They had to practice. They had to work in the Psalms. It was the Levites who wrote out Cop made copies of the law of God, the king of Israel doing so later on once a year, but the official copy was maintained by the Levites, the priests, the scribes. They had a lot of interesting work, but they were busy. They were very busy. You know what else they would do? The high priest would also anoint kings. So, for instance, you read about Zadok who anointed Solomon And you read about Samuel. He was a prophet. So prophets did it. The high priests did too. They would anoint kings. So they had all this work with sacrifices and offerings. This work with singing and maintaining the music. They had this work with anointing kings. Alright? That's the job of the high priest. We're just considering the office, all right? Now, Jesus says he was also an apostle. He would be the capital A apostle. All letters are put capitalized. You could say he's the ultimate apostle. And I would point out now that Jesus had two jobs, the job of the high priest, the job of the apostle. My question is this: so, what was the job of an apostle? What did they do? Spread the word. They spread the word. How far? As far as they can go. As far as they could go on them Roman roads, yeah. They spread the word to a long distance. It is reported that uh the Apostle Thomas made it as far as India Other apostles down into Ethiopia? Certainly we hear about um Paul, not Peter, going into Rome. We never hear in the scriptures of Peter going to Rome. So listening to Peter as the first bishop of the Roman church is dubious at best. You have no scriptural data that was there. So they spread the word. What else did um uh the uh the prophets do? What was their message? Prophesied. Ah, they prophesied. Okay, so they brought forth the the they they brought forth the Word of God. Of course we have a closed canon now, so we're not continuing to uh foretell, but we are forthelling. All right. That's what Jesus did. I'm kind of skipping ahead here. The apostles had um Spiritual powers beyond what we have today. They had spiritual gifts, yeah, beyond what we had today, but they had spiritual gifts. Some were supernatural gifts, okay? Um they were to uh help establish the New Testament church. Apostle went around. He would have these churches that he helped start. He would baptize. Now, this is not in our text, but as we begin to think, what other jobs did Jesus have? So he was A priest, high priest, uh here it says he was an apostle. What other jobs did Jesus have? He was also a king. He said, told that to Pilate, for this cause came I into the world. So he was priest, apostle, slash prophet, and king. We're only focusing on apostle slash prophet and priest at the moment. He would uh we could maybe add judge, but that probably was part of the king's role, the king judged. They didn't have separation of of synagogue and state back in that time. It was very much united. lawgiver, that can also be part of the king. Folks, we might think of the verse this way. Let me just give you the the Vince inspired version. Okay, this is how I might Vince uninspired version, I should say. Here's the paraphrase. Consider the two jobs which our boss, Christ Jesus, undertook. He actually wants us to consider those two jobs. You know What does that look like when these two offices, when these two jobs, apostle and high priest, are rolled into one? If you roll those two jobs into one, what does that look like? What is that individual doing? Because it's not Jesus had those two jobs. Merge those two jobs together for me and kind of describe what that looks like. I'm not thinking the duties necessarily disappear. Salvish. The result certainly should be salvation, right? So the part of the job that's the apostle, they're going out, they're calling men to believe in the gospel, they're helping start churches. They're founding it on the Word of God as the high priest. They're reconciling sinners to God. They're anointing certain ones as king. Folks, as I consider the apostle and high priest of our profession. He called us. He's my boss. As I consider what my boss is doing, and I look at what he did. You know, this is kind of sounding a whole lot like what Christians do, frankly. I mean, don't believers do this? Isn't this all really kind of part of the Great Commission and the glorious results? Look at the handout, like reconciling sinners to God. We don't have a physical offering or sacrifice other than we can point to one who has been sacrificed once for forever. There's no need for me to run around and with wood and blood of bulls and goats, I have a sacrifice. It's already been offered. I just gotta tell men about it. And we reconcile people too. To God through that offering. 2 Corinthians 5. 18 says this: all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us The Ministry of Reconciliation. He was the great reconciler and he gave us that same ministry. We're in the same business. You catch it? It's a calling. It's a vocation. We're doing what our boss does, because we're in the same job It says, to wit to know that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us The word of reconciliation. We have the same message. We don't point men to ourselves, but we point them to Christ. We're in the same business. He points men to himself, we point men to him as well. That's part of that high priest job. That's that priestly role. You know, and in fact, that's what Revelation 1 says. Revelation 1, in fact, calls us that. Listen to this. John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace be unto you and peace from him which is, which was, which is to come, and from the seven spirits before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness first begotten of the dead, the prince, the kings of the earth. And then it says, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. We're a king. We're a priest. We're ones that go out and call men to God. We reconcile, and Jesus has another job. He's a king. He's called us to that as well. I haven't explored that because the text says consider him who's the apostle and high priest, but we reign as kings in this world in that we reign over our bodies. We rule over it, we subject it, we beat it down, we beat down the evil, we promote the good in our homes and in our own lives. Can you do that, folks, while you're working on a secular job? Everything I just described here. In some measure, can you do this while working in a secular job? Penny's saying yes. You would, but you'd be fired after that. Well if you went full bore, now your employer is not uh hiring you to evangelize per se, but can your walk and your talk be as unto the Lord and not as unto men? Can you be that you behave the hurt the way that you can be a faithful employee, yes. As Christians for what we do. Yes. job and how we interact with our coworkers and how we follow over our lives. It just has to a necessity. Yeah, it definitely flows into how we live. Can you think of some examples of a Christian, a godly, a God-fearing individual, who worked in a secular job in the Bible? Daniel's a great example, isn't he? Well he served as a government bureaucrat. And it wasn't exactly a great government he was under. In fact, he was under four different governments, and the governments were by dictatorial kings. And you remember, it seems that At critical points, at critical junctures, there was always some kind of a test that came where the secular world bumped into his worldview. And wanted to tempt him to do something ungodly, something his conscience couldn't permit him to do. He remained faithful to it. The statue. Yeah, that was a good example. Just yeah, falling down and worship the statue. That was uh his three friends. And certainly Daniel would not be participated in that at all. And yet every single time He survived the test and he got a huge promotion. It's amazing. You follow Daniel's career, and he kept getting promotion after promotion after promotion. In fact, that's a fascinating bit to to research to see how the impact of Daniel was because when the Magi came from the east saying where is the cr the the child who is the Christ to be born, it would have been Daniel and his legacy that would have informed them. That tradition would have been anchored into their mind. So the Magi were the wise men in the courts of that uh of those kingdoms. You know, the Apostle Paul worked in a secular job. Did you know that? He had a secular job. We think of him as the great apostle who did nothing more than run around and Preach the gospel and start churches and he collected all this money from the churches. Actually, we read that it was a very broke congregation. The Philippian church at Macedonia was the only one that supported him and these people were poor He was grateful for what they gave, but frankly it wasn't enough. We read in Acts 18, it says Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius He had come from Italy with his wife Priscilla. Verse 3, because he was of the same craft, he abode with them. Paul and Aquila had the same vocation. And they worked together for by their occupation they were tent makers. The Apostle Paul made tents. And so as he's making this tent and he's delivering it and says, you know, this tent's gonna, it's a good tent. I did the best I can. But there are no tents in Europe today. They don't last forever. But I can tell you about a house that'll last a real long time. It's called the House of God So yes, the Apostle Paul was in a secular job. He was a tent maker. Do you hear much about Paul the tent maker? You don't hear him use that term. He says Paul the servant of God. So yes. you can serve God in whatever occupation you're in. Another example would be Joseph. Oh absolutely. Joseph, yeah. Serving Pharaoh. Yeah. Oh yeah. There are several if you look for them. Esther they were. Esther, yeah, there's another one. Serving as a queen. Yeah, as a woman. That's even tougher in Old Testament times. Lydia was a seller of purple. Lydia sold purple. Simon was a tanner. Simon was a tanner. Lydia, the seller of purple, come abide with me. Her house was always open to the saints. She served God in that way And so I just encourage you to consider your profession, consider your vocation. It's not a secular one if you're a child of God. No longer is it a secular job. All right. Uh let's uh close there. Anton, could you close us for prayer? Sure. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. We thank you, Lord, that you Preserve your word that we could read from it even week by week, that we could uh feast upon it, grow by it, O Lord, and we thank you even for this uh consideration this morning. how uh Christ is our high priest and apostle, O Lord. And uh may that give us encouragement, O Lord, to be uh content where we are, knowing that we can serve the Lord even In a secular job to be uh obedient servants uh unto our masters as unto Christ, O Lord. Because ultimately the service is to him, to thee, to the word. Please keep us faithful in our jobs, keep us uh faithful in this walk and help us to grow in grace and and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Pray you would uh help us, Lord, even in the upcoming service to worship you in spirit and in truth. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.