Good morning. We've got a little s mini series that we're tackling about social issues, and the first one we're tackling is homosexuality. Last week we looked at kind of the basis of relationships, that is, marriage. And God identifies different relationships in the Bible. He identifies and promotes marriage between one man and one woman. Second, being single, remaining single. Third, being widowed. And although he does recognize divorce, it is something that God says from the beginning it was not so. So beyond that, there are no other relationships that are recognized in the scriptures or tolerated So let's look now this week at the beginnings of homosexuality. And curiously enough, the very first mention we find of homosexuality occurs, sadly, very early in the Bible. It occurs Right there in Genesis 18 with more detail given in Genesis 19. So we're going to spend some time looking at that today Of course, you know what I'm talking about. Solomon Gomorrah, we're going to spend a little bit of time drawing out from those passages because God spends a whole chapter talking about that destruction that he rained upon that wicked city and all of the plains of that area. It wasn't just limited to Sodom. It was Gomorrah, it was all the plains, all the cities of the plains. We find that as Abram had been called of God out from Ur of the Chaldees, that he brought somebody with him. Does anybody remember who that was? Yeah, brought his nephew Lot, it was his brother's son, who um We're not told why Lot came with him, other than he did. So Lot is sojourning along with Abram, and of course Abram had his wife Sarai. And the three of them are making their journey into the land of Canaan. Ur the Chaldees would have been farther to the east. He's kind of going up in the areas of Babylon and then down into the regions of Canaan. And it got to a point where Abram had quite a lot of cattle. So did a lot, and there was a bit of a conflict between grazing rights or perhaps where they would water their flocks. And Abram gave his nephew a choice If you take this side, I'll take that side. If you take that side, I'll take this side. You pick. And if you look in your Bible to Genesis 13, we'll just briefly start there to show this. We see in Genesis 13 that verse 10, Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest into Zoar. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east. We go down to verse thirteen. And it says, oh I'm sorry, verse 12, we don't want to miss that. Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain. So at first he's kind of in the cities around the plain, kind of in the periphery. And pitched his tent toward Sodom. He didn't start off in Sodom, he was near it And then you read in verse 13, but the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. So that's interesting because we find from the beginning that Sodom already had a reputation. Number two, it was in a well-watered fertilized plane. Isn't that interesting? If it's well-watered and it's fertile and it's very fertile, Uh in an agrarian culture, that means it's easy to get rich. It's easy to have a lot of substance. You're not going to be worried about years of drought. You're not going to be worried about famine, things of that nature. It's a very well-watered area, and so you can survive. You've got an upper edge. And indeed, today you find in the homosexual community that most of them are in high-paying white-collar jobs that are resistant to all kinds of economic downturns. They are educated. Most of the homosexuals you will find, uh the statistics have shown that they're not in the blue-collar class There tend to be more of the academics, the elites, the advanced degrees, those who are in the higher echelons of government. I think probably, by my estimates, a quarter of NSA is gay. Now that's just my personal estimates. So you're talking and and and I mention NSA because the 20701 zip code is a 20% premium on salary. You already have six-figure incomes in this area. You get a whole lot of money if you're working at NSA. So these are people who are well off. They're well-to-do. And you know, mothers had an old saying when they were raising their children, uh, idle hands make for the devil's work, something like that. So these people have uh uh a lot of idle time on their hands. Uh there's a passage in Exodus uh in Exodus, in Ezekiel that speaks about This was the sin of your sisters Sodom and Gomorrah. They had idleness of hands, fullness of bread, in other words, and great pride. They have pride parades, right? There's nothing new under the sun. And so this is common. If you're busy, if you're struck working and you're hard laboring. Praise God, that's where you ought to be, because idle hands do make for the devil's work for sure. And certainly this is one of the things that led, I believe, to where the people at Sodom and Gomorrah wound up at We also then look at Genesis 18. We skip ahead now a few chapters to Genesis 1820, and this is the account where Abram is being visited. Visited by the Lord himself. It says two men appeared unto him, and it also mentions angels. And it also mentions the Lord So you have, I think, a pre-incarnate Lord Jesus Christ and two angels with him. They look like men, insofar as Abram could tell. He's announcing to Abram that his wife Sarai is going to bear him a son. And he's incredulous at all this news. But then as the angels turn, he says, Shall I hide from Abram the thing that I'm going to do? So he turns back to tell him what the real intent, or the secondary purpose of their trip, is, and it says in verse 20 of Genesis 18. And the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great And because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it. So we get a little bit of additional information about the nature of Sodom and Gomorrah, that the cry against it, that there was a cry, there was an outcry. So God heard cries. Obviously, these would have been through prayers, might have been through tears and anguish of mothers and fathers in that land who had not been given over to this. And it says the cry is great. So I went looking at that word great and I looked at the word Grievous. It was very interesting. Great is the sense of heavy. Sometimes it's used as glorious, meaning it's a heavy weight of glory. Uh it's it's very big, it's very much. Cry is great. Great's a wonderful rendition. The one that blew me away was that word grievous. It's also rendered hardened, as in Pharaoh's heart was hardened It says their sin was very grievous. They were very hardened in their sins. And it comes with the sense of having a lot of weight and bricks upon you that presses down so that there's no moisture left. It's just very hard. Very hard-hearted, stony-like heart. They're just very hardened. Hardened in sin. There was no prick of conscience. And this is the nature. He says, I've heard of that. Now from Lot's perspective, he's looking out This is a prosperous place. Their stock market isn't crashing. Their cows are doing fine. Their houses are well kept and manicured. Their lawns are picture perfect. Everything is wonderful over here. This is the place to be. It's the Mediterranean Hamlet. But from heaven's perspective Their sin is grievous. They are hardened. You see, God looks upon the heart. God's looking at the heart, folks. Do we consider the heart? Because you see of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks, and we're going to see what these men say. When you hear things coming from people's mouths, do you look upon and consider them from God's vantage point? If you hear hardness of sin, a hardened mind, a proud, rebellious outlook, these things the Lord, these six things the Lord hate, yea, seven things are an abomination to him. Pride and wicked heart and so forth. You know that passage in Proverbs. I forgot it off the top of my head. Well, let's go to Genesis 19. Let's continue to read here about this account because God gives us some insights There is nothing that is changed about this sin. It is a sin. It is a part-driven uh behavior that comes forth and it manifests itself in tremendous wickedness. We see in Genesis 19 that the two angels came to Sodom and Eve, and we find in verse 4 Let's start in verse 1. There's just so much here. We're going to just pick up the first uh we're going to go through to verse 10. There came two angels to Sodom and Even and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. Alright, so let's consider that for a moment. What does it mean in the old Testament, maybe Joey or Owen knows this, when you have a uh person sitting in the gate, what does it mean to be in the gate of the city? Okay, yep, it would be a uh courtyard. It wasn't just like a garden gate, one thing that swung. It was actually a complex. And you would have an entry area with uh administrative offices. And what does it mean if you personally are sitting in the gate? Does that mean you're just taking a break there? Well the watchmans are tend to be on the walls. They need to look a long ways away. They they were paying attention for sure. Sort of among the city fathers. It was the The rulers, right. It was an administrative rule. Some have uh euphemized this by saying uh Lot was the mayor of Sodom, but I wouldn't go to that extent. I don't believe he was that and just to sit in the gate is where business and and things were transactions were conducted. He has now at this point moved his tent. a dweller in the plain, so now he is in an administrative position in the city. He is now in some official capacity with Sodom. Okay? So he's there, he rises up to meet them, he bowed himself with his face toward the ground, Genesis 19, 2. And he said, Behold now my lords, turn in, I pray you into your servant's house, tarry you all night, and wash your feet And you shall rise up early and go on your ways. And they said, Nay, but we will abide in the street all night. He pressed upon them greatly. They turned in unto him, entered into his house. He made them a feast, did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat. Alright, so this is the evening time They say we want to stay in the night, in the streets at night. Lots quick to say, no, no, no, no, you don't want to do that. He presses upon them. So I think this is beyond just typical oriental customs, right? You know how it is. Please come to my house for dinner. No, you must come to my house for dinner. No, you must come to my house for dinner. If the third time they say no, okay, they really don't want to No, he was very serious with these men because he knew it was there was a problem. Verse 4, but before they lay down The men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people from every quarter. That is one of the most stunning statements to me in the Bible. It's stunning on a number of accounts. Number one, these fellows just rolled into town. They just got there. Number two, they didn't have cell phones, they didn't have texting, they couldn't call. There was an instant means of communication. Hey, new people in town So the news of strangers that have come into town is spreading rapidly. Three, it was young and old. It was not just the elderly, it was not just the youth. Number four, they came from every quarter This is like a cancerous plague that has shot through the city through and through, and they are so given over to their lasciviousness, and I'm going to use an old English word to Uh it's even evil to speak of the things that they do. They're so driven in that as to know that there's a stranger in town, and that night That very night they have to have their lust fulfilled on these men, and they surround the house. What kind of boldness is this? What kind of uh uh uh addiction is this. It's really like an addiction. You know the the the heroin addict or the dope addict on the streets, they're They may be strung out, thin as a rail, they look like a wreck, but they're just begging for money so they can go get that next fix. They've just got to have that next fix. That's kind of how they're acting here. They've got to have that next fix. It's horrific. Verse 5, they called unto Lot and said unto him, Where are the men which came into thee this night? Bring them out unto us, that we may know them. So this is going to be a mob attack. This is unbelievable where this is headed And then we have the most incredible account I can think of from Lot, and I cannot, as a father, understand this, but I believe biblically God allowed this to transpire to teach us something very profound about Sodom and Gomorrah. Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after him, and said, I pray unto you, brethren, do not so wickedly. Behold, now I have two daughters which have not known man. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you And do ye to them as is good in your eyes. Only unto these men do nothing. For therefore came they under the shadow of my roof. Now I can tell you if it had been this father, I would have said, I uh I have two angels here. You have them protect my daughters. I could throw these angels under the bus. He didn't. We don't know why. We don't understand. And I don't understand his thinking. Already you can see Lot's thinking is polluted by being in that city. His thinking is already beginning to become polluted. But number two, the men refuse the offer, which shows how hardened they are In this sin. It is so corrupt. It is so perverse. It is so twisting of their natural affections. Scripture describes the wicked as getting to the point that they are without natural affection that their thinking is beyond normal. I watch a channel on YouTube from time to time. I haven't seen much of it lately because you I kind of get the point after a while. Whole active self-protection. It's about how to defend yourself and different things. Um one of the things that they uh talk about is, you know, when people have polluted thinking. And there's polluted thinking, how to uh deal with that. And he also points out that, you know, criminals don't think like you and I do They don't have the same moral system. They don't look at life the same way. And so Lott here gives them what from their perspective you would think you talk about trying to compromise he's going to an extreme range to protect these men an extreme range one that would go far over my limit I think I'd bring them out, Mr. Smith and Mr. Weston, but unfortunately that wasn't invented at the time. An extreme range that would Quasi seem reasonable to them. And notice the little touch of reproof. My brethren do not so wickedly. Now he calls them brethren. Now why would he call them brethren? Do you think these people were Christians No. Well, as one preacher said, you can call all men brethren. They're either brothers in Adam or brothers in Christ, but they're all brethren. They would have all been descendants. of Noah having come from that flood. They would all were all of one flesh. There's only one color of blood that runs through all of us. That's the only way he could possibly call them that It it almost looks like they saw no difference between Lot and themselves because they say, these men are coming to you. Now Give us our turn. Almost. Yeah. That's interesting to look at it this way. I say almost because I strained at this really hard, trying to glean from it what I can. And there are some interesting parts. They do recognize that he's different. And I'll show you that in a moment. It's the very next verse, verse 4. And they said, stand back. So they're kind of aggressive. They're very aggressive. They're not apologetic. And they said again, this one fellow came in to sojourn. They're referring to Lot. He came in to sojourn. Same language that talks about believers being strangers and sojourners. They knew Lot was a sojourner in this world They knew he was not one of them. You came in to sojourn. You're just passing through. You're a stranger. Sometimes it's rendered stranger. You came in to sojourn through here, and he will needs be a judge. You're judging me. See he is there anything new in the sun? What did he say? He simply said do not so wickedly. That's the only touch of reproof he said to them. Don't do wickedly. Now you want to be a judge. You can't judge what I'm doing. There's nothing new under the sun. It's amazing. We will now deal worse with thee than with them. So what's interesting is they say we're going to deal worse with you than with them. Well, they knew what they were doing would be bad for these men, but we're going to make it even worse for you. Isn't that perverse thinking? They know they're out to do evil, and yet they're threatening a worse evil. They pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near it to break the door. But the men put forth their hand and pulled a lot in the house to them and shut the door, and they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, again, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door. We find that this behavior of these sodomites is atrocious. It's reprehensible And sadly, we see all the same elements active in the LGBTQ plus community today They're very proud. They're very bold. At the slightest hint of reproof, you're judging me. You can't judge against me. Who are you to say this? You don't belong here. You're not in part of our territory. And they want to demand their right. They pressing upon them as if though they actually have a right to this. You're withholding something from us that we deserve. That's the language. That's what you find here. This is the description. And nothing's changed from that. In fact, we then uh I'm gonna read to you uh the uh the result of this in the book of Jude. Um you know that the Lord then rains fire and brimstone down upon it You know that the cities of the plain are absolutely overthrown. It was turned to ashes. The men in it, a fiery conflagration fell down and absolutely scorched them to the ground There were not found ten righteous in the city. It was utterly overthrown. Lot was pulled out and his daughters. Two virgin daughters were pulled out, which later did an evil deed and became the mothers of the Ammonites and the Moabites, which would be a plague to the children of Israel for a long time. Lot was the only righteous man that I can find from this account in the midst, and even then quite the sinful one. We know he's righteous because it says in the New Testament that it vexed his spirit in seeing and hearing their filthy days, filthy deeds which they committed among them. In Jude 1. 7, we read this, even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over, so they gave themselves over. They weren't born that way. They gave themselves to this, giving themselves over to fornication. It's interesting because now you have an interesting definition of fornication. It's comprehensive. It doesn't stop at premarital sex. It goes all the way down to homosexuality. And going after strange flesh are set forth for an example. That word example means a thing that you can go out and see and touch, a museum piece, if you will. Eusebius and Josephus both wrote that in their day you could actually still go and visit the ruins of Sashamora, that they were still extant and visible Today, archaeologists cannot deny, and people who study that region cannot deny that there's a ton of sulfuric lime balls, sulfuric stones. scattered throughout that region. They say it came from a volcano. The only problem is the uh content of that sulfur that's there is different than what you would get from volcanoes in that area. They say, well it has to be some other natural extra It can't be the fact of what you read in the Bible. That's nice. Men will continue to try to dodge God. That's not a surprise. So we find from the Sodomites' behavior That old and young were perverse. We find that it probably started small, but it grew. It grew to infect the old and it grew to infect the young So this is a sin that can go multi-generations. It can go citywide. It is something that once it gets A root and started, there's little to stop it. It keeps spreading. It takes over. It's like an invasive plant species. I've got an invasive plant in this field back here. That's very hard to get rid of We find out they were so twisted in their affections that they rejected what I consider to be an ungodly offer of two virgins. And just at the minor word wickedly, do not so wickedly, they felt judged. You're judging me. They were very proud, very bold So this is a great sin that leads to fully abherent and unrighteous behavior. There's nothing positive about it. There's nothing constructive about it. Sodom was rich and prosperous, nothing, not because of what they did But because of the fact it happened to be in a fertile region. That's the only reason. If it had been anywhere else, you you don't find it. You just don't find that sort of behavior happening And we know they were unrighteous by their deeds, and from Abraham's request to spare the city for the sake of ten righteous. And it was not spared, because there were ten righteous there. So that's the first point and the first beginning of homosexuality that we find in the scriptures. Very graphic language, hard to even Imagine historically how this can happen, but left unchecked, I believe God allowed it to go to that point, to s to hold them forth. This is the example. This is the beginning of homosexuality, and in the same chapter, this is its end. This is where it's going. You need to understand that that's the venue, that's the track, that's the destination God ordained. So let that part be clear. Number two. Homosexuality can be repented of. They weren't born that way. They've given themselves over to it, but it can be repented of it. There are a lot of cases of people who have repented of their homosexuality. The most recent and the most, I guess you would say, notorious in recent memory is Rosaria Butterfield She was a lesbian English professor at an Ivy League university and had a number of lesbian students Some of which committed suicide after she converted, after she abandoned her lifestyle A PCA minister was helping her in some questions she had about the Bible. She was trying to explore, she was being honest to her academic credentials of having an open mind. and exploring different things. And so she wanted to, for some reason her inquiry took her down the path where she was found herself in need to read the Bible. And so she was doing it for academic purposes, but she was reading it for five hours a day. And of course, as she gives her account of her conversion. When she tells audiences that she was reading it that long, everybody kind of chuckled, yeah, I know what's going to happen to you. Sure enough, she came under conviction. Sure enough, she began to have great consternation within herself as she was thinking through the ramifications, but she could not let go. of this book. You know what it's like. It gets a hold of you, it gnaws at you, it chews at you, it tugs at you, it yanks at you until finally it wins. It wins. And so when she repented and came out straight, Her students didn't take it well. She was let go from a job. And over the process of time Uh she ended up writing a book, The Unlikely Con An Unlikely Convert or something like that. Rosaria Butterfield is her name. Uh she's quite, as you would imagine, being an English uh professor, she's quite an eloquent professor author, married a married a fellow who became a pastor and then now she's a pastor's wife and conference speaker. There's been others throughout time who have repented of this. In Matthew 11, 23, the Lord Jesus tells us something about this. He says, And thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell. Capernaum was a wealthy uh border city on the coast, very prosperous, kind of sounds like children. He says, for if the mighty works, Jesus went through, did many mighty works, many miracles, many deeds, if the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained. Until this day. So let me ask you a question, what does Jesus imply about how deeply ingrained a homosexual lifestyle can be? in this passage of Matthew 1123. Almost impossible to get out of. Almost impossible. Is it totally impossible? No. Nothing is ever totally impossible with God. Yeah. Yeah. Here he says even the gospel can even break homosexuality. That that is more powerful. I find it astounding that had God chosen To save the Sodomites and the Gomorites and the Admonites and the Zeboyans and the Zora. Zora. Zora was the little city, except that one was spared. Zoar. Zoar, thank you. If he had chosen to spare those cities in the plain and Sodom and Gomorrah. There were angels there. They just smote the men at the door with blindness. The Lord, L-O-R-D, Jehovah, Jesus Christ, pre-incarnate, was there talking to Abram. He could have gone through the midst. He could have done some mighty, miraculous deeds, because Jesus says if the mighty works that had been done in Capernaum had been done in Sodom and Gomorrah, they would have repented. Old and young. They would have feared. Just like when Jonah went to Nineveh and preached, yet 40 days, God will destroy you. They repented. They remained. Wasn't the case because they were to be set apart for you and I and for all civilizations afterward to understand. Homosexuality is a civilization threatening sin. It is something that radically impacts an entire city, an entire region, and it can grow and spread and become cancerous beyond expectations. It can choke out the human race. It's the ultimate fruitless existence. We continue Turn with me to Leviticus 18. This is also an instructive passage that tells us what can happen if homosexuality is left unchecked. Leviticus 18 I think of all chapters in the Bible when people ask me as they look about the state of this nation As they look about the state of other nations in the world and they say, Brother Vince, where is it going? Have you heard about all these tornadoes in the South? Forget about it. It has nothing to do with the end of the world The banks are about to collapse and we're going to go on digital currency and it'll be a one-world. Forget about it. Forget about it. That's not the mark. You want to understand something about civilizations? You want to understand something about the rise and the fall of nations? You study Leviticus 18. You look at God's playbook on how He handles nations. We read in Leviticus 18, and I'm not going to cover the whole thing, I'm going to begin in verse 22, but let me summarize for you the opening few chapters because there's Four or five things, I forget, I think by one count I had five, but I went back and looked again, I had four. A sequence of fornication that happens. That lights up a red button on God's dashboard of how to manage nations, and when it turns glowing red, he hits that button. So let's look at those five. In the opening verses you find about looking at Niravkin, I would call that pornography. And then it gets into fornication. And then it gets into adultery. You would say the little sins, the little looking that starts off. It always starts off with a look. Brother Bernie used to tell me the first look won't kill you, the second one will. You can't avoid the time and the place when an immodestly dressed woman appears in front of your eyes. You can't, a man can't man can't avoid that. Or a woman for that matter Then we get to verse 22, and here's the fourth. Thou shalt not lie with mankind. Leviticus 18:22. Thou shalt not lie with mankind as with womankind. It is an abomination. Neither shalt thou lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith. That's the fifth one. Fourth, homosexuality. Fifth, bestiality. Neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto. It is confusion. So we find that these latter components, from soft pornography to um fornication to adultery to homosexuality to bestiality. Folks, this is the path. This is how it starts. This is where it leads to. It ends up with bestiality. That's the fifth trigger. We have confirmed legitimate rights in this nation for homosexuality. There is no legal recourse in this nation to say homosexuality is wrong and to sue out and get a prosecution. That cannot be done right now. So what can we do to stop it? You better put some laws in the books as soon as possible against bestiality because that's the next step. You better put that, that's the last gap That's the last hedge, that's the last wall you can fight for right now, is to put laws in place that prevent bestiality. A man cannot marry a donkey. A woman can't marry a cat. or whatever stupid idea, because that's where it's going. That is it's snowballing that direction, folks. It's happening already, but it's not in your face in the news on beer cans and Disney ads. It's not quite there yet. It'll probably lead the way with Disney, if you were to ask me. Because they already make pictures of all kinds of animals in human form. He says, now listen to how God speaks about this in Leviticus 18. It's very instructive. I think it's very enlightening. Verse 24, defile not ye yourselves, you Jews, coming out of the wilderness, defile not ye yourselves in any of these things. It's a defilement. An abomination is that which defiles. For in all these the nations are defiled, which I cast out before you, and the land is defiled. Therefore, I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it. And the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants. Oh, God had them slay man and beast and everything in the land. That was so nasty of the Lord to do that to the to the Canaanites. That wasn't fair. No. These people were given up. Oh, it's terrible that the Native American Indians were driven out by the Americans. No You think they weren't given up to these kinds of things as well? You better believe it. They had all kinds of wicked practices. They were fighting and robbing and stealing from each other. What do you mean, tribal lands? How are you going to trace that back? They weren't constantly fighting, it was constantly exchanging hands. Their hands were full of blood and murder all the time. They were oppressive. And I'm telling you, they hit that fifth button They hit it. I guarantee you they hit it. This is God's plan for why nations, groups, regions are overthrown. When you get to this point, this is one of the big red buttons on God's dashboard that says eject, because it is too cancerous of a growth It it it cannot it it it it spills out too far. It has to be dealt with. You read in Leviticus um 20, you can skip a page to verse 13, that the penalty for such things should be death. This is God's description for the penalty of that. If a man lie also with mankind as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination, they shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them And if a man lie with a beast, he shall surely be put to death, and ye shall slay the beast. Even the beast isn't guilty in this. And if a woman approach ending the unto any beast and lie down thereto. Thou shalt kill the woman and the beast, thou shalt surely they shall surely be put to death, and their blood shall be upon them. Brother Vince, I have to talk to this. Are you saying we should go out and kill homosexuals today? No. I'm telling you what God says the penalty should be. This is what God assesses the penalty to be Let none of you die as a murderer. We cannot do that. We cannot take that upon us. But I'm warning you I'm clearly warning you that in God's judgment, in God's law book, this is the penalty, and the wages, yea, of all sin is death. Covetousness, which is idolatry, leads to death. Defiling the Sabbath, violating God's precious gospel sign. Is a crime punishable by death. Yes, the scripture does highlight many a sin as the wages will result in death. And homosexuality is no different. It's not unlike any of the others. There is strong evidence that AIDS began with monkeys. And you think about the the hundreds of thousands that died with AIDS as a result. Yes. Absolutely. God God will You'll reckon we have receiving in their body the error of do their recompense do them. What happens if this is not prosecuted. This is what the penalty should be. The laws of the land should identify this as the right penalty. Rather than justifying it, rather than calling good evil, rather than promoting it, it should be condemned as a national catastrophe, it should be deemed as something as if letting loose a serial murderer. It should be put to death. The nation should be responsible for doing it. Did you have a comment, Lisa? Oh, okay. If it is not prosecuted, if the people of the land are unable to get leaders over them and rulers who will properly prosecute this sin then God will take action. And you read about that in Leviticus 1826. We go back to 1826 and he says this. Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall not commit any of these abominations, neither any of your own nation, nor any stranger that sojourns among you, not even tolerated from a stranger coming in. For all these abominations have the men of the land done which were before you, and the land is defiled. That the land spew you not out also when ye defile it, as it spewed out the nations that were before you For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people. When God says the land is spewing you out, God is simply saying I will overthrow it. I will take care of it. I will erase it. Now we have this negotiation of God with Abram. Will you spare the city for ten righteous? Pretend righteous he will. We have a promise of God. We are being held on by a thread. The righteous in this nation, the church that remains, the church militant of the Lord Jesus Christ that remains in this land is the only thing Holding up this land. You are making a difference. The church ought to do X, Y, and Z. Before the eyes of God, the church is doing what we can do. We are righteous and we are upholding this land by our very presence. They don't recognize this. It doesn't matter. They're blinded. They're hardened. They're like a ton of bricks upon them. They can't Perceive it, they don't understand it, the capacity, their consciousness feared with a hot iron. There is no ability for them to understand. There is none understanding in them So, when I consider Genesis 19, the beginnings of homosexuality, how we see it introduced in the Bible, when I consider Leviticus 18 God's five-step program that he tolerates before ejecting a people from a land. We learn some important things about how God rules over nations. We learn that homosexuality in particular, followed quickly by bestiality, is one sin that he actively fights against. God actively fights against that. And frankly, it never ends well. You know, if anything, if you look at the course of history and the nations of the past and the major Uh I'm thinking Greek history, Roman history, Mayan civilization All of them, without exception, began with what seemed to be zealous, earnest, upright, noble motives And selfless. Julius Caesar was considered to be a great Roman ruler. He was so self-sacrificing for the benefit of the country, he himself did not take it on. They said, surely this must be a god. And of course the Roman emperors and the Caesars went downhill from there. The beginnings of the nation were never characterized by homosexuality. They never started anything worthwhile. They never began anything. However, when you look at the end of the nations, that was always characterized by homosexuality in leadership positions That was characterized by rampant bestiality and these sorts of things. In fact, because of these things, the Canaanite nations, man and beast, were destroyed by the Jews, empowered by God to erase them from the land. Pompeii, buried by a volcano in 79 A. D. , Mount Vesuvius, was a place that the elite, wealthy Romans, either senators or uh military men of great renown would retire, and there were all kinds of things they found, all kinds of sexually referenced and graphic inscriptions on the walls at Pompeii. That it too was a land given over to abominable wicked sins, buried by God in a volcano. Um Rome's last series of Caesars were openly gay. And uh there's an interesting tractoid I heard, and it's It's been erased from the news. I might have saved a copy of it in my file somewhere. But do you remember Hurricane Katrina in 2005? It came and hit um Louisiana and particular New Orleans with the full strength and force of the Category 5 hurricane Well, it just so happened that that was the weekend, or the time. I think it was a weekend. When there was a large homosexual gathering in New Orleans at that time. Something tells me that was not an accidental story. Our God actively fights against these things because when it is left unchecked It degrades further and further, affecting old and young. And if it's affecting young, you're not going to have subsequent generations. If you don't have subsequent generations, God's elect don't come through. God will not have that. So today we've looked at the beginnings as well as the ending of homosexuality. So I hope that's helpful. Next week we'll continue to explore this topic and uh round it out and get to some Hopefully more specific Q<unk>A for uh how to handle these uh sins that we see in our world today. Antonio, would you close us in prayer? Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for granting us this time this morning to consider your scripture and how needful it is, especially in this land, as it continues to uh roll down and grow uh in this way of sin, oh Lord, we pray that you would even bring about uh more preaching, more uh Teaching and instruction from your word, even the leaders, that some might repent, and that there would be some recourse in this nation, O Lord. We pray you would keep us faithful, help us to continue to grow in grace and knowledge of Christ and not to help uh grow in the sins of the world around us. Pray your help, please be with us for the remainder of this service. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.