One that I particularly enjoyed was a request on current social issues. How should we as Christians address certain social issues and we are going to spend the next several studies dealing with the A, B, Cs, and D's of the homosexual agenda in our land. It is something that I don't think any of you here over the age of 40 have had to deal with growing up. Oh, they were there, they were present, but they did not have the kind of legal status that they have now. They have a string of Supreme Court rulings. To speak against homosexuality would be akin to speaking against someone who has a different skin color than you do. That is how it is viewed in the eyes of the land. For you to even sneer at that is considered disrespectful, hateful. It's as if though you are vehemently against a particular racial group. Imagine if we were to routinely shun, I'm half Mexican, all Mexicans from our group. We would not let Mexicans play the piano. We wouldn't let Mexicans come to church. We wouldn't let Mexicans go into our restaurants In fact, if we discovered you were Mexican, we figure that you ought to be killed. Well, replace the word Mexican with homosexual. That's how they view that. So I kind of feel in some respects that I'm in 590 BC in Judah, four years before being sacked by the Babylonians. There's a few faithful messengers, an Ezekiel here, a Jeremiah there. And Isaiah to the north, and the promises of God are faithful and true. How is all this going to play out? And so when I speak about addressing homosexuality, I'm talking about all the LGBTQ plus terminology. I'm sure they'll tack on enough stuff at the end of it. that it will be so long we we can't pronounce it. Buzzwords may change. The principles do not. Scripture addresses all of it. It simply refers to it as sodomy, sodomites, homosexuality, it's all the same And you know, it's not like we can lay the blame of this at the feet of the church. Why hasn't the church done anything about this? If the church were active, this would be gone. No, the church has been active. They have been vehement against this since the 50s, from where I can trace back, when the first Supreme Court ruling came out favorably in 1958. 1958 is a series of rulings that piece by piece have laid this evilness, this evil behavior, this sin into our society. And so we have been fighting it. But it has not been the will of God that it should be overthrown at this time. It's interesting because marriage is both a secular and a religious institution. So it is an interesting crossroads. There are some things that are purely religious in terms of what Scripture says concerning, oh feast days, which day we might consider a holy day, whether we get together on Wednesday night or Saturdays or Sundays. And the world really doesn't care about those things. There's no conflict there. But when it comes to marriage, it is a it is an interesting intersection between those two. Because the world has tied certain benefits to marriage. You pay a lower tax rate, uh there are certain financial benefits to it. There's an inheritance concept that comes with it in terms of heirs, things that the court pays respect unto And so, although the secular laws of our land may have changed positions on this, God has not changed his positions on this. God's legal rulings and God's opinion has not changed. And he hasn't changed it from the beginning. And so I introduced that to perhaps present to you the unique aspect that we find ourselves as Christians facing. I'm going to be very interested to see what kind of comments I get about this series of topics. I actually hope it's broadcast far and wide I feel that the day may come in I don't know how many years where for me to even speak such would not only result in the cancellation of the video at the least or someone pounding on the door and hauling me away And at the worst. Now, to be clear, the church is not called to overthrow the government The church is not called to incite rebellion against the powers that be. Far be from it. Let none of you be accused as being a murderer, the scripture says. We are called, though To personally hold on to the truth. We are called to declare the truth to our family and to our children and to our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. We are called to boldly declare the truth to unbelievers and to patiently explain the truth to those willing to listen. And that's a key phrase, willing to listen. If you're not willing to listen, you have to back off. You have to just move along. God has shut the doors to them. And so what I'd like to do is cover this ugly topic, and frankly, I came and told Angela one day I'm I was just sick to my stomach just reviewing the language of the scriptures, describing real people that I really see, and it's just very sickening because God gives the picture of the heart. We see the outward manifestation. The facade, the mask, the niceness, the titles. That's what we see. But God peels back the picture And like discovering a mouse in your in your office has defiled the whole thing. You go, ugh, this is really ugly, and I was just sick to my stomach, and I told Angela I gotta kill. look at this anymore. I have to pause. So what I'd like to do is go through the A, B, C, Ds of homosexuality. The first A is homosexuality and marriage. You do not have a handout because I'm not going to do it in the format I've done before, I just want you to open the Bible because the objective of all this is for you personally to be able to know what is my anchor point. Am I able to answer and address these issues as they come up Because frankly, the LGBTQ agenda is coming at people from every circle and every orb and every direction. The vectors are numerous And all of it is designed to throw you off balance. And the only way I can keep you standing upright in that battle is I can't predict every question you're going to get. I cannot predict every scenario you're going to encounter. But I can tell you this, if you're anchored firmly in some basics, and the Bible does talk about them, and there's not a lot of passages, and you can I'm happy to give you the study series afterward and take up two sheets of paper on your shelves that you can go back and refer to it and say, I think this is the principle we need to talk about. And we can go from there. A, B, C, D's. Homosexuality, the first A is and marriage. Homosexuality and marriage. I couldn't start it with an A, so I'm just going to pick a word and begin with an A. And marriage. And then next week we'll look at the others. Alright, so let's start off with man's formation. I really want to get back to basics. And so we turn to Genesis 1. We're not going to dwell there for too long, but today we are talking about marriage because homosexuals believe they have a full right to marriage. And again, marriage is that unique Intersection between the secular and the religious. So let's look at God's perspective. God doesn't find a difference between secular and religious, frankly. He's not going to say, oh, you're a secular person. I can't judge you. No, that's not going to work So what is God's opinion on marriage? And we find in Genesis 1, 26 the following God said, let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them, so he has a plurality of man in view. You obviously know who that is, let man And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. Male and female created he them. And God bless them. Alright, so what do you observe? from those two verses as it relates to some of the attacks from the homosexual agenda God created me like this. Okay, they'll say God created me like this. I was created homosex I have a homosexual gene. I was made this way, alright? Now, we shouldn't use this, I have been told, by those who minister more extensively to homosexuals than I do And by the way, in my introduction, I failed to point out that this concept of accepting homosexuals is creeping deeply into churches as well, and that's troubling So I'm not here to try to overthrow it in the land. I just want in our own house, in the household of faith, for there to be a position. So right out the gate we see God created how many genders? This is not hard I think you got enough fingers of one hand to count this and have three fingers left over. Exactly. There are two genders. Is there any scientific Joey, is there any scientific proof that there's only two genders? You ever heard anything called chromosomes, Owen? Does that make any sense to you? There's two types of chromosomes. What are the letters that we assign to the two types of chromosomes? There's a X. X and a a Y chromosome and if you have I always get them mixed up. The XX, your one gen XX is female, is that correct? And then the XY is the male. They're kind of sort of thank David's my my biolog biology scientific editor is shaking his head. You got it right there, Dad. Um yeah, we don't find any other gender here And God says he made them male. He made them female. I don't see any adjustability in here. I don't see any opportunity for change or variation. You don't find that in here. You simply said he created them male and he created them female. So that is and should be a foundational What else do we find in here? Actually, I want to go down to verse 31. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. Alright, so now I've read an extra verse. Just from this account, what other observation can we draw concerning perhaps certain attacks you've heard from the homosexual community? The union was to be fruitful. fruitful and multiply. Alright, so the purpose of this union was to be fruitful and multiply. And a homosexual union is the ultimate definition of a fruitless union. In fact, they're like the what is it, the cowbird? What's the bird that steals the uh eggs? The cowbird plops its egg in the nest of another bird and the other bird raises this quickly growing voracious uh uh chick that is very evil, the chick kicks out the other living birds from that nest, and so the mother bird unwilling unwittingly of the uh host nest raises this parasite bird, uh chick, on her own and expends all of her energy and resources raising something she didn't give birth to. And uh uh and and and that analogy fails in the homosexual community because I'm not depositing any one of my children in their camp. They are trying to steal mine So please observe the homosexual community is after your grandchildren. That's who they're after. They're after the grandchildren. And of course the children. Alright, what else do we read in here? What else can we see that the homosexual community pretends to be? Well I matter of concern. They don't believe in God. That's the reason why. don't follow this. Yes. Okay. Hold that thought. We'll uh address that perhaps a little bit more deeply next week, but that's a good observation. Was there any morality issues here in the early chapters of Genesis? Do we have any morality issues going on here? Uh that's not strictly true. I know a homosexual who is thinking she's a Christian and she is very sure that she is a Christian Christian. Yeah. Oh well you're both correct. Yeah. Because understand the homosexuals have a because you're not anchored the truth. She was raised Christian. She was raised very strong Christian Yes. And she honestly believes that uh Sodom and Gomorrah were not destroyed because of homosexuality. Yeah, we'll talk about that as well. Yeah, right. She identifies as a Christian, yeah first. She identifies as a Christian, she's really not. Yeah, there's a wide wide wide version. Yeah, yeah, they go well they go to a church that has Christ's name on it. It's not where God's at, I assure you. So um it was there were no morality issues uh in the opening chapters. Victoria? Just uh Thought it twenty eight it says, and God bless them. Now God will bless a Christian union, but they like to take that and think that they are blessed and they take on the word gay, they're like we're so happy, we're so wonderful and just Excellent observation. God blesses that which he creates. I guess what I was trying to highlight is that God saw everything he made, and behold, it was very good. There were no morality issues in the garden. There wasn't anything that was evil or and so in so far as a pinnacle of the best and optimal and frankly only fruitfully working arrangement, you have it right here. You have the man and you have the woman, right there. That's the best. Okay? What was man's purpose in all of this? Can you see a purpose in any of this? Hint, it's in 26 and 27. Any purpose In what? In his creation of man and in the creation of man and woman, what is man's purpose? To procreate. Okay, procreation. Yep, certainly is one. All right, that's an aspect of it. It it and you're not wrong, but it builds up a little higher, Victoria. Okay, dominion. I saw you first. Dominion, okay, have dominion. Okay, that's an aspect of it, yes, okay. Reflect the image of God. Exactly. That's the capstone. You're all correct, but I want you to see what it leads up to. Man, of all the things that God had made, is the only creature that has a certain characteristic. And what is that? Knowledge of good and evil. He's made in the image of God. He's the only one who is made in God's image. The cats are not, the dogs are not, the kangaroos and the gorillas certainly are not. Evolutionists have tried for years to try to show that the apes must be smart because we derive from them and they can never apes are dumber than dirt. Crows are ten times smarter than an ape and an octopus blows them all away. Dolphins are incredibly brilliant and intelligent. So if we came from apes, whoosh, you're really insulting me and my lineage, because you talk about a box of rocks with fur on it. That's what you've got as an ape. They're stupid. They're dumb So only man is the image-bearer of God. Only man has that privilege to reflect God's image. What does it mean to reflect someone's image? Can somebody give me some examples of that in the real world? A grandbaby is born. Oh, he's the spitten image of his father, mother, grandbaby. What does that mean? I can think of all different things when we talk about children. Sometimes it's they look like them. Sometimes oh the way you talk reminds me of him. Or you have certain mannerisms where you act just like Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, bear their attributes. My sister sent a very funny picture one time. She had a snapshot of her husband from her mother-in-law when he was a baby sitting there on the floor in the kitchen and he had opened up the cabin and he pulled out all the Tupperware and was playing with it. And then when she had Josh as a baby, he's sitting there on the floor in the kitchen, pulling out all the Tupperware and playing with it. And like father, like son was the caption. I thought it was cute. Yeah, they have certain mannerisms and things they do that are similar. I've got some mom's got similar pictures of dad and I laying on the bed. We have this certain pose that we like when we like to lay down flat We'll cross our legs and put our arm back, one arm back, man, and so got a picture of both dad and I laying in the bed like that. Yeah, we reflect that image. And so, man Is created in that blessed form that God is pleased to use to reflect him. Now, what happens when that grandson or that son born to a very honorable father? What happens when that son or grandson, oh I don't know, robs a bank, shoots the teller, shoots and wounds the security guard? His mug is placed all over the news and he gets 15 years for aggravated for for robbery, for murder, whatever the charges are, but for robbing a bank. What does that say about the father? If the son does that. The father's still honorable. He wasn't there at the bank. Maybe he wasn't as strict of a disciplination. Yeah, you start to ra ask questions about maybe he's not a strict disciplinarian and or maybe he wasn't, you know. Does that reflect positively on the father, if the son is caught doing these corrupt things? You think the father would be proud of that? He'd want to frame that headline news, you know Buster Kluth, busted at the at the you know, SVB bank for breaking and robbery and you think the father of course you wouldn't be proud of that. Not a good father. So as image bearers, our father somewhat takes an interest in how we behave and how we act because it reflects upon him. Um I don't like this arrangement. What can I do about it? You don't like this. I I don't like to be, I mean, I have to live a good life, so my dad always looks good. I don't like this. How do I get out of this arrangement? Mr. Ross was a very honorable man. Let's say one of your sons says, you know, I really don't like being called Ross anymore. I think I'll get out of this arrangement. Can you change that fact? It would be shame. It would be great shame. But what can you do to change that? Is there anything to do to change that? It has to be done early You can't The Son can change the son can eject the Father early. How is the son gonna eject the father? How can the son get out of this arrangement of being under the father? Oh well that would be later and that would just be Uh leaving that would die. Does that remove him as a father? Remove him as a father. He's not in the house, but does it remove him as a son? Is he removed as a son? Well could be. You might disinherit him, but he's still your son. He still carries the marks. He still carries the DNA. He still carries the name, the reputation. Folks, you can't get out of being a creation of God. You cannot change that arrangement. The creature cannot say to the creator, why have you made me thuss? God has been pleased to take dirt, breathe into the dirt, and create you, and you are his image bearer. And in a pre-fallen world, we were frankly ecstatic with that arrangement. That was a great deal. In fact, God himself, the creator, looks upon and says, it's very good. And I'm sure Adam looked about and said, wow, this is fantastic. And so you sort of can't change this arrangement. It is ordained of God. Now we go then to the woman's formation. This is just the man's formation. He references them because in Adam There's somebody else. Though not yet instantiated, we find someone else. Thank you, Lord. All right, Genesis 2. 18. Genesis 2. 18, you can turn there now We're going to read through 22. 218, and the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him an help meet for him. Meat means fit. Out of the ground the Lord God formed, every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. That doesn't mean God did it at that moment. It indicates This is what God had done, and he's now bringing these pre-existing creatures that he created before Adam. And he did so for a purpose. What was that purpose? He brought them unto Adam, verse 19, to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to All cattle, to the fowl of the air, to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him. Only two times those words are used in the Bible. Help meet. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof, and the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman. And brought her unto command. Alright. Well, let me make a few observations for you here, because I do have more questions a little later on. We find, first of all, that something was not good. It was not good that the man should be alone. His creation was very good, and God saw in Adam, Eve at that point in time. Chapter 2 of Genesis is not a second creation account. But it is the view from the ground level, as it were from Adam's perspective. Genesis 1 is from heaven's perspective, the top-down view of how things played out. Only God could have recorded and known the first chapters of Genesis and he would have recounted that to Adam who would have carried it on in his Toledoth, that's the Hebrew word for his record, his generational account, and he carried that on By oral tradition, throughout his family, he didn't have Twitter or Facebook to waste his time with. He could just simply talk about the things of God all day long. That was his chief joy and desire. And so Genesis 2 is the ground level view how things are happening. God brings all these animals, and lo and behold Adam sees these animals and what does he do? He names them. He simply gives them names. What an extraordinary intellect. Have you ever tried naming things before? I mean, I we had a lot of angst naming our kids, right? You just got one and you know it's coming, but this is like next. Okay, good, next, this is good, next Oh, I shouldn't have called that one Long Trot because I forgot about the elephant. Yeah, I didn't see him. How do you name all these animals? He was brilliant. And of course when you name it you have to Remember it. What did you call it again? Monkey can't talk. I don't know. What'd you call me? Well now your name is Fred. I mean he named them all. Folks, there's not a hint In fact, you'd have to search hard and you'd have to jam all kinds of wickedness. There's not a hint of bestiality in here anywhere. Not a hint. In fact, it probably would strike you that would never even enter my mind. But I'm telling you, there are evil evil men who are waxing worse and worse. And they will search the scriptures. They've got to justify their position. But there's not a hint of it in here. Adam simply names the animals. None are found suitable for him. And as a result, God comes and he solves the problem with woe man. Woe means out of man. She was made out of man, not of the dust, but of already a refined material called atom from the rib, which could regrow. No, they didn't find a skeleton with only one rib missing, because ribs can regrow. So there's not a hint of bestiality. None of these animals are deemed helpers. They're not helpmeat. Joey, is there a scientific reason why an animal can't be a helpmeet? Most of them don't have opposable bombs. You can't hold that proof. You can't hold that pro you're really gonna hold Mother's Day. On Mother's Day even. Oh wow. Yeah. Okay Well um I'll rescue here. God made them after their kinds. They cannot reproduce except after their kind. There is no chance, no again, that would be an utterly fruitless union Only man and woman. The woman is exquisitely designed to bear the child. It takes three to make a baby, by the way. It takes the mother, it takes the father, and it takes the baby. There's a fascinating video by Dr. Randy Galluza with the Institute for Creation Research on how babies are born. how the whole human reproductive system works. He is both a doctor and an engineer. He's my kind of guy. And it's fascinating because the baby must participate in this creation role. It has to emit certain hormones. And those hormones go out and it tells mother's body, don't devour me. I'm a parasite you want to have. To the body, otherwise it looks like a parasite If those hormones are not emitted by the baby, mother's body doesn't make them, baby's body makes them, mother's immune system will kick in and devour it. It takes three to make a baby. The baby has to produce the hormones. So it's an ultimate catch-22, and there's far more to it all that is very fascinating. So it's an exquisite process that works so contrary to everything that's designed, it's almost like there's an exception for this parasite to be inside of mom before it comes out as a unique and separate individual that has its own blood, that has its own DNA, that has its own individual. has its own brain. If the mother's blood and the baby's blood cross, that's dangerous. That can be deadly to the mother and to the baby. And so there's just in science has validated all this, but of course that truth is not Accepted. Yes, really accepted. I was gonna say that's that's why my body, my choice is a fallacy. Mm-hmm. It's a complete fallacy because it's not her body. Half of it certainly isn't. The other component is the man And it has a totally separate DNA. So we're already addressing a lot of cultural issues here from the very foundational parts of the book Which is why the opening chapters of Genesis, the first 11 chapters, are under attack as a myth, as historical error, as scientific lies, as nonsense. That's why they're there, because folks, they're getting at this issue. Of marriage, of male headship and a home. The attack is on the leadership, folks, because it rolls down and has ramifications to the whole family and to the children Alright, so this is the opening account, and from this we can see many foundational truths. They're not so many that you can't write it down on a three by five card. They're not so difficult that frankly you can't remember it. They're very profound. They're easy to understand. It's clearly written in the book. And if you hang on to that and you hold on to it, you're going a long way already. to refuting the homosexual agenda a long way, especially as Christians. Now This arrangement, one man, one woman, brought together, purpose, be fruitful and multiply. You pointed out, be fruitful, multiply. This arrangement is foundational. Now that's a big word. I like to do word studies sometimes. Have you ever meditated on that word understanding? It's two parts. Under. You know, and standing. The point is you're standing on something. And so when we say that a doctrine is foundational, That means it's load-bearing. It's going to have other stuff sitting on top of it, and that other stuff is mighty important. This arrangement is so foundational, it is often repeated in the New Testament. Of all the books in the Old Testament that are quoted in the New. Genesis is among one of the most frequently cited. For instance, the Apostle Paul says, and I'll read these to you, you know them, 1 Corinthians 11, 7. You're free to turn there if you'd like But in 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 7, the Apostle Paul writes this, For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of the man. Notice, man is made in the image of God. The woman is the image and the glory of the man. Well that's instructive. It tells us that the man is the image bearer and the reflector of God's characteristics, God's attributes, what he does reflects on God himself. And likewise the woman. What she does, first and foremost, is a reflection on her husband, her head, her man, whether it's her father or her husband. What she does reflects good or bad upon him. And then he says in verse 9, neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man. And so there's a whole purpose to all of this. There is a purpose statement. And you know, biblical motherhood is under tremendous attack these days. It is under attack. It is shunned as you're quote-unquote stuck in the home uh with ankle biters, I'll be fat, pregnant, and barefoot in the kitchen and it's hot and it's miserable. And they presented You know, hey, let me tell you what, I've seen women who've laid down their life for the sake of corporate America, and you talk about a shell of a woman at the end of that. She looks miserable. She's not attractive. She almost looks male-like. It's exhausting. It's crushing. The happiest, smilingest, funnest, most blessed women I've seen are those who have been mothers. Mothers and motherhood is a wonderful profession for women. They are well suited for it. Absolutely perfectly suited for it. Somebody's got to rule the house. And if there is peace at home, guess what, ladies? The husband wants to come home. Because it's not peace outside those four walls and that front door. It's chaos out there. And that's why it's called a job, because it's hard. And so then we also read in Ephesians 5. 31, the Apostle Paul appeals to these roles He says, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined into his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. And the man leaves the home. There is a transfer. He is now in that head and that responsibility. He gets to make the big decisions. He also gets to live with those decisions. Good, bad, or indifferent. He gets to live with them But the apostle here is giving some interesting context. He's first in 1 Corinthians 11 talking about questions of head covering Uh biblically I believe and theologically he's referring to roles of roles and rules of authority. Not so much does the woman wear a doily on her head. I don't have a problem if a woman does wear that on her head because she wishes to show that uh submission to her husband, the better she shows it in person rather than just with doily on the head. But it's ultimately talking about the headship. The Apostle Paul is answering questions in Ephesians about uh marriage And the role of father and mother and all that. And so in the context of Ephesians 5 It says, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother shall be joined into his wife. They too shall be one flesh. I'm sure you're familiar you're familiar with that passage, that that whole section of Ephesians 5? Alright. Why does Paul refer to Genesis 2? Why would he go back to that? What's he trying to prove? What's his point that he's trying to get to? in Ephesians five. You can turn to Ephesians five and look at thirty-one and thirty-two for some hints. But why is he going to there? Okay, yes. Uh a at a minimum certainly he's showing that, yes. And if the man truly is the head, the first, I like the way Brother the Doll at Burian Bible put it, you know. There may be two seats on the bicycle, but somebody's got to steer the wheel up front and somebody and both of us got to be pedaling, but somebody's got to both can't be steering the bike. It just don't work. Why in that context is what where's Paul going with this in Ephesians 5? What's he trying to get to? What's the What's what what points are you trying to make? Hmm? Base? To the base. He's going to yeah, he's referring to basics. He's using the foundation, but he wants to use that foundation to make a point. What is that point? It's in Ephesians five thirty-two if you get your Bible. What is the man and the woman a picture of together? Christ and the church. Christ and the Church. Isn't that interesting? He's trying to point out that a men at Corinth, a women at Corinth. I know your Greek culture doesn't teach this. This is a part of the world that had these Greek women that were very strong. What were they called? They were the uh Joey, you know your history. The Greek women on the the city states. Yeah, the the the the they were well they're like Amazon, they're just big, tall, aggressive, muscular. They were just the powerful ones in charge, kind of like Bolivia, where all the women are in charge. He's introducing a concept Ladies, life is this way for you. These roles are here for you because not only do we have the basics of Genesis, but all of this is pointing to a picture of Jesus Christ. And the church. Your husband has the honor to reflect that picture of Jesus Christ, and the wife has the glory and the honor to be a picture of the church of Jesus Christ. She gets to present the church. What does the church do? The church does a lot. My dad told me a woman can do a lot of work. And he had a good example, because Women can do a ton of work in the home. Even so, the Church of Jesus Christ is the eyes, arms, and legs of our Savior here on this planet, and she's busy. She's a busy woman. She's raising spiritual kids. She's teaching. She's doing much. She's feeding. I mean, what a blessed role. She's depicting the church. She doesn't do that in corporate America. Brother Bernie used to say you climb the corporate ladder and only when you get to the top you find out the ladder's leaning against the wrong building. Boy, is that ever true. I'm not saying women can't work. They will. I'm not saying they can't work and not get paid. But the objective, the place, her role is that keep her at home. She is the help meet. And it's brilliant of beauty. It's a thing of glory when The man can focus on his job and pay attention to that because the woman's got all this other under control. Wow, that's that's tremendous. That's tremendously helpful. So When we think about 1 Corinthians and Ephesians 5, why would we call biblical marriage a foundational doctrine? Why would we call it foundational? The picture of the gospel. Uh you the mm that's not weird. Uh mm I'm not looking, I'm trying memories are failing. a uh an adjective to give me that would pat you on the head but say nice tribe. But I can't come up with that word. Maybe Joey could give you something there. It's like the foundation of a building It is the foundation. Yes, so that is it's a foundation, and so it's foundational because it's used to support other doctrines, other teachings. It's a basic thing that you build on. Yes. If the foundation be removed, what shall the righteous do? All right. You've exactly got to my next point, and that is if this foundational doctrine is changed, and we just looked at only two passages in 1 Corinthians 11. Paul appeals to roles back in Genesis. And Ephesians, where he appeals to roles from Genesis to talk about the picture that is being portrayed. If that foundation is changed is shifted, is altered, is moved. How many other adjective I got a lot of them there. Are those adjectives or adverbs? I'm not an English person. Altered, moved. Those are verbs. Predicate adjectives. Predicate adjectives, verbs, whatever they are. If an earthquake hits the foundation, what happens what happens to the stuff on top? I think you know where I'm going. So do you understand why the homosexual agenda is so catastrophic to the Christian faith? Because it moves a foundational doctrine. And a foundational doctrine is called that, because as we've looked at two passages, other teachings sit on it. And so you need to have a good understanding as to where you're standing on so that you're not moved. You can't shift that out. And pretend like this is a game of Jenga blocks and nothing's gonna happen. I can pull this out and nothing will fall down. If you pull it out and nothing falls down, it's obviously not a foundational doctrine. You know you've hit foundation when you pull it out and stuff falls down. Who would want to change such a foundational thing? Can you imagine any entity in the universe that is interested in attacking foundational doctrines? Sin. Sin's not a person or a thing. Yes! Yeah. The father of lies, the devil, he's aimed at this So I'm betting he's behind this because it attacks a foundational doctrine, a foundational point, and if the foundations are moved. And our nation was built on that same And our nation at a time when we had men who were a little more God-fearing, who were a little more exercised in the Word of God, who had a little more respect to it, and for them it was more normative. that this foundation was also the good foundation for a society which Bible doesn't talk about, but is evidently there because when you have Happy, healthy, functioning homes with happy, well-raised children. The boy needs a mother and the boy needs a father, every bit as much as the girl needs a mother and the girl needs a father. And when you have that, society functions well. I want to affirm, I want to hit one last point here, and that is that Jesus also reaffirms Genesis 2, and he also, in so doing condemns alternative ideas for marriage. And turn the last passage, Matthew 19, 4 Matthew 19, 4, and then I've got to wrap it up. Jesus reaffirms this teaching in Genesis 2. And he answered and said unto them, have ye not read that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put So Jesus himself goes back to the opening chapters of Genesis. You ought to meditate on that for a moment. The Son of God can simply declare this is because I said so. He can say that and that would be enough. But he actually goes back and recites the very word of Scripture as his proof point that from the beginning this is the way it's to be done From the beginning. So he is condemning any kind of alternative ideas for marriage. It wasn't Adam and Steve, and I er I don't, you know Suggest you use that as a slam to the homosexuals. We'll see why a little later. But uh it was Adam and Eve. It wasn't Adam and the gorilla, it wasn't Adam and himself. You know, I think I'll marry myself, some nut job in California, looked in the mirror and pronounced that she'd marry herself. I really don't know how that works. But you know, when you're when you're off the rails, I mean, you know you're off the rails, right? You can come up with any kooky idea The Bible is clear that marriage is honorable and other arrangements are not. Hebrews 13, 4 says marriage is honorable in all in the bed undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. And so this is just a review of some of the foundational basics. And we start with that because as we continue to unpack and look at the scriptural teaching on this, you'll begin to hopefully be better armed to deal with and understand Where the homosexual agenda is coming from, what the aim is, you know, the bullet may come through the window or the bomb may come through the window. It's not aiming for your couch or your chair, it's aiming for the foundation And you need to understand where they're trying to go with this and thus how refute it. Alright, so that's for today. Thank you for your participation. Hope that you find this to be interesting and look forward to the other studies. Yvonne, could you close us and pray? Dear Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your Teaching your word which does not change, though the world will do everything in its power to convince men that Uh everything is loose and subject to change and uh can go any way they will or uh But Father, Lord, we we are your people and Father we abide by thy law, by thy word. And uh We pray that you would keep us on the straight and narrow path, Lord, in um uh in all that we do, Lord, and uh stand and and bold witness against the uh evil doctrines of wicked men, Lord. Um we pray your uh continual guidance Lord in all things.