We are in a new year and I can't believe it. And we're going to cover a topic that uh is quite broad. We're going to use Hebrews 13. 4 is our linchpin into the topic of honorable marriages. Honorable marriages. Hebrews 13. 4 says this. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. So my opening question here to my audience, half my audience seems to be in another room. My opening question is this. So how do you decide which commitments are worth keeping or not? How would you make that decision? What commitments are worth keeping? You know, it's a fitting question because here we are with a lot of New Year's resolutions. And I think Joe you pointed out that the gym tends to have a lot of people in the month of January. They're gonna turn a new leaf. I've had that thought in my mind as well. I really gotta start exercising more And then somewhere along the way, not too far into it, they abandon that. They said it's not a commitment worth keeping. How do you decide what's a commitment worth keeping or not? Any thoughts? Yeah, I would say at least for the commitments that it's it's usually in my own life where I fall short, I think I feel a lot of things dictated by an area where I I'm short, I think, okay. This needs to change. Whereas in other areas where I can convince myself that I'm okay, I can be slower to turn like, okay, like I know I need to change this, but I'm okay for now. Okay. Identifying areas that really, really need to be addressed. And say, you know, there's a conviction. Use that word conviction. There's a conviction that comes in, and I like that, you know So what helps you stay true to a commitment? What helps you to stay true to a commitment? Knowing the reason why, I took on the commitment. I can always be able to look back and uh just remind myself about why I think all of this commandment, the importance that it has, the good that I once I see it start doing good in me, it makes it a lot easier. Yeah, you point out two things. Those are very good. One is uh getting back to well why did I make this commitment to begin with? And that's good to reflect back upon it You know, scripturally there would be various times when Israel would commit to something and then the leader at the time would erect a monument for them to look back upon and say, hitherto hath the Lord helped us therefore if we do these things. Yeah, and then you also mentioned just kind of seeing that there is some benefit to it and to continue in it. Yeah, that's very good. What are some reasons uh what are some things that help people stay true to their commitments? I have to chart things out You know, I have a exercise chart for the entire year. I can tell you how many times I went to the gym last year. You know, so it's I just record it because if I don't You know. If I don't see it it it falls to the wayside. Just some kind of visible reminder. Right. Some kind of visible reminder. Something that helps you keep going with a chart it. You know, that which is measured is is is is managed well. Well I I think you can see uh why I'm going down this path of inquiring about what makes commitments worth keeping because marriage obviously would be a very big commitment. So we're going to look at two aspects of it today, the honor of marriage. And then the seditious, I call it seditious sensations, those things which can undermine a person single or married uh to getting away from an honorable style of life. Well, first I just want to bring in some context because Hebrews thirteen is that big application that comes right after a very long, detailed explanation to the Hebrews as to why to now look to Jesus And so these applications come in. And these applications are designed to show them that this really is the way you're to walk. It's all about love. We read in 13 verse 1, let brotherly love continue, entertaining strangers, let the love of the stranger remember them that are in bonds. Certainly a a great number of disciples and apostles were, but then he gets to the most intimate of all relationships and that of marriage. Um, you know, it's sad to see that there are these cults and sects out there that go and try to just rip apart marriages Uh I read recently about one with a cult leader that had a Bible in his hand, but it was all about breaking apart marriages uh going after the children, making them the handmaid of the Lord, and by that the false teacher meant that he was to be a concubine for the pastor. It's a horrible, horrible thing. Eventually this sect was busted up and the man thrown in prison as he rightfully ought to be. But that's not w we're we're we're we're we're exhorted to to a a clean path because at the end of the day Marriage, we know what that is. It's a commitment worth keeping because it's a picture of Jesus Christ and his church. We're depicting that now. Marriage is for the here and now Marriage is not going to cure your problems. You don't marry to fix something. There is a deeper spiritual meaning that goes on. Marriage is unique because it's both a theological position as well as a secular one. The secular world has an interest in marriage. In fact, they're concerned that there aren't more good marriages and children coming out of it. But it was instituted at the Garden of Eden as a primary a relationship for the human race. There's several accounts that we read about. Matthew 22. I'll just read these. You're familiar with them. We've covered them before Jesus said, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a marriage for his son. Jesus compares the kingdom of heaven to the son's marriage, the son being the Lord Jesus Christ. Ephesians 5, you know this. Husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. There's a parallel made. Christ over church, husband, head of the wife. Luke 20, the Lord Jesus said to the Sadducees, that the children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which are accounted worthy to obtain that world. And the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor given in marriage. There's no marriage per se in heaven. There's one final marriage, the bride is of the church and Christ coming together, that final union, that connection is intimated and and realized, and then no more. The the event has occurred. What it is now reflects who Jesus Christ is. And you know, it is the commitment worth keeping. Marriage really is. It's worth fighting for. Um, you know, because that family, the husband, the wife, and the kids is in fact the church in miniature. Uh th there's so much to that. It is worth fighting for. And let me tell you what The way to fight for it is to win some of the small battles. That doesn't mean you nitpick over everything, but I mean you you you you begin to work on you enter into it with seriousness and you maintain it with seriousness And it's a commitment worth keeping even when things get tough, as Rick you pointed out. Why did we get into this to begin with? And so we'll look at some of the things as to why marriage is honorable. Why is it honorable? What's What makes it an honorable thing? Well, it is an honorable and lifelong union between a man and a woman. It is for life It's for better, for worse, for keeps, as one radio preacher one time said. We read in 1 Corinthians 7, 39, that the wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth. It is a lifelong commitment. The scriptures are pretty clear about that. You can't get around that. And that's why what are the benefits of that? Why do you think the scriptures would underscore a lifelong commitment? What are your thoughts? Because the picture of Christ in the church, he will never separate from this problem. He will always Right. Uh at a minimum it's because we depict uh uh Christ in his church, and so yeah, if uh if If separation from your spouse can be willy-nilly, then that would depict that God could separate from you willy-nilly. And, you know, maybe it needs to be at a time when you really need him And uh you certainly wouldn't want to do that. What are some other practical reasons why a lifelong commitment is is uh the default position in scriptures? And we'll get to the the difficulties that occur later on. But why would that be a default position in Scriptures? Other practical reasons. Uh I would just think the seriousness of it knowing that it's a lifelong commitment means that you're going to think long hard before making it Right. No do overs. Um what typically results from marriage? Children. Children. Now think of it from the children's perspective. Why would a lifelong commitment of mom and dad be important to the children Sets an example for them and for their children Yeah, stability example, continuity. Yeah. Stability in the home, um, or there are tons of studies that show all kinds of psychological damage that occurs to young men and women when there is divorce. Sadly some think, well I won't divorce until my children are out of school and they're 18 and then I'll do it. Oh no, the the pain continues and even begins at that age as well It is very much for the welfare and the the betterment of the children. Study after study after study from uh honest psychologists have shown that A woman's view, her her normal outlook of life, is greatly enhanced by how well the father loves her mother. It's enhanced. And there are entire communities in America where divorce is the norm, and you find a lot of these children of the divorce family Getting into crime early, getting into problems early, having uh babies out of wedlock. There's just a whole cycle of perpetual problems that fall from that. It's a honorable and lifelong institution. It's there for the benefit. It's a gift of God. You know, God brought Eve to Adam. The Lord God said, I will make an help meet for him. Matthew the Lord Jesus says, wherefore they are not twain but one flesh? What therefore God hath joined together? God hath joined together. If you wake up, well, not literally, but if you find yourself in a marriage, of course, with forethought, you need to understand this is a gift of God. You need to understand later as you begin to discover that there's two sinners under one roof that no, God brought us together for a reason. Maybe this is an area I need to learn. patience or how to refine myself in. Proverbs says, Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing and obtains favor of the Lord. It's Proverbs 1822. Marriage is God's mechanism to prevent fornication. You know, the uh it's it's fascinating to me having learned much more recently about human biology, just how much is driven by hormones. Uh I recently learned uh from a book I've been reading from a senator who was testifying on the Hill against the gender uh uh the the puberty blocking drugs that in an early development of a male. From the earliest days, the presence of testosterone in his body drives muscle development, drives growth, drives bone strength. It drives a lot of innate physical attributes and characteristics that set him apart from the beginning from a woman. He will have he will go on to develop stronger muscle mass, better strength, and so forth By design, you can't undo that. That's just in from the earliest of days. There's so much that God controls in our body through hormones And when an individual reaches maturity, those hormones drive an interest and an attraction to what previously had not been there. That's how God drives that. And so there is a way to prevent fornication. 1 Corinthians 7. 2, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife And so God provides the means for that. There is a God-glorifying out outlet for that, and the result ought to be and should be children. Uh honorable marriage demonstrates a mutual sacrifice and submission. This is not a Muslim theology and a lot of young women watching may think, well, you're trying to push me back into patriarchy. You're trying to push me back where You know, I'm just a little handmaid in a Muslim outlet and uh outfit, and so say certain religions whose women are draped in garbs of all kinds of uh uh outlets uh outfits that demonstrate a uh an undue submission that is not biblical. It's a mutual submission Husbands are to love their wives, and the wives see that she reverence the husband. There's the love, there's the reverence. She's considered the weaker vessel, but the implication is he's a weak vessel too. He needs help Men are needy. They need a lot of help. Women are good at connecting the dots. Men are good at jumping in the fire and pulling out, you know, rescuing things. You know, uh this is a an honorable thing to learn that learning to live with another individual, learning to support them, to put their needs first, it's not natural to us. It is a daily dose of very basic common issues which have to resolve in joy. It really is. Pastors told me in the past, you know, that a lot of mission work on the field is just surviving, just getting through the daily basics. You know what? That's true in home missions as well. A lot of it's just surviving, getting through the week Uh you know, I'd love to say, boy, we were out evangelizing in open air preaching, you know, eight A. M. to five P. M. , Monday through Saturday, but that's just not how it goes. Somebody's got to go get the groceries, somebody's got to do laundry, somebody's gotta Cut the lawn, clean the carpet, do the laundry. I mean th it's just that there's just life. There's a lot of basic issues. The Apostle Paul acknowledges this. He says, uh, he that is married careth for the things that are of the world Th there is a concern for these things. And it's a training ground. It's a proving ground. How do you apply Christianity to these basic simple things of life? Does the gospel stop on Sunday at 2 o'clock when we leave, or 3 o'clock, or 4 o'clock, whenever you care to depart. And then we just have to do things the world's way Monday through Saturday. No, no. The marriage is that institution, and in that there's two people that are learning to live in that. First Peter three, seven, husbands, dwell with your with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife. Yes, she's a weaker vessel, but that she is to be had in honor. She is to be held honorably. She's not to be the butt of your jokes, an area that I've got to learn and had to learn. I I tend to be a jokester. It's funny, jokes are not really commented in the scriptures, are they? Uh there's a merry heart that makes medicine like laugh laughter like medicine and so forth, but uh oftentimes somebody's the butt of the joke and you certainly don't want to make it Your wife, that's a bad thing. Um we are to live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest, all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under thy son. This is the portion of God, to live joyfully with her Yes, there's issues, yes there's problems, but it has to be resolved in a way that can restore joy and peace in the marriage. That's what Christ has come to do for us, right? To pay for our sins, to Deal that, deal with that, put that away, give us promises. I've come that they might have life more abundantly, uh, and that you might have joy, and no man take it away from you. You know, this is part of that gospel message that goes forth It's only between two believers. I'm going to pause there for a moment because I've been in a monologue. Why do you think marriage in a Christian, for a Christian, is to be between two believers? Why? So if one isn't a believer then eventually they'll pull you into sick in some way or something. If one's not a believer, they'll pull you into sin in one fashion. And a good example, I think, would be King Solomon. His wives turned his heart. Uh what are some other reasons why you don't want to find a believer and an unbeliever together? Total different worldview, view of everything. perspective. Different worldview? Different creature different creatures. Two different one's an old creature, the other's a new creature. One's an old creature, one's a new creature. Different worldviews. Um Creates confusion. Oh, that's a good one. Creates confusion. That's true. Yeah, there would be confusion. Uh it would be difficult to manage expectations in the marriage, you know, you're trying to get ready for church on Sunday and the other one wants to sleep in or you know, nah, I'm not going. It it it creates tension even. Marriage is a cat and a dog to begin with It's a male and a female. It's two two different clashing, you know, you add a third third element in there. Yeah. There have been an age of things you disagree on, especially pertaining to state. Um the elements you let into your home that your children partake with, who they're friends with, are a million practical Yeah, the whole home environment, the children, what environment are they in? You know, if the um the If the husband and wife are not on the same page, the kids will figure that out real quick and they're going to go to the one they want they know they can get the answer from There's a lot of reasons why it ought to be between two believers. Um you know, Scriptures plainly says to not be to be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. It really does result. You know, is it possible that two people can get together in marriage and discover later that one is just religious but not saved? And one is really saved? Can that happen? Yeah. That's a s that's a fearful thing. You thought they were a child of God, and I wife's uh best friend who has since passed because of an asthma attack and died, um confesses that yes, she thought the man that she had married was indeed a wonderful Christian man, but when she was with him outside of the church environment at home, he was horrible. He was just horrible. Didn't care for it all. It's one of the big reasons she died, he wouldn't get her an oxygen bottle to deal with her asthma Just just horrible things that can happen. And you know, especially as a woman, she's got the most to lose because she's under admonition of scriptures to be in submission. But here's a man that doesn't have her best interest at heart It's a nightmare. We mentioned children before. Yes, uh marriage is about raising up godly seed. That's the purpose. It's procreation There is no marriage in heaven, there's no procreation in heaven, just as angels don't marry or procreate either. That happens now. We're actually furthering the building of the kingdom of heaven, quite literally, through marriages. Now God blessed Noah and his sons and said, Be fruitful and multiply. Malachi has an interesting part. Go to the book of Matthew and back up a few pages to the book of Malachi, chapter 2. It's one of the most difficult passages to interpret, I've been told, by Hebrew scholars. In Malachi chapter 2 We have this. Malachi chapter 2 we read. See, even I'm having a little difficulty turning these pages. Beginning in verse 14. Yet ye say, wherefore they're there God's been bringing accusations against them, and uh that what they're doing is evil and wrong. And uh the reason God's bringing such hard things upon these children of Israel is he says, verse 14, because the Lord hath been witness. between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant Well that's interesting because now we see that marriage is a covenantal contract, a covenantal agreement, an arrangement, and God takes notice of that. He's particularly concerned, husbands, wives, about the relationship in your marriage. And then he goes on in verse 15, and did he not make one, meaning of these two individuals, there are one flesh, yet he had the residue of the Spirit, and wherefore one? Why were the two made one? That he, as God, might seek a godly seed. He's looking for godly children. This is something God wants. This is fruit. This is spiritual fruit You know, if you're not on the same spiritual page, it's highly unlikely, though not guaranteed, it's highly unlikely that spiritual And spiritually minded children will come forth. If mom's not saying the same thing that dad is saying, that's that the pastor is saying, you know, all of these aids and helps Don't be shocked if your children become unbelievers and atheists. You know, sadly some of the strongest atheists have come out of semi-Christian homes. seeing things that have just not been right and then they say oh it's all fake. Well it was never a Christian home to begin with because it wasn't even on the same page And he concludes, the Lord does in Malachi 2. 15, therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. These things happen. There can be people who deal very treacherously with their with their wives, very treacherously, to the point where she just wants to leave. She's got to get out. It's just too harsh It's too hard and who can blame her? She may be doing it to spare her life. Uh the uh uh the this business of marriage, and I'll conclude here because I've got to get to my next point, is that it is a requirement for church leadership. You're not going to have godly leaders in the church if you don't have godly men in the home. This is kind of basic. First Timothy makes this very plain concerning the office of uh elder slash bishop. Elder is who he is, bishop is his role. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife. Notice it says the husband of one wife, well that rules out women. One that ruleth well his own house Having his children in subjection with all gravity, for if a man know not how to rule his own house. How? That's a really good question. How How shall he take care of the Church of God? Because the Church of God has the devil aimed at it. The Church of God has the forces of hell and the devil and his minions against it. The ante is upped a bit. I mean the the the pressures are increased in a position of ministry. It's more vocal, it's more public, it's more visible, and it's going to get a lot more pressure if you haven't done good in this area in your own home How can it be said that's even likely possible that this minister would do well in a church? And I think uh many on a pastoral committee looking for the next pastor of their church Forget hearing the man preach for crying out loud. Start off with his children. What state are they in? How is this house? Talk to his wife. How is she? Start there. Look for character. Is there evidence of character? Is there evidence of quality? Can you at least find one member of his household that's God-fearing? It's I've had some take this to an extreme that says uh having faithful children, they say, well that word faithful means believing. I don't believe God's putting the requirement for uh saving faith upon the backs and the shoulders of the man. We we can't produce that. God alone gives that. So I think the translators did a good job of rendering it faithful children, meaning that they are submissive to authority, that they're not uh you know in rebellion against the government authority. They at least submit to some form of authority. And uh and and that they're not accused of riot and unruly, those are the requirements. Uh if you have a uh a man who I mean without it the children will rise up and kill the parents, as we've seen in the news, that that can happen Well, uh the same is true, it says likewise must the deacons, so their wives must be grave, let the deacons be the husband of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well. So these are reasons why marriage is honorable if it's carried out scripturally and it works out uh according to God's principles. Things are are are just swimmingly grand and there's a lot of good for the benefit of the kingdom of God that comes from it. Now this is not a entirely a, I'm not trying to cover the whole gamut of marriage at this setting And I started down that path, but I said, well, there's a second part of this verse that I have to cover for today, and I'm going to look at that later. But I will touch on issues of divorce and and so on because some have unfortunately hit that. God hates it. He hates it because of the pain that it causes the individual. He hates it because of the shame to his name that it causes. He hates it because it does damage and wreckage to the children Yet God through Moses said Moses because of the hardness of your heart suffered it to be so. It's a reflection of hard hearts. There can be some awfully hard-hearted individuals who will harden their heart against their spouse. Can't imagine it, but and it doesn't happen overnight. It's a little bit of hardening over time. You just see it. And and separation occurs. The apostle says, you know, if the unbeliever depart, let him depart. You know, God has called us to peace. That's the best outcome you can have, and that you to remain in that state uh you you quit divorcing. You repent from that by you you you quit the cycle. You don't continue to repeat it. You know, you just stop, cut it off, uh and and and don't go further with that. So that's just a thumbnail sketch. There's a lot more teachings on that. You can go to onlyfast. net and uh you can search for divorce or marriage or remarriage. I've got a lot of topics on that Or you can try out Vince. ai, which is also on the first page of Holding Fast, where I've aimed it at all of my teachings in there, and you can just ask it a quick question, give me a thumbnail sketch of it Second half of the verse talks about whoremongers and adulterers that God will judge. This is a sharp warning. And it seems that this road has only to pass the path of marriage, or if you don't want to commit, if you don't want to commit to the Lord's way and the Lord's doing of these things, you're going to do what the world does. You have whoremongers, prostitutes, fornicators, and adulterers. One relates to single people, one relates to married. Turns out that uh Worldly wives are far more likely to commit adultery than single women are to commit fornication, because the single woman has her guards up and the married woman does not. And she can be very vulnerable, especially if she's a silly woman laden with sins that uh the apostle speaks about in Timothy. Uh these are things that My immediate Christian audience is likely highly unfamiliar with, thank God, but these are things that we learn of from the scriptures and certainly experience has showed us to be. Why is he pointing this out as an evil? Why is he pointing this out as something that's bad? Well, because these sins are the fruit of that which comes from the seed of the devil. In Revelation, we're given a vision. The Apostle John was in the spirit in the Lord's day. And he was in the wilderness. He saw this woman sitting on a scarlet-colored beast. She had Names of blasphemy. You know what her name was? Here's this woman. This is a vision, right? Don't try to find where this physical beast is. It's a vision. It's a depiction And she had a golden cup in her hand full of the abominations and filthiness of her fornication, and on her forehead she had a name. Her name was Mystery, meaning her ways are movable that you cannot know them. Kind of shift and move around. Mysterious. You can't pin them to the truth. They hate that. They like to be a little mysterious. Babylon the Great, as opposed to Jerusalem, which is above. Oh, Babylon, mighty Babylon, the ruler walking across the top with great arrogance and pride. The mother of harlots. Wow, harlots have a mother. The mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. You know, you find that if they are of the seed of the devil, there can't be anything good that proceeds from that. There's the children of the righteous, and then there's the children of the evil one. This is one of the earliest parables. There really are some people who are just frankly not going to be saved because they are the seed of the devil. They are the tares. They are the wood, hay and stubble. They're not precious stone. You y you can't take gold and put it in a wooden setting. Marissa has a beautiful ring in her hand and it's got two precious metals to it, fitly joined together. It's not in a wooden ring. It doesn't work. You don't put a beautiful necklace with grass strands. You don't hang gold off of that. It's just not going to work. Our text though says that God will judge these individuals. There is judgment coming. Now, when does that judgment come? Well, God's judgment is quite active right now, and there's also a final judgment So there's two points in time that God judges. You can judge right here and now. You can judge it right here and now, or you can wait and defer it to later. In the judgment now it would be in their conscience. They can be convicted deeply They could be struck. You know, Jesus says of the Pharisees that the harlots and publicans entered the kingdom of heaven before you, because when they heard it, they repented. So some can hear that, oh, I don't want to be a harlot. That's hero. I don't want to do this. I want to repent. Great. God has judged your actions and you agree with it. You concur with God's viewpoint. You say I'm going to stop doing this. That's a great thing You read about this in 1 Corinthians 6. You might want to turn there. 1 Corinthians 6, 9. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 9. I'm sorry I don't have more questions, but that's just kind of how it fell out this week. 1 Corinthians 6. 9 verse Through verse 11 we read this. It says, Know you not, don't you know this? That the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators. There's our whoremongers right there, fornicators. That's related to that. Not the same, but it's related to it. It's from the same base word pornay, nor idolaters, nor adulterers. Notice that's listed as well. Nor effeminate, there's your LGBTQ plus whatever agenda. Nor abusers of themselves with mankind. There's your homosexuals. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkers, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. He said, Don't you know this? These kind of people who live this lifestyle, they're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. Quit kidding yourselves I can sadly report to you that there have been a number of these types of individuals of the single nature that have come through on Friday night Bible studies One fellow was unequally I'm not even sure he was saved, but he met this seventeen year old gal, they got together, she got pregnant, found out about her lifestyle and her Parents literally were running, her mother was literally running a brothel in her home. And so from her earliest days up, this is what she beheld in her house Doing drugs, partying, profit. This is what this young girl, and so then this so-called brother in the Lord gets up with this gal. She Got a little bit of r a little bit of religion in her enough to deceive him. He didn't have much religious depth either. They had a child. No surprise, she left him, and last I heard she was working some Facility of ill reputation in New York City. And he's, I don't know if he's with the child or not. The very last I heard, she was sleeping in a car somewhere. Mother of harlots, she's not going to enter the kingdom of God. I don't care. Well, I've been to Brother Vincent's Bible study. Doesn't count. The unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Don't you know this? And Jeannie, if you're hearing me repent, I urge you. It says, and such were some of you, but ye are washed. But ye are sanctified. But ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Such were some of you. That lifestyle is going to get cut off Well they God will judge it. You need to be worried and gratefully afraid now. You've got to be convicted that this is evil thing. Revelation 2 22 in one of the churches and uh in the book of Revelation, behold he says, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except They repent of their deeds. So yes, there can be judgment now. Better to be judged now than to be condemned with the wicked at the end. But there is a final judgment if they're unrepentant, and there are some who are utterly unrepentant They believe that this is the way forward, that this is the great way I'll live my life, my body, my choice, my whatever, my, my, my, my, my. And oh my, boy, do they ever get what they asked for, because you find out in Revelation 22 It says for with Revelation 22, 15, for without, without the city, outside of the city are, and he lists a number of things, dogs. Sorcerers, whoremongers, that's our same word in Hebrews 13, 4. And murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie Ephesians 5. This you know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance, any, none whatsoever, in the kingdom of Christ and God. It almost pains me to even talk about these things, but I know thank God we don't have these issues in our congregation, but it is a warning of scripture that God will judge these things. And you know, we have to nip Any thought of that in the bud. There's too many things that can flow through this. It used to be you had to go to the purple building behind 7-Eleven that, you know, was a place of ill repute to find visual things to stimulate. Unfortunately, you know that's not the case now. Galatians 5. 19, the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these? Adultery. That's the first one. It's a work of the flesh This is just the natural man. They which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God I like Matthew Henry's commentary. Excuse me, James and Fawcett Brown makes a sentence, a statement about this, and this is my point. Is that God does take particular note of those whom man does not punish. God does take particular note of those whom man does not punish. We live in a society currently that is on the downward trend away from marriage. And they believe that whatever relationship you enter into is fine, because they have lost the memory of the Lord God. They have forgotten who God is and what this wonderful institution depicts. And so they do so without the fear of the Lord And we're reaping the consequences of it. And so it must be echoed. It must be spoken of. You know, it is that living model of a union between Christ and his blood-bought, spirit-filled, though not yet perfected, church. And their purpose on earth is to sow gospel seeds and nurture new children of God fit for the kingdom of heaven. That can only be done from those who are born from above, who are sharing the words of life with their children. You know, there's a time when our work will be done and Christ comes again and we will see the fullness of the joy of that celestial city and that wonderful kingdom. It's it it's it's beyond our imagination now. Well, a couple of applications while I have two minutes left. Brother Vince, I'm single. How do I go about finding such a spouse? Yeah, that's a difficult question There are more young men that are conservative and interested in the gospel these days than there are young women. But those young women do exist. And I would say Get busy doing the Lord's work and He'll provide you what you need. If a wife is from the Lord, if he gives a help meet at due time, You know, God saw Jamaica needed a pastor. He had one coming up. He was committed to doing it. God says, well, we'll make this happen real fast. And lo and behold, here's a help meet. Committed to doing missions work. And there you go. God can bring it, make it happen real quick. You want to sit around and play video games all day long, if you want to sit around and just uh waste your time and not doing what the Lord would have you to do, that which in your conviction of reading the scriptures leads you to stimulate to say, I think I have a gift in this area, I want to exercise it. When you exercise that gift, lo and behold, God says, yes, he needs to help me. He needs somebody to help him in this task. And that is a great way because God will bring her to you. Another point is that it's wise to be counseled before marriage to deal with many common problems. Uh common problems would be lack of communication in a marriage. That can really uh cause things to to tank. Learning how to have a discussion without getting into an argument. Uh lack of affection. Um finances, financial matters can can tank marriages. Uh extended family relationships. You need to understand um, you know, the the the larger body of people in which you're coming and how and how to manage those relationships. And I'll close with this wonderful statement I I've heard pastors speak about, which is counseling begins in the pulpit Um, you know, you don't wait until the egg is broken, the marriage is you've already got a divorce attorney on speed dial. You don't wait for them. Your marriage needs to be committed to a congregation. You need to be committed to hearing the words of God on a weekly basis. That Keeps the weeds out of the lawn real early keeps them from becoming trees and it's just a tremendous thing. Well I'll stop right there. Uh brother Anton, could you close in prayer? Father in heaven, we look to you. Thank you, Lord, for giving us your word, giving uh the infallible and inspired Word of God to us, oh help us to believe it, help us to trust it, Lord. Help us to see these things that you've created that seem common among men. Lord, this is something that you've ordained. Marriages and so instructed in what a what a godly marriage is and warned of um being unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Help us to believe these things, to to right believe share them, even to uh witness to others that marriage truly between uh husband and wife is a picture of Christ in the church. That's what it ought to be. Yeah, we pray that you would even help us to uh live that out faithfully, those that are married, and pray for any of the unmarried Lord that to be your will you would even grant Godly spouses. Please bless this congregation. Help us to be conform to the image of Christ and bless our uh gathering, our worship upcoming worship. We worship you in the spirit and the truth. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thanks.