We're the first to arrive today because I'm saving the first the best for the first. So um I just love it. Uh studying the scriptures, let me tell you, there's something about Praying for the Lord, asking him to open your understanding, and then going over a passage. I had made this set of notes pretty much in its entirety to about the 85% mark after a couple of days And I have a habit of sitting down and let's go over it again and find something new. And I had this with me and I was looking at it and comparing. I said, Nope, nope. Let's just put it totally away and pretend like I have no notes. And God gave me the most phenomenal insight I have had, I don't know. uh a proof text in a decade that I have ever seen before and I want to I'm anxious to share it with you. I've just been kind of on pins and needles uh since the middle of the week because it's one of these things where it's like, duh. Anyway, so um We're in Hebrews chapter 1, so you'll want to open your Bible. You're going to really want to turn there. I do have it printed out in your handouts, putting the Sunday school material in the middle. Folks online, I am so sorry. I did not send that Uh in advance, uh I apologize. Uh you'll have to ping me in the future with the text. And I had it in my mind to do it, but I forgot. Um We're going to look at Hebrews 1 verses 8 through 12, but I just want to give an introduction, and it's in the course of the introduction that we're going to get to the interesting point. So in the first opening verses of Hebrews chapter one, we find in verses one through four, basically, fundamentally God spoke. I mean do you see that? If you strip away the supporting language of the Sundry Times and all that, God dot dot dot spake. That's verse one. And then you've got in verse two, Happen these last days, spoken unto us by his son Uh and so that's kind of the big thrust of the first couple of verses that God spoke. And then later you get down to 5 through 7, where basically said God never said angels were sons, he says they're servants And he says that all of the angels all basically are to worship God to include angels. Now, this is where I found my dynamite verse. Look closely at Hebrews 1:5. For unto which of the angels said he in any time, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Now that phrase, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Is of course a direct quote from the Psalms. We looked at that, but do you realize this actually helps address a common error that is s bantied about? Keep your finger there and go to the book of Genesis. Go to Genesis chapter six and verse two. Now, if you've been in religious circles for any length of time You have surely heard this bold assertion as men peer back thousands of years, 4,000 years, 6,000 years into ancient history, probably 4,000, ancient history. Genesis six, one and two, I'll start verse one. It came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of man that they were fair, and they took them wives of all which they chose. Skip down to verse four. There were giants in the earth in those days. Also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, they bear children to them, the same became mighty men were ch were of old men of renown. And they point out that that's the word in Athelium and Rephaeim and so forth. And he said, oh, well, these giants, hmm, how did that well it must have been because angels The angels came and these angels came and married, and they say, That's the sons of God. Hold up. Do you realize what you just read in Hebrews 1. 5? He says, unto which of the angels said he at any time Thou art my son. In other words, angels were never at any time called the sons of God. So without controversy, without debate, without any issue whatsoever, you can confidently go and say, well, those sons of God cannot possibly be Angels, hard stop, period, end of discussion. Stop with your stupid angelic nonsense. Angels don't marry nor are given in marriage. They're immaterial beings. Some will say, well, they they they demon possessed individuals. And that's no no no no no no no no that's that cannot be Because if it is, that guts the primary argument the writer, God, is making through Hebrews 1. 5. Isn't that cool? Unto which of the angels at any time did he say? In other words, he is never called an angel, a son of God, so you have no justification or warrant. For going to Genesis, well that could be angels. No, it can't. Not if you believe the book of Hebrews. Isn't that great? Absolutely love it. I've never heard that I'm sure someone out there has discovered that and I'm just a Johnny completely to this thing But I just was ecstatic to come across that. Yes. It also blows the Jehovah's Witness out of the out of the water. Yes. Because they claim that Christ is a son of God, not the Son of God. Yes, absolutely. Yes. Oh, good point. A good point, yeah. So that's the whole thrust of this. And so already Hebrews is really helping to refute a lot of error in other places. But let's get to our main section today, which is in verses uh eight through twelve and and the message uh the message the title of this is the hope of the eternal sun uh verses eight to nine now in your handout as you know I've got these fill in the blank things for you to to to to work on if you like to do that to kind of keep track of where we're going. The first is his eternal throne. His eternal throne in verses eight to nine. So let's read now Hebrews 1. We're going to go uh uh reading eight and nine. We're gonna do the yeah, we're gonna do eight to nine and then we'll look at ten through twelve Eighth and ninth says this, unto the Son, but unto the Son, he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Alright, that's the section of scripture we're going to look at. And first off, we see right away is that he is the eternal son. Verse 8 is an extraordinarily strong proof text of Christ's deity. Do you see that? He says, unto the Son, he saith, Thy throne who? Oh God. He refers to the Son as God. That's a reference to the deity of Jesus Christ. So that's a strong proof text for that. So that kind of undermines some Jehovah's Witness ideas that he is just a son and not really the the uh the the everlasting God. Thy throne, O God The Son is addressed as God. Now, of course, this is quoted from the book of the Psalms. Isn't that interesting? The Psalms are good for doctrine. They are very good for doctrine. In fact, we've opened up all of Hebrews with quotes from the Psalms. It's been the Psalms that have proven Jesus to be the Son of God, the Christ, the one to come. It's the Psalms, it's David's songs that are being used as a doctrinal anchor. So folks songs that we sing in church matter. The example given in Scripture is that they are doctrinally weighty. David didn't write seven, eleven fluffy songs. He didn't do that. Same seven words eleven times. He didn't write that He wrote some very meaty, weighty teachings. And music is a marvelous way to teach little children If you want a child to memorize scripture truths, give them a little song. A good gospel song that can capture the essence of it. And Victoria, who is that one? uh hymn writer where she I I'm putting you totally on the spot. There was a hymn writer uh who's very famous in her hymnal where she wanted to teach children in her Sunday school her little subjects, uh doctrinally correct songs, and she gave them all these she wrote some wonderful songs which eventually made their way into a lot of church's hymnals because this is wow this is good stuff It was very simple. It it brought the teaching down to a child level, but through that ministry of music it helps implant it in the mind. And Catherine Wakeworth translated a lot of our current hymns uh into our language like in German and other ones but yeah there's one particular hymn writer I have in mind. If I hear her name uh it it might ring a bell. But in any event I'm just underscoring it came from the Psalms. Let's turn to Psalm 45 Keep your finger in Hebrews. Again, we will be referring back. But here we find in Psalm 45 that this is the This is the reference. It's also in your I'm sorry, it's also in your handout. Uh probably got you flipping around too much. You can just look in the handout. Psalm 456 is the quote where we read, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Now actually I did want you to look at Psalm 45 because I w I want you to figure out where it connects it to the sun Because Hebrew says, it w tells us, unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. Well, how did he get that? How did he get that? So if I scan in Psalm forty five and verse six It just says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. How do we know he's talking to a son? So I spent a little time looking at that and thinking it through. We'll actually skip back up to verse 2. In verse 2, it says, to whomsoever he's speaking, thou, this individual whom he's addressing, the Psalmist is addressing, thou art fairer than the children, that's the word weast, the sons of men. It's actually the children could could rightly also be rendered sons of man. Thou art fairer than the sons of man. In Hebrew, it's a reference to a male child. But he says, thou, implication, you male child, male son, are fairer than all the male sons, children of men. So the implication is that yes, this is speaking to a son. This son is fairer than the other children of men And so that's where it's at. It's right there in that word children. That's where it's found at. It's in that context. It's supported scripturally. Not very obvious. But it's there. And um I think that's important. That's the Hebrew actually it's not the Hebrew word huis, it's the Hebrew word ben. Uh ben. I think Huis is Greek. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm mixing up my my languages here It literally is sons. Um, you know, this is no surprise that same word is used in Isaiah 9 6, and you'll look at your handout now. I've really got you jumping around. Isaiah 9. 6, it says this again is referring to the sonship of Jesus. And that sonship, as we covered, is a role, not by birth. It's a role. Now, it's illustrated in the human race by birth, but it's a role, okay? Because I can adopt a child into the family. And I didn't give birth to that child, but now he's my son. I have a new son by virtue of marriage, right? So there can be a way a son can be brought into a family not uh not by birth We read in Isaiah 9. 6, unto us a child is born. This is Jesus' flesh. This is the the the flesh of Jesus for Mary. Unto us a son is given. It doesn't say a child a son is born. It says a child is born. But the son is the gift. You see, that's the that's the role of Jesus. He is taking up that role. The government shall be upon his shoulder, his name should be called, and you all are familiar with Handel's Messiah, wonderful counselor The mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. And I know that's terrible, isn't it, Gloria? Gave you a good laugh this morning. At least it woke you up. So a child is born, but a son is a gift of God. Now I like to take pot shots at bad translations, at bad texts, and the Septuagint is one that does a horrible job. Uh the Septuagint can date back no sooner than four hundred A. D. Jesus would not have quoted from it. I'm sure that at some point in time somebody had to try to translate Hebrew into Greek because the Greek people need to hear the Hebrew word of God as well as anybody else, but the Septuagint is a ridiculously bad translation. And in fact it shows systematic signs of erasing of the deity of Christ. For instance, and this is in orange in your head out, you can't miss it. The Septuagint's in Greek, so I had to go find a Greek to English translation. This is the Nets translation of the Septuagint because Septuagint Greek. Listen to how Septuagint handles Isaiah nine six It says, because a child was born for us, a son also given to us, whose sovereignty was upon his shoulder, he is named Messenger of Great Counsel. Well, I mean, this could be Muhammad, this could be Buddha, this could be Confucius, this could be your favorite high school teacher. Messenger of Great Counsel I will bring priests upon the rulers, peace and health to him. What's omitted? Mighty God, that's gone. Everlasting Father, that's gone. Prince of peace, that's gone. Gone. All the messianic references Gutted in the Septuagint. So don't let anybody bedazzle you with how wonderful the Septuagint is. It is not the uh uh i i it it's it's a catastrophe. And there's many other like passages that reference the Messiah uh that I'd be happy to share with you if you'd like which show that it absolutely guts references to his deity. So first of all we have back in Hebrews now that he is an eternal son. He has an eternal throne. The second fill in the blank in your hand out was that he is the eternal son And now we're going to look at his kingdom's attributes. His kingdom's attributes, and this is your third fill in the blank. Alright, so now we're back in Hebrews. We're back in Hebrews 1, 8, and 9. And I have a question for you as you look at Hebrews 1, 8, and 9. What are your observations? What are the Sun's featured highlights? You could think of it as the executive summary of his resume. What are featured there in Hebrews 1, 8, and 9? It's forever and ever. Alright. Something's pretty eternal. It's forever and ever. It doesn't end. Yep, that's one of his attributes. What else Loves righteousness. He loves righteousness. Oh, that's oh that we could have men who love Righteousness. And what else that's coupled with that? And he hates iniquity. He's got his battery oriented in the right direction. He's positively joined in one and negatively repulses in another. Can you imagine a ruler that loves righteousness and hates iniquity? You know, I've heard it said, well, you can't legislate morality. Um I take exception to that comment You know why? Because that's exactly what a law is. It's legislating morality. A law is saying if you follow this, you're right. If you disobey it, you're wrong. That's what all laws do. It legislates morality. That is the definition, and that's why we bristle against them, because what is often legal is highly immoral. And we bristle against that because they're legislating ungodly acts to be righteous ones. But here we see Jesus that he loves righteousness and he hates iniquity. What else do you find about him? A couple more things has to do with his kingdom. I accept it. He has a righteous scepter. And now the scepter in the Old Testament is a Uh it's interesting. I th I think in the Hebrew it it it renders as uh nap or bam or something like that where uh you rap on something. Uh you know, you y you can just imagine the schoolmaster from the uh early 1800s walking around with a stick and whap whap, you know, some of you had your hands beaten before by a teacher, whap whap, you get a rattling on the back. One of the worst bankings I ever got was in kindergarten where I got wrapped on the back of my hand with a ruler. Maybe you've had that too. That does wake you up. Well that's what the scepter is. It's a It's an icon, it's a image, it's a symbol, I shouldn't use the word icons, a symbol of the government's power. When they stretch out the rod, they have the rod to beat you uh into submission, meaning this is wrong or to put you in prison or penalize you something else. But he has a scepter of righteousness. It is right. What he does is right When David the Psalmist says, Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. It doesn't mean the sheep is getting beaten with the rod. Oh no. Oh no, the shepherd is there to protect the sheep. His rod is that to beat off the wolves and to beat back the thorns and to beat all the other stuff that's plaguing the sheep. That's what he loves about the shepherd, is that his rod comforts that sheep. He's got that righteous scepter that's beating off and and and defending the sheep. It's not for the sheep. He's not beating the sheep with that. The staff is to rescue him Pull him back, get him out of that craggy spot, get him out of a a tough spot. He loves that. No, no, the rod isn't the rod's for the back of fools, not for the sheep. Uh that that's that's what he's got. And so he's got a righteous. Would you like to live in such a kingdom? What does that say about such a ruler? If someone rules like that, what does it say about them? Order family? Very orderly. Orderly, boy, order. Order. Well how nice to have order. You know. Chaos is what you have when you don't have order. Chaos, confusion, every evil work. If you have order, God's kingdom is ordered, Mom. It's ordered, it's very ordered. And it's very righteous. You know, in verse 9 we find the result of all these attributes. It says, God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness. You see, if you live in such a kingdom There's a lot of joy. If there is zero tolerance for the wicked and there is a tremendous promotion of that which is right, if you have a ruler who is constantly of holding justice in all forms that needs to be meted out and everybody agrees, you know, that was right. There's a lot of peace in that. There's a lot of joy. There's a lot of prosperity. You know, I uh as a retiree I I sadly have to find myself uh paying attention to the stock market more than normal because that's kinda how I make my living. It pays my pills. And one thing I've discovered is that whenever the government speaks, the stock market goes down. Because when the government speaks, it's usually bad news. When the government intervenes and they s give some report, it's usually bad And so things just depress. Can you imagine where the government speaks and everybody rejoices? When the leader speaks and the people just sing loud hallelujahs. Yes, that's right. The problem with democracy is men agree to dumb stuff. Yes. But this is theocracy. This is one all-wise. Yes. Ultimately, that is the best form of government is a benevolent dictatorship. And that's what you have here, is a benevolent dictatorship. The Lord Jesus and I shun to use the word dictatorship because in our world you know, absolute power corrupts absolutely. But in Jesus' kingdom, uh he's not looking, he doesn't have elections every four years He doesn't go through a debate cycle. He's not interested in polls. You know what? Our God doesn't care about a flipping thing about polls. He's not interested If you don't love the sun, he's got one sentence for you. Those that love not the sun and obey not the gospel, he has uh flames of fire for you. Your opinion's irrelevant. Yes, our opinion's utterly irrelevant, unless your opinion is favorable towards the sun. Yeah. Well it becomes relevant because every idle word that men shall speak they'll give account in the day thereof. So it turns out to be a liability if you happen to have the wrong opinion So this is his kingdom. The king and all of his subjects dwell in great peace and joy. I'll just continue reading in Isaiah 9. 7. It says, Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. His rule endures forever. His peace knows no end. Can you imagine Getting a leader in office that you are assured will have everlasting peace You will never wake up wondering if it's going to be a miserable day. You're never going to wake up wondering if I can make it to the next. Am I going to have enough money What am I going to have rights taken away? The end. There is no end of his peace. It says, upon his kingdom to order it Establish it with judgment and justice. From henceforth even forever the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. He's zealous to do righteousness. This is his kingdom Psalm 145 and verse 12, I had to include this when thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. It endures through all generations. Daniel 7. 13 says the same thing when Daniel had this vision. It says, Behold, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven. Again, a connection to the Son having this eternal kingdom. Came to the ancient of days, they brought him near before him, and there was given to him dominion, glory, and a kingdom. That all people, nations, and languages should serve him. And indeed God is saving a people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. All will serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. What a glorious place. And you see, if you're a child of God, you're a member of that kingdom. God saved you, you're immediately written down in the records of heaven as having a legitimate right And with all the full benefits pertaining thereunto, I think is the language that's used, in that kingdom. But he's also immediately dispatched you to your place of service. He's placed you and saved you right where you are to be a light where you are. And this is what our God does. You are privileged to be an emissary, an ambassador for Jesus Christ and His kingdom. That's where you've done. And some are called to to move on, to to go in different places and evangelize, to go to all the world and to uh set up works that also proclaim his goodness. Well, second side of your handout. Second half now we're going to consider his eternal nature. His eternal nature. You're next. Fill in the blank, verses ten to twelve. Let's consider that now. Hebrews 1:10 through 12, it reads this: And thou Lord, that word and means, and here's another verse of scripture, back in Hebrews 1, verse 10, and thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thine hands. They shall perish, but thou remainest. They all shall wax old as doth a garment As a vesture shalt thou fold them up, for they shall be changed, but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. Well, we find first that he's going to talk about two things in here. The first is his handiwork. That's your next fill-in-the-blank, the handiwork of God. You know, when God rolls up his sleeves and gets to work, let me tell you, he can do some heavy lifting. We used to say it in the engineering world, that person can chop a lot of wood. They can chop a lot of wood, they can get things done. God is quite handy. And this second quote, of old thou hast laid the foundation of the earth, the heavens are the work of thy hands. That's a quote from Psalm 102 and verse 25. And if I compare the reference in the Psalms, which is right there, which you have in your handout, it's Psalm 102. 25, if you compare that to Hebrews And trying to figure out how that actually connects to the sun, the closest I can find is that it says it's the work of thy hands. Whoever such a one is that's doing these things has hands. You know, we're made in the image of God. And Yes, God's anthropomorphizing uh his language here. But the sun is the one that caused all uh that created these things Hebrews 1-2 told us that by his Son He has made the worlds. It's the Son that made all this. The Son of God did all this. So here in Hebrews, God's making it clear and explicit. The Son, Jesus Christ, is that creator. He is the creator of the universe. He's the one that made all things. There's plenty of other scriptures that teach this. You know Genesis 126, let us make man in our image. Men look a lot like their creator, and vice versa You know, there's the the sun bears uh we are the image bearers of the sun, but we're made in the image of God. God God the Son came and uh has uh Revealed unto us his deity. Psalm 33, 6. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. Jesus is called the Word, by the Apostle John, in the beginning was the Word The Word was with God, the Word was God. So the Word is connected to the Son. John 1. 3, all things were made by Him. Without Him was not anything made that was made. He's that ultimate creator. He pulled all this off in six days. I'm astounded. I just continue to remain astounded. You know, we're still discovering new species. Now, what's the definition of a species, right? It varies depending on what you read. It's just a categorization that Linnaeus put together in his ontology of trying to make sure that scientists were all talking about the same little animal. He just wanted to break it down so that when we're talking about a particular snail or a snake in this section of the world that we're talking about the same one over here And the other way that he came up with it was morphology. What does it build like? What does it look like? To this day, if you go into uh Jane's book of um uh of of air defenses or where these are common uh little books that are uh out in the Department of Defense where you can identify enemy aircraft or enemy ships or missiles, whatever, by morphology It's got a long fin, it's got a short fin, it's got a long wing, it's got these kind of engines. It's things you can observe. That's the only way we can distinguish and discriminate. But we can't get into the DNA We can't get into the cellular level. We can't get into the programming. We can't do any of that. But God can. And He did. That's how He made all things. He wired it all up. It's astounding. I like this reference in Proverbs 30. Trying to consider how the Old Testament points out to Jesus as the Son and as the Creator. Listen to this reference in Proverbs 30 and verse 4. Who it's a series of questions. Who hath ascended up into heaven or descended? You remember Jesus talking sometimes about ascending up into heaven, descending, and he would say things like that Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? What who hath bound the waters in a garment? Who hath established all the ends of the earth? And then it asks Right on top of all this, with creation, with ascending, descending, all that messianic language, what is his name and what is his son's name If thou canst tell. Again, a connection to the individual that has done all these things. It's the Son of God is the Creator. Jesus is the answer to all these questions. Colossians says, By him all things consist Ephesians says, God who created all things by Jesus Christ. So his handiwork is that he's the one that created this universe. And I want to pause for a moment here and reflect upon something. We received a very interesting comment on our Gen Z outreach on TikTok. We're starting to publish out there. We're getting a lot of feedback and flack. It's very easy for some blasphemer to hit respond, record, and just spew forth nonsense. That's very super easy to do Shows forth the council of the heart pretty quickly. And the thrust of this individual's remark, I don't remember it precisely, I wouldn't mind reading it to you precisely, but it doesn't matter. The thrust of the remark was this. Well uh Uh we're all miserable rotten sinners, but so the problem must be God's because why didn't He make us perfect to begin with? That's a common question, actually. That's not an unusual question. You know, if God's so powerful and righteous, why couldn't he have made uh man perfect to begin with? It's a really good question. Well, the answer is actually not too hard. It may not be the first thing you come to, but you do realize that it's impossible for God to create God. Because one would be the creator and one would be the creature. And the creature can't be God. He can't be the creator. He can't share all the attributes that God does. So God is unique. There's a unique attribute to infinity. He can't create himself. He is self-existent. And he's the only one. You can't have two infinites. It doesn't work. Mathematically that can be proven. I'm not going to walk you through that proof text right now. But when God created Adam, we created him righteous at the garden. God made man upright. There was no fault, but God gave Adam a will. In fact, Adam was the only creature who had free will, and he had the ability to throw away his righteousness. He could do that. God's rules never changed. He visits the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And so Adam threw away his righteousness. He condemned himself and all of his posterity into a state which theologians refer to as total depravity, all elements of the nature of man, his will, his chooser, his thinking, his intellect, his affections, his initial inclinations His desires, the things that make him happy, all of that are corrupt. They're morally corrupt. And they're tainted in the wrong direction. Is that a fault of God? No. God made man upright. Had Adam obeyed, he would have lived forever in perfect peace and fellowship and harmony with God. He walked in the cool of the garden with Adam during the day. Would not have been a problem. So who was the problem? The problem was man, and man threw it all away. But there is a way to get everlasting righteousness, and the only way that works is God has to impute His righteousness, his everlasting righteousness to you. He does that through adoption. You're brought into his family. Their sins are paid for by nothing less than the blood of God. So God is making a distinction between everlasting righteousness, which cannot be created. can only be granted, can only be imputed, and a mutable righteousness, which is what Adam had. He could in fact throw it away. And throw it away he did. So it's all very it makes sense if you consider who God is and his nature, and dare I say the limits of what he can do, because God cannot lie. So there are You know, he hates iniquity. God cannot love iniquity. There are limits, as it were, to what God does by virtue of the fact that he loves righteousness. And that's just simply who he is. Well then we look at, because of these things, because he created the the earth and the universe, and lo and behold, because of Adam's sin, it's all falling apart, it's all going downhill. Yes, Adam Sin had cosmic effects. It had a very big effect. But the universe is in fact slowly winding down. All of our evidence from NASA satellites to deep space telescopes and radar systems to planetary explorations are all the evidence, the data is there. Now they look at it with a different lens. They put on a different pair of glasses when they look at the same data you and I do But if you look at the data with biblically informed insight, you see, yep, it's winding down. It's winding down. It's falling apart. And that's exactly what our passage says. They shall perish. They all wax old like a garment. How many of you have twenty-year-old clothes in your closet? Well I'm not going to ask Mrs. Ross, because I know she's got twenty-year-old clothes because she buys good clothes. You know, they get old. They just get moth-eaten. They just don't last. Stuff just doesn't last. And that's how this universe is. But there is one thing that does bring hope, and that's the last section, our hope Our hope, your last spill in the blank. What is our hope? Because the context of Psalm 102 brings the saints great hope. Jesus Christ is the answer to two common problems. Psalm 102 gives our two common problems. He weakened my strength in the way and he shortened my days. You get older, you lose the strength One thing I didn't realize was that with that comes all kinds of uh joint aches and joint pains. It's like, really? I really miss having a good strong wrist. I miss having a good strong elbow. I had a phenomenally strong elbow. I could do a ton of work with my arms. It was not a problem. And then all of a sudden those joints go, yep, not working today. It just it hurts, not doing it. But the hope and then he strength he weakened my strength and then of course it can get so wank weak That then you begin to wonder, is it going to shorten my days? Am I going to get cut off early? Am I punching out sooner rather than later? That's the fear. But the hope is this, the psalmist, as he complains of these two problems, God gives the solution. God's years last across multiple generations because he is eternal. He can't die early like us. See, that's what the psalmist says. He says, Thou art the same in Psalm 102. 27, thou art the same, thy year shall have no end. God's not wearing out. God's not waxing old like a garment. The creator God is not growing faint or weary. Even the heavens wear out, they're sick, they're growing old, and the heavens will cease But God's servants continue forevermore. You, as a child of God, as one adopted into his kingdom, continue forever. They're established forever It says in Psalm 102. 28, The children of thy servant shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee. They're established, they're settled. They will continue on. I like this in Isaiah and I'll close out with these two references, Isaiah, Isaiah 51, 6. Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look upon the earth beneath. He tells you, look at them. Just go ahead, look at them. Don't worship them, but look at them. The heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner. But my salvation shall be forever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished. He says these things are going to disappear. You look up at the stars, I love the way the hymn writer puts it, and the sky and the clouds be rolled back like a scroll. It says in Revelation the stars shall fall to earth. That's an interesting quote. I recently when I went to go hear Dr. Joby Martin up in Frederick, and he'll be here next week. I certainly hope you all can make that. Uh uh I'm really looking forward to it. There was a uh uh a fellow who was uh um I think he's a PhD in physics. Anyway, he was connected to some of the astronomers that work at some science, Christian science places I followed. He says that it's really exciting the data they're getting back from this uh Hubble Space Telescope, or the the the James Webb uh Space Telescope, the new one that they put up there. It's this gold piece of art. He says that um uh how do I get this succinctly? Some of their measurements on the stars are showing that they may not be as far away as they think they are. And it's undermining some of their thinking. Of course they're not going to report that because we have to we obviously know what the truth is. We have to figure out how to make the data fit our truth. But I've often wondered, it says the stars shall fall t uh from the sky to the earth. I've often wondered about that. What if the stars really aren't that far off? What if they really aren't that big What if they I mean LED lights, they're not very big, but they're stupendously bright. I don't know. I I'm not gonna stray into, you know, patently obvious scientific error, but the Bible says the stars will fall to Earth The heavens will blow away like smoke. They're just flat out gonna poof disappear. That will happen. That will come when the Creator Himself returns to cleanse all things, because he loves righteousness and he hates iniquity. And he's going to establish that eternal kingdom and you'll be a part of it. Your seed, you will be established in it forever. So should I panic too much when I see this world descending into more chaos? I try to hold out a light. You know, it's better to to at least put a one light, one candle, rather than sit and curse the darkness. It's better to do that. But my hope ain't here, folks. This place is waxing old. It it's going away. But thy years, along with the Lord Jesus, are established forever. And that is the hope of the believer. That's the only hope the scripture holds out. And that's a good hope. It's a great kingdom. You don't want to miss that kingdom. It's a wonderful place to be. So we'll close out with that. Joe, would you close us in prayer? Gracious Father, we thank you that heaven and earth shall pass away. Indeed, heaven and earth shall pass away, but your word will not pass away. Lord, we thank you for thy truth that is uh expounded to us. Father, we thank you, Lord, that your your mercies indeed are new every morning, and your truth is forever settled in heaven, and yet uh every morning there are new diamonds for us to mine from the unsearchable riches of thy word. And so Father, bless these things to our heart. May we meditate on them. May you strengthen us through them. And Father, as as Vince mentioned, Lord, we we do not despair at the world around us. Lord, we know that you control it all. And so our hope is in you and not in the things of this world. Bless us now as we proceed to the worship service today. Lord, may thy word be rich to our hearts. May we indeed remember the sacrifice of our Lord. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.